===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
February 1, 2016 
OML 2016-14 
Kerry Regan Jenness, City Solicitor 
City of Methuen 
41 Pleasant Street, Room 311 
Methuen, MA 01844 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Jenness: 
This office received four related complaints from Patrick Higgins, all dated December 7, 
2015, alleging that the Methuen City Council, the Methuen Commission on Disabilities, the 
Methuen Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Methuen Board of Health violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. These complaints were originally filed with the various public 
bodies on November 12, 2015, and the City Solicitor responded to all four complaints by e-mail 
dated November 16, 2015.1 In his complaints, Mr, Higgins alleges that the public bodies at issue 
violated the Open Meeting Law by requiring members of the public seeking accommodations 
under the Americans with Disabilities Act to request such accommodations two weeks prior to a 
meeting. Because the allegations against the four public bodies referenced in this letter are 
identical, we reviewed and will resolve them together. 
Following our review, we find that the public bodies at issue did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints; the City 
Solicitor's response; and the request for further review filed with our office. Finally, we spoke 
with the City Solicitor by telephone on January 7, 2016. 
We find the facts as follows. The Methuen Board of Health posted notice of a meeting to 
be held on October 20, 2015. The Methuen Zoning Board of Appeals posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on October 28, 2015. The Methuen City Council and Methuen Commission on 
Disabilities both posted notice of meetings to be held on November 9, 2015. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
FACTS 
===PAGE 2===
All notices for the meetings referenced above contain the same text at the bottom; 
Accessibility Notice: Anyone needing an access accommodation to participate in the City 
of Methuen programs or services, please contact Gene Walsh, ADA Coordinator at 978-
683-8625 or GWalsh@ci. methuen. ma. us at least 2 weeks in advance, or 2 business days 
before any Board of Commission meeting. This notice is available in alternative formats 
upon request. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law states that all meetings of a public body must be open to the 
public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Access must include the opportunity to be physically present as 
well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the public body. See OML 
2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66. In addition, Title II of the Americans with Disabilities 
Act requires that municipal services, including public meetings, be made accessible to people 
with disabilities. 42 U.S.C. §§ 12131-12165 (1990); OML 2012-49. 
Here, the complaints allege that it was improper for the public bodies to require members 
of the public to notify the Town's ADA Coordinator two weeks prior to any meeting at which an 
accommodation is needed. We find that the language found on each meeting notice complies 
with the Open Meeting Law. The language at issue is a request, not a condition precedent to the 
provision of a reasonable accommodation.2 Furthermore, the complaints do not allege that any 
individual was unable to attend or observe a meeting as a result of this policy. Indeed, the City 
Solicitor stated to our office that public bodies in the Town, as a matter of course, make 
reasonable efforts to accommodate members of the public with disabilities even where they have 
not given advance notice that they will be attending meetings. Based on the foregoing, we find 
no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
While not raised in the complaints, we note that the City Solicitor responded to the four 
complaints before the public bodies at issue met to review them. When an individual files an 
Open Meeting Law complaint with a public body, the chair "shall disseminate copies of the 
complaint to the members of the public body," and "the public body shall review the complaint's 
allegations." 940 CMR 29.05(3), (5). The chair is required to disseminate copies and the public 
body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that 
authority. See OML 2012-90. We remind the public bodies discussed in this letter of their 
obligations under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the public bodies at issue did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be 
2 While we find that the language at issue was not a requirement, we note that the public bodies at issue may wish to 
contact the Attorney General's Civil Rights Division at (617) 963-2939 to assist in drafting alternate language that 
may reduce any confusion. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the public bodies referenced in this letter. Please feel free to contact the Division at 
(617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
cc: Patrick Higgins 
Methuen City Council 
Methuen Commission on Disabilities 
Methuen Zoning Board of Appeals 
Methuen Board of Health 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 