===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
        
 
November 13, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 215 
 
 
Nahant Planning Board  
 c/o Sheila Hambleton, Chair 
334 Nahant Road 
Nahant, MA 01908 
 
By email only: planningboard@nahant.org  
 
 RE:  Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Ms. Hambleton: 
 
This office received a complaint from Michelle Capano on July 17, 2024, alleging that 
the Nahant Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A,  §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on June 10, and former Board Chair 
Robert Steinberg responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 16, following an 
extension of time granted by this office.2  The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated by 
email outside of a meeting.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on June 4 and June 18, as well 
as a video recording of the June 18 meeting.
3  Finally, we reviewed the email correspondences 
that occurred on June 7.  
 
 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2024. 
2 Robert Steinberg is still a member of the Board but he is no longer Chair. 
3 A video recording of the June 18, 2024, meeting is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8nhMsTmNMWM&list=PLYhif7MJu45FiUnQAyJaDpRKUAOhBOBwl&inde
x=6. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
 We find the facts as follows.  The Board is a seven-member public body; thus, four 
members constitute a quorum.   
 
 During a meeting held on June 4, the Board appointed from its members a Treasurer and 
Recording Secretary but deferred consideration of the appointment of Chair and Vice Chair. 
 
On June 6, Town Administrator Antonio Barletta sent an email to the Board requesting 
that members join the Board of Selectmen “in a joint meeting to discuss specific concerns with 
the latest draft of the” Housing Production Plan.  The next day, Board member Robert Steinberg, 
who was Chair at that time, responded and agreed to a joint meeting.  Approximately two hours 
later, Board Vice Chair John Shannon Bianchi responded to Mr. Steinberg’s email, to which all 
Board members were copied, and disagreed with meeting jointly with the Board of Selectmen.  
Specifically, Mr. Bianchi stated that the Board had previously voted to postpone consideration of 
the Housing Production Plan and therefore a joint meeting to discuss the Plan was “completely 
out of order.”  Mr. Bianchi further suggested that the Board “should navigate the normal course 
set before us by Roberts [sic] Rules and our own Planning Board Rules, and first have a vote to 
reconsider the postponement of consideration.”  Mr. Bianchi went on to state that the “Chairman 
has erred in his authority and charge, and has created a situation whereby we are violating our 
own Rules for our” Board.  Thirty minutes later, Mr. Bianchi sent another email “alert[ing]” all 
Board members “as to the status of our makeup.”  He reminded members that reorganization 
“was halted” during the Board’s previous meeting and urged the Board to “finish reorganizing” 
before discussing any “business matters.” 
 
 During a meeting held on June 18, the Board reconsidered its decision to defer the 
election of a Chair and Vice Chair made during the June 4 meeting.  Board member Sheila 
Hambleton made a motion to nominate Mr. Bianchi as Chair, which was seconded by Board 
member Casey Carey, but the motion did not pass with a majority vote.
4  A motion to reconsider 
Mr. Bianchi’s nomination also failed.  The Board then discussed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint at issue here for approximately 30 minutes and authorized Mr. Steinberg to respond to 
the complaint.    
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deli
beration and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law requires that meetings of a 
public body be properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session 
is convened.  See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21.  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 18.  The law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication through any 
 
4 We note that the minutes of the June 18 meeting reflect that Ms. Carey made the motion to nominate Mr. Bianchi 
as Chair while Ms. Hambleton seconded that motion.  After watching a video recording of the June 18 meeting, the 
original motion was actually made by Ms. Hambleton and that motion was seconded by Ms. Carey.  We encourage 
the Board to amend the minutes to accurately reflect the actions taken during the meeting, 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
busine
ss within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that ‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, 
provided than no opinion of a member is expressed.”  Id.  For the purposes of the Open Meeting 
Law, a “quorum” is a simple majority of the members of a public body.  Id.   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting 
when M
r. Bianchi responded to Mr. Steinberg’s email accepting an invitation for the Board to 
meet jointly with the Board of Selectmen.  Specifically, the complaint alleges that Mr. Bianchi 
expressed his opinion on matters within the jurisdiction of the Board and that those opinions 
were shared with a quorum of the Board.  The Board explains that Mr. Bianchi did not realize 
that his June 7 emails were sent to the entire Board, rather he believed he was only responding to 
the Town Administrator and the Board Chair.  We accept the Board’s assertion that Mr. Bianchi 
did not realize he was emailing the full Board; nonetheless, we must review the complaint in 
light of the fact that both emails were indeed sent to the entire Board.  In addition, the Board 
contends that the June 7 emails from Mr. Bianchi do not constitute deliberation because they 
concerned scheduling and administrative matters.  There are several exceptions to the definition 
of deliberation, which are construed narrowly.  See OML 2016-172; OML 2014-51.5  For 
example, deliberation does not include the distribution of a meeting agenda or scheduling 
information.  See OML 2021-112; OML 2015-69.   
 
Here, the June 7 emails from Mr. Bianchi do not pertain solely to scheduling information 
or a
dministrative matters, even though they reference the scheduling of a joint meeting, such that 
they would fall within the exception to the definition of deliberation.  See, e.g. OML 2021-112 
(finding email sent to a quorum of a public body to be administrative in nature where it asked a 
question in response to information provided by the Executive Director and did not contain any 
opinion); OML 2013-160 (signing certification forms outside of a posted meeting was an 
administrative task that did not constitute deliberation); OML 2013-130 (finding no violation 
where Chair emailed Superintendent, copying other Board members to keep them informed, 
because the Chair’s communication was directed to the Superintendent, not the Board members, 
and was only meant to collect factual information, not to convey an opinion to the Board).  
Rather, the emails contained Mr. Bianchi’s thoughts and opinions on matters that had previously 
been discussed by the Board and were still pending before it, including whether to “reconsider 
the postponement of consideration” of the Housing Production Plan and to “finish reorganizing” 
by electing a Chair and Vice Chair.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not carve out an exception to the definition of 
“del
iberation” for discussions that do not result in a decision or vote.  Any communication 
among a quorum of a public body on matters that are pending or will come before it and within 
the public body’s jurisdiction is considered deliberation.  See OML 2015-3; OML 2014-108; 
OML 2013-136; Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, 479 Mass. 233, 243 (2018).  
Moreover, the expression of an opinion of one public body member on matters within the body’s 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
jurisdiction to a quorum of a public body is a deliberation, even if no other public body member 
responds
.  See OML 2016-104; OML 2015-33.  In addition, we have found that discussion of a 
public body’s operation is a matter within the body’s jurisdiction and that such discussions must 
therefore take place during an open meeting that has been properly noticed.  See OML 2015-3; 
OML 2014-108 (concluding that a discussion concerning the leadership of a public body to be a 
matter of public business that should be reserved for an open meeting).  We find that the June 7 
emails from Mr. Bianchi to a quorum of the Board contained an improper deliberation and 
therefore violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
Determining which communications are purely “administrative” can be challenging, and 
email communications between a quorum of public body members - however innocent - may 
lend at least the appearance of improper deliberation.  See OML 2021-112; OML 2013-6 (noting 
that it is often difficult to determine whether communications are administrative or substantive in 
nature).  Therefore, we recommend that public bodies refrain from email communication 
between a quorum of their members except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling 
meetings and distributing reports and documents to be discussed at meetings that do not contain 
opinions of members, which are administrative tasks specifically sanctioned under the Open 
Meeting Law.  See OML 2021-112; OML 2013-29. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
deliberating via email.  We order immediate and future compliance with the law’s requirements, 
and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the 
law.  In addition, we order the Board to publicly disclose the June 7 emails if it has not already 
done so, either by reading their content during a meeting and listing the emails in the meeting 
minutes, or by referencing the emails during a meeting and posting the emails along with the 
minutes on the municipal website.  
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
  
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:  Michelle Capano – By email only:   
 Daniel G. Skrip, Esq. – By email only: litigation@tflawllc.com  
Nahant Town Clerk Diane Dunfee – By email only: ddunfee@nahant.org 

===PAGE 5===
5 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 