===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.rnass.gov/ago  
January 11, 2011 
OML 2011-4 
Lisa L. Mead, Esq. 
Blatman, Bobrowski & Mead, LLC 
30 Green Street 
Newburyport, MA 01950 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mead: 
On or about June 24, 2010, the Essex District Attorney's Office referred an Open 
Meeting Law complaint to this office that had been filed by Mr. Stanley Sokol on May 
25, 2010. That complaint alleges that the Marblehead Board of Selectmen ("Board") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, §23B (now repealed), by engaging in 
deliberations outside of a posted meeting about whether to solicit proposals to perfoll 
an independent assessment of the Marblehead Police Department. ,  Following the referral 
of the complaint to our office and the notification of all parties, the Board submitted its 
response on September 1, 2010. 
Our office reviewed the initial complaint; the Board's response; the Board's 
meeting notices for meetings on June 2, 2010 and June 16, 2010; the Board's agendas for 
meetings on June 2, 2010 and June 16, 2010; minutes from the Board's meetings on June 
2, 2010 and June 16, 2010; the meeting notice for the Procurement Officer's Evaluation 
Committee on Monday, June 7, 2010; and the minutes of the June 7, 2010 Procurement 
Officer's Evaluation Committee's meeting. We also spoke with the complainant as well 
as Ms. Rebecca Curran, Chief Procurement Officer ("CPO") for the town of Marblehead. 
We acknowledge that, at the time the alleged violation occurred, the revised Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, was not yet in effect. Therefore we apply the 
version of the Open Meeting Law in effect at the time of the alleged violation, G.L. c. 39, 
§23B. 
Based upon our review of the provided information we find that the Marblehead 
Board of Selectmen did not violate the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 39, §23B. 
The basis for the complaint is two-fold: that a town employee was directed by the Board 
===PAGE 2===
to take action—namely, placing an advertisement—without deliberation by the Board 
authorizing the action in an open public meeting; and that the Board established an ad hoc 
committee to evaluate proposals for an assessment of the Marblehead Police Department without 
deliberation by the Board during an open public meeting. We address each allegation in turn. 
With regard to the first allegation pertaining to the placement of an advertisement by the 
Chief Procurement Officer, the complaint states specifically that: 
The act of placing the ad by the employee suggests 'deliberations' by at least a majority 
of the Board in violation of the law because a single selectman, even if chairperson, 
cannot and would not direct the employee to do so without the knowledge and tacit 
approval of other Board members. 
In making this assertion, the complainant bases his conclusion on a logical assumption: 
that the Board, as the executive governing authority of the town, is required to approve all 
expenditures of funds by the town pertaining to advertisements by town authorities. However, 
the information gained during our investigation disproves the complainant's assumption. 
Based on our interview with Ms. Curran, she is authorized as the CPO to draft and submit 
a Request for Proposals ("RFP") for publication pursuant to G.L c. 30B, §5. The decision to 
place an RFP in a newspaper may originate with the Town Administrator, the Board, or may be 
made at her own discretion acting as the CPO for the town, subject to the requixements of G.L. c. 
30B. The task of placing the advertisement in the newspaper does not require prior approval to 
expend the funds necessary to place the advertisement. See Response. Once the RFP 
advertisement has been placed, it is standard operating procedure for the public body that is 
impacted by the RFP to be notified of its publication by inserting the relevant information in the 
public body's meeting packets prior to the next meeting. It is common practice in the town for 
the public body to vote on the contract once the RFP responses are received and reviewed, 
however the public body does not vote on submitting the initial RFP for publication. 
In this instance, Ms. Curran was asked by the Town Administrator, Tony Sasso, in the 
course of his administrative duties, to draft a "scope of work," the initial step in drafting an RFP, 
focused on an independent assessment of the police department. After independently 
researching and drafting the RFP, Ms. Curran submitted the advertisement for the RFP to the 
newspaper for publication.' The cost of the advertisement was $35.97. On June 2, 2010, the 
Board received notification that an RFP was issued soliciting proposals to perform an 
independent assessment of the Marblehead Police Department. See Meeting Minutes, June 2, 
2010. 
The decision to advertise the RFP was made by the CPO in conjunction with the Town 
Administrator. This is a function within their discretion. Therefore, we find that it was not 
necessary for the Board to deliberate to authorize the placement of the advertisement in question. 
Accordingly, there was no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
Next we consider the second allegation, which pertains to the formation of an ad hoc 
I  Where appropriate, the town's standard practice calls for Ms. Curran to discuss the scope of work with the head of 
the Department for which the RFP is being issued. Where, as here, a discussion with the Depai 	(Anent head would 
have been inappropriate because of the inherent conflict, Ms. Curran performs independent research to develop the 
scope of work that forms the basis for the RFP. 
===PAGE 3===
committee. The complaint specifically states that: 
The Board of Selectmen cannot establish an ad-hoc committee and/or 
appoint persons to the that committee without a vote in open session establishing 
the committee and appointing its members. 
See Complaint. 
G.L. c. 30B, §5, the Uniform Procurement Act, sets forth the procedures for considering 
competitive sealed bids received as the result of a solicitation for proposals. It is the Chief 
Procurement Officer's responsibility to evaluate the bids. See G.L. c. 30B, §5(e) (the 
"procurement officer shall evaluate a bid based solely on the requirements and criteria set forth 
in the invitation for bids"). 
According to Ms. Curran, it is the town's standard practice for Ms. Curran, in her role as 
the Chief Procurement Officer, to appoint a committee to evaluate the responses received as the 
result of an RFP. This committee, generally referred to as the "Procurement Officer's evaluation 
committee," evaluates all responses in an open meeting. A committee usually consists of Ms. 
Curran, Mr. Sasso and the chair of the body that will ultimately vote to award the contract. 
Typically, the responses are evaluated first on their technical merits and ranked according to how 
well they satisfy the technical criteria outlined in the RFP. Once ranked according to technical 
merits, the evaluation committee opens the cost proposals. Based on the technical evaluation and 
the cost evaluation, the proposal that best satisfies the terms of the RFP is presented for approval 
by the Board during its next meeting. 
In this instance, Ms. Curran announced the formation of the Procurement Officer's 
Evaluation Committee during the June 2, 2010 Board meeting. See Meeting Minutes, June 2, 
2010. The committee consisted of Ms. Curran, Mr. Sasso and the Chairman of the Board of 
Selectmen. Contrary to the assertion contained in the complaint, the Board was not required to 
vote in open session to establish the committee and appoint its members. Rather, Ms. Curran is 
responsible for evaluating the bids received as the result of the RFP. She may, in her discretion 
and consistent with established town practices, choose to delegate this responsibility by forming 
a committee to assist her in the process of evaluating the bids. See Connelly v. School  
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232 (1991) (a principal search committee appointed by the 
school superintendent was not a governmental body subject to the Open Meeting Law because 
the superintendent had the ultimate responsibility for hiring and could have performed the search 
himself). 
Notwithstanding that the Procurement Officer's Evaluation Committee was not a 
governmental body as that term was defined by G.L.c. 39, §23B, the Committee nevertheless 
conducted its business in accordance with the Open Meeting Law. Notice of a meeting of the 
Procurement Officer's Evaluation Committee scheduled for June 7, 2010 at 1:00 p.m. in Abbot 
Hall, 188 Washington Street was filed with the Marblehead Town Clerk and date stamped June 
4, 2010 at 12:05 p.m. Minutes of the June 7, 2010 meeting of the Procurement Officer's 
Evaluation Committee for Police Investigation were maintained and are publicly available. 
During a duly posted meeting of the Board convened on June 16, 2010, the Board voted to award 
the contract for the police department review pursuant to the recommendation of the 
Procurement Officer's Evaluation Committee for Police Investigation, as reflected in its June 7, 
2010 meeting minutes. Consistent with the spirit of the Open Meeting Law, the Procurement 
===PAGE 4===
Officer's Evaluation Committee took steps to ensure that its business was conducted in a public 
forum. In addition, all decisions made by the Board pertaining to the award of the contract 
occurred during duly posted public meetings. 
We fmd no violations of the Open Meeting Law by the Marblehead Board of Selectmen 
with regard to allegations discussed above. Accordingly our office considers this matter closed. 
We thank the parties for their assistance and patience during this process. 
Sincerely, 
Pt-C3--k Lc.4 
Britte McBride 
Director 
Division of Open Government 
Cc: 	 Mr. Stanley Sokol 
Marblehead Board of Selectmen 
Enclosures: 
Complaint 
Response 
Meeting Minutes, June 2, 2010 