===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
April 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 56  
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Ronald Rappaport, Esq. 
Reynolds, Rappaport, Kaplan & Hackney, LLC 
 
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
 
Dear Attorney Rappaport: 
 
This office received a complaint from Jonathan Chatinover on September 16, 2020,1 
alleging that the Edgartown Conservation Commission (the “Commission”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Commission 
on August 18, and you responded on behalf of the Commission by letter dated September 2. The 
complaint alleges that the Commission improperly met in executive session to discuss the 
termination of a lease with The Trustees of Reservations (the “Trustees”), and posted 
insufficiently detailed meeting notices with respect to the executive sessions.2       
 
Following our review, we find that the Commission violated the Law by improperly 
meeting in executive session on four occasions. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
Open Meeting Law complaint; the Commission’s response; the request for further review; 
minutes and notices for executive sessions held on July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 133; 
 
1 All dates in this determination are in 2020, unless otherwise stated.  
2 The complaint also alleges that the Commission made the decision to terminate the lease “without any public 
input” and that the Commission deliberated outside of a properly posted meeting on July 30. Based on clarifying 
information in the Commission’s response, and the Complainant’s request for further review, we understand the 
essence of the complaint to be that the Commission improperly met in executive session to discuss terminating the 
lease and posted insufficiently detailed meeting notices for those executive sessions. Therefore, we limit this 
determination to those allegations only.  
3 We note that as of February 17, 2021, the executive session minutes had not been approved and remained in draft 
form. We remind the Commission of its obligation to create and approve meeting minutes, including executive 
session minutes, within the later of three meetings or 30 days. 940 CMR 29.11(2). 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
video recordings of the executive session held on July 22 and the open session held on August 5; 
and responses from the Commission to requests from our office for further information. We also 
communicated with the Complainant via email and with Counsel4 by phone and email.  
 
FACTS 
 
In 1977, through a collaborative fundraising and conservation effort, the Town of 
Edgartown purchased historic Katama Farm and the Commission became landlord of the farm. 
In 2016, the Trustees took over the nonprofit Farm Institute and its long-term lease of Katama 
Farm. This complaint relates to the Commission’s discussions, which took place in executive 
sessions held on July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 13, regarding terminating the lease. The 
Commission posted notices for meetings to be held on July 22, July 27, and August 13, each of 
which included the following topic: “the Edgartown Conservation Commission will meet in 
Executive Session via Zoom for the purpose of discussing pending real estate negotiations.” The 
notices for these three meetings did not include any other information regarding the executive 
sessions or the matters to be discussed. The Commission also posted notice for an August 5 
meeting, which, in addition to other unrelated topics, included the topic “IV. Executive Session 
Pending real estate negotiations.”5    
 
We reviewed the Commission’s executive session minutes, as well as a video recording 
of the July 22 executive session, in camera. Because the minutes and recording have not yet been 
released to the public, we only briefly summarize their contents here. On July 22, July 27, and 
August 5,6 the Commission voted to convene in executive session “for the purpose of discussing 
possible real estate negotiations.” On August 13, the Commission voted to convene in executive 
session “for the purpose of discussing real estate negotiations and possible litigation.” Over the 
course of these four executive sessions, the Commission discussed terminating the Trustees’ 
lease of Katama Farm, the Commission’s desired use of the farm; the Trustees’ actual use of the 
farm; the Commission’s concerns regarding the Trustees’ operation of the farm; and the 
 
4 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person.  
5 We note that with the exception of the notice for the August 5 meeting, none of the notices included an open 
session, and the notices for the July 22 and July 27 meetings did not include any information as to how the public 
could access the meetings. When the only substantive business for a meeting will be an executive session, the public 
body must list an open session on the meeting notice, as this is the only means by which members of the public are 
informed that a public body will hold an open session, as required, to perform the necessary procedural steps for 
entering executive session. See OML 2018-80; OML 2013-9; OML 2012-68. Additionally, if access to a meeting 
will be provided through “adequate, alternative means” in accordance with the March 12, 2020, Executive Order 
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, § 20, the meeting notice must include clear 
instructions for accessing the meeting remotely. See OML 2020-102. Finally, to prevent potential confusion, we 
note that despite the Commission’s representation in its response that the Town had adopted its website as its official 
notice posting location, the Commission has since clarified that the Town has not adopted this alternative method of 
notice posting. See 940 CMR 29.03(2)(b). 
6 The recording of the Commission’s August 5 open session does not capture the announcement or vote to enter into 
executive session. We remind the Commission that prior to entering into executive session, the chair must state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for 
which the executive session was called; the chair must announce whether the Commission will reconvene in open 
session; and a majority of the members of the Commission must vote, by roll call, to enter into executive session. 
These procedural steps must be taken during a properly posted open session. See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(b)(1)-(4). 
Additionally, we remind that Commission that all votes must be taken by roll call during a meeting at which one or 
more members participate remotely. See 940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); OML 2021-9.  
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Commission’s belief that the Trustees were in violation of the lease and a land use plan. 
Ultimately, on August 13, the Commission voted to send a letter to the Trustees terminating the 
lease.  
    
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law’s goal “is to advance democracy by providing broad access to 
governmental decision-making and eliminating ‘the secrecy surrounding the deliberations and 
decisions on which public policy is based.’” Bartell v. Wellesley Housing Auth., 28 
Mass.App.Ct. 306, 308-309 (1990), quoting Ghiglione v. School Comm. of Southbridge, 376 
Mass. 70, 72 (1978). All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session unless 
a closed-door executive session is convened for one of ten permissible purposes. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
20(a), 21(a). One such statutory purpose for executive session is to “discuss strategy with respect 
to . . . litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the . . . litigating position of 
the public body and the chair so declares.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”). Purpose 3 
offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending or 
clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 
Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983); OML 2020-76; OML 2019-164; OML 2012-5.  
 
Another statutory purpose for executive session is to “consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body.” G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”). 
Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in executive session to protect its 
negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease real estate, or to discuss the 
value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that property. See G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(6); Allen v. Board of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); 
OML 2019-143; OML 2016-50. Purpose 6 is intended to preserve confidentiality in negotiating 
the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged, or leased to avoid putting the public body 
at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property. See Allen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. at 720; OML 
2016-50; OML 2019-10. Where the price has been settled and there are no additional terms 
under consideration, Purpose 6 does not apply to authorize deliberation in executive session. See 
OML 2019-108; OML 2016-93; OML 2012-52; OML 2014-36. The public body bears the 
burden of demonstrating applicability of the claimed executive session purpose. See District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm, of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 566 (2009). 
 
I. The Commission’s Executive Session Discussions Were Not Authorized Under 
Purpose 3 Because the Commission Did Not Discuss Litigation Strategy. 
The Commission asserted in its response to this complaint and in subsequent 
communications with our office that the primary purpose for meeting in executive session on the 
dates at issue was to discuss potential litigation, and that on each occasion the Chair’s 
announcement before entering executive session specified that one of the purposes for the 
executive session was to discuss potential litigation. However, the notices and minutes for the 
July 22, July 27, and August 5 meetings do not support such a finding; the notices and minutes 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
state only that the purpose for the executive sessions was “possible real estate negotiations,” not 
litigation strategy. Likewise, the notice for the August 13 meeting states only that the purpose for 
executive session was “possible real estate negotiations,” and although the minutes state that the 
Commission voted to enter executive session to discuss both “real estate negotiations” and 
“possible litigation,” the minutes do not reflect that the Commission in fact discussed potential 
litigation, aside from a passing mention that the Trustees could contest the termination. Indeed, 
based on our close review of the minutes of the July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 13 
executive sessions and the recording of the July 22 executive session, which we do not recount 
here because the minutes have not yet been released to the public, we find no indication 
whatsoever that the Commission’s discussions concerned strategy with respect to litigation that 
was pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely.  
 
Although the Commission may have received legal advice from Counsel during the 
executive sessions, the minutes of the four meetings reflect only passing mentions of litigation, 
and no substantive discussion of litigation strategy. See OML 2019-164. The Commission has 
provided no explanation for why its meeting minutes—which are generally quite detailed, 
presumably were created relatively close in time to the meetings, and are required to be 
accurate—do not reflect discussions regarding litigation strategy if that is in fact what was 
discussed. We therefore conclude that the Commission’s executive session discussions were not 
authorized under Purpose 3.7   
 
II. The Commission’s Executive Session Discussions Were Not Authorized Under 
Purpose 6 Because the Commission Did Not Discuss Lease Negotiations.  
 
The notices and minutes of the July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 13 executive 
sessions each cite real estate negotiations as a basis for entering executive session. Based on our 
close review of the executive session minutes and the recording of the July 22 executive session, 
we find that the Commission did not discuss real estate negotiations appropriate for executive 
session under Purpose 6. Purpose 6 is intended to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage 
in its negotiations for real property. See Allen, 58 Mass. App. Ct. at 720; see also Dist. Atty. for 
Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 633 (1985) (“The 
reasoning behind the exception is that public discourse would invite speculation and thus drive 
up the eventual price paid by the government.”); OML 2019-10. Here, the Commission did not 
discuss negotiations for real property. Instead, the Commission discussed the pros and cons of 
terminating the Trustee’s lease of Katama Farm, a lease signed years prior and for which all 
terms had been settled and agreed upon. Additionally, the Commission discussed the use of 
Katama Farm, the Trustees’ performance under the lease and land use plan, and the 
Commission’s frustrations with the Trustees. The Commission did not discuss an intent to 
 
7 To the extent the Commission asserts that it properly met in executive session to receive legal advice from counsel, 
we note the protection of the attorney-client privilege is not itself a permissible purpose for meeting in executive 
session. Instead, a public body may only enter executive session for one of the ten enumerated purposes set out in 
General Laws chapter 30A, section 21(a). The Supreme Judicial Court has unequivocally held that the Open 
Meeting Law constitutes “a statutory public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of 
governmental bodies except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.” Dist. Atty. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. 
of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985); Revere Ret. Bd. v. Attorney Gen., 93 Mass. App. Ct. 
1117 (2018), cert. denied, 480 Mass. 1108 (2018). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
renegotiate the lease, nor was there any indication that holding the discussions in open session 
would have been detrimental to any negotiating position the Commission might have had with 
respect to the lease. Therefore, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it discussed the termination of the Trustees’ lease in executive session on July 22, July 27, 
August 5, and August 13.  
 
Additionally, we note that even if the Commission’s discussions had been appropriate 
under Purpose 6, the Commission failed to identify the specific real property to be discussed 
during the four executive sessions. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2019-101; OML 2016-5; 
OML 2014-136, OML 2014-36. When noticing an executive session to be held pursuant to 
Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property to be discussed if doing so would not 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called. See OML 2019-10. While 
we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of when the disclosure of information will 
compromise the purpose for an executive session, the body must be able to provide a reasonable 
explanation for such a decision if challenged. See OML 2018-73. The Commission has made no 
assertion that identifying the real property to be discussed would have compromised the purpose 
for the executive session. 
 
We order the Commission to approve the minutes of its July 22, July 27, August 5, and 
August 13 executive sessions and release those minutes to the public within 30 days of the date 
of this letter. The Commission may not redact or withhold the minutes in any way. See G.L c. 
30A, § 22(f) (“The minutes of any executive session . . . may be withheld from disclosure to the 
public in their entirety . . . as long as publication may defeat the lawful purposes of the executive 
session, but no longer; provided, however, that the executive session was held in compliance with 
section 21”) (emphasis added)); District Atty. for Plymouth Dist. v. Bd. of Selectmen of 
Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 634 (1985) (“We view [the Open Meeting Law] as a statutory 
public waiver of any possible privilege of the public client in meetings of governmental bodies 
except in the narrow circumstances stated in the statute.”); OML 2021-24.   
 
III. We Do Not Find the Commission’s Violation to Be Intentional. 
Next, we must determine whether the Commission intentionally violated the Law, as the 
Complainant asserts. An intentional violation is 
 
an act or omission by a public body or a member there of, in knowing violation of 
M.G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18 through 25. Evidence of an intentional violation ... shall 
include, but not be limited to, that the public body or public body member: (a) acted 
with specific intent to violate the law; (b) acted with delibe rate ignorance of the 
law’s requirements; or (c) was previously informed by receipt of a decision from a 
court of competent jurisdiction or advised by the Attorney General, pursuant to 940 
CMR 29.07 or 940 CMR 29.08, that the conduct violates [the Law], Where a public 
body or public body member has made a good faith attempt at compliance with the 
law, but was reasonably mistaken about its requirements, such conduct will not be 
considered an intentional violation. 
 
940 CMR 29.02. 
 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
The Complainant alleges that the Commission intentionally violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing termination of the Trustees’ lease behind closed doors because “this subject 
should have been discussed in public.” This assertion does not identify any basis for finding that 
the Commission acted to intentionally violate the Open Meeting Law. Here, we have not 
previously warned the Commission against the violation found, nor do we find other evidence 
that would support a finding of an intentional violation. Furthermore, we note that Counsel for 
the Commission contacted our office to obtain information regarding permissible executive 
session purposes, in an effort to comply with the Law. Although ultimately we find that the 
specific matters discussed were not appropriate for executive session, we find that the 
Commission sincerely but mistakenly believed that it had proper reason to meet in executive 
session on July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 13. Therefore, we do not find that the 
Commission intentionally violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Commission violated the Open Meeting 
Law by discussing topics in executive session on July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 13 that 
did not fall within any of the ten enumerated purposes for executive session. We order the 
Commission’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law and note that 
future similar violations may be considered evidence of an intent to violate the law. Additionally, 
we order the Commission to approve the minutes of its July 22, July 27, August 5, and August 
13 executive sessions and release those minutes to the public within 30 days of the date of this 
letter. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints which may be pending with our office or 
the Commission. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Jonathan Chatinover (via email:   
Edward W. Vincent, Jr., Chair of the Edgartown Conservation Commission (via e-mail: 
 
  
 

===PAGE 7===
7 
 
 
 
  
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 