===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 14, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 133 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Ivria Glass Fried, Esq. 
Miyares Harrington 
40 Grove Street 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
ifried@miyares-harrington.com 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Fried:  
 
This determination addresses twelve complaints that Walter Tuvell filed alleging that the 
Reading Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  In 
total, Mr. Tuvell filed 14 separate Open Meeting Law complaints with the reading Select Board 
over the course of approximately eight months.  Two complaints were previously resolved in a 
separate determination, OML 2021-194.  The complaints addressed herein are dated May 24, 
June 22, July 21, July 23, August 16, August 22, 2021, October 21, October 27, and November 
18 (2 complaints), 2021, and January 9 and 11, 2022.
1  The allegation(s) of each complaint are 
described and addressed below.2,3,4 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021, except where indicated. 
2 One member of the Board during the time periods relevant to these complaints is an employee of the Attorney 
General’s Office.  The complaints contain no allegations that are specific to the actions of that individual, and that 
individual played no role in this office’s consideration of the complaints. 
3 After Mr. Tuvell filed the fifth complaint, the Board requested mediation of the Open Meeting Law complaints in 
accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a).  This office assigned a mediator and mediation was scheduled to take place 
in January 2022.  Mr. Tuvell refused to participate in mediation under the terms that the mediator established .  
Although the Attorney General may decline to review an Open Meeting Law complaint “[i]f the complainant 
declines to participate in mediation after a public body's request in accordance with 940 CMR 29.05(9)(a),” we 
nonetheless review each of Mr. Tuvell’s complaints herein.  See 940 CMR 29.05(9)(d).  While the mediation efforts 
were underway, the Board’s deadline for responding to the complaints, and Mr. Tuvell’s deadline for filing the 
complaints with the Attorney General, were tolled. 
4 Some of the complaints include additional allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of the Open 
Meeting Law.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
===PAGE 2===
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Complaint dated May 24, 2021 
 
The May 24 complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
with regard to the contents of the meeting packet that the Board posted for its May 4 meeting.  
Several of the complaints addressed in this letter stem from emails the Board received, 
purportedly from an email address known to have been used by the Complainant Walter Tuvell 
in prior communications with the Board and/or staff, with the accompanying display name Walt 
Tuvell.  Mr. Tuvell subsequently asserted that he did not send some of the emails, and that the 
emails had been sent by someone fraudulently impersonating his email account.  At times 
relevant to these complaints, the Board had a policy of listing correspondence that the Board 
received prior to each meeting on the meeting notice for each meeting, as well as including the 
correspondence in the meeting packet for each meeting.   
 
On April 22, the Board received an email purportedly from Walt Tuvell.  Board Chair 
Karen Herrick contacted Mr. Tuvell about the email, and Mr. Tuvell stated that he did not send 
the email.  Mr. Tuvell then emailed the full Board to state that he had not sent the email in 
question.  Chair Herrick and Board Secretary Mark Dockser, a member of the Board, 
corresponded briefly by text message regarding the email in question; Chair Herrick informed 
Secretary Dockser that she had just spoken with Mr. Tuvell and the email was not from him and 
Secretary Dockser responded that he would tell the Board’s executive assistant not to include the 
email in the packet for the upcoming May 4 meeting.  Around that time Chair Herrick also spoke 
by phone with a third member of the Board, Chris Haley, but Chair Herrick’s and Member 
Haley’s recollections differ or are uncertain as to what specifically was discussed and whether 
Chair Herrick relayed to Member Haley what had been discussed with Secretary Dockser 
regarding the email in question. 
 
Secretary Dockser inadvertently forgot to request that the executive assistant exclude the 
email in question from the packet for the May 4 meeting, and the meeting packet was posted 
online with the email purportedly from Walt Tuvell included.  Thereafter, the Board’s legal 
counsel advised removing the email from the packet; staff removed the email on May 5.   
 
 The May 24 complaint alleges that the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, in reaching a decision to remove the email in question from 
the posted packet for the May 4 meeting.  Although there is some disagreement or limited 
recollection as to the precise nature of Chair Herrick’s discussion with Member Haley, we find 
that Chair Herrick and Secretary Dockser’s communications regarding removing the email in 
question from the May 4 meeting packet do not constitute deliberation regardless of whether a 
quorum of the Board was reached when Chair Herrick subsequently spoke with Member Haley. 
 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently.  
 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  Therefore, we decline to review allegations that, even if true, would not constitute violations of 
the Open Meeting Law.  See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
===PAGE 3===
See OML 2013-130.5  To that end, the law defines deliberation as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 
‘deliberation’ shall not include the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or 
distribution of other procedural meeting [information] or the distribution of reports or documents 
that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.”  G.L. 
c. 30A, § 18.   
 
Here, the text message exchange between Chair Herrick and Secretary Dockser did not 
cons
titute deliberation, as it fell within the Open Meeting Law’s exception allowing for limited 
communications of an administrative nature where no opinion of a public body is expressed.  In 
the brief exchange, Chair Herrick informed Secretary Dockser that she had spoken with Mr. 
Tuvell and that the email in question was not sent by Mr. Tuvell; Secretary Dockser responded 
that he would tell the Board’s assistant not to include the email in the meeting packet.  There was 
no discussion regarding the content of the email, opinions about the email, or the Board’s 
policies or practices with regard to correspondence to the Board or the contents of meeting 
packets.  Therefore, we find this brief exchange fell within the open Meeting Law’s exception 
for limited administrative communications and the distribution of meeting information.  See 
OML 2021-122 (finding no violation where two members—a quorum—worked together to 
perform mathematical computations to aggregate evaluation scores, but did not substantively 
discuss the evaluations); OML 2013-160 (finding that the act of signing certification forms 
outside of a posted meeting was an administrative task that did not constitute deliberation); OML 
2013-130 (finding no violation where the Chair emailed the Superintendent, copying other Board 
members to keep them informed, where the Chair’s communication was only meant to collect 
factual information and not convey an opinion of the Board).  For these reasons, we find no 
evidence that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by deliberating regarding the removal of 
the email in question from the May 4 meeting packet.    
 
Complai
nt dated June 22, 2021 
 
The complaint dated June 22 alleges that during a June 1 meeting of the Board, during 
the Board’s discussion of the May 24 Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board discussed the 
email in question—which purportedly was sent to the Board from Walt Tuvell but which Mr. 
Tuvell asserts he did not send—for approximately 30 minutes.  The complaint alleges that all 
members of the Board apparently had a shared understanding of the content of the email in 
question, but the email was not included in the meeting packet for the June 1 meeting or made 
available to the public.  Instead, the complaint alleges, the Board members referenced the email 
from the May 4 meeting packet which had subsequently been removed, as discussed above.   
 
The Open Meeting Law does not require that a public
  body attach supporting documents 
to a meeting notice, or that it create and post a meeting packet containing documents to be 
discussed at a meeting.  See OML 2022-19; OML 2021-181.  Even if it is a public body’s policy 
or practice to assemble and disseminate a meeting packet containing documents to be discussed 
during a meeting, the Open Meeting Law does not dictate the contents of such a meeting packet.  
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website, https://www mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 4===
See OML 2022-19.  Therefore, a failure to include any particular document in a meeting packet 
in advance of a meeting, or to share documents being discussed with members of the public 
during a meeting, does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
Although on its face the June 22 complaint pertains to the contents of the June 1 meeting 
packet
, and not the accuracy of meeting minutes, we note that the Open Meeting Law requires a 
public body to “create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings,” which must include “a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  Documents and 
exhibits used during an open session meeting are public records in their entirety, and must be 
provided in response to a request under the Public Records Law.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e).  
Therefore, to the extent the email in question was a document used during the June 1 meeting, it 
must be listed in the minutes of that meeting.  Because a challenge to the accuracy of the June 1 
meeting minutes was not directly raised in the complaint, and indeed could not have been as the 
minutes of the June 1 meeting had not yet been approved at the time the complaint was filed, we 
do not address whether the June 1 meeting minutes contain a complete and accurate list of 
documents used during the meeting.  See OML 2018-130 (explaining that a public body may 
revise draft minutes at any time prior to their approval to correct inaccuracies or add detail, and 
therefore a public body will not be found in violation of the Open Meeting Law for minutes that 
were in draft form at the time a complaint was filed). 
 
Compl
aints dated July 21 and August 22, 2021 
 
The complaint dated July 21 alleges that the notice and minutes for the Board’s June 29 
meeting are inaccurate because they list an email attributed to Walt Tuvell under 
“Correspondence,” which Mr. Tuvell asserts he did not send.  Similarly, the complaint dated 
August 22 alleges that the notice for the Board’s August 10 meeting was inaccurate because it 
listed two emails attributed to Walt Tuvell under “Correspondence” which Mr. Tuvell asserts he 
did not send.  We note that the “Correspondence” section of each of the meeting notices also lists 
several other emails from Walt Tuvell, purportedly sent from the same email address, which Mr. 
Tuvell does not challenge as inaccurate and are not the subject of these Open Meeting Law 
complaints. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours in advance of the meeting, which notice shall include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Here, the Board’s notice for each meeting included the topic 
“Correspondence,” and beneath that, a list of correspondence the Board received since its last 
meeting with each piece of correspondence identified by its apparent sender and a brief subject 
description; the meeting notices at issue each listed dozens of pieces of correspondence.  As the 
Board correctly asserts, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a meeting notice list all 
correspondence received by the Board; rather, the Open Meeting Law only requires that a 
meeting notice include the list of topics that are anticipated for discussion.  That the Board chose, 
in the interest of enhanced transparency, to list received correspondence on its meeting notice is 
its prerogative.  Therefore, we do not review the accuracy of the listed correspondence.  There is 
no allegation in either complaint that the meeting notices failed to include a sufficiently specific 
list of topics that were actually anticipated for discussion, and indeed we note that both meeting 
===PAGE 5===
notices separately listed other topics pertaining to Mr. Tuvell and his Open Meeting Law 
complaints. 
 
As for the allegation regarding the accuracy of the minutes of the Board’s June 29 
meetin
g, the minutes were still in draft form at the time the complaint was filed.  Therefore, as 
explained above, we do not review the accuracy of those minutes.  Nonetheless, we note that 
when reviewing meeting minutes for accuracy, we do not review whether the content of the 
minutes is factually accurate, but rather whether the minutes accurately reflect the content of the 
meeting; a public body is not required to confirm the veracity of statements or documents 
captured in the minutes.  See OML 2021-128; OML 2020-155; OML 2020-62.   
 
Complaints dated July 23 and August 16, 2021 
 
The complaints dated July 23 and August 16 each allege that the Board improperly 
convened in executive session to discuss prior Open Meeting Law complaints that Mr. Tuvell 
had filed with the Board.  In particular, the July 23 complaint alleges that the Board improperly 
convened in executive session on July 12 to discuss complaints dated July 1 and 3, and the 
August 16 complaint alleges that the Board improperly convened in executive session on August 
10 to discuss complaints dated July 21 and 23.   
 
The allegations of these complaints are nearly identical to those contained in prior 
complaints that Mr. Tuvell filed with the Board, which our office resolved in determination 
OML 2021-194.  In that determination, we explained that public bodies may meet in executive 
session in accordance with General Laws Chapter 30A, section 21(a)(1), to discuss Open 
Meeting Law complaints against the public body.  For the same reasons explained in that 
determination, we conclude here that the Board properly convened in executive session on July 
23 and August 16 to discuss prior Open Meeting Law complaints that Mr. Tuvell had filed with 
the Board. 
 
In addition, the July 23 complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when the Board entered executive session on July 12 despite that a quorum of members of the 
Board did not vote to enter executive session.  The Open Meeting Law allows a public body to 
convene in executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the body has first 
convened in open session and that “a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)2.  The Board is a five-member public body; three 
members attended the July 12 meeting; of those three members the vote was two-to-one to enter 
executive session.  The complaint alleges, therefore, that a majority of members of the Board did 
not vote to go into executive session.  We disagree.  We do not interpret the Open Meeting Law 
as requiring that a majority of the full body vote in favor of entering executive session, but rather 
that a majority of those present and voting must vote in favor of entering executive session.  This 
interpretation is supported by analogous case law as well as the language of the Open Meeting 
Law. 
 
Applying a law requiring decisions of a board of selectmen to be “determined by a 
majority vote of the members of the board,” the Appeals Court upheld as valid a decision by a 
board of selectmen that was rendered by a two-to-one vote with only three out of five board 
===PAGE 6===
members participating.  Montgomery v. Bd. Of Selectmen of Nantucket, 95 Mass. App. Ct. 65, 
77, n.12 (2019).  Quoting the Supreme Judicial Court, the Appeals Court explained that “[i]n the 
absence of statutory restriction the general rule is that a majority of a council or board is a 
quorum and a majority of the quorum can act.”  Id. (quoting Clark v. City Council of Waltham, 
328 Mass. 40, 41 (1951)).  Likewise, we construe the Open Meeting Law’s closely analogous 
language requiring that “a majority of members of the body have voted to go into executive 
session” as referring to a majority of those members of the body participating in the vote. 
 
Moreover, we are persuaded that the Open Meeting Law’s use of the term “majority of 
members,” in section 21(b)(2), was intended to mean something different than “quorum,” a term 
that is defined and used elsewhere in the Open Meeting Law.  “Where the Legislature used 
different language in different paragraphs of the same statute, it intended different meanings.”  
Commonwealth v. Williamson, 462 Mass. 676, 682 (2012) (quoting Ginther v. Comm’r of Ins., 
427 Mass. 319, 324 (1998).  Therefore, for this additional reason we are persuaded that the 
Board’s two-to-one vote during its July 12 meeting satisfied the requirement that a majority of 
members vote to enter executive session. 
 
Compl
aints dated October 21, October 27, and November 18 (2 complaints), 2021, and 
January 9 and 11, 2022 
 
 Mr. Tuvell filed six Open Meeting Law complaints, pertaining to meetings held on 
August 10, October 12, October 26, November 9, and December 14, 2021, and January 4, 2022, 
each alleging that the Board failed to include certain documents in the “official record” of the 
respective meeting.  In addition, the October 27 complaint alleges that the Board failed to 
sufficiently identify certain documents used at the August 10 meeting in the minutes for that 
meeting. 
 
Complaints regarding the “official record” of a meeting 
 
Mr. Tuvell’s complaints regarding the “official record” of the October 12, October 26, 
November 9, and December 14, 2021, and January 4, 2022, meetings each acknowledge that the 
minutes of each respective meeting were not yet available as of the time of filing the complaints.  
Therefore, these complaints do not challenge the sufficiency or accuracy of the meeting minutes, 
but rather assert that certain documents were not made part of the “official record” of each 
meeting.  The complaint regarding the August 10 meeting also pertains to the “official record” of 
that meeting, but as the August 10 minutes had been approved by the time the complaint was 
filed, we address additional allegations regarding the August 10 meeting below. 
 
The Open Meeting Law’s only reference to the “official record” of a meeting is in section 
22(d) of the Law, which states that “[d]ocuments and other exhibits, such as photographs, 
recordings or maps, used by the body at an open or executive session shall, along with the 
minutes, be part of the official record of the session.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(d).  The Open Meeting 
Law goes on to provide that the documents and exhibits used during an open session “shall be 
public records in their entirety and not exempt from disclosure pursuant to any of the exemptions 
[in the Public Records Law],” and that the documents and exhibits used during an executive 
session shall be disclosed, subject to any exemptions in the Public Records Law, once the 
===PAGE 7===
purpose for the executive session has been served.  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(e), (f).  In other words, the 
Open Meeting Law’s reference to the “official record” of a meeting pertains to the availability of 
such records if requested under the Public Records Law.  Indeed, we have consistently stated that 
a request for documents other than meeting minutes must be made under the Public Records 
Law, and a failure to properly respond to a request for such documents may implicate the Public 
Records Law but does not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law.  See, e.g., OML 
2021-182; OML 2019-163; OML Declination 7-16-20 (Greater Lowell Technical School 
Committee); OML Declination 8-9-13 (Southwick Board of Selectmen).  Here, there is no 
allegation that Mr. Tuvell requested the records at issue or that the Board denied a request on the 
ground that such records were not part of the “official record” of the meeting. 
 
This provision regarding the “official record” of a meeting is distinct from
  the Open 
Meeting Law’s requirement that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The documents that Mr. Tuvell identified in the 
complaints addressed herein may well have been documents “used” during a meeting such that 
the documents must be listed in the meting minutes.  However, each of the complaints 
acknowledges that the minutes of each respective meeting were not yet available as of the time 
of filing the complaints.  Therefore, as explained above, we do not review the sufficiency of 
minutes that were not yet created or that existed only in draft form.  See OML 2018-130.   
 
To the extent these complaints regarding the “official record” of the meeting allege that 
the
 Board failed to include certain documents in the meeting packet that the Board prepares and 
disseminates in advance of each meeting, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law.  As 
explained above, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body attach supporting 
documents to a meeting notice, or that it create and post a meeting packet containing documents 
to be discussed at a meeting, even if it is a public body’s policy or practice to assemble and 
disseminate a meeting packet containing documents to be discussed during a meeting.  See OML 
2022-19; OML 2021-181.  
  
Compl
aint regarding the sufficiency of the minutes of the August 10 meeting 
 
We do, however, review the sufficiency of the minutes of the Board’s August 10 
meeting, which are the subject of the October 27 complaint, as the minutes of that meeting had 
been approved as of the time the complaint was filed.  The complaint does not identify any 
particular documents that are alleged to have been used during the meeting but not listed in the 
minutes.  Instead, the complaint alleges that the minutes of the August 10 meeting (1) fail to 
accurately identify some of the listed pieces of correspondence where the minutes list the 
documents by the sender’s “unauthenticated” name and do not describe the content of the 
documents; (2) fail to describe how the listed documents were used during the meeting; and (3) 
fail to attach the listed documents.   
 
We find no violation with regard to the allegedly inaccurate identification of listed 
documents.  The Board explains that each of the listed documents was identified by a file name 
===PAGE 8===
or document title that would enable the Board or staff to identify and provide requested 
documents in response to a public records request.  Furthermore, as explained above, we do not 
review whether the content of meeting minutes is factually accurate, but rather whether the 
minutes accurately reflect the content of the meeting; a public body is not required to confirm the 
veracity of statements or documents captured in the minutes.  See OML 2021-128; OML 2020-
155; OML 2020-62.  There is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the list of 
documents include a description of the content of each document; rather, the documents must be 
listed in such a manner as to enable a member of the public to request, and a records custodian to 
identify, the desired document.  We are satisfied that the Board’s practice of listing 
correspondence by sender and subject satisfies the Open Meeting Law’s requirement that the 
Board create “accurate minutes...setting forth...a list of documents and other exhibits used at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). 
 
Finally, there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that the list of documents used 
during a m
eeting describe how the listed documents were used or describe the contents of the 
listed documents.  Likewise, there is no requirement that documents and other exhibits used by a 
public body be attached to or physically stored with the minutes.  See OML 2022-34; OML 
2017-43.  Therefore, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law with regard to the minutes 
of the Board’s August 10 meeting. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law in any of the ways alleged in the twelve complaints reviewed herein.  We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not address 
any other complaints that may be pending with our Office or the Board.  Please feel free to 
contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Walter Tuvell (via e-mail: ) 
Reading Select Board (via e-mail: selectboard@ci.reading.ma.us) 
 
 
 
 
This
 determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
