===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
May 23, 2018 
OML 2018-70 
Robert S. Troy, Esq. 
Barnstable County Counsel 
Troy Wail Associates 
90 Route 6 A 
Sandwich, MA 02563 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Troy: 
This office received a complaint from Ronald Beaty on August 21 alleging that the 
Board of Barnstable County Commissioners (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. 
c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on July 25, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated August 14. The complaint alleges that i) the 
Board's June 28 open session and emergency meeting minutes are not sufficiently detailed; ii) 
the notice for the Board's June 28 meeting lacked sufficient detail because it did not contain the 
purpose for the executive session and the Board failed to follow proper procedure before 
convening in executive session; iii) the Board failed to periodically review its executive session 
meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure; and iv) the 
Board improperly held an emergency meeting on June 28. 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed this matter. Following our 
review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law (i) by failing to include in both 
the open session and emergency meeting minutes of June 28 a list of documents used by the 
Board; and (ii) by failing to state on its June 28 meeting notice the specific litigation matter that 
would be discussed during the executive session. We find no evidence, however, that the Board 
violated the law in the other ways alleged. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Board's response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office 
requesting further review. We also reviewed the notices of, and open and executive session 
minutes from, the Board's June 28 meeting; the notice of, and open session minutes from, the 
Board's June 28 emergency meeting; the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Board's 
July 5 meeting; and the notice of, and open session minutes from, the Board's August 2 meeting. 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
o 
===PAGE 2===
Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on November 28, and with you by 
telephone on May 2, 2018.2 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. The complainant is a member of the Board. On June 26 at 
10:59 A.M., the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on June 28 at 11:00 A.M. The 
notice listed 12 topics, including Approval of Minutes, General Business, Commissioner's 
Actions, Commissioner's Reports, County Administrator's Report, and Executive Session. 
Specifically, the notice indicated that the Board would convene in executive session under 
purpose 3 "to confer with counsel to discuss strategy with respect to litigation involving the 
Town of Barnstable, as an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of Barnstable County (the Board will not reconvene in Open Session, or take 
formal action)." 
The June 28 meeting was held as planned, with the complainant in attendance. The 
Board discussed the fiscal year 2017 budget, executed a memorandum of understanding with the 
Yarmouth Chamber of Commerce, and renewed and executed various contracts. The Board then 
approved a unanimous vote by roll call (including the complainant) to convene in executive 
session under purpose 3 "for the purpose of conferring with Counsel to discuss strategy with 
respect to pending litigation involving the Town of Barnstable." Board Chair Leo Cakounes 
announced that the Board would not reconvene in open session. Because the Board has not 
publicly released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in detail 
here. However, we note that the Board discussed the possibility of a settlement agreement in a 
water contamination case filed by the Town of Barnstable against Barnstable County, and then 
approved and executed a settlement agreement. 
The Board thought that it had to promptly disclose the settlement agreement in open 
session. In addition, the settlement agreement had to be filed in Superior Court by June 30. 
Because the Board announced that it would not reconvene in open session after the executive 
session, the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting at 2:00 P.M. on June 28. The Board 
posted this notice at 1:50 P.M., five minutes after adjourning from executive session. The notice 
listed the following topics: Call to Order, General Business, and Adjournment. Under General 
Business, the notice listed "[ajnnouncement of votes taken by County Commissioners in 
Executive Session .. . related to the settlement of litigation with the Town of Barnstable, 
including Settlement and Access Agreements." 
The Board, including the complainant, met at 2:00 P.M. on June 28 and announced that it 
had approved and executed a settlement agreement in the matter of Town of Barnstable v. 
Barnstable County (Docket 1672CV00337), and that it had authorized County Legal Counsel 
Robert Troy and County Legal Counsel Robert Cox to file the agreement in court. The Board 
further announced that it had authorized Chair Cakounes and the County Administrator to 
prepare and issue a press release regarding the content of the settlement agreement. Finally, the 
Board announced that it had approved and executed "the Access Agreement between the Town 
of Barnstable and The County for the purpose of Well Exploration on the County Land referred 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
===PAGE 3===
to as 'The County Farm.'" The settlement agreement was filed in Barnstable Superior Court on 
June 29, and a stipulation of dismissal was entered on July 19. 
On June 29, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on July 5 at 11:00 A.M. 
The notice listed eleven topics, including Approval of Minutes and General Business. Under 
General Business, the notice listed "[a]nnouncement of votes taken by County Commissioners in 
Executive Session .. . related to the settlement of litigation with the Town of Barnstable, 
including Settlement and Access Agreements." 
During the July 5 meeting, the Board, including the complainant, unanimously approved 
the minutes from both the open and emergency meetings held on June 28. Chair Cakounes then 
announced that the Board had met in executive session on June 28 pursuant to purpose 3 and 
then "read into the record the Motions and Votes taken during that meeting and announced 
during the Emergency Meeting." He further explained that "I determined the necessity to call an 
Emergency Meeting of the Board" on June 28 at 2:00 P.M. "for the express purpose of the 
announcement of the action taken within the Executive Session Meeting" because the Board had 
stated that it would not reconvene in open session after the executive session, and because the 
Board was under a time constraint "as to filing the legal documents" in court by June 30. 
Finally, Chair Cakounes announced that the Board would be reviewing all executive session 
minutes to determine which minutes can be released. 
During an August 2 meeting, the Board, again including the complainant, reviewed 
executive session minutes from meetings held on February 3, 2016, March 2, 2016, June 29, 
2016, July 20, 2016, August 25, 2016, November 16, 2016, December 30, 2016, and June 28. 
The Board announced that the purposes for those meetings was still ongoing and therefore the 
minutes would not yet be released. 
DISCUSSION 
1. The June 28 Meeting Minutes Do Not Contain a List of Documents Used at the 
Meeting. 
The complaint alleges that the minutes from both the open session and emergency 
meeting held on June 28 lack sufficient specificity. The Open Meeting Law requires that a 
public body "create and maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, 
setting forth the date, time and place, the members present or absent, a summary of the 
discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the 
decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 
3 OA, § 22(a). When reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for 
substantial compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64.3 By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that a 
member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a clear 
understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. While minutes must include a summary 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website; 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
of the discussion on each topic, a transcript is not required, and the minutes do not need to 
include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 2012-29; OML 2011-55. 
Here, the June 28 open session minutes contain the date and place of the meeting, the 
members who were present, a summary of the discussions, and the decisions made and actions 
taken, including a record of all votes. The open session minutes do not contain the time of the 
meeting, although the minutes do include the time that the Board adjourned the open portion of 
the meeting and convened in executive session. The Board should revise these minutes to 
include the time of the meeting. The June 28 emergency meeting minutes contain the date, time 
and place of the meeting, the members who were present, a summary of the discussions, as well 
as the decisions made and actions taken, including a record of all votes. However, neither the 
open session nor emergency meeting minutes contain a list of documents that the Board used 
during the meetings. While certain documents were referenced in the body of the minutes, the 
Open Meeting Law requires that the minutes of a public body's meeting include a list of all 
documents and exhibits used by the public body during the meeting. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a); 
OML 2012-91. The Open Meeting Law does not define what it means for a document to be used 
at a meeting but, at a minimum, it is clear that where a document is physically present, verbally 
identified, and the contents are discussed by the members of a public body during an open 
meeting, it has been "used" for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. See OML 2014-12; OML 
2012-42. Here, documents were physically present, verbally identified, and their contents were 
discussed during both the open and emergency June 28 meetings; yet, neither set of minutes 
contain a list of documents used. As such, we find a violation of the Open Meeting Law and 
order the Board to revise its minutes to include a list of the documents used in its meetings. 
As a member of the Board, the complainant voted to approve both the open and 
emergency session minutes of the Board's June 28 meetings at its July 5 meeting. If the 
complainant was concerned with the content of the minutes, he had the power as a Board 
member to make a motion to revise the minutes. Or, upon realizing that the minutes did not 
contain the required list of documents, he could have made a motion at a subsequent meeting to 
amend the minutes. He did not do so. Further, in an attempt to resolve the complaint. Attorney 
Troy sought clarification from the complainant with respect to how the minutes were insufficient 
but the complainant did not provide specific details as to the claimed deficiencies. We 
encourage the complainant to work with his fellow Board members to resolve Open Meeting 
Law concerns of this nature before filing a complaint. 
II. The Board Did Not Provide Sufficient Notice Regarding the Executive Session 
Topic but Did Enter Executive Session for a Proper Purpose. 
All meetings of a public body must be conducted in an open session, with some 
exceptions. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a closed, executive session 
for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the public body first announces in 
open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all subjects that may be revealed 
without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." See G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland. 
455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for convening in executive 
session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the public that a [public body] 
would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for 
===PAGE 5===
doing so was proper or improper"). This level of detail about the executive session topic must 
also be included in the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2016-72. 
A public body may enter executive session "to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3) 
("Purpose 3"). This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to 
litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; 
the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Powers v. Freetown-
Lakeville Reg'l Sch. Dist. Comm., 392 Mass. 656, 659 (1984); Doherty v. School Commission of 
Boston. 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982). 
The complaint alleges that the June 28 meeting notice concerning the executive session 
topic lacked sufficient detail. Here, the notice stated that the Board would discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation involving the Town of Barnstable. We find that including the specific case 
name of the litigation matter it planned to discuss would have better provided the public with an 
understanding of the precise subject of the executive session discussion without compromising 
the Board's litigating position. See OML 2018-11. The Board does not suggest that inclusion of 
such information would have compromised the purpose for the executive session. In fact, the 
Board immediately thereafter announced in open session the specific litigation matter in which it 
had reached a settlement agreement. Therefore, we conclude that the meeting notice should have 
included the name of the litigation matter that was to be discussed in executive session. 
The complaint further alleges that the Board failed to follow the proper procedures for 
entering into executive session. A public body may enter executive, or closed, session provided 
that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of members of the body have voted 
to go into executive session, and that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and 
entered into the minutes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b). Before entering the executive session, the chair 
must state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called, and the chair must 
publicly announce whether the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive 
session. Id.; see also OML 2014-136. 
Here, the Board first convened in open session before unanimously voting to enter 
executive session. However, the complainant, instead of Chair Cakounes, publicly stated the 
subjects that could be revealed without compromising the purpose of the executive session, and 
publicly stated that holding the discussion in an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on 
the negotiating position of the public body. Chair Cakounes then announced that the Board 
would not reconvene in open session. As a member of the Board, the complainant had the 
opportunity on June 28 to ensure that the Board convened in executive session properly, and if it 
had not, to raise that issue then. Instead, he filed a complaint a month later. We remind the 
complainant that he himself made the motion to enter, and stated the purpose for, the executive 
session, and then voted to enter executive session for the very purpose he had just announced. 
The Board did not indicate on the notice or in its announcement preceding the executive 
session that it would vote following its discussion. We have previously found that it is 
reasonably foreseeable that a public body may hold a vote following discussion of a topic listed 
5 
===PAGE 6===
on a meeting notice, even where the notice topic does not indicate the possibility of a vote. See 
OML 2015-66; OML 2012-75. In this instance, even though the notice did not specify that the 
Board may take a vote, the vote that occurred and the action taken was immediately announced 
in an open session. Therefore, any harm done by failing to include such action on the notice was 
minimal. We commend the Committee for promptly announcing the settlement agreement both 
immediately following the executive session and at its July 5 meeting. 
III. The Board Periodically Reviewed Its Executive Session Meeting Minutes in 
Accordance with the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to periodically review its executive session 
meeting minutes to determine whether there is a continued purpose for nondisclosure. Executive 
session minutes may be withheld from disclosure to the public "as long as publication may 
defeat the lawful purposes of the executive session, but no longer." G.L. c. 3 OA, § 22(f). When 
the purpose for a valid executive session has been served, the minutes and any documents or 
exhibits used at the session must be disclosed unless the attorney-client privilege or an 
exemption to the public records law applies to withhold them, in whole or in part, from 
disclosure. See id. Public bodies have an obligation to review the minutes of executive sessions 
at reasonable intervals to determine if continued non-disclosure of minutes is warranted, and to 
announce that determination at the next meeting following its review. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1). 
Here, the Board announced at its July 5 meeting that it "would be scheduling an executive 
session meeting, for the purpose of reviewing all executive session minutes . . . and determining 
which shall be released." The Board then reviewed eight sets of minutes at its August 2 meeting. 
We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
Again, we suggest that if the complainant was concerned with the failure of the Board to 
periodically review executive session minutes, he had an obligation as a Board member to ensure 
that the minutes were reviewed in compliance with the law. The complainant can ask that a 
review of meeting minutes be added to the Board's meeting agenda, or could make a motion to 
review minutes if he feels such action is warranted. We encourage the complainant to work with 
his fellow Board members to resolve Open Meeting Law concerns of this nature before filing a 
complaint. 
IV. The Board Was Mistaken in Its Belief that an Emergency Meeting Was 
Necessary. 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, "a public body shall post 
notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays 
and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A "meeting" is defined, in relevant part, as "a 
deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. The law defines "deliberation" as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction." Id. For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a "quorum" is 
a simple majority of the members of a public body. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18. An "emergency" is 
defined as "a sudden, generally unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances demanding 
===PAGE 7===
immediate action." Id The burden of justifying the need for an emergency meeting lies with the 
public body. See OML 2012-7; OML 2010-6. 
Here, the Board posted notice for an emergency meeting five minutes after adjourning 
from executive session. The purpose of the emergency meeting was to announce the action the 
Board had just taken in executive session, which was the execution of a settlement agreement in 
the Superior Court matter of Town of Barnstable v. Barnstable County (Docket 1672CV00337). 
However, the Board did not need to announce or ratify the agreement in open session. See 
Dohertv v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 647 (1982) (holding that closed door 
votes are permissible where a body meets in executive session to protect its litigating position). 
Once an agreement has been executed, the public body should publicly announce the agreement 
in open session and describe the terms reached. Ideally, this should occur either during the same 
meeting or at the public body's next scheduled meeting. See OML 2015-52; OML 2013-84. 
Because the Board was sincerely mistaken in its belief that a separate emergency meeting was 
necessary to announce the execution of the settlement agreement immediately in open session, 
we find no violation of the law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to include in both the June 28 open session and emergency meeting minutes a list of 
documents used by the Board; and by failing to state on its June 28 meeting notice the specific 
litigation matter that would be discussed during the executive session. We order the Board's 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. We also order the Board, 
within 30 days following receipt of this letter, to revise both its open session and emergency 
minutes to include a list of the documents used in those June 28 meetings. Pursuant to 940 CMR 
29.07(4), the Committee shall notify our office in writing of compliance with this order. 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, , . 
\Aj4A/^ jiAX/yyyjt) 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc; Ronald Beaty 
Board of Barnstable County Commissioners 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member of a 
body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review through an 
action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
7 