===PAGE 1===
Maura Healey 
Attorney General
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Office of the Attorney General
One Ashburton Place 
Boston, Massachusetts 02108
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago
October 29, 2019 
OML 2019-136
Kevin M. Lyons, Ed.D.
Superintendent of Schools 
Masconomet Regional School District 
20 Endicott Road 
Boxford, MA 01921
RE: Open  Meeting Law Complaints
Dear Mr. Lyons:
This office received a complaint from Kim Sherwood on April 22, 2019, alleging 
that the Masconomet Regional School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 The complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on March 20, and you responded on behalf of the Committee on April 12. In 
her complaint, Ms. Sherwood alleges that the Committee approved meeting minutes of its 
March 6 meeting that were insufficiently detailed and that failed to capture points raised 
by her and by another member of the public. Ms. Sherwood also states that she suggested 
revisions to the minutes, but that her proposed revisions were not incorporated.
We resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance with 940 CMR 
29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed Ms. Sherwood’s Open Meeting Law complaint, 
the Committee’s response, the March 6 meeting minutes, as well as a video of the 
Committee’s March 6 meeting.2
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and 
place, the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list 
of documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions 
taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes.” G.L. c. 30 A, § 22(a). When 
reviewing minutes for compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we look for substantial
1 All dates in this letter refer to 2019.
2 The meeting video is available online at https://www.masconomet.Org/domain/41.

===PAGE 2===
compliance with the accuracy requirement. See OML 2013-64? By substantial 
compliance, we mean that the minutes should contain enough detail and accuracy so that 
a member of the public who did not attend the meeting could read the minutes and have a 
clear understanding of what occurred. See OML 2012-106. A transcript is not required, 
and the minutes do not need to include every remark or opinion presented. See OML 
2017-104; OML 2016-40.
The Committee’s March 6 meeting included a public hearing on School Choice 
and on the Fiscal Year 2020 school budget. Ms. Sherwood and another member of the 
public spoke on both matters. The minutes capture some of the comments, but not others. 
Specifically, Ms. Sherwood alleges that the minutes fail to capture “at least five of the 
points she had raised about the budget” and also “did not reflect five points she made 
during her comments” about School Choice. She also asserts that the minutes did not 
include any comments made by the other speaker on School Choice. We find that the 
Committee substantially complied with the requirement to provide an accurate and 
sufficiently detailed summary of the discussion topics. Although the minutes do not 
include every remark communicated by members of the public, they contain an adequate 
summary of the discussion. See OML 2016-40. We note that the minutes could have 
included the additional detail that Ms. Sherwood submitted, but as the minutes satisfied 
the requirements of the Law, the Committee was under no obligation to accept the 
proposed additions.
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. 
This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the 
Committee or with our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions.
Sincerely,
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government
cc: Kim Sherwood
Masconomet Regional School Committee
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General’s website at 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law.
2

===PAGE 3===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt
of a final order.
3
