===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 17,2018 
OML 2018-54 
Linda Miller 
Chair, Five Town Cable Advisory Committee 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Miller: 
This office received a complaint from Rene Wood on February 22, 2018, alleging that 
the Five Town Cable Advisory Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or 
about December 26, 2017 and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, in 
a February 20, 2018 email.1 In her complaint, Ms. Wood alleges that an executive session 
topic lacked sufficient detail, both on the Committee's December 19, 2017 meeting notice and 
in the open session announcement during the meeting.2 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that the Committee's December 19, 2017 meeting notice failed 
to include any detail about a proposed executive session, which was listed on the notice as 
"Executive Session." When asked during the meeting about the purpose, the Committee 
stated that the purpose was to discuss litigation strategy. The Committee ultimately decided 
to discuss the topic in open session, rather than executive session, to consider counsel's 
1 We remind the Committee that, within 14 business days after receiving the complaint, unless an extension has 
been granted by the Attorney General, the public body shall meet to review the complaint's allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action 
taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5). The chair is required to disseminate copies of the complaint and the public body 
must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that authority within that 
timeframe. See OML 2012-90. 
2 Ms. Wood further notes that the Committee failed to post notice of its November 13 and November 17 
meetings, although it is not the basis of her complaint. We take this opportunity to remind the Committee that 
work sessions of a public body are likely considered meetings under the Open Meeting Law for which notice 
must be posted. See G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction"). 
O 
===PAGE 2===
advice not to pursue litigation against two cable service providers. We find that the topic, 
"Executive Session," was insufficient for a discussion in either open or executive session 
because it did not provide the public with any information about the specific topic for 
discussion. See OML 2018-15; 2017-147; OML 2012-39.3 Accordingly, we find that the 
Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to provide sufficient detail about this 
topic on its meeting notice. 
We take this opportunity to remind the Committee that, before entering into a closed, 
executive session for any of ten purposes enumerated in the Open Meeting Law, the chair of 
the public body must first announce in open session the purpose for the executive session, 
"stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for 
N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. Of Wavland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 ("[a] precise statement of the reason 
for convening in executive session is necessary under the open meeting law because that is the 
only notification given to the public that the school committee would conduct business in 
private, and the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or 
improper"). This level of detail about the executive session topic should also be included in 
the meeting notice. See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). When entering executive session pursuant to 
Pmpose 3 to discuss an ongoing litigation matter, a public body must identify the particular 
litigation matter that it intends to discuss, both in the written notice and verbal statement made 
before entering executive session, if doing so will not compromise the executive session 
purpose. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); OML 2016-12. 
We order the Committee's immediate and future compliance with the law's 
requirements, and we caution that similar future violations could be considered evidence of 
intent to violate the law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to 
be resolved. This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending 
with our office or the Committee. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if 
you have any questions regarding this letter. 
cc: Rene Wood 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations are available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
2 