===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
April 11,2018 
Notice: 
This determination was issued by the Attorney General prior to the April 5, 2018, decision of the 
Supreme Judicial Court in the matter of Boelter v. Board of Selectmen of Wayland, No. SJC-
12353, which may supersede this determination to the extent that the two are inconsistent. In 
Boelter, the Court concluded that the Wayland Board of Selectmen violated the Open Meeting 
Law by distributing to its members employee performance evaluations that included opinions of 
individual Board members. Communication of these opinions by email constituted 
"deliberation" by the Board members that may occur only during a properly noticed meeting. 
This decision establishes that public body members may not send opinions to each other, 
including individual employee performance evaluations for aggregation, outside of a noticed 
meeting. After April 5, 2018, the Division of Open Government will adhere to the Court's 
holding in Boelter in its enforcement of the Open Meeting Law. 
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Director, Division of Open Government 
O 
===PAGE 2===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
wvvw.mass.goviago 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
January 17, 2013 
OML 2013 — 5 
John Bladon 
Chairman 
Board of Selectmen 
41 Cochituate Road 
Wayland, MA 01778 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Bladon: 
Our office received a complaint by Mr. George Harris, dated May 29, 2012, alleging a 
violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§18-25, by the Wayland Board of Selectmen 
(the "Board"). Specifically, the complaint alleges that the Board "privately engaged in the 
deliberation of the town administrator's professional competence through the exchange of 
written communications prior to an open meeting held March 28, 2012." The complaint was 
initially filed with the Board on or about April 25, 2012. The Board responded to the complaint 
by letter dated May 2, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that then Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because the Chair performed an administrative task exempt from the law's definition of 
deliberation. In reaching our determination, we reviewed the April 25, 2012 complaint; the 
Board's May 2, 2012 response; and the May 29, 2012 complaint filed with our office. 
Additionally, we reviewed the draft minutes of the Board's March 28, 2012 open meeting. 
Finally, we reviewed evaluations of the Town Administrator created by members of the Board 
and provided to our office by Mr. Harris. 
FACTS 
The Wayland Board of Selectmen is a five-member public body. Prior to the Board's 
May 28, 2012 meeting, Board Chair Thomas Fay prepared a draft performance evaluation for the 
Town Administrator, Frederick Turkington. The evaluation was a composite prepared by Chair 
Fay based on the input from individual Board members. Three of the other four Board members 
provided their comments to Chair Fay by email between February 4 and March 14, 2012. Chair 
Fay then distributed the composite evaluations to the Board members prior to the Board's March 
===PAGE 3===
28, 2012 meeting, as part of the Board's regular packet of materials to be discussed at the 
meeting. 
During the Board's March 28, 2012 meeting, the Board discussed the performance 
evaluation of the Town Administrator. The minutes read that the Board "praised F. Turkington 
for his availability and responsiveness to the public, his work ethic, his relationship with town 
staff, and his accessibility to board and committee members." The Board then voted 
unanimously to "approve the evaluation of Town Administrator Fred Turkington as presented." 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law seeks to balance the public's interest in witnessing the 
deliberations of public officials with the government's need to manage its operations efficiently. 
To that end, the law defines deliberation as "an oral or written communication through any 
medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public 
business within its jurisdiction; provided, however, that 'deliberation' shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided 
that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. All deliberations must occur 
during a meeting. Id. Performance evaluations and discussions of an employee's professional 
competence must occur in open session. G. L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); District Attorney for the  
Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 569 (2009). 
The Attorney General has provided the following guidance regarding performance 
evaluations by public bodies, available at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting:  
May the individual evaluations of an employee be aggregated into a comprehensive 
evaluation? 
Yes. Members of a public body may individually create evaluations, and then submit 
them to an individual to aggregate into a master evaluation document to be discussed at 
an open meeting. Ideally, members of the public body should submit their evaluations for 
compilation to someone who is not a member of the public body, for example, an 
administrative assistant. If this is not a practical option, then the chair or other designated 
public body member may compile the evaluations. However, once the individual 
evaluations are submitted for aggregation there should be no deliberation among 
members of the public body regarding the content of the evaluations outside of an open 
meeting, whether in person or over email. 
The Board followed this directive when members submitted their individual evaluations 
of the Town Administrator to Chair Fay via email. Chair Fay then distributed the composite 
evaluation to the Board members for their review ahead of a discussion that occurred during an 
open meeting. By performing this administrative task by email, Chair Fay did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law. 
2 
===PAGE 4===
Generally, the Open Meeting Law restricts communications between and among a 
quorum of a public body with respect to "any public business within its jurisdiction." Given this 
restriction, our advice has always been that public bodies should refrain from virtually all email 
communication between a quorum of members to avoid even the appearance that members are 
deliberating outside an open meeting. That is still our advice. Nonetheless, we recognize that 
the law excludes from the definition of "deliberation" certain administrative tasks such as "the 
distribution of a meeting agenda" and "the distribution of reports or documents that may be 
discussed at a meeting." That exception includes a strong caveat, however: such administrative 
communications are permissible "provided that no opinion of a member is expressed." G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. 
Here, Chair Fay's email did no more than distribute a document to be discussed at the 
Board's meeting that night. The email did not contain any advocacy by Chair Fay, and it did not 
invite comment from other Board members, nor was any comment provided. Although the 
document itself may have contained the opinions of Board members, we find compiling 
evaluations to be a permissible and necessary function for public bodies to conduct ahead of 
meetings, so long as discussion of the evaluations occurs during an open meeting. We, therefore, 
determine that Selectman Fay's email distribution of a composite evaluation for discussion at an 
open meeting constituted an administrative task permitted by the Open Meeting Law. 
We note, however, that determining which tasks are merely "administrative" can be 
challenging, and that email communications between a quorum of public body members —
however innocent — creates at least the appearance of a potential Open Meeting Law violation. 
Therefore, our best advice continues to be that public bodies not communicate over email at all 
except for distributing meeting agendas, scheduling meetings and distributing documents created 
by non-members to be discussed at meetings, which are administrative tasks specifically 
sanctioned under the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. This letter does not 
resolve any other complaints which may have been filed with our office or the Board. Please 
contact me if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
athan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
3 
===PAGE 5===
cc: George Harris 
Mark Lanza, Wayland Town Counsel 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
4 