===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, M ASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
David Worth, Chair 
Wales Council on Aging 
85 Main Street, P.O. Box 337 
Wales, MA 01081 
August 21, 2017 
OML 2017-129 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Worth: 
This office received two related complaints from Judith Bourque and Mary Grace, both 
dated June 19, alleging that the Wales Council on Aging (the "Council") violated the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.1 Both complaints were originally filed with the Council on 
April 2, and the Council responded to both complaints by way of a single undated letter on or 
around April 20. In the complaints, Ms. Bourque and Ms. Grace allege that the Council 
excluded them from an open meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Council's response, and the 
requests for further review filed with our office. We spoke with the following individuals by 
telephone: Wales Senior Center Director Heather Ackerman on July 11, complainant Judith 
Bourque and Board Chair David Worth on July 31, and complainant Mary Grace on August I.2 
FACLS 
We find the facts as follows. The Council is a five-member public body. On March 21, 
the Wales Board of Selectmen held a meeting during which it discussed a letter from several 
individuals concerning operations at the Wales Senior Center. The complainants were two of the 
signatories to that letter. During this meeting, the Board of Selectmen determined that the 
concerns raised in the letter should be considered by the Council. 
On March 22, the Council posted notice of a meeting to be held on March 27 at the 
Wales Senior Center. The notice stated that the Council would discuss the letter that was first 
raised during the March 21 Board of Selectmen meeting. The notice indicated that this 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
===PAGE 2===
discussion would take place in open session. On March 27, the two complainants arrived at the 
meeting venue intending to attend the Council meeting. A few Councilors were present in the 
meeting room waiting for the meeting to begin.3 When the Senior Center Director arrived, she 
asked the two complainants what they were doing there. What happened next is in dispute. The 
complainants allege that the Senior Center Director began yelling, instructing the complainants 
to leave the Senior Center. In contrast, the Council chair and the Senior Center Director allege 
that one of the complainants was belligerent. The Board chair stated to our office that he told the 
complainants that they would need to leave if they did not "calm down." The complainants, in 
turn, deny that they were disruptive. Subsequently, the complainants left the Senior Center and a 
quorum of the Council held the meeting as planned. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based," Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The law requires that meetings of a public body be 
properly noticed and open to members of the public, unless an executive session is convened. 
See G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-(b), 21. Access to a meeting must include the opportunity to be 
physically present as well as to see and hear what is being discussed by the members of the 
public body. See OML 2015-38; OML 2014-3; OML 2013-189; OML 2012-66.4 
The complaints allege that the Council denied the complainants the opportunity to be 
present during the Council's March 27 meeting. The Council, in response, claims that the 
complainants were causing disruption in the meeting room and were therefore asked to leave. 
The Open Meeting Law provides that "[n]o person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a 
public body." G.L, c. 30A, § 20(g) (emphasis added). If an individual is disruptive following a 
warning from the chair, "the chair may order the person to withdraw from the meeting.'" Id 
(emphasis added). While there is disagreement regarding what took place, all parties agree that 
the Council meeting had not yet begun. The Open Meeting Law delineates a procedure for 
removing disruptive members of the public from a meeting, however the Open Meeting Law is 
silent with regard to removing individuals where no meeting is occurring. See id. Because the 
situation at hand does not fall within the scope of the Open Meeting Law, we are constrained to 
find that the Council did not violate the law. 
The situation posed in the complaints, however, raises concerns. The intent of the Open 
Meeting Law is to ensure that members of the public have access to the deliberations that shape 
public policy. Where members of the public are asked to leave a meeting room before a meeting 
begins, public access to the body's deliberations is hampered. Proper procedure under the Open 
Meeting Law calls for a chair to ask individuals to leave only when a meeting has been convened 
and the individuals have been given a clear warning. We encourage the Council to follow this 
practice in the future. 
3 It is unclear how many Councilors were present, but based on our conversations with all parties it is likely that two 
or three of the five members were in the room at the time. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Council. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Judith Bourque 
Mary Grace 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 