===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
December 6, 2011 
OML 2011 - 51 
Warren B. Chamberlain 
Town of Holliston Planning Board 
703 Washington St. 
Holliston, MA 01746 
Dear Mr. Chamberlain: 
This Office received a complaint from Mr. Edwin Emerson on April 13, 2011, 
alleging that the Holliston Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint alleges that the Board failed to keep accurate 
minutes of its January 27, 2011 meeting. Specifically, the complaint alleges that "the 
Certificate of Action and minutes are inaccurate in that they do not reflect the motion 
made and the vote taken" at the January 27, 2011 meeting. The complaint was initially 
filed with the Board on February 9, 2011. The Board responded on March 14, 2011. 
We reviewed the February 9, 2011 and April 13, 2011 complaints, and the 
Board's March 14, 2011 response. Additionally, we reviewed several versions of the 
minutes of the January 27, 2011 meeting, as well as the Certificate of Action approved by 
the Board, email correspondence between staff and Board members, and affidavits of the 
Board members. 
We fmd that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law because the final 
minutes approved by the Board accurately described the action the Board believed it had 
taken during the meeting. 
FACTS  
The material facts do not appear to be in dispute. At the time of the relevant 
meeting, the Board consisted of five members: Chairman Warren Chamberlain, and 
members Len Engel, Jack Donovan, Parashar Patel, and Geoff Zeamer. During its 
meetings, the Board routinely deliberates on applications for proposed development 
projects in Holliston and votes on whether to approve applications for a Site Plan Review 
and applications for a Special Permit. Often, the two applications are submitted together. 
After the Board votes on a proposed development project, the Town Planner, Karen 
Sherman, drafts a Certificate of Action that describes the application, the Board's 
discussion, and its final decision either to approve or deny the application. 
1 
C, 
===PAGE 2===
The meeting notice for the January 27, 2011 meeting included as a topic, "Special 
Permit and Site Plan Review Chamberlain Pines Swim & Tennis Club, 84 Chamberlain 
Street." Prior to the meeting, Ms. Sherman produced a draft Certificate of Action, based 
on a prior deliberation by the Board on a different application, to be used as a template 
for the E&C Sports decision. Ms. She 	man modified the template to reflect the details of 
the E&C Sports proposal and the action she expected would be taken by the Board at the 
January 27, 2011 meeting. The template was titled "Certificate of Action, Special Permit 
and Site.Plan Review" and stated, "At a duly posted meeting on January 27th, 2010 [sic], 
it was voted to 	 a Special Permit and Site Plan Review application." A section of 
the template with the header "Planning Board Vote" similarly described the Board's 
single vote on both the "Special Permit and Site Plan," and contained a section stating 
how each Board member had voted. 
During the Board's January 27, 2011 meeting, the Board discussed the E&C 
Sports application, weighing the factors in favor and against approving the project. 
Following the Board's discussion, Mr. Engel made a motion to vote on the project, and 
Mr. Patel seconded it. The motion passed with three votes in favor, and two opposed. 
Approval of a Special Permit requires a supermajority vote, meaning at least four of five 
Board members must vote to approve. See G. L. c. 40A, § 9 ("A special permit issued by 
a special permit granting authority shall require . . . a vote of at least four members of a 
five member board"). Thus, the 3-2 vote that occurred was sufficient to constitute Board 
approval of the Site Plan application, but not the Special Permit application. 
It appears that Mr. Engel did not clearly state the nature of the motion at the time 
it was made, leaving the public with some uncertainty about whether the vote was for the 
approval of the Site Plan Review alone, or approval of both the Site Plan Review and the 
Special Permit. In an email after the meeting, Ms. Sheiman expressed concern over "the 
vagueness of [Mr. Engel]'s motion (The motion was to approve the site plan dated xxx, 
not the application for Special Permit and Site Plan Review...)." Despite this statement 
in her email, all drafts of the minutes and the template Certificate described the motion as 
concerning both applications. On the template Certificate, Ms. Sherman circled the 
words "Special Permit and Site Plan" and hand-wrote the vote breakdown next to it. 
On Friday, January 28, 2011, the Complainant's attorney, Paul Cavanaugh, 
emailed Ms. Sherman seeking clarification on the vote, stating, "[n]ow that the hearing 
has closed with the Planning Board's vote last night, I am concerned that the record and 
written decision accurately reflect the motion that was voted on." He then described the 
action, as he perceived it: "At the end of the hearing, Mr. Engel made a motion to 
approve the site plan dated September 16, 2010 revised December 28, 2010. The motion 
was seconded by Mr. Patel and voted upon. The vote was three in favor (Engel, 
Chamberlain and Donovan) and two against (Patel and Zeamer)." Ms. Sheiman 
responded, acknowledging, "that is the vote I recorded as well." 
The following Monday, January 31, 2011, Ms. Sherman sent an email to the 
Board members stating that she received a confusing letter from Complainant's attorney 
2 
===PAGE 3===
that made her concerned regarding the vote, given "the vagueness of [Mr. Engel]'s 
motion." She requested that the Board reconvene to clarify the vote to ensure that all the 
Board members agreed and understood the nature of the motion on which they voted. 
Due to weather and Board member travel plans, the Board was unable to schedule an 
additional meeting to clarify the vote. 
On February 4, 2011, Ms. Sherman merged the template Certificate of Action and 
her notes from the January 27th meeting to produce a Certificate of Action describing the 
deliberation and recording the vote on the E&C Sports project. The draft was sent to the 
Board members for comment. The draft Certificate stated, "Mr. Engel made a motion to 
approve the application for Special Permit and Site Plan Review." Ms. Sherman received 
minor comments from Mr. Donovan regarding the degree of detail needed in describing 
the Board's discussion of the proposal. Ms. Sherman emailed the Board members 
another revised draft on February 7, 2011 for comment. No Board member objected to 
the Certificate, or its account of the motion and the vote, describing the 3-2 vote as being 
for both the Site Plan Review and the Special Permit, and the joint motion as "fail[ing] to 
pass under the provisions of MGL, c. 40A, s. 9 [requiring at least four votes1" The 
Chairman met with Ms. Sherman in person and endorsed this final draft. The fmal 
Certificate was filed with the Town Clerk on February 9, 2011. Ms. Sherman drafted the 
minutes for the January 27, 2011 meeting, again describing the motion and vote as 
concerning both applications. On February 1, 2011 the Board approved the minutes. In 
May 2011, after the complainant challenged the accuracy of the minutes, each Board 
member declared in an affidavit that he or she, "understood Mr. Engel's motion to be a 
motion to approve both the application for site plan approval and the application for a 
special permit." 
DISCUSSION 
The Holliston Planning Board is a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
$ee G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law requires that the Board "create and 
maintain accurate minutes of all meetings, including . . . the decisions made and the 
actions taken at each meeting, including the record of all votes." Id. at § 22. 
The sole issue for consideration here is whether the January 27, 2011 meeting 
minutes accurately describe the Board's action regarding the E&C Sports expansion 
proposal; specifically, whether the motion and vote was on both the Site Plan Review and 
Special Permit applications, as the minutes reflect, or only the Site Plan Review 
application, as the complainant contends. 
While Mr. Engel's motion was vague, it was Ms. Sherman's understanding that 
the vote was to approve both the Site Plan Review and the Special Permit applications. 
After the January 27, 2011 meeting, Ms. Sherman contacted the Board, seeking 
clarification of the vote. The Board members approved the various drafts Ms. Sherman 
sent out, all of which indicated that the vote was for both applications and, accordingly, 
that the Special Permit application failed by a vote of 3-2. 
3 
===PAGE 4===
The complainant's attorney contends that Ms. Sherman's response to his January 
28, 2011 email indicated that she understood the Board's vote to be for just the Site Plan 
Review application. While Ms. Sherman's response to the attorney's email stated that 
she recorded the same vote as described by the attorney, it is more accurately read as 
verifying the breakdown of the votes cast. All other communications, drafts, and past 
actions of the Board suggest that she too understood the motion to be for both 
applications. But, we note, it was for the Board — and not Ms. Sherman — to deterniine 
what had happened at its meeting. 
Moreover, it was the Board's past practice to take a single vote for approval of 
both the Site Plan and Special Permit applications, and the Board members' affidavits all 
state that they understood the motion as a vote on both applications. We find no reason 
to believe that the Board manipulated the minutes to alter the outcome of the action it 
intended to take at the meeting. Furthermore, the template used at the meeting was titled 
"Special Permit and Site Plan Certificate of Action, Chamberlain Pines Swim & Tennis 
Club," and similarly listed a single vote for both applications, suggesting it was the intent 
of the Board to vote on both applications with one vote. For these reasons, we fmd that 
the minutes of the January 27, 2011 meeting and the Certificate of Action regarding the 
E&C Sports proposal accurately reflected the Board's actions, and the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law. 
CONCLUSION 
The Board's minutes accurately reflect the actions and decisions taken at the 
Board's January 27, 2011 meeting. While the stated purpose for the motion may have 
been ambiguous, the Board clarified the intent behind the vote by approving a final draft 
of its minutes that recorded a vote on both the Site Plan and the Special Permit 
applications. 
We now consider this complaint resolved and this matter closed. Please contact 
me if you have questions. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Edwin Emerson 
cc: Mark Bobrowski 
cc: Paul Cavanaugh 
4 