===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONEASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNKY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
January 12,2018 
OML 2018-5 
Jennifer Tabakin 
Town Manager 
Town of Great Barrington 
Town Hall 
334 Main Street 
Great Barrington, MA 01230 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Ms. Tabakin: 
This office received a complaint from Eileen Mooney on September 21 alleging that the 
Great Barrington Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
3OA, §§ 18-25.' The complaint was originally filed with the Board on August 29, and you 
responded, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated September 26.2 The complaint alleges that the 
Board entered into executive session for an improper purpose during its August 28 meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review. We also reviewed 
the notice of and open and executive session minutes from the Board's August 28 meeting. 
Finally, we spoke with by you telephone on October 12, and with the complainant by telephone 
on January 5.3 
We find the facts as follows. On August 24, the Board posted notice for a meeting to be 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2017. 
2 We remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of a complaint, 
the public body must meet to review the complaint's allegations; take remedial action, if appropriate; send to the 
complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of 
the complaint and a description of any remedial action taken. G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
3 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. 
FACTS 
O 
===PAGE 2===
held on Monday, August 28 at 7:00 p.m. The notice listed, among other topics, an executive 
session "to discuss legal strategy pertaining to wipes."4 
During the August 28 meeting, the Board voted by roll call to enter into Executive 
Session "to discuss legal strategy pertaining to wipes." Because the Board has not publicly 
released the minutes of this executive session, we do not recount their content in detail here. 
However, we note that the Board sought legal advice from the law firm of Robbins, Geller, 
Rudman & Dowd regarding potential litigation against the manufacturers of disposable wipes. 
Prior to convening in executive session, the Board announced that it would reconvene in open 
session to appoint the law firm and draft a retainer agreement. After reconvening in open 
session, the Board postponed further discussion on appointing the law firm to its next meeting. 
The Board has not yet voted to appoint this law firm. 
DISCUSSION 
The complaint challenges the propriety of the Board's August 28 executive session 
discussions. The Open Meeting Law requires that all meetings of a public body be conducted in 
an open session, with some exceptions. G.L. c. 3 OA, §§ 20(a), 21(a). Public bodies may enter a 
closed, executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes, provided that the chair of the 
public body first announces in open session the purpose for the executive session, "stating all 
subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session 
was called." G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), 21(b)(3); see also District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. 
Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) ("[a] precise statement of the reason for 
convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only notification given the 
public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only way the public would 
know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper"). 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is "to discuss strategy with 
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) ("Purpose 3"). A public body's discussions with legal counsel do not automatically fall 
under this or any other purpose for holding an executive session. See OML 2015-14.5 This 
purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with respect to litigation that is pending 
or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of 
litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3. See Doherty v. School Board of Boston, 386 
Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School Board of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 
(1983); OML 2012-05. 
The complainant argues that the Board convened in executive session for an improper 
purpose because the Board has not filed a lawsuit. The Board contends that the executive 
session was proper under Purpose 3 because the discussion concerned whether to initiate legal 
4 While not raised in the complaint, we note that the notice did not reasonably advise the public of the specific issue 
to be discussed in executive session and remind the Board that the topics for discussion listed on the notice must 
include "sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the meeting." See 940 
CMR 29.03(l)(b). 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
action. At the time of the August 28 meeting, the Board was concerned with the impact of 
flushing wet wipes on the Town's sewer and wastewater infrastructure. An attorney and an 
investigator with the law firm of Robbins, Geller, Rudman & Dowd were present at the August 
28 meeting and discussed with the Board in executive session strategy with respect to either 
initiating litigation or joining a class action lawsuit against the manufacturers of disposable 
wipes. We find that the discussion in executive session pertained to a decision to pursue 
litigation and the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting under Purpose 3. See 
OML 2017-178; OML 2013-23. We note that simply discussing whether to hire the law firm of 
Robbins, Geller, Rudman & Dowd would not have been appropriate under Purpose 3. Here, 
even though no decision was made or vote taken, the Board announced that it would reconvene 
in open session after the executive session to appoint the law firm and draft a retainer agreement. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by meeting in executive 
session on August 28 to discuss strategy with respect to pursuing litigation. We now consider 
the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the Board. Please feel free 
to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Eileen Mooney 
Great Barrington Board of Selectmen 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
3 