===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING 
 
November 21, 2013 
 
Members Present:  Elizabeth Murphy, Chairperson 
    Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Paul Doherty, Member 
Amaryllis Leet, Member 
    Sheila Lumi, Member 
 
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     
At 6:30 p.m. the Chair declared the meeting opened.  Minutes of the October 17, 2013 
meeting were presented.  On a Motion by Elizabeth M urphy, seconded by Deborah 
Christen; the minutes were approved as presented. All were in favor. 
 
The Executive Director then presented his report.  Everything seems to be working well 
with our new maintenance person, Keith Kennedy.  Oc cupancy, as well as rent 
collections, remains at 100 percent. 
 
The Executive Director then presented the Financial  Report along with the bills for 
payments. He indicated that Housing Authority was p erforming well. Financial report 
including a review of accounts payable was accepted , on a motion by Paul Doherty; 
seconded by Deborah Christen, financial was approved as presented.  
 
Mr. Capoccia briefly went over the Facilities Repor t.  As noted above, all apartments 
were occupied the end of October.  Work orders are being completed in a timely manner.  
There is no modernization activity to report at this time. 
 
Mr. Capoccia the presented the following Resolution: 
 
RESOLUTION TO WRITE-OFF UNRECOVERABLE DEBTS 
 
RESOLUTION 201315 
 
Whereas: A number of tenants of the Lunenburg Housi ng Authority have 
vacated while owing rent and,  
 
Whereas: Those persons vacating owed $1,230.00 as o f August 31, 2013 ( see 
attached list ) and,  
 
 Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority staff has  made every reasonable 
effort to collect said vacated amounts without success, 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority officially wri te-off 
$1,230.00 as uncollectible debts. 
 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Paul Doherty to write off $1,230.00 as of August 
31, 2013 as uncollectible debts. 
 
SECONDED,  Sheila Lumi seconded the motion, and the motion was  passed by a 
unanimous vote. 
 
With no other business, on a motion by Paul Doherty, seconded by Elizabeth Murphy, the 
Board voted to adjourn the meeting at 7:15 p.m.  All were in favor. 