===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
October 17, 2013  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Sheila Lumi, Member 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx, Recording Secretary 
 
Resident Participation: 
 
A. A resident was discussing a fall on the speed bu mp in which she hurt her 
 arm.  The resident asked if the speed bumps could be replaced. 
 
B. A number of residents noted that some of the por ch lights are not coming 
 on when it gets dark because the bulbs are burnt o ut.  The Executive 
 Director stated that Keith Kennedy, Mechanic will replace the bulbs. 
 
C. A resident stated that she had read an article a bout the Leominster Housing 
 Authority taking over the Fitchburg Housing Author ity and that the 
 Executive Director has plans to increase the secur ity in Fitchburg.  The 
 resident wanted to note that there is no security plans for Lunenburg.  The 
 Executive Director stated that we are always conce rned about security at all 
 of the properties and that historically there have  been almost no issues in 
 Lunenburg to date. 
 
D. A resident asked as to how parking works during a snow storm and asked if 
 she would be notified when to move her car.  The E xecutive Director 
 discussed the procedure. 
 
===PAGE 2===
E. A resident wanted to discuss the speed bump.  Sh e stated that it moves 
 every time a car drives over it.  The Executive Di rector noted that it is a 
 temporary speed bump and is removed in the winter.  
1. The Chair opened the Meeting at 6:45 p.m. 
 
2. The Chair presented the minutes of the August 22 , 2013 Monthly Meeting.  
 Amaryllis Leet made a motion to accept the Minutes  as presented, 
 seconded by Deborah A.H. Christen; the motion was unanimously 
 approved. 
 
3. Executive Director Capoccia discussed the new fo rmat of the Executive 
 Director's Report which now also gives information  on the other Housing 
 Authorities and their activities. 
 
4. The Executive Director presented the Financial R eport for the period ending 
 September 30, 2013 and reviewed the document with the Board.  Checks 
 and statements were reviewed and signed.   
 
5. The Executive Director presented the Budget Revi sion to the FY2013 
 Budget. The Board discussed the Revision. On a mot ion by Elizabeth 
 Murphy; seconded by Deborah A.H. Christen, Budget Revision #1 was 
 unanimously approved as presented. 
 
6. No Old Business. 
 
7. No New Business. 
 
8. No Correspondence. 
 
9. Being no further business; on a Motion by Debora h A.H. Christen, seconded 
 by Amaryllis Leet, the Meeting adjourned at 7:10 p. m. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 