===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
October 23, 2014  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
 
Absent:    Amaryllis Leet, Member   
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
     Peter Proulx, Recording Secretary 
 
Resident Participation: 
 
A. 
 A resident questioned if we will be having a snowing meeting.  The 
Executive Director stated it is scheduled. 
B.  Parking lot in back lot, the sap comes off the trees and falls on his car. 
C.  Our septic system needs to be pumped. 
D.  Locks on the outside door to be lockable, is this a law?  Would like to have 
the outside door lockable. 
E.  New windows where the air conditioners are installed do not close very 
well.  The Executive Director said that we will look at the windows (F-2, 
Tony to look at the windows) and F-4). 
F.  One resident said that the back door and the front door at M-4 will not 
lock.  John fixed it but it is broken again. 
G.  Instruct Keith to remove the pine needs from sidewalk and lot at least on 
??? 
H.  Resident mentioned that a fellow resident was (Ralph) hit by a car while 
riding his bike.  Another resident said Ralph is getting better. 
I.  Resident asked about the smoking policy, Unit F is the problem.  The 
Executive Director explained the policy. 
 
===PAGE 2===
1. The chair declared a quorum present and opened t he meeting at 6:50 p.m.   
 
2. Minutes: 
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the minutes of the April 17, 
2014 meeting.  Caroline Fortin seconded the motion, the motion was 
unanimously approved. 
 
3. The Executive Director presented his Report: 
 A.  Discussed the three (3) vacancies.  Two people  are moving downstairs 
and one person has moved into the Leominster Summit Health Care 
program. 
 B.  Everything is going quite well in general.  Th e Executive Director 
discussed the net metering proposal for Fitchburg and how it would benefit 
the Lunen burg Housing Authority.  The Executive discussed the pros and 
cons to participating in the program.  The Executive recommended the 
Lunenburg Housing Authority purchase between 55% and 65%. 
 C.  The Executive raised the by-law documents that  had been mailed and 
distributed new copies and discussed the need to update the by-laws, 
including the date and time of minutes and the signature of checks.   
 
4. The Executive Director presented the Financial R eport.   
A.  Deb Christen asked if it is time to sign new signature cards. 
B.  The Executive Director discussed the financial climate of the Lunenburg 
Housing Authority on F2.  We are at 67.61% for the reserve level, on F3 the 
Executive Director ran down the expenses and revenues of the Lunenburg 
Housing Authority. 
 
A resident asked to speak about the comments made before the meeting stating 
that he is the person that is smoking.  He was instructed by the board members 
and the Executive Director that this is a management issue and he should call the 
Executive Director during the normal business hours. 
 
The Executive Director stated that his contract requires that he give the 
Lunenburg Housing Authority board notice of his retirement.  He then discussed 
his plan to retire.  The advertisement for the Executive Director position will go 
out in November. 
===PAGE 3===
 
5. Facilities Report – no review at meeting. 
 
6. Mr. Capoccia presented the following resolution:  
 
RESOLUTION TO UPDATE THE EXISTING BY-LAWS 
 
Resolution 201407 
 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the ne ed to update the 
existing by-laws as they are outdated and need revision. 
 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 
 That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of 
Commissioners approve the revised by-laws to be eff ective 
immediately. 
 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Elizabeth Murphy to approv e the revised by-
laws effective immediately. 
 
SECONDED, Deborah A.H. Christen seconded the motion , and the motion 
was passed by a unanimous vote. 
 
 
7. No Old Business. 
 
8. No New Business.  
  
9. No Correspondence. 
 
10. Being no further business; on a Motion by Debor ah Christen, seconded by                       
           
Caroline Fortin, the meeting adjourned at 7:40 p.m. 
 
  
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 