===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
June 19, 2014  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
     Sheila Lumi, Member 
     Amaryllis Leet, Member 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
         
Also Present:   Eugene Capoccia, Secretary 
      
 
 
Resident Participation: 
 
The Executive Director answered a number of questions brought up by tenants 
present at the meeting.  Some comments included the need to rake leaves in the 
back parking lot and some concern about the need for additional parking. 
 
 
1. The chair declared a quorum present and opened t he meeting at 6:42 p.m.   
 
2. Minutes: 
 
Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the minutes of the April 17, 
2014 meeting.  Caroline Fortin seconded the motion, the motion was 
unanimously approved. 
 
The Director declared this to be the annual meeting; as such he called for 
nominations.  Sheila Lumi motioned to nominate the same slate of officers; 
that being Elizabeth Murphy as Chair and Deborah Christen as Vice Chair. 
Motion was seconded by Caroline Fortin; all were in favor and the motion 
===PAGE 2===
carried.  Therefore, the officers for the 2014-2015 year are Elizabeth 
Murphy as Chair and Deborah Christen as Vice-Chair. 
 
3. The Executive Director presented his Report noti ng that our occupancy is at 
100% as is the rent collection.    
 
4. The Executive Director presented the Financial R eport; he noted that the 
reserves were at 62.3% and that the housing authority was ahead of their 
budget projections by $30,652.00.  Caroline Fortin made a motion to accept 
the financial report, seconded by Deb Christen.  The financial report was 
accepted. 
 
5. The Executive Director presented the Facilities Report. 
 
6. No Motions. 
 
Mr. Capoccia presented the following resolution: 
 
RESOLUTION TO ALLOW THE LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY TO REVISE THE 
SAMPLE FEE SCHEDULE  
 
Resolution 201405 
Whereas: The costs of maintenance and material has increased and,  
Whereas: The authority has an obligation to recover  the costs for 
damages and other maintenance related charges as a result of 
resident damages and replacement of light bulbs. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the attached list of fees is revised to meet t he current 
costs associated with damages and other maintenance  related 
charges. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Sheila Lumi to allow the L unenburg Housing 
Authority to revise the maintenance fee schedule. 
===PAGE 3===
SECONDED,  Caroline Fortin  seconded the motion, and the motion was 
passed. 
7. No Old Business. 
 
8. New Business:  
  
9. No Correspondence. 
 
Mr. Capoccia reported on the correspondence from State Auditor Susan 
Bump.  He also presented the resignation of board member Sheila Lumi.  
Both were accepted by the board. 
 
10. Being no further business; on a Motion by Debor ah Christen, seconded by                       
           
Sheila Lumi, the Meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 