===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
May 21, 2015  
 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Paul Doherty, Member 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
        
Also Present:   Peter Proulx, Secretary 
     Benjamin Gold, Asst. E.D. 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
Members Absent:   Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair  
     Amaryllis Leet, Member   
 
  
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  A resident asked if the lighting system was being changed.  She is in Bldg M 
and called in a work order three weeks ago, light still out. 
•  A resident stated that the new railing is shaky, referring to the new piece that 
was added. 
•  A resident stated that the big light out back is st ill out; Lakeview Nursery 
dug a hole, but nothing else was done.  The E.D. stated that the light is 
owned by Unitil; he would check on it.  
•  A resident asked why someone came to look at kitche n cabinets.  The E.D. 
replied that Simone Early from DHCD and himself wer e looking for a 
kitchen modernization project; which is about a year away.  The project will 
include removing carpet in the halls and replacing with VCT flooring.  
•  A resident stated there were pine needles in the pa rking lot out back and on 
the walkways. 
•  A resident wanted to know who would be reviewing wh at is left on the 
porches and in the halls (referring to Bldgs D & K) .  The Chair suggested a 
memo to residents on spring cleaning time, etc.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:36 p.m.   
 
The E.D. introduced Benjamin Gold, the new Assistan t E.D.  Ben comes from the 
Danbury and N. Haven Housing Authorities.  He will be heading up the state 
program process and procurement. 
 
The E.D. took over the meeting as Chair; noting thi s was the annual meeting and 
opened the floor for nominations for officers.  Pau l Doherty made a motion to 
nominate the same slate of officers for the coming year; adding they were doing a 
great job!  Caroline Fortin seconded the motion and  motion passed unanimously.   
The officers for the coming year will be:  Elizabet h Murphy, Chair; Deborah 
Christen, Vice-Chair; Amaryllis Leet, Member; Carol ine Fortin, Member and Paul 
Doherty, Member. 
 
2. The minutes of the March 26, 2015 meeting were p resented; Caroline Fortin 
noted that she was absent at the last meeting (minu tes reflected her being present).  
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to accept the minute s with that change; Paul 
Doherty seconded.  All were in favor, the motion passed unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
A. We needed a new name for our website; North Cent ral Mass 
Housing.com.   
     The website will have information on the wait lists and applications. 
B. Conflict of Interest Training – 
All board members, as well as employees,                           
     Must complete every two years. 
C. Peter will be out next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday for oral surgery.   
    
4.  Financial Report:   
A. We are incredible good shape.  Reserves are at 6 6.35%, highest of the 
four                      
B.  Page F3 – spending.  We are doing a great job.  We received some snow 
removal money from DHCD, $1,890; we have only spent $400. 
 
Paul Doherty made a motion to accept the financials.  Caroline Fortin seconded; all 
were in favor. 
 
5.  Facilities Report: 
We have two vacancies at this time. 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 6:50 p.m.  Caroline 
Fortin seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Annual Meeting Minutes                         Page 2 .                                                                            May 21, 2015     
 
===PAGE 3===
 