===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
May 26, 2016 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair 
Amaryllis Leet, Member   
Caroline Fortin, Member 
             
Also Present:    Peter Proulx, Executive Director 
Benjamin Gold, Asst. Executive Director 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
           
Members Absent:   Paul Doherty, Member 
 
  
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  Handicap unit – kids playing in the pits; doesn’t f eel safe. 
•  Chairs in the courtyard area are falling apart; can they be replaced. 
•  Can they have flowers for the outside barrels?  
•  Outside benches should be power washed or painted; causing slivers. 
•  When is the kitchen upgrade being done and what do tenants need to do. 
•  Individuals in Bldg G are having pot parties and it  comes in the windows; they’re 
smoking inside.  Resident has called Evelyn. 
•  Resident in K-4 has concerns with kids out of schoo l.  A teen and four young children 
were throwing a knife into the ground.  The go into the woods and throw boulders against 
boulders.  They have all night parties. 
•  Resident stated that a pit bull ran at her three weeks ago with no collar or leash.  The E.D. 
replied that residents should call the office/Evely n with issues; they should not wait for 
the board meetings.  He added he would check on ordinances/lease. 
•  Resident wants to use her grill for the common area ; the one there is no good.  The E.D. 
asked the resident to send a photo to Evelyn. 
•  Residents thanked the board for coming and listenin g to them.  They also thanked the 
board for letting them live there. 
 
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:50 p.m.   
 
The Executive Director noted that as this was the A nnual Meeting, we would have the Election 
of Officers.  He opened the floor to nominations. 
 
Deborah Christen nominated Elizabeth Murphy as Chai r, Caroline Fortin seconded.  All were in 
favor.  Deborah Christen then nominated Paul Dohert y as Vice Chair; Elizabeth Murphy 
seconded.  All were in favor.  The Executive Director turned the meeting back over to the Chair. 
 
2. The minutes of the March 17, 2016 meeting were presented.  Caroline Fortin made a motion to 
accept the minutes; Deborah Christen seconded.  All  were in favor, the motion passed 
unanimously. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
3. The Executive Director Report: 
•  Board member emails should be in place; Denise will  resend letter/password to board 
members who need it. 
•  Board members should take the Online Ethics Conflic t of Interest Training as it’s 
required every two years.  Send the completed certificates to Ben. 
•  There are no new items for Leominster, Lunenburg or Sterling issues.  
 
4.  Financial Report: 
•  Page 2 – Reserves are at 68.22%; this is healthy, w e are in good shape. 
•  Page 3 – We are ahead of budget in revenue by $10,6 92.  Below budget for utilities by 
$10,000.  We are ahead of budget in total by $6,303.   
•  Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to accept the April financial statement. Caroline Fortin 
seconded; all were in favor. 
 
5.  Facilities Report:    
•  Work orders – 11, most completed within 24 hours. 
•  Kitchen upgrade to begin next month. 
•  Bathroom GFCI – specifications written, going out t o bid soon. 
6.  Old Business:  None 
7.  New Business: 
The following resolutions were presented: 
RESOLUTION FOR ACCOUNTING SERVICES 
Resolution 201608 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority requires a  fee accountant to assist the 
agency in maintaining compliance with both State an d Federal financial 
requirements and, 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has used t he firm of Fenton, Ewald & 
Associates, P.C. for a number of years and,  
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority is satisfi ed with the performance of 
Fenton, Ewald & Associates, P.C. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
 That the Lunenburg Housing Authority enter into a contract for 
Accounting services with Fenton, Ewald & Associates , P.C. for the period 
January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Deborah A.H. Christen to e nter into contract for 
accounting services. 
SECONDED,  Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, and the motio n was passed by a 
unanimous vote. 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                        May 26, 2016      
===PAGE 3===
The following resolution was accepted as amended with the charge for refrigerators and smoke 
detectors. 
 
RESOLUTION TO ALLOW THE LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY TO REVISE 
THE REPLACEMENT FEES FOR MOVE-OUTS AND VANDALISM (AND COSTS FOR 
LIGHTS BULBS, ETC.)  
Resolution 201609 
Whereas:  The authority has an obligation to recover the cos ts for damages and other 
maintenance related charges as a result of move-out s or vandalism and the 
cost of replacement light bulbs, etc. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the attached list of fees is revised to meet t he current costs associated 
with damages and other maintenance related charges as a result of move-
outs or vandalism. 
RESOLVED,  Motion made by Elizabeth Murphy to allow the Lunen burg Housing 
Authority to revise the maintenance fee schedule. 
SECONDED, Linda McDonald  seconded the motion, and the motion was passed. 
The board members were given a copy of the quarterl y newsletter with seasonal information for 
the residents. 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to adjourn the meeti ng at 7:30 p.m. Caroline Fortin seconded, 
all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                        May 26, 2016      