===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE MONTHLY MEETING 
 
July 21, 2016 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
     Paul Doherty, Vice Chair 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Caroline Fortin, Member 
Linda McDonald, Member 
             
Also Present:    Peter Proulx, Executive Director 
     Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
           
Resident Participation prior to meeting: 
•  Resident said they had made a request about replaci ng the outside plastic chairs; said 
Tony had said they could. 
•  Resident asked if ceiling fans were allowed.  The E.D. replied the Fire Code says no.  
•  Residents said they were happy with the new kitchen updates. 
 
The board asked if there were any photos of the kit chen updates.  The E.D. said he would bring 
some photos to the next board meeting. 
 
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the May 26, 2016 meeting were pre sented.  Paul Doherty asked how many of 
the resident comments were addressed from the last meeting specifically: 1. The kids playing 
near the handicapped units; the E.D. said he met wi th the elderly tenants.  One solution is to 
install a chain link fence with plantings.  He will  also work with the families; maybe clear an 
area for the kids.  2.  Outside chairs and pots wit h flowers; we are working on this.  3.  Was the 
pit bull issue addressed; the dog belonged to a vis itor.  4.  Resident replacing outside grill with 
her own; as far as the E.D. knew, the resident had not contacted Evelyn yet with photo. 
 
Elizabeth Murphy made a motion to accept the minutes; Deborah Christen seconded.  All were in 
favor, the motion passed unanimously. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
•  Board member training session in Leominster on July  27 
th  is full.  There are other session 
open.  The board asked if there were sessions at di fferent times of the year; as opposed to 
during the summer months. 
•  RCAT Advisory Board nominations.  Leominster is hos t agency for sixty three (63) 
housing authorities.  The Advisory Board will be co mprised of 11 members; one 
appointed by the E.D., one by DHCD and nine (9) elected members.  The board will meet 
quarterly; the first meeting will be in Leominster;  then unsure.  The board will have no 
voting power, no signatures required and no authori ty.  Let the E.D. know if interested in 
being nominated by August 1 st . 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
•  We will be installing a 260 foot long fence between  the elderly and family complexes.  
Caroline Fortin asked if shrubbery had been conside red.  The E.D. replied that it was 
more expensive for mature trees. 
 
Paul Doherty noted that he would like to see the ba ck patio redone.  The E.D. stated it was being 
looked into.  A short discussion followed on replac ing the existing patio with a deck (more 
maintenance needed) versus redoing the existing patio.   
 
•  The E.D. will be on vacation September 19-30.  The regular scheduled meeting would be 
during that time (September 22 
nd ).  The E.D. added that we will need to meet in Aug ust 
for close-out documents for the kitchen upgrade; mo st likely will not need to meet in 
September. 
 
4.  Financial Report: 
 
•  Page 2 – Reserves are over 65%. 
•  Page 3 – We are ahead of budget by $4,442.   
 
Paul Doherty made a motion to accept the June finan cial statement. Caroline Fortin seconded; all 
were in favor. 
 
The E.D. informed the board that the Sterling Housi ng Authority purchased a new tractor.  The 
Sterling board voted to donate the old tractor to t he Lunenburg Housing Authority.  The E.D. 
added that we will look at the existing maintenance  shed; possibly purchase a new one.  The 
board was appreciative of Sterling’s  
 
5.  Modernization Report:    
 
•  New format; Facilities Report is now the Modernizat ion Report and will cover updates 
for all four housing authorities. 
•  Kitchen upgrade modernization was completed in seven (7) days. 
•  GFCI (new outlet) is out to bid. 
 
6.  State-Aided Housing Report: 
 
•  This is a new item on the agenda. 
•  We are 100% occupied. 
•  One family moved out in June. 
•  We currently have seventy-five (75) elderly and sev enty-two (72) family applications on 
the waiting list. 
7.  Old Business:  None 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 2.                                                                        July 21, 2016      
 
===PAGE 3===
8.  New Business: 
The following resolution were presented: 
RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF  
CHANGE ORDER NUMBER ONE FOR THE KITCHEN CABINET MODERNIZATION AT 
THE 667-1 PEARL BROOK  
ELDERLY DEVELOPMENT 
WORK PLAN 5001; DHCD PROJECT NUMBER 162019  
Resolution 201610 
Whereas:  The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the need to si gn a Change Order 
Number One in conjunction with the kitchen cabinet modernization at the 
667-1 Pearl Brook elderly development and,  
Whereas: The contractor has submitted a price proposal for the removal and disposal 
of asbestos containing kitchen sinks at 41 apartmen ts and a time extension 
request of 30 days due to delays for testing and ad ditional time to 
complete the asbestos abatement work and, 
Whereas:  This Change Order Number One will increase the ori ginal contract sum of 
$120,000.00 to $130,996.00 ( an increase of $10,996.00 ) and extend the 
original completion date of July 1, 2016 to July 31, 2016 and, 
Whereas: The Architect, Raymond T. Guertin, believes the add itional cost and time 
extension request appears reasonable and recommends approval and, 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of Direc tors authorizes the 
Executive Director, or designee, to sign the Change  Order Number One 
for the kitchen cabinet modernization at the 667-1 elderly development 
and now being undertaken by the Department of Housi ng and Community 
Development and the Lunenburg Housing Authority.   
RESOLVED,  Motion made by Elizabeth Murphy to authorize the s igning of the Change 
Order Number One in conjunction with the kitchen ca binet modernization 
at the 667-1 elderly development and now being unde rtaken by the 
Department of Housing and Community Development and  the Lunenburg 
Housing Authority.   
SECONDED, Paul Doherty  seconded the motion, and the motion was passed 
unanimously. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 3.                                                                        July 21, 2016      
 
===PAGE 4===
Caroline Fortin asked if the apartments were ever t ested for asbestos.  The E.D. replied that prior 
to any work, testing is done (walls, flooring, etc. ).  Caroline asked if the apartments were 
inspected for lead paint.  The E.D. replied that th e family units were built in the 1980’s.  The 
elderly did not require previously.  The housing au thority now watches/takes inventory on 
peeling. 
Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 7:10 p.m. Linda McDonald seconded, 
all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes                         Page 4.                                                                        July 21, 2016      