===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
April 19, 2018 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
Paul Doherty, Vice Chair 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
Linda McDonald, Member 
      
Members Absent:   Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
      
Also Present:    Peter Proulx, Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:39 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the February 15, 2018 meeting were presented.  Caroline Fortin made a motion 
to accept the minutes ; Linda McDonald  seconded.  All  were in favor and the minutes were 
accepted. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
 Mail Package Delivery Questions.  The E.D. explained his conversation with the 
Postmaster and the suggestions put forth to the residents. 
 Performance Management Review (PMR) – DHCD completed recently; another planning 
year (will not be posted).  One item noted – a pull cord was tied and put behind a dresser. 
Next year will have a formal report. 
 Net Metering – Up and generating; we should see our first credit in April. 
 
4.  Financial Report (February/March) – March report reviewed: 
 Monthly payroll was passed around for review and two board member signatures. 
 Page F2 – Reserves are at 64.01%.  We can redo  a couple of steps.  A board member 
asked if a few more parking spots could be added.  The E.D. replied no, unfortunately. 
 Page F3 - $12,000 ahead on revenues; most from subsidy. 
 Utilities are over budget; due to the winter months.  Maintenance is over as well. 
 We are $8,000 to the good; three months in. 
 
Linda McDonald made a motion to accept both the February and March 2018 financial reports.  
Elizabeth Murphy seconded; all were in favor. 
 
5.  Modernization Report:    
 No active projects.  There are some small reserve projects we will look at now. 
 July – generator for Community Room, not Laundry room. 
 
6.  State-Aided Housing Report: 
 We have 629 applicants on the waiting list; 219 elderly/young disable and 410 families. 
 There were no lease-ups and one vacancy for March. 
 There were 26 work orders, one remains open. 
 
Board would like to see vacancies listed in the report. 
 
===PAGE 2===
7.  Old Business:  None 
8.  New Business:   
The following resolutions were presented: 
RESOLUTION TO WRITE-OFF QUARTERLY 
UNRECOVERABLE DEBTS 
RESOLUTION 201808 
Whereas: There were no vacated tenant balances older than 90 days for the 
Lunenburg Housing Authority as of March 31, 2018. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority verified there are no unrecoverable 
debts for vacated tenant balances older than 90 days as of March 31, 2018. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Caroline Fortin to accept verification that there are no 
vacated tenant balances older than 90 days as of March 31, 2018 and 
therefore no unrecoverable debts to write-off. 
SECONDED, Linda McDonald seconded the motion, and the motion was passed by a 
unanimous vote. 
9.  Other Correspondence: 
 Public Housing Notices 
 
The E.D. noted that the new Management Agreement with Leominster Housing Authority can be 
for a one, three or five year period. 
10. Linda McDonald made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:00 p.m. Paul Doherty seconded, 
all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority                         .                                                                                      
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2     April 19, 2018 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 