===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
January 18, 2018 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
Paul Doherty, Vice Chair 
     Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
     Linda McDonald, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Caroline Fortin, Member 
 
Also Present:    Peter Proulx, Executive Director 
Benjamin Gold, Recording Secretary 
      
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:32 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the December 21, 2017 meeting were presented.  Paul Doherty made a motion 
to accept the minutes ; Deborah Christen  seconded.  All  were in favor and the minutes were 
accepted. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
 Council on Aging Director, Susan Doherty and New Outreach Coordinator, Pauline Roy 
were present at the meeting tonight. 
 Director of Council on Aging /Senior Center had a meeting with residents ; discussed no 
security in buildings,  mandated reporters, state law and building code.  E.D. stated we 
have locks and can put them in; will discuss with residents.  He added there were locks a 
number of years ago; residents may not have wanted them.   Pauline will visit once per 
month.  Any resident can request to use Community Room; resident would be responsible 
for having Council there.  May have Nashoba do blood pressu re clinic, exercise program 
or crafts.  Request LuHA go to one of their meetings to learn what they do.   H.A. doesn’t 
give out information on residents.  Council will discuss what residents would like to do.  
H.A. may take advantage of Council on Aging transportation system during emergencies. 
 DHCD budget guidelines issues January 2 nd; we want to have 2018 budget ready for the 
March meeting. 
 There was a question last month about the $4,150 in the FF Master Account.  General 
accounting fees for each housing authority and this comes out of the FF Master Account. 
4.  Financial Report: 
 In very good financial shape; E.D. salary increases after State did a survey. 
 $10,000 exemption for computer equipment.  Dennis (new housing manager) will be on -
site one day per week. 
 Fee Accountants and Finance Dept. working on year -ends.  Th ere is no financial report 
tonight. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
5.  Modernization Report:    
 705 Window Replacement – Finishing up with the family units. 
 Roof shingles/maintenance shed – As soon as weather permits. 
 Patio to be looked at. 
 
The Chair asked if someone could take a look at the windows that are being reported as drafty; 
maybe add weather stripping. 
 
6.  State-Aided Housing Report: 
 A couple of vacancies in elderly units; to be occupied this month. 
 
Paul Doherty requested the E.D. go over what happened with the sprinkler system.  The E.D. 
explained with the following: 
 
 Keith opens hatches and closes when he goes home if below zero.  Outside sprinkler 
heads, non-freeze.  Cut holes in apartment and put grill over holes to keep warmer. 
 Worked next day; had a fire watch the night before.  Four days later, sprinkler went again 
but Fire Department didn’t have the correct part and had to order it.  Third fire watch. 
 No water in a single apartment in all t hree instances.  Fourth incident  had to do with a 
bad line but fixed the same day.  Main line on street, residents were without water for 
about eight (8) hours. 
 
7.  Old Business:  None 
8.  New Business:   
The following resolutions were presented: 
RESOLUTION TO WRITE-OFF QUARTERLY 
UNRECOVERABLE DEBTS 
RESOLUTION 201801 
Whereas: There were no vacated tenant balances older than 90 days for the 
Lunenburg Housing Authority as of December 31, 2017. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority verified there are no unrecoverable 
debts for vacated tenant balances older than 90 days as of December 31, 
2017. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Linda McDonald to accept verification that there are no 
vacated tenant balances older than 90 days as of De cember 31, 2017 and 
therefore no unrecoverable debts to write-off. 
SECONDED, Paul Doherty seconded the motion, and the motion was passed by a 
unanimous vote. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority                         .                                                                                      
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2     January 18, 2018 
 
===PAGE 3===
RESOLUTION TO UPDATE THE PROCUREMENT POLICY 
Resolution 201802 
Whereas:           The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the need to update the procurement 
policy to comply with Massachusetts bidding statutes governing the 
procurement of supplies and services and design services. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board of Commissioners   update 
the procurement policy to be effective immediately. 
RESOLVED, Motion made by Deborah Christen to update the procurement policy 
effective immediately. 
SECONDED, Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, and the motion was passed by a 
unanimous vote. 
RESOLUTION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF CHANGE ORDER NUMBER ONE  
FOR THE 705 WINDOW REPLACEMENT  
WORK PLAN 5001; DHCD PROJECT NUMBER 162026  
 Resolution 201803 
Whereas: The Lunenburg Housing Authority has the need to sign a Change Order 
Number One in conjunction with the 705 Window Replacement, and,  
Whereas: The contractor has submitted a price proposal for the replacement of two 
awning window operators and 5 casement window handles and a time 
extension request of 30 days, and 
Whereas: This Change Order Number One will increase the original contract sum by 
$978.00 to supply and install the items, and 
Whereas: The RCAT Project Manager, Steve Larry, believes the additional cost and 
time extension request appears reasonable and recommends approval. 
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, 
That the Lunenburg Housing Authority B oard of Directors authorizes the 
Chair, or their designee, to sign the Change Order Number One for the 
705 Window Replacement now being undertaken by the Department of 
Housing and Community Development and the Lunenburg Housing 
Authority.   
RESOLVED, Motion made by Paul Doherty to authorize the signing of the Change 
Order Number One in conjunction with the 705 Window Replacement 
now being undertaken by the Department of Housing and Community 
Development and the Lunenburg Housing Authority.   
SECONDED, Elizabeth Murphy seconded the motion, and the motion was passed 
unanimously. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority                         .                                                                                      
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 3     January 18, 2018 
===PAGE 4===
 
9.  Other Correspondence: 
 Public Housing Notices 
10. Deborah Christen  made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:15 p.m.  Linda McDonald  
seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority                         .                                                                                      
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 4     January 18, 2018 
===PAGE 5===
 