===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
 
MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING 
 
May 17, 2018 
 
Members Present:   Elizabeth Murphy, Chair 
Paul Doherty, Vice Chair 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
     Caroline Fortin, Member 
Linda McDonald, Member 
      
Also Present:    Peter Proulx, Executive Director 
Benjamin Gold, Recording Secretary 
      
1. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:40 p.m.   
 
2. The minutes of the April 19, 2018 meeting were presented .  Paul Doherty made a motion  to 
accept the minutes ; Linda McDonald  seconded.  All  were in favor and the minutes were 
accepted. 
 
As this is the Annual Meeting with Election of Officers, the Executive Director opened the floor 
to nominations.  Deborah Christen made a motion to elect Elizabeth Murphy as Chai r and Paul 
Doherty as Vice Chair.  Linda McDonald seconded and upon roll call as follows: Deborah 
Christen – yea, Linda McDonald – yea, Caroline Fortin – yea, Paul Doherty – yea and Elizabeth 
Murphy – yea; the motion carried. 
 
3. The Executive Director Report: 
 2018 DHCD Public Housing Notice – Management Agreement standard contract must be 
used.  No agreement can roll over any longer.  July 31 st will mark fifteen (15) years for 
Lunenburg’s Management Agreement with Leominster.  The existing agreement will 
have to be changed to the new format; Lunenburg to begin paying less (dates and 
amounts per unit).  The Board has the option to review but will go with E.D.’s 
negotiation with agreement.  We usually don’t have a June meeting unless something 
comes up. 
 Post Office no longer delivering packages because of the door locks.  Postmaster wanted 
to meet and wants large boxes; mail carriers don’t want keys.  The cost is $1800 per box, 
we need to decide where to put them.  We can get them with up to 40 mail slot s but will 
be too large.  Below mail slots are bigger doors for packets.  E.D. to let residents know 
about alternative places to put mailboxes.  Will discuss with post office before discussing 
with residents. 
 
4.  Financial Report (April 30, 2018): 
 Monthly payroll was passed around for review and two board member signatures. 
 Page F2 – Reserves are at 63.01%; safe number.  The roof and shed work will reduce the 
number but as long as we stay above 20% we’re fine. 
 Page F3 - $9,632 to the good; if continues we will be adding to reserves.  
 A little under on shelter rents.  Budget revision to be done in October.   
 Utilities are over budget; will reduce each month.  Will keep an eye on maintenance, over 
budget on that as well. 
 We are in very good shape; receiving solar credits now. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Paul Doherty  made a motion to accept the April 30,  2018 financial report. Deborah Christen  
seconded; all were in favor. 
5.  Modernization Report:    
 No active projects at this time. 
 July – generator for Community Room, not Laundry room. 
 
6.  State-Aided Housing Report: 
 Issues with applicants getting second floor apartments.   
 In report, write vacated date “remains vacant from……” 
 
7.  Old Business:  None 
8.  New Business:  None 
9.  Other Correspondence: 
 PHN Notices 
 
10. No Resident Participation Requested. 
11. Deborah Christen  made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:12 p.m.  Linda McDonald  
seconded, all were in favor, and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority                         .                                                                                      
===PAGE 3===
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 2     May 17, 2018 