===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
June 18, 2020 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Vice Chair  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Karin Menard, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Ronald Dionne, Member 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
a. Vice Chair Linda McDonald asked for a roll call of members present:  Deborah Christen – 
present, Karin Menard – present, Linda McDonald – present.  Ronald Dionne was absent; this 
would have been his last meeting as he did not seek re -election to the board.  Also present 
were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director and Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director.  
The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.  There is 
opportunity for public comments, for the record there were no individuals calling in. 
b. The minutes of the April 23, 2020 meeting were presented.    Karin Menard made a motion to 
approve the minutes; Deborah Christen seconded and all were in favor.   
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
a. COVID-19 Update – The offices are still closed but we are getting back to the office slowly, 
social distancing, wearing masks, sanitizing.  Hopefully beginning to be more normal, working with 
our employees to make sure they are comfortable in their roles. 
b. We hired a Directo r of Finance, Kathy Fortier, starting June 22 nd.    Sheila Lancelotta’s last 
day is June 29 th.  Kathy worked at the Leominster Housing Authority previously, coming from 
Medford Housing Authority, was the Assistant Executive Director there.  She has a wealt h of 
knowledge, happy to have add her to the staff; she lives in Leominster which is nice. 
c. Remote PMR Results for 2019 – PMR reviews occupancy, certifications, reporting and 
adjusted net income.    There was one finding for operational guidance for tenant accounts 
receivables for the family units; we will look closely to see how we can improve on that finding. 
d. MassNAHRO Annual Conference being held virtually on September 15 -17. They took a 
poll of MassNAHRO members and 50% did not feel comfortable going to an in -person conference.    
If interested, let Denise know so she can register you. 
e. Board Member Certification – flyer included in packet.  If interested in any of the webinars, 
let Denise know so she can register you. 
Karin Menard asked about increased costs due to COVID, in general.  There are some costs with 
overtime, sanitizing high traffic areas and PPE.  We only have two employees but Adam is working 
on items with Sheila to put together the expenses to be submitted directly to FEMA for 
reimbursement. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
3.  Financial Report – May 31, 2020 – Ben Gold 
a.  Page F1 – Healthy reserve at 66.97%.  Doing very well. 
b.  Page F2 – Five months in to our fiscal year, rents budgeted $ 97,598; received  $110,030.  
However, this does bring our subsidy down.  Administrative     doing fine, we’re right on track.  
Utilities a little over but we look good.  Ordinary maintenance, we’re doing fine.  Everything looks 
good, no concerns .  Karin Menard  made a motion to accept the May 31, 2020 financial report.  
Deborah Christen seconded; all were in favor.   
 
4.   Administration:    
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
Underground Wiring for Fire Alarm Panel (Fish #162030) – Bids are due next Wednesday, not June 
17th as on the report.  Met this morning for a pre -walkthrough with the contractors.  Hopefully we 
receive a favorable bid so we can move on with the project. 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – Soil test conducted through the Board of Health a 
couple of weeks ago, it was delayed due to COVID.  Graves Engineering is completing  the 
construction documents, then out to bid. 
 
FY2020 Health & Safety Exterior Lighting (Fish #162034) – No further discussion needed.  
 
Karin Menard asked if any of the housing authorities ever worked with their Green Community’s 
Task Force on any lighting  type projects.  Adam Gautie said there is a LEAN program similar to 
Mass Save but with commercial and public entities, we do work with them on some projects.  Karin 
said that Lunenburg has its own community’s task force and wasn’t sure if their group could be part 
of or helpful.  Adam said that we should definitely look into it especially when it comes to free 
money.  Karin not sure if they work with groups like ours but has a contact and will get it to Adam. 
 
Work Order Report – Nine (9)  routine wo rk orders received, three (3)  completed; Seven (7)  
emergency work orders, all completed.  Keep in mind Scott is focusing on emerg encies and 
sanitization with routine work orders being deferred. 
 
a.  State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received six (6) standard applications in May – two (2)  elderly/young disabled and  four (4)  
families.  We have 794 elderly and 1,727 families on the waiting list.   There was no lease-ups or 
vacancies in May.  We are currently at 100% occupancy.   
 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business:  None 
7.  Other Correspondence:  DHCD PHN 2020-22 Quarterly Operating Statement for Local H.A.s 
 
8.  No Resident Participation Requested.   
 
Adam Gautie gave an update on speed bumps .  At a previous meeting, a resident had brought up 
concern with speed bumps and asked if one could be installed.  We received a quote of $1,250 for a 
permanent asphalt spe ed bump not a temporary one.  It is proposed to be placed near the 
Community Room but shouldn’t interfere with tenants crossing that area.  There should be no issue 
with plowing.   
9.   Deborah Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  6:50 p.m.  Karin Menard seconded, 
all were in favor and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
===PAGE 3===
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                  June 18, 2020 