===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
August 20, 2020 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Chair  
Karin Menard, Vice Chair 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Jon Hogue, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Carol Hatch, Member 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a. Vice Chair Linda McDonald  asked for a roll call of members present:  Deborah Christen – 
present, Karin Menard – present, Jon Hogue – present, Linda McDonald – present. Carol Hatch was 
absent. Also present were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director ; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive 
Director and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant.  The Vice Chair declared a quorum present 
and opened the meeting at 6:31 p.m.   
 
b. Ben Gold welcomed new Board Members Carol Hatch and Jon Hogue; glad to have you join us.  
Karin Menard said she had heard from Carol and that she was not sure she could serve on the Board 
due to conflicts in meeting schedules; she said she would reach out to Carol again to confirm. 
 
c. As this is the Annual Meeting, the Vice Chair turned the meeting over to Ben Gold for the 
Election of Officers.  Ben Gold asked for nominations from the Board for Chair and Vice Chair.  
Deborah Christen made a motion to nominate Linda McDonald as Chair; Jon Hogue seconded; all 
three members said aye in favor. Linda McDonald nominated Karin Menar d as Vice Chair; 
Deborah Christen seconded, all three members said aye in favor. The meeting was then turned over 
to Chair Linda McDonald. 
d.  The minutes of the June 18, 2020 meeting were presented.    Karin Menard was going to provide 
Lunenburg’s Green C ommunity Task Force contact information to Adam Gautie  and said she 
would follow up on that.   Karin Menard made a motion to approve the minutes; Deborah Christen 
seconded and all were in favor.   
 
e. There was opportunity for public comments, for the record there were no individuals calling in. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 
a.  COVID -19 Update – We are going to be placing hand sanitizing stations around the offices, 
social distancing, wearing masks as much as possible when away from our desks and offices.  The 
State has some money for our COVID related expenses; meeting next week to see how much we’ve 
accumulated as a housing authority and submitting it.   
 
b.  Virtual Resident Town Hall – Wanted the residents to know we were there for them and 
available, sent out flyers for a GoToMeeting, staff was on hand.  Went well, one re sident called in. 
Good thing to do since we’re not holding in-person board meetings.  
 
c.  MassNAHRO Annual Conference being held virtually on September 15 -16. If you would like to 
attend and take some classes, contact Denise.  If we have items we need to bring to the Board, we 
would have to meet the following week, September 24 th.  Would everyone be available, if we don’t 
need to have a meeting, we won’t. 
3.  Financial Report – June and July 2020 – Ben Gold 
a.   Page F 2 – Healthy reserve at 74.35%.  We will be looking to see what we can spend our 
reserves on; DHCD likes us to keep it at 35% or over. 
 
b. Page F 3 – Seven months in to our fiscal year, rents budgeted $ 136,638; received  $153,169.  
Utilities doing well.  Maintenance Labor behind $6,779, should even out by next month; COVID 
sanitizing on the weekends added to this.  Total maintenance fine; operating surplus $14,315.  No 
major issues with finance s.  Karin Menard  made a motion to accept the June and July  2020 
financial reports. Deborah Christen seconded; all were in favor.   
 
c.  AUP Report – tabled until next month. 
 
4.  Administration:   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Replacement of Underground Replacement for Fire Alarm Panel (Fish #162030) – Notice to 
Proceed sent to Contractor end of last month.  Should start sometime next week. 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – Three septic systems at the family sites.  Graves 
Engineering submitted construction documents to DHCD for approval on July 7 th.  Still waiting t o 
hear from DHCD; will contact them again tomorrow. 
 
FY2020 Health & Safety Exterior Lighting (Fish #162034) – Upgrade lighting in the parking lots, 
project is underway.  Contractor ordered materials, plans on beginning next week. 
 
Work Order Report – 51 routine work orders received, 44 completed; 14 emergency work orders, 
all completed.   
 
Jon Hogue asked if the funding comes from DHCD or what the source to pay for these projects 
was.  Adam Gautie stated that we receive Formula Funding through the State for Capital 
Improvement Projects.  Sometimes smaller projects are funded through our reserves.  Every year 
we put together a five -year capital improvement plan and an annual plan with resident input.  
Reserves cover projec ts that are not in our capital plan but something the housing authority would 
like to do.  Reserves act as a savings account for the housing authority. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                        August 20, 2020 
 
===PAGE 3===
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received six (6) standard applications in July – two (2)  elderly/young disabled and  four (4)  
families.  We have 864 elderly and 1,891 families on the waiting list.  There was one elderly lease-
up and one vacancy in July.  We are currently at 98% occupancy; we’re doing well with one family 
unit on waiver and one elderly vacancy. 
 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business:  The Chair presented the following resolutions: 
Resolution 20200 7 Acceptance and Approval of Low Bid for Underground Fire Alarm Wiring 
Replacement.  We advertised for bids with a bid opening July 25 th; Nangle Engineering reviewed 
all bids and Elm Electrical from Westfield, MA was low bid in the amount of $30,103.  Motion 
made by Karin Menard to accept and approve the low bid.   Deborah Christen seconded the motion; 
all were in favor. 
Resolution 20200 8 Approval to Adopt Grievance Procedures.  These are standard for housing 
authorities and very important .  The procedure residents will use if they have an adverse action 
taken against them.  Motion made by Deborah Christen to adopt the Grievance Procedures.  Karin 
Menard seconded the motion ; vote by roll call was Karin Menard – aye, Deborah Christen – aye, 
Linda McDonald – aye, with Jon Hogue having been dropped off from the call and  unable to vote 
on this resolution.  Motion passed with a 3 to 0 vote. 
Resolution 202009 Approval to Adopt Tenant Personal Property Policy.   We received this policy 
from Karen Ahlers, our Regional Attorney.  This speaks to items that are left outside residents’ 
units, guidance on what they can and cannot do.  An example would be a BBQ grill, swimming 
pools.   
Motion made by Karin Menard to adopt the Tenant Personal Property Policy.    Deborah Christen 
seconded the motion ; vote by roll call was Karin Menard – yes, Deborah Christen – aye, Linda 
McDonald – aye, Jon Hogue – aye. Motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 202010 Approval to Adopt Revised CORI Policy. We have a CORI policy in place, this 
revised version is  per a training that staff recently attended with Karen Ahlers, Regional Attorney.          
We have been doing everything accurately but wanted to bring it to the Board as an updated policy.  
Question on what has changed in the policy; basically, some of the language in the letter sent out  to 
applicants.  Question on whether this was for  every applicant ; resident applicant or just 
employment; it is for all applicants and all new employees ; State CORI guidelines are followed.   
Motion made by Deborah Christen  to adopt Resolution 202010.   Linda McDonald s econded the 
motion; vote by roll cal l was Karin Menard – yes, Jon Hogue – yes, Deborah Christen – yes, Linda 
McDonald – yes.  Motion passed with a 4 to 0 vote. 
Discuss Moving Replacement of Deck Next Year to Fund the Installation of a Generator . 
Some discussion held with the Board feeling the generator was more important at this time since the 
deck was not a safety issue.  It would be a concrete pad with a standby put in, gas -fed.  Estimated 
cost around $20,00-$30,000. The board felt a generator in the Community Room was important for 
the residents when power goes out; they were in favor of purchasing.  Jon Hogue asked if he could 
tour the buildings at Pearl Brook sometime; the housing authority will arrange a tour for him.   
 
The Chair asked again if there were any residents or public on the line, there were none. 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 3                                        August 20, 2020 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
7.  Other Correspondence:   
 RCAT Advisory Board Quarterly Meeting Notice (Virtual) 
 DHCD PHNs 2020-23 through 202028 
 
8.  Resident Participation:  None Requested  
 
Karin Menard wanted the following on record: 
a. Would like to ask the Committee to put Public and Board Comments on all of their agendas 
so the public doesn’t have to request a topic be added for them to come and discuss it and 
have it be part of our meeting so we are not in violation of the open meeting law.   
b. Wants to make sure we are clear on who our board members are and their terms, there ’s 
been some question and wants to make sure it is sorted out before the next meeting.  She 
does believe we are in violation of having board members  here that are not elected or 
appointed to these positions. 
9.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Karin Menard made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:20 p.m.  Jon Hogue seconded, roll call 
Karin Menard – yes, Deborah Christen – aye, Jon Hogue – aye, Linda McDonald – aye and the 
meeting was adjourned with a 4 to 0 vote.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
===PAGE 5===
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 4                                        August 20, 2020 