===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA (virtual meeting held) 
 
April 23, 2020 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Vice Chair  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
Karin Menard, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Ronald Dionne, Member 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
a. Vice Chair Linda McDonald asked for a roll call of members present:  Deborah Christen – 
present, Karin Menard – present, Linda McDonald – present, Ronald Dionne – absent.  Also 
present were Benjamin Gold, Executive Director and Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive 
Director.  The Vice C hair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 6:30 p.m.  
There is opportunity for public comments, asked if any individuals from the public present.  
For the record there were none. 
b. The minutes of the February 20, 2020 meeting were presented.    Karin Menard  made a 
motion to approve the minutes; Linda McDonald seconded and all were in favor.   
 
A tenant just called in Lourdes from K3 in Pearl Brook Apartments. Question was when are the 
speed bumps going to be put back in.  Was taking the trash out and had close encounter with 
someone coming in.  Another person had it happen to her too  at night .  Ben Gold asked Adam 
Gautie for input. Use to have temporary speed bumps but issue with someone tripping over it and 
getting hurt so they were removed.  Discussed possibility of regular asphalt speed bumps in but last 
board meeting in the fall it was determined we would not do that.  We can revisit it again, 
something we can talk about.  Resident said it is more dangerous near the curve as the person 
comes in speeding, they don’t see the resident until they get to the curve.  She is concerned about 
the speed bumps.  The housing authority will take another look to see what can be done.  Resident 
thanked the board, and appreciated the alerts the housing autho rity is putting out on the COVID.  
Linda McDonald asked if a flashing sign or lights could be put in that area; can discuss as long as it 
doesn’t cause any issues with any of the units.  Can talk with the electrician and Director of 
Maintenance to see what possibilities are. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
a.    MassNAHRO Annual Conference postponed until September due to the COVID -19 
outbreak. 
b. Our Director of Finance, Sheila Lancelotta, will be retiring in June.  We will start 
interviewing next week; received a lot of resumes.  Sheila has been very valuable, here a number of 
years. 
c. COVID-19 Update – Working very hard around our housing authorities keeping residents 
and staff informed of the situation, giving staff protective gear.  Maintenance personnel only going 
in to do emergency work orders and vacant units, everything else being deferred.   The office is 
closed and staff working from home if they can, staggering hours in Leominster.  Dennis and Scott 
===PAGE 2===
still on-site.  Working best we can to kee p the virus out of our housing authorities.  Can always call 
me if you have any questions. 
 
3.  Financial Report – March 31, 2020 – Ben Gold 
a.  Page F1 – Healthy reserve at 73.80%.  Very good, the entire report looks very good. 
b.  Page F2 – Three months into our fiscal year, rents budgeted $58,559; received $64,823. 
Maintenance is good,  we’re right on track.  General expenses look good, total operating expenses. 
Everything looks good, no concerns. 
Deborah Christen made a motion to accept the March 31, 2020 financial report.  Karin Menard 
seconded; all were in favor.   
4.   Administration:    
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
Underground Wiring for  Fire Alarm Panel (Fish #162030) – Walkthrough a couple months ago, 
still in design process.  Still on track to be bid out and hopefully worked on soon. 
 
Septic System Replacement (Fish #162031) – Graves Engineering done with the construction 
documents, DHCD just needs to put out for bid.  Pre-construction meetings, site walk-throughs with 
multiple contractors so DHCD is hesitant to do these types of projects right now.  Hopefully in a 
few weeks we can move forward. 
 
FY2020 Health & Safety Exterior Lighting (Fish #162034) – Funds will be used to add exterior 
lighting; have not done anything yet.  
 
Work Order Report – covering last two months - 56 routine work orders received, 55 completed; 3 
emergency work orders, all completed. 
 
a.  State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received ten (10) standard applications in March – 5 elderly/young disabled and 5 family.  We 
have 756 elderly and 1,616 family on the waiting list.   There was one lease-up in March an d zero 
vacancies.  We are currently at 100% occupancy.   We included a lot of PHNs at the end of the 
packet with guidance from DHCD.   How to do lease -ups, how maintenance should handle units. 
Still moving forward with lease -ups, still pulling applications, still calling individuals, still sending 
out leases to be signed, meeting people with protective gear if necessary, with the least amount of 
contact. 
 
5.  Unfinished Business – None.  
6.  New Business:  The following resolution was presented by the Chair: 
a. Resolution 20 2003 CFA Amendment #8 between Lun enburg Housing Authority and 
DHCD.  This is for F ormula Funding, yearly item that we take to the board.  This is our fiscal year 
2023 monies of $70,196  and extends the contract date from June 30, 2022 to June 30, 2023.  In 
addition, we have Health and Safety Init iative money for $20,000 for exterior lighting near the 
parking and the dumpsters.  It is an extension of a contract that already exists with DHCD.  Motion 
made by Karin Menard  made a motion to approve Amendment #8 to the Contract for Financial 
Assistance with DHCD.  Deborah Christen seconded and the motion was passed with all in favor.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
b. Resolution 202004 Approv al of Execution of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
Operating Subsidy Agreement .  Our five -year subsidy agreement expires June 30, 2020 so we  are 
renewing for five years with a term date of July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2025.  This is based on  the 
approved budget or reconciled  operating statement, as long as we are getting our money, we’re not 
going to need a lot of subsidy.   Motion made by Karin Me nard to approve Resolution 202004. 
Deborah                                                   Christen seconded and the motion was passed with all in 
favor.   
 
c. Resolution 202005 Approval of Accounting Services Contract .  We’ve used Fenton and 
Ewald for a nu mber of years and are happy with their services. Motion made by Karin Menard to 
approve Resolution 202005.   Deborah Christen seconded and the motion was passed with all in 
favor.   
 
d. Resolution 202006 Approval to Write -Off Quarterly Unrecoverable Debts .  We  had a 
person vacating owing $934.00.  There were some damages to the apartment ; we most likely will 
not try to recover the money for this one.  Motion made by Deborah Christen to approve Resolution 
202006                                                 Karin Menard seconded and the motion was passed with all 
in favor.   
7.  Other Correspondence:   DHCD PHNs 2020 -05 through 2020 -16.  A number of PHNs, most ly 
related to COVID-19.  The State has been sending out a lot of guidance, Ben Gold is on a weekly 
call with the State along with other Executive Directors. 
 
8. No Resident Participation Requested. 
9. Karin Menard made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  7:03 p.m.  Deborah Christen seconded, 
all were in favor and the meeting was adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                  April 23, 2020 