===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE REMOTE REGULAR MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
November 18, 2021 
 
Members Present:      Members Absent:   
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair    None 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer  
Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1.  Meeting called to order 
a.  Vice Chair Jon Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present:  Linda McDonald-present, 
Catherine Clark-present, Deborah Christen -present.  Also present were Benjamin Gold, Executive 
Director; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant. The 
Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:06 p.m.   
b.    Catherine Clark made a motion to accept and approve the minutes of the October 21, 2021 meeting.   
Linda McDonald seconded and upon roll call vote  with Linda McDonald-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, 
Deborah Christen-aye and the minutes were accepted and approved by a 3 to 0 vote. 
c.   Opportunity for Public Comment – For the record there were no callers.   
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
     We will have another vaccine booster clinic on December 1st to coincide with the clinics we held in 
March for the first and second doses.   
 
3.  Financial Report – October 2021  
• Reserves are at 91.54%, healthy. 
• Administrative Other; we are looking into why we are $2,000 behind and awaiting an answer. 
• Utilities are good; the State takes care of these. 
• Maintenance labor is ahead; total maintenance is ahead by $15,000. 
• When we look at the bottom line, we budgeted to lose $10,000; we are only lo sing $5,000 at 
ten months in.  No concerns; we are doing well.   
• We may use some reserves for a temporary smoking area with a picnic table and umbrella.  The 
new smoking policy was approved last month but Adam Gautie is having a difficult time getting a 
gazebo, out of stock until April. 
Motion to approve and accept the October 2021 financial repor t made by Catherine Clark ; Linda 
McDonald seconded.  Linda McDonald-aye, Catherine Clark-aye, Deborah Christen-aye and financials 
were accepted and approved with a vote of 3 to 0.   
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – The project should be 
completed in the next week or so. 
 
33 routine work orders received, 20 completed; 8 emergency work orders, 7 completed.    
 
We have included a list of work orders from last month and will continue to add this every month going 
forward. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold 
We received 5 standard applications in October; 1 elderly/young disabled and 4 family. We have 1,271 
elderly/young disabled and 3,363 families on the waiting list.  The state is doing a purge soon so this 
number may change over the next month or two.  We are at 100% occupancy  for family and one 
vacancy for elderly in October.  Right now, we have two elderly vacancies; one unit should be ready 
the end of the month.  Staff is working hard to fill the units (one vacant 10/1; the other 11/2). 
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
6.  New Business - None 
 
7.  Other Correspondence – The Executive Director reviewed 
• PHN 2021-21 Language Access Plan 
• Resident Fall Newsletter 2021 – Reminders to the residents; we try to keep it positive.  Adam 
will start adding mod project info in future newsletters to let residents know status of any 
construction.  
• DHCD Resident Survey Chapter 667 Housing, Fall 2019.  Surveys were sent to 48 units.  We 
did very well.  The charts show how we compared to other small housing authorities and the 
entire state. 
 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments  
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Linda McDonald made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 2:20 p.m.; Catherine Clark seconded.  With 
all in favor the meeting adjourned.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                          November 18, 2021 
 
 
 