===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF THE ANNUAL MEETING 
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
 
June 24, 2021 
 
Members Present:   Linda McDonald, Chair  
Jon Hogue, Member 
Catherine Clark, Member 
 
Members Absent:   Deborah A.H. Christen, Member 
 
Also Present:    Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
      
1. Meeting called to order: 
 
a.  Chair Linda McDonald  asked for a roll call of members present: Jon Hogue -present, Linda 
McDonald-present, Catherine Clark-present, Deborah Christen-Absent.  Also present were Benjamin 
Gold, Executive Director ; Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Directo r and Denise Ivaldi, 
Administrative Assistant. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 3:02 p.m.   
b.   Annual Meeting/Election of Officers.  The Chair turned the meeting over to the Executive 
Director for nomination of Officers.  The Executive Director asked if there were any nominations for 
Officers or if someone wanted to make a  motion to keep the slate as is.  Linda McDonald made a 
motion to elect Jon Hogue as Chair, Catherine Clark seconded.  Linda McDonald made a motion to 
elect Deborah Christen as Vice Chair, Catherine Clark seconded. Upon roll call vote with Jon Hogue-
yes, Catherine Clark-yes, Linda McDonald-yes, the motion s were passed with a 3 to 0 vote to elect 
Jon Hogue as Chair and Deborah Christen as Vice Chair. 
c.  Jon Hogue made a motion to accept and approve the minutes of the May 20, 2021 meeting.   Linda 
McDonald seconded and all were in favor with a roll call vote of Jon Hogue -aye, Linda McDonald-
aye, Catherine Clark-aye.  
d.  Opportunity for Public Comment:  For the record there were no individuals calling in. 
 
2. The Executive Director Report – Ben Gold 
 Welcome Cathy Clark, our newest board member.  Cathy Clark stated she is currently in real 
estate, has previously worked in rental management. 
 COVID Update – Community Rooms re -opening, we will still encourage residents to wear 
masks indoors, social distancing, washing hands and sanitizing.   
 New Hire – Moises Ramos is the new housing manager for Lunenburg, Sterling and W. 
Boylston.  He worked for us while we managed Fitchburg, then came back to Leominster.  
We are happy to have him on-board. 
 New manager  hired for  Lunenburg, W. Boylston and Sterling.  Moe Ramos comes from 
Fitchburg Housing Authority; he was hired when we managed Fitchburg.   
 Town Appointed Tenant Board Member – hoping to have a tenant fill the seat. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 Resident Service Coordinator Initiative Funding Award Letter  – PHN 2021 -02 NOFA. We 
submitted an application and received grant for Lunenburg, Sterling and W. Boylston 
(regional award).  We will add hours to the Leominster RSC and she will cover all four 
housing authorities. 
 Juneteenth Independence Day – We will formally adopt for next year, on agenda for future 
meeting. 
 Mass NAHRO conference September 19-22 at the Sea Crest.  Board members are encouraged 
to attend; contact Denise so arrangements can be made. 
 Board meeting time change – We will bring up next meeting for discussion and vote.  By-laws 
will have to be amended; we are reviewing for any other changes needed. 
 
3.  Financial Report – May 2021  
 Reserves are at 99.78%, we should not let this go to 100% or we lose subsidy.  We are 
looking at projects to help bring reserves down; a tractor for maintenance with snow plow and 
snow blower. 
 Five months in, shelter rents a little below due to a few vacancies.  Administrative and utilities 
are fine; gas expenses over with the winter months.   Maintenance labor, contract costs are 
fine. Extraordinary maintenance, we didn’t budget for anything. 
 
Discussion on age of appliances and whether to replace on rotating basis to help bring down reserves. 
 
Motion to approve the May 2021 financial report made by Jon Hogue; Catherine Clark seconded.  Jon 
Hogue-aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and financials were accepted and approved. 
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie: 
 
Septic System Replacement, Family Units (Fish #162031) – 80% complete; leach field and tanks in. 
 
667-1 Community Room Decking and Handrail Replacement (Fish #162036) – Working on 
specification with RCAT. 
 
Work Order Report – 30 routine work orders received, 7 completed; 4 emergency work orders , all 
completed.    
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold: 
We received 7 standard applications in May; all elderly. There are 1,159 elderly/young disabled and 
2,889 families on the waiting list.  There were two lease-ups and one vacancy in May.  We are at 
94.34% occupancy.   
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 2                                                  June 24, 2021 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
6.  New Business 
Resolution 202 1-8 Approval of Final Completion for 667 -1 Underground Fire Alarm Wiring 
Replacement, DHCD Fish #162030.  Motion made by Catherine Clark to approve Resolution 2021-8; 
Jon Hogue seconded.  Catherine Clark-aye, Jon Hogue-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and motion passed 
with a 3 to 0 vote. 
 
Resolution 2021-9 Approval to Hire Resident Service Coordinator through RSC funding.    Motion 
made by Jon Hogue  to approve Resolution 202 1-9; Catherine Clark  seconded.  Jon Hogue -aye, 
Catherine Clark-aye, Linda McDonald-aye and motion passed with a 3 to 0 vote. 
 
7.  Other Correspondence – DHCD Public Housing Notices were reviewed: 
 PHN 2021-01 – Changes Pertaining to Town Appointed Tenant Board Members 
 PHN 2021-09 – Juneteenth Independence Day Guidance  
 PHN 2021-10 – Air Conditioner Installation Policies 
8.  Resident Participation –   None Requested  
 
9.  Board Commissioners’ Comments – None 
10.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Catherine Clark made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 3:39 p.m.; Jon Hogue seconded. Jon Hogue-
aye, Deborah Christen-aye, Linda McDonald-aye with all in favor the meeting adjourned.  The Board 
will not meet in July after brief discussion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Annual Meeting Minutes    Page 3                          June 24, 2021 