===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING  
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
March 17, 2022 
 
Members Present:      Members Absent:   
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair    Linda McDonald, Treasurer 
Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer    
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
 
1.  Meeting called to order 
a.  Vice Chair Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present:  Deborah Christen-present, 
Catherine Clark-present, Wayne Caron-present, Linda McDonald-absent.  Also present were Executive 
Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative 
Assistant/Recording Secretary.   The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 
2:08 p.m.   
b.   Wayne Caron made a motion to accept and approve the minutes of the February 24, 2022 meeting.   
Deborah Christen seconded, with all in favor the minutes were accepted and approved by a 3 to 0 vote. 
c.   Opportunity for Public Comment - none 
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
a.  COVID Update – We are back to in -person meetings.  We are strongly encouraging masks inside 
but there is no mandate. 
b.  Virtual Legislative Day being held February 22nd.  We are able to talk with legislators, ask for more 
money.  Wayne Caron and Cathy Clark may be interested in to joining. 
c.  The MassNAHRO annual conference in May gives Executive Directors and Board Members chance 
to attend sessions and meet with each other.  Encourage Board Members to attend; if interested please 
contact the office. 
d.  Unofficial PMR (Performance Management Review) scheduled for M ay 3rd; Desk Audit portion 
had no findings. 
 
3.  Financial Report – February 2022  
Reserves are at a healthy 68.4%.   Two months in, everything looks good with rents at $3,000 to the 
good. 
Administrative looks good; Utilities show gas a little high.   Ordinary maintenance is over by $7,791.  
Construction costs higher due to snow contract; no concern as a one -time charge.  Maintenance over 
by $1,182.  Non-routine/extraordinary maintenance over for tree removal. 
Wayne Caron moved to accept and approve the February 2022 financial report as presented; Catherine 
Clark seconded and the February 2022 financial report was accepted with all in favor. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Wayne Caron asked about the trees in the back parking lot stating the lot is covered in pine needles, 
causing a slip hazard.  Adam Gautie noted that we hope to have a project through DHCD to cut trees 
back ten feet. 
 
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie 
 
• Community Room Generator – Asbestos in joint compound, have to do abatement which will 
cost more money. 
• Intercom System – We walked around yesterday with DHCD to get scope of project. 
• Walkway Repair Project – Waiting for snow to melt; we did a walkthrough yesterday.  Waiting 
for DHCD to come out for a walkthrough. 
• There were 32 routine work orders received, 29 completed; three emergency work orders, all 
completed.  Also included is the listing of work orders called in last month. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold 
We received nine standard applications in February; six elderly/young disabled and three family. We 
have 1,451 elderly/young disabled and 3,825 families on the waiting list.  There were no lease-ups and 
no vacancies in February.  We are at 100% occupancy right now. 
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
6.  New Business – None  
7.  Other Correspondence – The Executive Director reviewed 
a. DHCD PHN 2022 -04 Guidance on Income Exclusions from Rent Determinations in State -
Aided Public Housing  
b. DHCD PHN 2022-05 Guidance to LTO Officers who also serve as Housing Authority Board 
Members and Tenant Board Members 
8.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Catherine Clark made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 2:38 p.m.; Wayne Caron seconded.  With all 
in favor the meeting adjourned.  Next meeting scheduled for April 21, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                          March 17, 2022 
 
 