===PAGE 1===
Page  | 1 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              September 15th, 2022 
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING  
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
September 15th, 2022 
 
Members Present:         Members Absent: 
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair       None 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer      
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member 
Dale Proulx, Board Member 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects 
Moises Ramos, Off-Site Housing Manager 
 
1. Meeting called to order 
a.  Vice Chair Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present: Linda McDonald-
present, Deborah Christen-present, Wayne Caron-present, and Dale Proulx-present. Also 
present were Executive Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie, 
Administrative Assistance/Special Projects Jade Tavares, and Off-Site Housing Manager 
Moises Ramos. The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 
2:00p.m.   
b.   The minutes of August, 2022 were presented. With no discussion, Treasurer made a 
motion to approve the minutes. Tenant Board Member seconded, with all in favor. 
c.  Opportunity for Public Comment:  
• Tenants stated Off-Site Housing Manager calls four times in a row, instead of once 
and leaving a message. 
• Tenants discussed parking for visitors, the “unmarked/unlabeled” parking spot, and 
the handicap parking spots. Tenant stated some people have been written up for 
parking in the “unmarked/unlabeled” spot and making complaints to others about 
it. Board Member Dale asked if there is adequate handicap parking. Off-Site 
Housing Manager explained parking spots are being worked on and concerns about 
tenant parking will come first. Executive Director stated a separate meeting could 
be held to discuss the parking concerns. 
• Tenant stated there was an incident with her son staying over, due to son’s medical 
concerns, for three nights at her apartment. Tenant stated she was informed five 
residents “turned her in” via letters, which were not signed. Tenant stated she was 
told she could not view them. Off-Site Housing Manager explained any complaints 
lodged are confidential; Off-Site Housing Manager explained any complaints are 
addressed with residents. 
• Tenant asked why residents are only allowed 21 nights for visitors for the year. 
Executive Director explained this number is determined by State Regulations. 
• Tenant stated Housing “promotes tattling” on each other within the lease 
agreement. Tenant referenced the Smoking Policy as an example. Tenant asked 
===PAGE 2===
Page  | 2 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              September 15th, 2022 
about the process to see Tenant Files on themselves. Executive Director to follow 
up. 
• Tenant stated some Tenants are threatened with eviction if they “don’t do what 
they are told” and how some Tenants have been here for “20 plus years”. 
Executive Director stated the comment was very vague and would need more 
details. Executive Directors explained there are Lease Enforcement steps which 
Off-Site Housing Manager must follow. Board Member Dale talked about how 
some actions have natural consequences to them. 
• Tenant asked if they were allowed to drink alcohol or beer outside. Executive 
Director agreed to follow up on what it states in tenants’ leases.  
• Tenant stated her sink is clogged and needs assistance. Off-Site Housing Manager 
stated he would follow up. 
• Tenant asked about Robo calls when the Board Meeting times are changed. 
Executive Director stated this was addressed during the previous meeting and that 
Robo calls would be made if this occurs. 
• Tenant stated twelve plastic chairs were donated and there are only 4 remaining, as 
others have been thrown out by Off-Site Housing Manager. Executive Director to 
follow up. 
 
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
a. The MassNAHRO Fall Conference will be held on November 13-15, 2022 in Danvers, MA. 
Executive Director encouraged the Board Members to attend and to contact Administrative 
Assistant/Special Projects if they would like to attend, so arrangements could be made. 
b. Executive Director discussed the concerns about Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
denying the administration determination. Tenant Board Member stated he would like to 
attend the next Conservation meeting, as he has a proposal to make. Tenant Board Member 
stated he would follow up with the Assistant Director to discuss the details. 
c. Executive Director stated the concerns from some residents regarding the ability to use the 
smoking gazebo is being privately addressed. 
 
3. Financial Report 
 a. Executive Director explained the Reserve is at 68.04%. The utilities are high however, 
DHCD pays this. The Maintenance contract cost increased to due staffing coverage, plowing, and 
needing all the vents cleaned. 
b. Tenant Board Member asked about the tractor repair cost. Assistant Director explained 
some contractors send their invoice 2-3 months after completing the work, so December work would 
not show up until March/April. 
c. Board Member Dale asked about the Net Meter Utility Credit on line 4392. Assistant 
Director explained we have contracts with a Solar Company and we receive credits to offset the 
utility cost. Executive Director stated this credit is paid quarterly. Executive Director stated he would 
ask Sue Honeycutt from Fenton, Ewald & Associates, P.C. to attend the next Board Meeting.  
d. Board Member Dale made a motion to accept the August financial reports as presented; 
Treasurer seconded, with all in favor. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page  | 3 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              September 15th, 2022 
4. Administration   
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Assistant Director 
 
667-1 Community Room Generator (FISH# 162040) This project is not moving forward at 
this time. Assistant Director looking into cost quotes based on the specs from the Electrical 
Engineer. 
 
667-1 Intercom System (FISH# 162041) This is in the planning phase. Assistant Director 
completed a walkthrough with the Engineer. DHCD has combined this project with 667-1 – 
Replace Federal Pacific Electric Panel (FISH#162044), an ARPA targeted award, to be more 
cost effective. 
 
Walkway repairs (FISH# 162042) The designer is now completing the construction 
documents; once this is complete, we can bid on this project. The plan is to connect all of the 
walkways and upgrade the patio area. 
 
667-1 Tree Removal (FISH# 162043) The Lunenburg Conservation Commission denied the 
administrative determination and wants a full RDA application. The administrative 
determination would have allowed us to begin the project. Tenant Board Member stated he 
wants to attend the next Lunenburg Conservation Commission meeting. All Board Members 
signed the letter to the Lunenburg Conservation Commission requesting an administrative 
determination. 
 
Work Order Reports from June to July: 
1. For 667: There are a total of 35 with 19 completed and 16 open. Out of these, 3 were 
Emergencies and have been completed.  
2. For 705: There are a total of 10 with 5 completed and 5 open. Out of these, 1 were 
Emergencies and has been completed. 
 
Tenant Board Member stated there is a lot of air coming through the storm doors and the heaters 
are turning on constantly. Tenant Board Member stated the half the screws to the storm doors are 
missing. Tenant Board Member stated the gaskets in the storm doors are dried out. Assistant 
Director explained a work order should be placed to request this issue be resolved. 
 
b.  State-Aided Housing Report – Executive Director 
We received 17 Standard Applications (11 Elderly/Young Disabled and 6 Family). We have 
1,829 applicants (623 Elderly/828 Young Disabled) on the waiting list. We have 4,637 family 
applicants on the waiting list. There were zero lease-ups and 1 vacancy (Elderly) in August. 
We are at 95.74% occupied for Elderly. We have a waiver for a unit that needs a new kitchen 
floor, professional carpet cleaning, and a new storm door; the waiver is good until October. 
One unit should be ready 10/14/22 and we housed one on 9/1/22. We are at 100% capacity for 
the family units. This brings us to 96.23% overall occupancy.  
 
Unfinished Business 
a. All Board Members signed the letter to the Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
requesting an administrative determination. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page  | 4 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              September 15th, 2022 
New Business – Executive Director 
a. Resolution 2022-12 Fair Housing Marketing Plan. Executive Director reviewed the FHMP. 
Treasurer made a motion to approve the FHMP; Tenant Board Member, with all in favor. 
b. Resolution 2022-13 Language Access Plan. Executive reviewed the LAP Board Member Dale 
made a motion to approve the LAP; Treasurer seconded, with all in favor. 
c. Resolution 2022-14 Reasonable Accommodation Policy. Executive reviewed the RAP. Tenant 
Board Member made a motion to approve the RAP; Treasurer seconded, with all in favor. 
d. Annual Resolution 2022-8 Approval of the FY 2023 Annual Plan for submittal to DHCD. 
Assistant Director explained the Annual Plan is listed on the website for everyone to read. 
Executive Director reviewed all the components in the Annual Plan. Assistant Director explained 
former Board Member Cathy Clark is listed, as she was still part of the Board when it was 
created. Assistant Director explained once the Board approves the Annual Plan, he can go into the 
system to remove Cathy’s name. Tenant Board Member asked if the bids have deadlines for 
submission; Assistant Director stated all bids have deadlines and guidelines to follow. Tenant 
Board Member asked if painting and carpeting could be done while the resident was there. 
Assistant Director stated it could be done. Board Member Dale stated the 2019 Fall Surveys 
overall were pretty good. Treasurer made a motion to approve the FY 2023 Annual Plan; Board 
Member Dale seconded, with all in favor. 
 
Other Correspondence – None 
 
Motion to Adjourn 
There being no further business, Board Member Dale made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 
3:05p.m. Treasurer seconded the motion; all were in favor. The next meeting will be scheduled for 
October 20, 2022. 
 