===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING  
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
April 21, 2022 
 
Members Present:      Members Absent:   
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair    None 
Linda McDonald, Treasurer 
Catherine Clark, Assistant Treasurer    
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member 
Dale Proulx, Board Member 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Denise Ivaldi, Recording Secretary 
 
1.  Meeting called to order 
a.  Vice Chair Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present: Linda McDonald-present, 
Deborah Christen-present, Wayne Caron-present, Catherine Clark-present, Dale Proulx-present.  Also 
present were Executive Director Benjamin Gold and Denise Ivaldi, Administrative Assistant/Recording 
Secretary.   The Vice Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:14 p.m.   
b.   Linda McDonald made a motion to accept and approve the minutes of the March 17, 2022 meeting.   
Catherine Clark seconded, with all in favor the minutes were accepted and approved. 
c.  Opportunity for Public Comment:   
Discussion with tenants present on concerns with the smoking survey options:   
1. Where the smoking area is now, over a sewer,  
2. Place the smoking area near the dumpster (smelly, skunks etc.),  
3. Out back (bobcats, fisher cats, deer, mosquitos),  
4. Middle of the complex but sewer and gas smells.   
The Executive Director replied: 
1. He was not aware the smoking area was over the sewer,  
2. The option in the survey was not to put the smoking area near the dumpster but on the other 
side of the back lot where a nice area would be created,  
3/4. This is why we included tenants with the survey. 
 
Tenants stated they wanted the smoking area right in the middle out behind the community room; both 
smokers and non -smokers would join in gathering there.  Linda McDonald asked if they wanted a 
fenced in area.  Tenant asked to keep the area central so when a tenant is using the community room 
for family g atherings, family would not be wandering through the complex.  Wayne Caron stated 
keeping it centrally located would allow for a wind break.  Tenant stated that there are only 14 smokers 
and most live in the front or back buildings.  Tenant stated that winter is bad for smokers, no path. 
 
The Executive Director said the current smoking table could be moved away from the sewer for now. 
Smoking gazebo has been ordered; waiting on delivery. 
 
Tenant asked if flower beds could be raised a little higher, some residents can’t bend that low.  Another 
tenant asked about a change machine for the laundry room; Adam Gautie has already researched but 
will ask him again.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2. The Executive Director Report  
a.  Welcome to Dale Proulx, our newest board member. 
b.  COVID Update – No mask mandate but still encouraging masks when with others.  We are back to 
in-person meetings. 
c.  The MassNAHRO annual conference May 22-24.  
d.  Booster update – Clinic June 8th in Leominster. 
e.  ARPA – We are receiving more funds from the State; will match previous year’s funds. 
 
3.  Financial Report – March 2022  
Reserves are at 71.84%.  State wants us to keep wants us to keep at 35% or higher; no subsidy if lower. 
Three months in, shelter rents are at $67,680; budgeted at $62,890. 
 
Utilities show a little higher on gas; State pays dollar for dollar on utilities .  Ordinary maintenance is 
to the good .  Materials and supplies are right on line; construction costs are higher.  Extraordinary 
maintenance includes costs for tree removal.  Bottom line we are $10,000 to the good. 
Catherine Clark moved to accept and approve the March 2022 financial report as presented; Wayne 
Caron seconded and the March 2022 financial report was accepted with all in favor. 
4.  Administration   
  
a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Adam Gautie 
 
• 667-1 Community Room Generator (Fish #162040) – On-going asbestos issue.  Board asked 
if Unitil will be given list of tenants on oxygen or have medical issues.   
• 667-1 Intercom System (Fish #162041) - This project is now in the design phase. 
• 667-1 Walkway Repairs – (Fish #162042) – DHCD in process of hiring designer.  Wayne 
Caron said his pathway has standing water from driveway when it rains; not going to drain. 
• All open work orders were given to Tom Phelan/Sterling to work on/complete. 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Ben Gold 
We received eight standard applications in March; six elderly/young disabled and two family. We have 
1,467 elderly/young disabled and 3,919 families on the waiting list.  There were no lease-ups and no 
vacancies in March.   
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
6.  New Business – None  
7.  Other Correspondence – The Executive Director reviewed 
a. DHCD PHN 2022-06 Calendar of Submissions and Certifications 
b. DHCD PHN 2022-07 Local Housing Authority Requirements to Post Key Information and 
8.  Motion to Adjourn: 
Wayne Caron made a motion to adjourn the meeting at  2:35 p.m.; Linda McDonald seconded.  With 
all in favor the meeting adjourned.  Next meeting scheduled for May 19, 2022. 
 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes    Page 2                          April 21, 2022 
 
 