===PAGE 1===
Page  | 1 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              August 18th, 2022 
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY 
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING  
 
131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA  
August 18th, 2022 
 
Members Present:        Members Absent:  
Deborah A.H. Christen, Vice Chair     
Linda McDonald, Treasurer      
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member 
Dale Proulx, Board Member 
 
Also Present:     
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director 
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director 
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects 
 
1.  Meeting called to order 
a.  Vice Chair Deborah Christen asked for a roll call of members present: Linda McDonald-
present, Deborah Christen-present, Wayne Caron-present, and Dale Proulx-present. Also 
present were Executive Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie 
and Administrative Assistance/Special Projects Jade Tavares. The Vice Chair declared a 
quorum present and opened the meeting at 10:44 a.m.   
b.   The minutes of June, 2022 were presented. With no discussion, Tenant Board Member 
made a motion to approve the minutes. Treasurer seconded, with all in favor. 
c.  Opportunity for Public Comment:  
• Tenants stated they were not aware the meeting time changed from 2pm to 
10:30am. Executive Director noted the Notice was posted with the 10:30am time 
and agreed to have a Robo-call set up to inform residents if the time changes again 
in the future. 
• Tenant stated there is a draft from the doors and windows; they noted the windows 
are only being replaced when the apartment is vacant. 
• Tenant stated the emergency lights outside the handicap apartments are white and 
not red like the other apartments; Tenant stated that if one of these residents uses 
the pullcord, it is less likely to be noticed then the red lights. Assistant Director 
explained DHCD is moving towards removing the pull-cords. Assistant Director 
recommended a Lifeline PERS, as a better option if residents have concerns about 
personal safety in the apartment. 
• Tenant asked about process to move apartments, as well as needing 
accommodations within a current apartment (i.e., carpet removal, bathtub 
changes). Executive Director explained that a Reasonable Accommodation must 
be submitted for any changes to an apartment. Executive Director explained there 
is an application process and paperwork needed for apartment transfers. 
• Tenants discussed the new gazebo for smoking. Tenants reported the seats are “too 
small”, unable to fit multiple people, and the railing stick out into their backs. 
Assistant Director explained that a survey was sent out able the gazebo before it 
was ordered for residents’ input. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page  | 2 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              August 18th, 2022 
 
2. The Executive Director Report  
  a. Welcome Administrative Assistant/Special Projects Jade Tavares, who has taken over since 
Administrative Assistant Denise Ivaldi retired. 
b. Assistant Treasurer Cathy Clark resigned and her position will be posted. 
 
3.  Financial Report – June and July 2022 
 a. Executive Director explained the Reserve is at 76.95%. There is $18,582 to the good for 
Maintenance; no concerns noted for June and July. 
 b. Tenant Board Member asked why the tractor needed to be fixed, as it is a brand-new 
tractor. Assistant Director to follow up. 
b. Treasurer made a motion to accept the June and July financial reports as presented; Tenant 
Board Member seconded, with all in favor. 
 
4.  Administration   
 a. Modernization/Work Order Report – Assistant Director 
 
667-1 Community Room Generator (FISH# 162040) This project was tabled due to high costs of bids 
received. Assistant Director looking into possibility to procure the generator and have the in-house 
plumber and electrician install. Tenant Board Member asked about the cost; Assistant Director stated 
one quote was for $28,000. Tenant Board Member questioned the cost. Assistant Director to follow 
up. 
 
667-1 Intercom System (FISH# 162041) DHCD hired MEA Engineering as the designer; this project 
is now in the design phase. 
 
Walkway repairs (FISH# 162042) A walkthrough was conducted with the engineer to begin the 
design phase on 6/7/2022. The plan is to connect all of the walkways and upgrade the patio area. 
 
667-1 Tree Removal (FISH# 162043) The Lunenburg Conservation Commission denied the 
administrative determination and wants a full RDA application. We need to increase the cost of the 
project to include replacement of trees. Executive Director explained the Lunenburg Conservation 
Commission wants a 1-to-1 tree removal/planting. Executive Director explained he is working on 
drafting a letter to express concerns about the denial and will bring the letter to the Board to 
review/sign. Tenant Board Member stated there are Native American Black Walnut trees, which are 
an endangered species, by the dry creek bed where the dead trees are. Tenant Board Member stated 
only the dead trees are supposed to be removed and the living ones not touched. Executive Director 
talked about having either himself or Assistant Director, along with a Board Member, attend the next 
Conservation Meeting. 
 
667-1 – Replace Federal Pacific Electric Panel (FISH#162044) This is a DHCD ARPA targeted 
award to replace the Federal Pacific electric panel; the project is in the planning stage. 
 
Work Order Reports from June to July: 
1. For 667: There are a total of 49 with 47 completed and 2 open. Out of these, 10 were 
Emergencies and have been completed.  
2. For 705: There are a total of 12 with 11 completed and 1 open. Out of these, none were 
Emergencies. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page  | 3 
Lunenburg Housing Authority  
Regular Meeting Minutes                              August 18th, 2022 
Treasurer noted windows are continuously listed as work orders. Dale Proulx asked about the 
custodial/trash removal being listed as work orders. Assistant Director explained the custodial/trash 
removal work orders are auto-generated and that DHCD requires all work by Maintenance be 
documented by work orders; Assistant Director explained this requirement is listed in the 
Maintenance Plan. 
 
b. State-Aided Housing Report – Executive Director 
We received 13 Standard Applications (3 Elderly/Young Disabled and 10 Family). We have 1,764 
applicants (590 Elderly/806 Young Disabled) on the waiting list. We have 4,495 family applicants on 
the waiting list. There were zero lease-ups and 1 vacancy (Elderly) in July. We are at 95.83% 
occupied for Elderly. There is a plumbing issue at one unit and the next unit is predicted to be ready 
for 9/16/22. We are at 100% capacity for family units. This brings us to 96.30% overall occupancy. 
Dale Proulx asked about the turnover time for an apartment. Executive Director explained it is 
typically 30 days, though we aim for 2 weeks. Executive Director explained it will depend on the 
status of the apartment, if it just needs paint or additional work is needed, such as removal of carpets. 
 
5.  Unfinished Business – None 
 
6.  New Business – None 
 
7. Other Correspondence – Executive Director 
1. DHCD PHN 2022-9 Updates to Performance Management Review (PMR) for 2022 Cycle 
2. DHCD PHN 2022-10 Revised PMR Maintenance Metrics 
3. DHCD PHN 2022-11 New Agreed Upon Procedures (AUP) requirements for Section 8 
New   Construction/Substantial Rehabilitation (S8 NC/SR) properties 
4. DHCD PHN 2022-12 Updates to c. 167 & c. 689 Housing Contracts 
5. DHCD PHN 2021-20 Addendum #2 
6. DHCD PHN 2022-13 Mandatory Data Reporting 
 
8.   Motion to Adjourn 
There being no further business, Tenant Board Member made a motion to adjourn the meeting 
at 11:10a.m. Treasurer seconded the motion; all were in favor. The next meeting will be scheduled for 
September, 2022. 
 