
LUNENBURG HOUSING AUTHORITY
MINUTES OF REGULAR MEETING 

131 White Street, Lunenburg, MA 
February 29, 2024

Members Present:								Members Absent:	
Dale Proulx, Chair								Nicole Waters, Treasurer
Linda McDonald, Vice Chair					
Wayne Caron, Tenant Board Member
Deborah A.H. Christen

Also Present:				
Benjamin Gold, Executive Director
Adam Gautie, Assistant Executive Director
Jade Tavares, Administrative Assistance/Special Projects
Suzanne Bonney, Director of Finance
Sue Honeycutt from Fenton, Ewald and Associates PC

Opportunity for Public Comments:
A discussion was held about the laundry machines needing cleaning. Assistant Executive Director to follow up with the Director of Facilities. A tenant asked for an updated list of office hours, as the times listed does not seem to be when Housing Manager Satellite Sites Moe or Assistant Housing Manager Satellite Sites Jessica are there. Executive Director to follow up.

Meeting Called to Order
Chair Dale Proulx asked for a roll call of members present: Dale Proulx-present, Linda McDonald-present, Wayne Caron-present, and Deborah A.H. Christen-present. Also present, were Executive Director Benjamin Gold, Assistant Executive Director Adam Gautie, and Administrative Assistance/Special Projects Jade Tavares, Director of Finance Suzanne Bonney, and Fenton, Ewald and Associates PC Sue Honeycutt. The Chair declared a quorum present and opened the meeting at 2:00p.m.  
The minutes of January 18, 2024 were presented. With no discussion, Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to approve the minutes; Vice Chair seconded, with all in favor.

Executive Director Report 
The Executive Director talked about the Board Member Training, which is due by April 28th; the Ethics Training also needs to be completed. The board members can contact Administrative Assistant/Special Project for assistance with both trainings. MassNAHRO Legislative Day will be held on 3/7/2024; if board members would like to attend, they need to inform Administrative Assistant/Special Project in order for them to be signed up. Executive Director will be attending the MassNAHRO Conference in March. Executive Director reviewed the blank lease. Vice Chair’s board seat is ending in May; Vice Chair confirmed she will be running for re-election.

Financial Report 
The financials of November, 2023 were reviewed. Vice Chair made a motion to approve the November, 2023 financials as presented; Tenant Board Member seconded, with all in favor.
Sue Honeycutt from Fenton, Ewald and Associates PC reviewed the Year’s End financials. Sue Honeycutt stated the year’s income was greater than expected. Expenses have increased, which is common with all housing authorities this year. The Reserve is 45.63%, which is good. Chair asked about Line 4541 Employee Benefits – GASB75. Sue Honeycutt explained the General Accounting Board has that line item, along with the Pension line item, as the projected amount. These amounts do not affect the Reserve. Vice Chair made a motion to approve the Year’s End financials as presented; Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen seconded, with all in favor.
Sue Honeycutt reviewed the FY2024 Budget. Sue Honeycutt explained the “Per Unit Amounts” have been updated. Maintenance and contract costs have increased, along with property tax and accounting costs. Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to approve the Operating Budget for State-Aided Housing of Lunenburg Housing Authority (Chapter 200/667/705/689/MRVP) Program Number 400-1 for Fiscal Year Ending 12/31/2024; Vice Chair seconded, with all in favor.

Administration  
Modernization/Work Order Report – Assistant Director

667-1 Intercom System/Federal Pacific Panel Replacement – FISH#162041
Project is near completion. 
Work Order Report:
For 667: There was a total of 23 with 22 completed and 1 open. Out of these, 10 were Emergencies and have been completed. 
For 705: There was a total of 2 and completed. Out of these, 1 was an Emergency and was completed.

State-Aided Housing Report – Executive Director
We received 10 Standard Applications (7 Elderly/Young Disabled and 3 Family). We have 2,802 Elderly and 5,752 Family applicants on the waiting list. There were 0 lease-ups and 1 vacancy in January. We are at 100% occupancy for Elderly (0 Empty unit – 0 Waiver = 0 Vacancy). We are at 83.33% occupancy for Family (1 Empty unit – 0 Waiver = 1 Vacancy). Overall occupancy is at 98.15%.

Unfinished Business – None 

New Business
Resolution 2024-2 Year-End Financial and Federal-State Lead Paint Certifications. Motion made by Vice Chair to approve the Year-End Financial and Federal-State Lead Paint Certifications; Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen seconded the motion, with all in favor.
Resolution 2024-3 FY2024. Budget Motion made by Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen to approve the Year-End Financial and Federal-State Lead Paint Certifications; Vice Chair seconded the motion, with all in favor.

Other Correspondence
EOHLC PHN 2024-2 Requirement to consult residents when entering into Management Agreements 

Motion to Adjourn
There being no further business, Board Member Deborah A.H. Christen made a motion to adjourn the meeting 2:37p.m. Vice Chair seconded and with all in favor the meeting was adjourned.






Lunenburg Housing Authority 
Regular Meeting Minutes									February 29, 2024




Page |  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2










