===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
•
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Brian Laffond, Chairman
Marilyn Stokes, Vice-Chairman
John Male
Barbara Reynolds
Martha McDonald, Secretary
Mark Erickson
Mike Mackin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
March 3, 2011
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 2 5 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
Marilyn Stokes, Mark Erickson, Brian Laffond, Martha McDonald (departed early), Barbara Reynolds (arrived
late), Mike Mackin, John Male
1) Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 7:06 PM
2)
Public Discussion - None
Review Minutes of 2/17/11 meeting. MS motioned to approve; MMCD seconded; vote unanimous
4)
New Communications - None
5) Committee Reports
Capital Planning - None
DPW - None
Public Safety - None
Service Level Team - None
•
Sewer Commission - None
School Committee - MM reported on the school committee meeting from the night before. Various ways to
make budget cuts to eliminate the gap between the superintendant's recommendation and that of the Town
Manager were discussed, along with the possibility of an override. No decisions were reached.
• School Regionalization - None
6) Appointments - Preliminary Budget Discussions
7:10 Library Director - Amy Sadkin Ms. Sadkin presented the recommended library budget and mentioned it had
been posted to the town website. ME asked about the impact of the delta from the Town Managers
recommendation: it amounts to 4 hours per week. MM asked for clarification of CWMars which was provided.
MS asked to consider a switch of opening on Friday for being closed on Monday. Ms. Sadkin responded Monday
is a heavy homework night where Friday is not. BL asked commented about the popularity of the Kindle program
and that the Town Manager's recommendation meets state grant commitments.
• 7:25 Board of Health - George Emond Mr. Emond reported that the DOH budget is flat at 1 FTE, with small
increase in budget to meet contract commitments.
10 minute recess
7:40 Sewer Commission - Bob Ebersole Mr. Ebersole reported a flat budget, with no increase in fees. Revenues
will increase slightly from usage increases and new connections. ME asked about the $85k draw from retained
earnings: it compares with $92k last year and we have a balance of $617k. Infiltration and inflow may be charged
in the future and is a concern. Some engineering money this year to investigate. MM asked when Fitchburg and
Leominster might change how they charge. Mr. Ebersole said he didn't know. They could change now, but may
not change if we show effort to mitigate and correct I&I. JM pointed out we did not have copies and Mr. Ebersole
said he would provide them. BL asked about headcount: there is no FTE, but there is some use of overtime. BL
commented on the low connect fee of $300 and suggested we could look to increase it.
Appicored
3/24/11
B.P.L
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
• 7:52 Police Chief - Daniel Bourgeois Chief Bourgeois said his #1 issue is staffing (plus 1 patrol officer) and to
restore lost grants for things like community policing. JM commented that an FTE is not just $63,512 in salary,
but also carries health insurance, retirement benefits and additional automobile expense. Chief responded that
public employees are not eligible for SS, so pension is needed. And 1 additional officer is not even close to what
is needed. ME asked about non-officer related increases: community policing, on-call investigator, military
assignments. MM asked about retirements: 5 eligible in 5 years, although none yet have definite plans. Chief
pointed out use of auxiliary police is way down due to Whalom Park and Tri Town closing and fewer private paid
details. He said the new officer would be a split shift opposite the split shift traffic officer. MS asked about
closing the difference from Town Manager's recommendation: it's still being worked.
• 8:45 Fire Chief - Scott Glenny Chief Glenny talked about the big difference between his recommendation and
that of Town Manager: currently no staffing on the weekends or after 6:00 PM weekly. JM asked about the EMT
Recertification: it is combined on two lines, the stipend and the fee being separate. Recommendation is 2 people
in the station overnight and weekends(per diem, not benefit eligible), both EMT and Fire certified so that
appropriate first response could be provided. JM commented on the great response time. MS commented she
had a fire and appreciates the need for good response. BL asked about a substation: not practical for numerous
7) Next Meetings
: March 10 - aditionat department reports
March 17 - Public Hearing
•
March 24 - tentative; may not have a quorum
March 31 - tentative; review warrant articles
8) Adjournment - MM made motion to adjourn at 9:28 PM and MS seconded; vote unanimous
Minutes respectfully submitted by Mark Erickson
Page 2 of 2
3124/4
BPL:
