===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Martha McDonald, Secretary
Barbara Reynolds
John Male
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
9/8/11
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
John Male
Brian Laffond, Martha McDonald, Barbara Reynolds, Mark Erickson
1) Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 7:03 PM.
2)
Communications - none
3)
Review minutes - none
4) Committee Reports
• Capital Planning - FY2013 schedules have gone out - HANDOUT
• DPW - HANDOUTS - updates from Town Manager and DPW Director outlining demolition of present building
underway
• Monty Tech - meeting September 7
• Regional Dispatch - workshop scheduled for September 8 at 6 pm
• Service Level Team - ME sent note to Dave Matthews (BOS) and are in the process of reconvening team; looking at
schedules to determine the best night
• School Regionalization - ME attended recent North Middlesex Regional School District meeting; Committee chair
made following comments about adding Lunenburg: student numbers would increase, little future opportunity for
cost-cutting because both schools have already had deep cuts, trying to bring schools on equal footing would be
costly; tabled their vote until additional modeling could be done; Lunenburg Regional Planning Committee has
withdrawn merger proposal to MSBA Review Board.
• School Reconfiguration Committee will now probably take on new urgency since regionalizing is off the table; ask
Dave Rief about the committee.
5) New Business
• Town Accountant update will be available at the end of the month
• Town Manager update submitted in HANDOUT
• One candidate submitted for Fin Comm - Robert Alario
6) Future agenda items
• Pavement Management Plan presentation - scheduled for 9/22
• Green Energy Taskforce - presented to BOS last Tuesday; will discuss dates to present to FinComm
• Requesting information on how Sewer Committee has reorganized since Town Meeting; a report to the Town
Manager would be satisfactory
• ME would like a master fiscal calendar to show when all activities occur; i.e. town Meetings, warrant articles due, etc.
• BR requested an update on the Town Hall renovations and cost incurred vs. budget
7) Next meeting - September 8 - ask for Accountant report
8) Adjournment - BL made motion to adjourn at 7:50 PM and BR seconds, all in favor.
RECEIVED & FILED
Minutes respectfully submitted by Martha McDonald
SEP 0 9 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICEOrI
===PAGE 2===
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, Massachusetts
BURG
17 Main Street
.O. Box 13:
unenburg, MA 0146
Marion M. Benson, Chair
Carl Sund, Mbr.
Colleen Shapiro, Mibr.
Brian Laffond, Mbr:
Elaine Murphy, Mbr.
DIS
Date:
To: All Department Heads
From: Marion M. Benson, Chair
CPC Schedule timeline is as follows:
CPC packet sent to Dept. Heads
Sept. 1, 2011
All Capital Request forms return due date
Sept. 30, 2011
for Five Year Plan, FY 13 Requests, & Inventory Sheet
Town Manager pre-review
Oct. 1, to Oct. 14, 2011
CPC review and interviews
Oct. 14, to Dec. 1, 2011
Prioritization and preparation of FY plan
Dec. 1, to Dec. 31, 2011
Note: Only Inventory, Five Year Plan and Form B due Sept. 30, 2011
The CPC packet for FY2013 contains the following
Capital Planning Criteria
Inventory Worksheet
Five Year Plan Form
Form B Request Form FY2013.
Form C Notification Form for Capital purchases from FY2013 Capital Plan
Form D Emergency Request Form
Form E Notification Form for Capital Purchase from Operating Budget (over $10,000)
Note: Every department must submit an Inventory and Five Year Plan. Even though you may
not have an FY13 request, return the FY13 Form B with above by noting there is no request.
The Goal of Capital Planning is to provide a means of planning for necessary expenditures,
maintenance and/or improvements of the capital assets and infrastructure of the Town.
All items with a cost equal to, or greater than $10,000.00, shall be included on the FY Capital Plan.
Groups of items of same use which together the cost is equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be
included on the FY Capital Plan.
1
===PAGE 3===
Initial purchase of a group of items to establish a new program or new use shall be in the Capital
Plan, with sustaining future purchases to be handled through the departmental operating budget.
All items with useful life of over three years costing more than $10,000.00 shall be included on the
FY Capital Plan.
All vehicles which will be registered to operate on roadways shall be on the FY Capital Plan.
All equipment, rolling or stationary, (or groups of same-ex: lawn maintenance equipment) cost
equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be on the FY Capital Plan.
All technology and communication items shall be submitted to the Technology Department, who in
turn, will include these items in its Form B submittal (this includes all telephones, computers,
servers, fax machines, copiers). All above items under Town Departments should be included in
the FY Capital Plan and all above items under the School Department shall be in the school budget.
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee, or to the Technology Department,
shall include a financial impact statement as to the departmental operating budget (See Form B).
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee shall include an anticipated
maintenance schedule.
The CPC will review all requests by the Criteria which indicates that each request must address the
health and safety of citizens and property, maintenance of operation, requirements of Federal, State
and Local Laws and Regulations, improvement of infrastructure and improvement of productivity.
Forms C, D, and E are for your use throughout the year.
Form C is for recordkeeping so CPC can know when an item has been purchased and
such knowledge assists in maintaining the current balances in the Capital Budget.
Form D is the process for emergency requests. Emergencies can occur; however, each
Department should anticipate the age, needs and condition of their equipment. Items should
be requested on your Form B's before they become emergencies.
the phoned mens?!
Form E is when a capital item is taken out of the operating budget, grant monies, etc.
This is for recordkeeping for Capital Planning, noting that the item has been secured by
Capplan/procedures/plan and process
2
===PAGE 4===
Mark Erickson
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:
Attachments:
Kerry Speidel [kspeidel@lunenburgonline.com]
Wednesday, August 24, 2011 9:22 AM
Barbara Reynolds; Brian Laffond; John Male; Mark Erickson; Martha McDonald
kspeidel@lunenburgonline.com
RE: Finance Committee Meeting Notification and Agenda - August 25, 2011
Plan and Process.doc
All,
I am unavailable for tomorrow evening's meeting, but wanted to provide you with some updates.
We will be distributing the FY11 Close Out report on 8/31/11.
2. The DPW project is underway. Demolition began this week. The Building Official issued two permits for the
project- one for the renovation and one for the new building. This was necessary, because the new building
was required to go through the Planning Board's Development Review Process. Unfortunately, this was not
called to our attention until 2 weeks ago. The separation of the project from one building to two buildings
kicked in this requirement. In any event, the project is fully underway.
3. The Capital Planning Committee has finalized their schedule for the CIPC. I've attached a copy of the memo
that will be distributed to all departments on or before 9/1. I'm in the process of drafting the budget calendar
for the FY13 Budget Process. I'll have that for review at your next meeting.
4. The property located at 925 Mass Ave is an abandoned gas station. There are 3 underground storage tanks,
each containing some amount of fuel. The tanks have reached their maximum useful lives and there is reason
to believe that one or more could leak at any time. The property owner does not have the financial means to
have the tanks pumped, nor does he feel responsible for the potential hazard. The Town has attempted to
work with the property owner and DEP to get the work done. Most recently, we had obtained DEP funding for
the property owner to have the work done, however, the property owner had to provide DEP permission to do
the work, which he would not do for a number of reasons. We have recently determined that the Fire Chief
has the authority to enter the property and cause the work to be done. The cost of the work can then be
liened to the property. We estimate the cost of this work at $5k. The work has been scheduled for 8/30/11.
We do not have this budgeted in any particular place. We would like to present this to you as a potential
Reserve Fund expense and will do so at your next meeting. At that time, we will know the exact cost of the
work.
5. As mentioned below, the BOS will have a Work Session 6:00 p.m. on 9/8 to review the proposal for
Regionalized Dispatch. We will be sending out a packet next week. If you are able, we would appreciate your
attendance at this meeting.
Please let me know if you have any questions.
Kerry
From: mark@pinnacleit.us [mailto: mark@pinnacleit.us]
Sent: Tuesday, August 23, 2011 3:23 PM
To: Brian Laffond; Barbara Reynolds; Martha McDonald; John Male
Cc: tomalonzo@verizon.net; amyfha@verizon.net; Idouglas@lunenburgonline.com; kspeidel@lunenburgonline.com;
kherrick@lunenburgonline.com; david.reif@astrazeneca.com; sdebettencourt@lunenburgonline.com;
chuckamaral@gmail.com; ernie@pfpgo.com; dgink@verizon.net; davenavl@aol.com; kbrochu@lunenburgonline.com
Subject: Finance Committee Meeting Notification and Agenda - August 25, 2011
Here is the meeting notice and agenda for the Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting of August 25,
2011.
1
===PAGE 5===
We are not planning to televise this week's meeting.
Note that we are planning a workshop with the BOS on September 8 at 6:00 PM to discuss the regional
dispatch service and will start our regularly scheduled meeting that evening at 7:30 PM.
Please let me know if you have any questions or feedback.
Regards,
Mark
