===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Martha McDonald, Secretary
Barbara Reynolds
John Male
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
Aves 1, 201 Mack tuden
9/8/11
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Brian Laffond, Martha McDonald, Barbara Reynolds, Mark Erickson
John Male
1) Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 7:10 PM.
2)
Communications - FinComm mailbox has been moved; BR will investigate where it is located.
3)
Review minutes
• BR made motion to approve minutes from 5/7 meeting; BL seconded; all approved.
• Motion made by BL to approve 6/30 meeting minutes as amended; seconded by BR; all approved.
• Motion made by BR to approve 7/14 meeting minutes as amended; seconded by BL; all approved.
4) Committee assignments
Two committees are currently on hold; question whether we will need representation on regional dispatch committee.
5) Committee/Department Reports
• Capital Planning - HANDOUT - Marion Benson letter outlining CPC schedule timeline and packet for FY2013
• DPW - Need update
• Library - Barbara Reynolds
• Monty Tech - new principal named
• Service Level - Dave Matthews will address future of team with BOS; FinComm agrees that having service levels and
establishing now before budget season would be good idea
• School Regionalization - North Middlesex representatives appear to be reluctant to add Lunenburg to existing district;
North Middlesex has meeting on 8/22 to decide whether to continue or drop proposal.
6) New Business - none
7) Future agenda items
Pavement Management Plan presentation - tentative 9/8
Green Energy Taskforce - ask Town Manager to schedule review with John Londa, Facilities Manager
Next meeting - August 25 - Town Manager will not attend
9) Adjournment - BR made motion to adjourn at 8:42 PM and BL seconds, all in favor.
Minutes respecifuliy submitted by Martha VicDonald
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 0 9 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Page 1 of 1
===PAGE 2===
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, Massachusetts
17 Main Street
P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Marion M. Benson, Chair
Carl Sund, Mbr.
Colleen Shapiro, Mbr.
rian Laffond, Mbi
laine Murphy, Mb
Date:
To:
All Department Heads
From: Marion M. Benson, Chair
CPC Schedule timeline is as follows:
CPC packet sent to Dept. Heads
Sept. 1, 2011
All Capital Request forms return due date
Sept. 30, 2011
for Five Year Plan, FY 13 Requests, & Inventory Sheet
Town Manager pre-review
Oct. 1, to Oct. 14, 2011
CPC review and interviews
Oct. 14, to Dec. 1, 2011
Prioritization and preparation of FY plan
Dec. 1, to Dec. 31, 2011
Note: Only Inventory, Five Year Plan and Form B due Sept. 30, 2011
The CPC packet for FY2013 contains the following
Capital Planning Criteria
Inventory Worksheet
Five Year Plan Form
Form B Request Form FY2013
Form C Notification Form for Capital purchases from FY2013 Capital Plan
Form D Emergency Request Form
Form E Notification Form for Capital Purchase from Operating Budget (over $10,000)
Note: Every department must submit an Inventory and Five Year Plan. Even though you may
not have an FY13 request, return the FY13 Form B with above by noting there is no request.
The Goal of Capital Planning is to provide a means of planning for necessary expenditures,
maintenance and/or improvements of the capital assets and infrastructure of the Town.
All items with a cost equal to, or greater than $10,000.00, shall be included on the FY Capital Plan.
Groups of items of same use which together the cost is equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be
included on the FY Capital Plan.
1
===PAGE 3===
Initial purchase of a group of items to establish a new program or new use shall be in the Capital
Plan, with sustaining future purchases to be handled through the departmental operating budget.
All items with useful life of over three years costing more than $10,000.00 shall be included on the
FY Capital Plan.
All vehicles which will be registered to operate on roadways shall be on the FY Capital Plan.
All equipment, rolling or stationary, (or groups of same-ex: lawn maintenance equipment) cost
equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be on the FY Capital Plan.
All technology and communication items shall be submitted to the Technology Department, who in
turn, will include these items in its Form B submittal (this includes all telephones, computers,
servers, fax machines, copiers). All above items under Town Departments should be included in
the FY Capital Plan and all above items under the School Department shall be in the school budget.
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee, or to the Technology Department,
shall include a financial impact statement as to the departmental operating budget (See Form B).
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee shall include an anticipated
maintenance schedule.
The CPC will review all requests by the Criteria which indicates that each request must address the
health and safety of citizens and property, maintenance of operation, requirements of Federal, State
and Local Laws and Regulations, improvement of infrastructure and improvement of productivity.
Forms C, D, and E are for your use throughout the year.
Form C is for recordkeeping so CPC can know when an item has been purchased and
such knowledge assists in maintaining the current balances in the Capital Budget.
Form D is the process for emergency requests. Emergencies can occur; however, each
Department should anticipate the age, needs and condition of their equipment. Items should
be requested on your Form B's before they become emergencies.
Form E is when a capital item is taken out of the operating budget, grant monies, etc.
This is for recordkeeping for Capital Planning, noting that the item has been secured by
other financial means.
Capplan/procedures/plan and process
2
