===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Scott Gile
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Marke
10/25/12
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
10/11/2012
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 0 1 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, S. Gile, J. Smith, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield
1. Meeting called to order 7:01.
2.
Communications
• No public present.
• The Association of Town Finance Committees meeting is coming up 10/20. TB will be attending and will
come back with the new handbook.
JS withdrew as Co-Secretary due to time constraints.
3. Minutes
• SG made a motion to accept the minutes for the September 20" meeting and public hearing. SR seconded,
approved 6-0. (BL abstained as not present 9/20)
SG made a motion to accept the minutes of September 25". IS seconded, approved 7-0.
4. Committee/Department Updates
ME reported that the Service Level Team will likely not be convening. Discussion around ways to gather the
information related to the services provided by the various departments, and gain an understanding of what the
service levels and needs are across departments ensued. As half the FinCom is new, we thought the best way
to do this would be to invite department heads in for an informal discussion about town needs well in advance
of the budget process. This would give us a chance to get a sense of needs, and provide them a sense of where
our questions may come later. SG, SR and TB will work on a framework to help focus such discussions.
Mie also reported that there is concern that the town may be butting up against the foundation budget for
schools. The figure is set by the state as expected per pupil spending by the town, and is used in determining
state funding as well.
• SR is all set on the Capital Planning Committee.
• BL informed the Committee that a new Library Director has been hired.
•
JS reported that the Fire Chief discussed capital equipment needs at their last meeting.
5. Town Manager Update
Neither the Town Manager nor Accountant was present for the meeting. JM expressed concern that the town has not
been funding sewer debt at a rate of about $100,000 per year. The town made an initial payment of $400,000 several
years ago, and there continues to be disagreement over what cost the town is responsible for. The actual figure in
6.
question is unclear, which the committee thought the Town Accountant would have for this meeting.
Pension information review
There is consensus that the Committee wants to formally express concern over the automatic 3% cost of living
adjustment that the Worcester County Retirement Board approved for retirees. ME will draft a letter for review at the
next meeting.
2013 ni
7. ME reported that the School Building Committee is ready to begin negotiations with 4 finalists for OPM. They are
hoping for state approval on November 5*. Fall.2004 is target to bring design to Town Meeting.
8. The meeting to review Health Insurance that Kerry requested should be scheduled soon. ME will check on that.
9. JS motioned to adjourn at 9:22. BL seconded, approved 7-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
