===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Co-Secretary
Jason Smith, Co-Secretary
John Male
Scott Gile
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
<7/12/12>
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
• Erickson, B. Laffond. J. Male, S. Gile, J. Smith, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield
1. Meeting called to order 7:04.
2.
Reorganize Finance Committee for FY2013
Mark Erickson nominated for Chairman by JM. Seconded by SG, vote to approve was unanimous.
Brian Latfond nominated for Vice-Chairman by JM. Seconded by JS, vote to approve was unanimous.
after some discussion regarding the difficulty of participating while keeping minutes, the Committee determined
vould be best to have the Secretary position shared. Brian Laffond nominated Terri Burchfield as primary Secretar
and Jason Smith as secondary Secretary. Seconded by JM, vote to approve was unanimous.
3.
Town committee assignments determined
School Building Committee
M. Erickson
School Committee
M. Erickson
Monty Tech
M. Erickson
Capital Planning Committee
S. Raboin
DPW
S. Gile
Public Safety
J. Smith
Library
B. Laffond
Council on Aging
T. Burchfield
Sewer Commission
J. Male
Service Level Team
M. Erickson, T. Burchfield
The Committee discussed whether a liaison to the Board of Selectmen would make sense. Consensus was that no
formal assignment needed to be made.
John M. reported on Sewer Commission discussions regarding whether the town is funding its share of debt service as
well as operating costs.
Mark E. reported on the School Building Committee's timeline to identify the Owner Project Manager (OPM) with
interviews expected in September/October. Final approval of the OPM rests with the MSBA.
4.
Communications
Notice of Public Hearing on Monday July 16" by the Planning Committee regarding the solar energy facility was
shared
5.
Approval of minutes
TB, JS and SR were not members at the time and did not vote.
6/14 minutes
BL motioned to approve, ME seconded. Approved 2-0. (JM and SG did not attend)
6/28 minutes
6.
BL motioned to approve, ME seconded. Approved 3-0. (JM did not attend)
Town Manager update
7.
Kerry was unable to attend, but notified Mark E. that she is holding a transfer for Finance Committee approval.
Open Discussion
Members of the Committee discussed such topics as exploring expenses which are, and are not, controllable by the
town, discretionary vs. nondiscretionary expenses, and reviewing properties owned by the town.
Steve R. will visit the Planning Board to obtain an inventory of town property and vacant commercial property.
The Committee will ask Kerry to revisit her presentation on required costs, nondiscretionary to less discretionary
spending, etc.
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
The Committee would like to benchmark Lunenburg with comparable towns.
A standing agenda item to periodically review the topics of real estate inventory, grant writing opportunities, issues of
discretionary vs. non discretionary spending will be added.
8. Future items
The pension plan training will likely be a joint presentation with the Board of Selectmen.
Sewer cost reconciliation on the costs to connect town buildings and debt service.
9. Next meeting
Mark E will determine if a meeting on July 26" will be necessary to assist in closing the fiscal year. If the meeting is
not necessary, the next meeting will be the 2nd Thursday in August.
The agenda will include a report by Steve R. regarding the real estate inventory.
10. SG motioned to adjourn at 9:28. JS seconded, approved 7-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
Page 2 of 2
