===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
•
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Scott Gile
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Washe Luchtr
m8l1d
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
10/25/2012
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, S. Gile, J. Smith, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield
K. Speidel
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications
No public comment.
TB attended the Association of Town Finance Committees meeting on 10/20 and distributed the new
handbook. The meeting was a great experience, and Lunenburg appears to be using best practices as financial
processes go. One question that came up was regarding the town's financial policies. KS reported that ours
need work, and are part of the policies the Board of Selectmen are addressing. FinCom will have them for the
budget process.
3. Minutes
BL made a motion to accept the minutes for the October 11' meeting, amended to reflect that it was JM who raised the
question of whether the Town was approaching foundation budget figures for the schools. SG seconded, approved 7-0.
4. Committee/Department Updates
BL informed the Committee that the new Library Director is Martha Moore. He also expects to be asking
what services have been added back given the additional funds approved, at the special town meeting.
•
JM will be researching the issues around sewers and town buildings.
In an update regarding service levels, it was noted by Gregory Berthiaume, in the audience, that the School
Committee had begun budget discussions, and Finance Committee members were welcome to observe. The
School Committee also has been working on capital plans, and a concern that the cafeteria floor at the Primary
School is failing. JM wondered if a tour of the schools by FinCom members would be possible.
• ME reported that the School Building Committee has an approved contract with an OPM which should be
ratified by the MSBA on November S". Fall 2013 is target to bring design to Town Meeting
• SR reported that there has not been a Capital Planning Committee meeting.
5. Letter to Kevin Blanchette and the Worcester County Retirement Board
ME shared the letter he is sending on behalf of the Committee to Mr. Blanchette expressing concern over the 3% cost
of living adjustment that was approved for retirees when the social security adjustment was so much lower and
municipal budgets are stressed. Discussion regarding contacting state representatives as well ensued.
6. Service level discussions
SR reported on the questions the subgroup would like to raise with department heads before we get into the budget
season. In addition to the reviews brought back by liaisons from their external committee assignments, we would also
like to hear from some departments with the whole group, especially as we have so many new members and there are
new department heads as well. Mark and Kerry will invite Fire, Police and DPW to a November 29 meeting.
7. Town Manager Updates
There are 2 solar projects ongoing, on Electric Avenue and Chase Road. As the projects move forward, the
Town is anticipating saving $200-225,000 per year when the credits begin. There is still some back and forth
with Unitil as to the amount (17.1 or 18.1 cent) of the credits.
• As a result of the Verizon tax abatement case, the Town will owe $48,000 dollars plus about $18,000 interest.
The Board of Assessors will review to determine actual numbers, and Kerry will report them at the next
meeting. As interest compounds daily, she hopes to make payment soon.
===PAGE 2===
• The Town is still awaiting FEMA reimbursement from the October storm last year. We have received
400,000 and have $157,000 to go. The state DoR is requiring the town to fund the deficit, which affects th
Tax Recapitulation. Right now it is an accounting problem, but we may need to borrow money to fund i
MEMA has started conference calls in advance of the upcoming storm.
3. Next meetings
Sewer and Health Insurance?
November 29*, Service levels discussion
December 13*, Tax ReCap
JM will forward a link he follows for statistics, benchmarks
ME will forward GASB 45 information
Kerry will forward fiscal policies.
9. JM motioned to adjourn at 8:56. SR seconded, approved 7-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
n...r.ro
