===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Co-Secretary
Jason Smith, Co-Secretary
John Male
Scott Gile
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
8/9/2012
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 2 4 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, S. Gile, T. Burchfield, J.Smith
Kerry Speidel
1. Meeting called to order at 7:04 PM
2. Communications
M.E. shared a publication titled the Beacon, which was received in the mail, for members of the FINCOM to read if
they would like to do so.
3. Review minutes of 7/26/2012
One minor correction suggested by JS.
SG motioned to approve the minutes as corrected. TB seconded. Approved 4-0.
4. Committee/Department Updates
School Committee- ME reported on the new timeline for the Owners Project Manager hiring process.
DPW-SG reports that the mayor had mentioned Gardner, MA purchasing a machine that fills potholes with hot mix.
It was reportedly purchased for around 7 thousand dollars in Minnesota and is working well for them.
Public Safety- JS reported meeting with the police and fire chiefs for the town. It was an initial meeting to get to
know one another. Budget related concerns were shared by both departments, predominantly regarding staff levels
and funding for the same. The fire chief also made note of one of their engines coming up on retirement cycle.
5. Town Manager Updates
FY2012 Budget Close Report- Remaining Appropriations (Leftover Monies) were discussed and questions pertaining
to reasons were made and explanations were given for each line item in question on the report. There was a specific
discussion regarding a transfer to the enterprise fund for recycling. The actual issue is one of proper separation of the
funds for the recycling stream away from the solid waste stream. There was also a significant difference in the
supplemental tax line which was mostly attributable to the change in the valuation of Emerald Place. FEMA
reimbursements for the October snowstorm of 2011 have begun coming in and the balance that was approved will be
coming in soon. Our portion of the Summer Street cost of design expenses were included in the Transportation Bond
Bill at the State House. We are still waiting to hear that it has been signed by the Governor. Next week KS will be
interviewing candidates for the treasurer/collector position. She has several candidates. We will be scheduling Kevin
Blanchett to meet with the FINCOM on September 13* regarding education on pension plans. Special use permit for
the Pleasant Street Solar Project was approved. They are looking to sell net metering credits to the town as the
subject of a twenty (20) year contract. There is now similar discussion regarding the Chase Road Project as well.
6. Motion to adjourn was made at 8:48 PM by SG and seconded by TB, approved 4-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by JS
Page 1 of 2
