===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
•Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
Town of Lunenburg
Lister,
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
12/12/2013
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield, J. Henshaw, B. Laffond, K. Menard
J. Smith
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
ME reminded everyone that we will have a Public Hearing regarding the Special Town Meeting warrant on December 19th.
2. Presentation of the 5 Year Financial Forecast
K. Speidel presented the Town Manager's forecast beginning with a review of assumptions made which lead to the forecast.
As the town did not see a drop off in local receipts, no bounce in receipts is anticipated. The outlook for state aid is also
absent any significant change. The revenue outlook anticipates a 2% annual increase, while expenditures are seen at 2.8%
annual increases, leaving deficits which will have to be addressed through the budget process, though more manageable
deficits than have been seen in the recent past. The town continues to look for opportunities to realize savings through
regionalizing services such as animal control and a regional lock up.
ME would have liked to have seen the assumptions showing debt service beginning in 2017 if the school project is
authorized to see what impact that might have. The interest rates are fixed for current debt. The Town Manager also
reviewed the improved bond rating for the Town, which will be helpful with obtaining favorable rates should the school
project go forward.
During public comment, Dave Matthews wanted to make the point that it is normal to see deficits projected, but that by the
time a budget is brought to the Town for approval, it will be balanced.
ME explained that we will have a balanced budget, and that the forecast is a tool to help guide budget decisions. He then
closed public comment and thanked Ms. Speidel for the work on the forecast.
mi l
Minutes
KM motioned to approve the minutes of 9/26/13. SR seconded, BL abstained, motion approved
BL motioned to approve the minutes of 11/14/13. KM seconded, motion approved.
4. Committee Reports:
SR reported that Capital Plan prioritization is complete for the year. The building reuse committee presented
recommendations to the Board of Selectmen last week.
BL reported that the Library budget is 33% spent into the year. The Friends have paid for window cleaning inside and out,
and the new automatic door which has been installed.
KM reported that the Agriculture Committee is looking at a Right to Farm bill. Monty Tech's new library is opening soon.
ME said that the School Committee has started their budget process with principals looking to restore personnel and
supplies to the budget.
JH reported that there were possible grant opportunities for the DPW's signage project.
5.
Town Manager Update
The Summer Street project is at 25% design and so will be going back to the state for review.
6. Fiscal Policies
JH discussed his draft of policies regarding capital expenditures, free cash and debt management. John will look at the
pavement plan and current process to prioritize the 5 year Capital Plan. The question of when borrowing should occur for
capital expenditures will be addressed.
7.
Budget Opportunities
We will continue looking for any efficiencies that could result in savings over the long term.
8. Next meetings
===PAGE 2===
December 19" will be the public hearing for the Special Town Meeting. The ST meeting will be January 7", with the
Special Election January 114.
Th met red to dietin. Kil becanda, meting adjourned at 9,00 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
