===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
MASS:
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Martha McDonald, Secretary
Barbara Reynolds
John Male
Scott Gile
^ 17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Pinion
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
June 28, 2012
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Attendees:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Brian Laffond, Martha McDonald, Barbara Reynolds, Scott Gile
John Male
David Matthews, Steve Raboin, David Passios
1) Meeting called to order by the Chairman at 7:01PM
2) Communications
a. Annual bill for dues from Assoc. of Town Finance Committees for $103 discussed. We had no representation
at the last meeting.
3) Reviewed Meeting Minutes from 6/14/2012. Minutes were mislabeled as 6/28/12, so could not accept till corrected.
4) Committee/ Department Reports
a. Public Safety - Patrick Sullivan will be new Fire Chief. Farewell parites for Chiefs to be held in Sept. or Oct.
b. Service Level Team - Will be appointing a new member soon
c. School Committee/ Reconfiguration - Martha asked about how schools will handle changing enrollment that
seems to be resulting for Passios closure/ Prop 2 ½ failure, the answer was it cannot be determined till the Fall.
Barbara Reynolds offered to continue to be our liaison with Monty Tech in the future.
5) Town Manager Updates - Kerri was not able to attend
6) Future Agenda Items
a. Kevin Blanchette to be invited to speak to a joint meeting of the Selectmen and FinCom on our Pension Plans
b. Dissussion on Sewer Commission future meeting to discuss cost to service Town buildings. Also discussed the
subject of evaluating Sewer Betterments on same, if they're sold to a private buyer. Steve Raboin suggested a
study on Town Center buildings uses and zoning.
c. Scott Gile suggested further discussion on costs we have control over vs. costs we have no control over, with
the aim of informing the Public of same.
7) Next meeting - 7/12/12, will welcome new members and redo Committee Chairmanship, Committee Assignments.
8) Thanks to Martha McDonald and Barbara Reynolds for their long service to the FinCom. Mark brought a cake, a red
velvet cake! Mmmm, thanks for the cake and we'll miss the Ladies!
9) Off the Agenda, Barbara brought in an e-mail from Sen. Jen Flanagan's Office indicating increases of $64,672 in "local
aid" from the State, and $697,392 in "chapter 70" funds as well. Selectman Dave Matthews suggested it would be
prudent to place these unexpected funds into "free cash" when received, since we often have unexpected increases in
expenses/ decreases in revenues to deal with, as the fiscal year proceeds.
10) 8:01PM, SG made a motion to adjourn, seconded by BL.. All in favor.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Scott Gile
