===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Scott Gile
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
51113
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
1/24/2013
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Also Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, S. Gile, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield
J. Smith
K. Speidel, M. Benson, M. Sauvageau, J. Carrier
1. Meeting called to order at 7:02 pm.
2.
Meet and greet
The Planning Director, Building Commission/Zoning Officer, and Conservation Commission Administrative Assistant were
present for an informal discussion of departmental operations and needs. Information was presented and discussed
regarding current operational status, challenges, initiatives, and trends.
3. Communications
No public comment.
•
Scott Gile's resignation from the Committee, effective on conclusion of this meeting, was shared. The Town Moderator has
been informed, and efforts will be made to fill the vacancy.
• The Planning Board will be holding public hearings on 1/28/13 and 1/30/13. The 1/30 public hearing involves Aro Estates,
part of which is on a plot of land that the community may exercise right of first refusal to purchase. Such a purchase would
require a debt exclusion and override. The FinCom will need to plan for a public hearing in advance of a special town
meeting (STM) and election, should they be required. If they are required, the STM is tentatively scheduled for March 12".
4. Minutes
The minutes of 1/10/2013 require corrections and will be reviewed at the next meeting.
S. Committee Updates
SR reported that the Capital Planning Committee continues to be on target to have recommendations reached within the
next few weeks.
ME reported on the progress of the School Building Committee. There will be a hearing in Boston on 2/5 to select the
design firm.
6.
Town Manager Updates
The Governor's budget is out. There are no surprises, and the cherry sheets are not out yet. This Committee agrees that
assumptions used to develop the financial forecast should not be adjusted.
7.
Discussion Points
• 5 Year Forecast. ME suggested a placeholder for the school building project be entered. As there is no specific plan or
data to enter, a footnote will be included just discussing the potential need for funding this project in the future.
• Finance Committee Report for Annual Town Report. ME circulated a draft and asked that comments be forwarded to
• Kerry will talk to the Littleton Town Manager regarding the results of their energy audit and whether Lunenburg might
benefit from that process
8. Next Meetings
• 2/7 meet and greet with departments to continue, look at budget hearing schedule
• 2/28 budget presentation
• If a Special Town Meeting is scheduled for March 12", we will meet for a public hearing on March 7*.
•
Question was raised about looking into the cost of renting vs. owning street lights.
9. SG motioned to adjourn at 9:15. SR seconded, approved 6-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
