===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
10/10/2013
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 8 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield, J. Henshaw, J. Smith, B. Laffond, K. Menard
1. Meeting called to order at 7:03 pm.
2. Meeting minutes
KM motioned to approve minutes of 8/22/2013 as written. JH seconded, motion carried unanimously.
3. School Building Committee Presentation
Members of the School Building Committee presented an update on design and cost information based on the design
submitted to the state. Michael Mackin, Loxi Jo Calmes, the OPM (Greg Cohan) and Architect (Charlie Hay) also
answered questions regarding the costs and savings opportunities they have explored.
The Town Manager discussed the debt exclusion and financing options available to fund construction. Ms. Speidel also
presented information regarding the town's current debts with a schedule showing when those debts would be retired.
4. Committee Reports:
SR reported that Capital Planning has started meeting with town departments. The building reuse committee has broken out
into subgroups with more focused tasks for information gathering.
BL reported that $4,000 was raised by the Library book and bake sale. The Friends of the Library will support the purchase
of power assist front doors. He also commented on the repainting, which was completed under estimate, and the aquatic
landscaping.
KM said the Council on Aging plans to start looking at financials at the November meeting. She aiso reported that Monty
Tech has 70 students from Lunenburg, has had stabilization funds approved, and has a library project underway.
TB discussed the activities of the Green Communities Task force as it moves closer to getting Lunenburg recognized by the
state as a Green Community. The latest task was having the Board of Selectmen accept a policy to replace non-exempt
vehicles with energy efficient vehicles as the older vehicles are retired.
JH reported on Jack Rodriguenz DPW report to the Board of Selectmen on 9/10. Aside from road issues, street sign
replacement was also discussed. The majority of the town's street signs are not compliant with state regulations addressing
visibility.
Town Manager Update
The town will see a 50,000 savings in Health Insurance. This is as a result of the Public Employee Committee agreement to
move retiree prescription coverage to Medicare part D. All 65 and over subscribers are on medicare supplement plans.
There will be one developer building both solar farm projects, with the Chase Rd. project supplying 100% of the town
credits. Commercial operations are targeted for early spring. The West St. project will have PPAs to private industry, so
there will be no PILOT agreement as it is private. The PPA to the town on Chase Rd is expected to result in a 15% savings.
Ms. Speidel reported on the Leominster Casino discussions. The developer has agreed to designate Lunenburg as a
surrounding community, making the town eligible to apply to the gaming commission for grants to address mitigation of
impact on the community. Right now, the impact is expected to be negligible, but the designation provides some small
protection should the impact be greater than anticipated.
6. Next meeting
October 24th will be policies and school building project.
SR motioned to adjourn. KM seconded, meeting adjourned at 9:00 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
