===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
JOURG, MASS,
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Wak Fuchton.
3/14/13
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
2/28/2013
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Absent:
S. Raboin
Also Present: K. Speidel
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, J. Smith, I. Burchfield
1. Meeting called to order at 7:01 pm.
2. Communications
From the public:
• Tom Alonzo encouraged people to attend the 'Are You Smarter Than a 6' Grader' event happening Friday night.
From the Committee:
•
ME read the notice inviting people interested in filling the Finance Committee vacancy to apply.
ME noted that the Citizens Party Caucus will be March 11" at the Turkey Hill Middle School.
The Annual Town Election has been moved to Tuesday, April 30" to coincide with the state election.
3. Minutes
BL made a motion to approve the minutes of 2/7/2013 as presented. JM seconded, approved unanimously.
4.
Town Manager Updates
Snow and ice deficit. The Town Manager reported that we are anticipated to exceed our snow and ice budget. ME
explained that this is the only line item where deficit spending is allowed, as it is one of the most difficult to project. The
town has been increasing the budgeted amount to try to get closer to historical spending. The Town Manager requested
approval to spend in excess of the budget. TB motioned to permit the Town Manager to spend in excess of the budgeted
amount. JS seconded, motion carried unanimously.
The Town Manager brought forward a reserve transfer request in the amount of $5,041.84 to cover the cost of the pump
repair that was anticipated last fall. The Committee voted at that time to commit the funds if they were actually needed
The Committee continues to want to wait to see if the reserve transfer will still be necessary, or if it might be made up
through savings elsewhere. BL motioned to table the request until we are closer to town meeting. JS seconded, motion
passed unanimously.
The proposed schedule for budget hearings running through the month of March was reviewed. We had originally thought
we could have discussions regarding recommendations at a meeting on April 4", but will not have enough time to have the
recommendations set for the warrant, so that meeting may not happen.
5.
Budget Presentation
The Town Manager presented her budget recommendations as posted on the town website. The Committee Chair invited
questions and comments. Dave Matthews thanked the Town Manager for her work on the budget and encouraged people to
attend or watch the public hearings on the budget over the next month. Mark Erickson thanked the Town Manager, and
echoed the invitation to the public to actively participate in the upcoming discussions.
6. Next Meetings
• Public Hearings Thursday March 7", 14*, 21°, and 28th
". All departments have been scheduled to present their budgets.
7. BL motioned to adjourn at 9:04. JS seconded, approved S-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
