===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
3/14/2013
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, J. Smith, T. Burchfield, S. Raboin
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications
• ME read the notice inviting people interested in filling the Finance Committee vacancy to apply.
• ME noted that the public hearing will be held on Thursday, 3/28/2013 to make recommendations regarding the budget and
any warrant articles having fiscal impact.
The Annual Town Election will be Tuesday, April 30" and the Town Meeting will be May 4th.
3.
4.
Motion to approve Minutes of 2/28/2013 BL, second JS approved unanimously.
School Building Committee Update
L. Calmes will be presenting information regarding educational visioning as part of the High School study later this
evening. ME reviewed options that will be addressed and voted on regarding construction methods and building options.
Information will be presented March 27* with a vote on April 10".
5.
Department Budget Presentations
Chief of Police Jim Marino presented his budget recommendations and discussed areas he was seeking an increase. While
understanding that funds are not available now, he does expect to be back looking to increase the number of staff as there
has been an increase in calls and duties, but the department lags in number of officers available per thousand population as
compared to surrounding communities. Additionally, state mandates regarding training are driving changes to professional
development costs. He also wants to increase the Detective to Detective Sergeant to increase the number of shifts covered
by a supervisor.
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan addressed his budget. The greatest need is getting the station staffed 24/7. The Chief's primary
goal in this is to improve on the time needed to get the first truck out responding to an alarm. While he is proud of the
response time the on call firetighters are averaging, the amount of time to get a fire from start to flashover has shortened
due to materials and chemicals in modern furnishings, and he feels improving on response time is a critical goal. Would
like to get the budget back to where it was several years ago.
Harald Scheid represented the Assessor's office. Budget has just one line that has more than a slight increase. The office is
required to inspect improved properties once every 9 years. The office seeks to fund a periodic inspection program that will
maintain this schedule. The Board of Assessors has supported having a regular line in the budget to allow about 4,200
properties to be cycled through the 9 years. The initial budget amount for contracted services is anticipated to be tapered as
the office brings inspections up to date. LM expressed his support for the line, as did ME.
6.
Public Comments
SR had questions regarding the regional dispatch and what savings were actually realized. JM reviewed the history of
regionalization, and state requirements regarding dispatch that would have doubled what was in there now. Dave Matthews
stated that the Town Manager retained the funds in the Fire and Police departments that had been in the budget which ME
remarked was part of the agreement to go forward with the dispatch. SR clarified that this then was a process to mitigate
anticipated costs with changes in requirements, and was told this was the case.
7.
Loxi Jo Calmes spoke on the history and timelines of the School Building Committee and process. April 10* will be the
date for a vote to be taken by the School Building Committee on what option will be presented to the MSBA. She also
reviewed the 3 days of Educational Visioning and Planning process with 40 students, staff, parents and administrators. A
report will follow summarizing the activities and conclusions from that process. Feasibility Study is expected to be
completed in June. ME encouraged committee members to visit the school website and forward any comments or
suggestions to him in advance of the 3/27 meeting.
===PAGE 2===
8. Future Agenda Items
TB suggested that this Committee reach out to the Green Communities Task Force to sound out what they have been doing
towards the energy audit issue, or to work with them going forward. SR also expressed that a next step was to have been
he Town Manager talking with a peer to review potential savings. As this is an area within the scope of the Gree
Communities group, the sense of the Committee was to reach out to them. SR will do that
TB would also like to get fiscal policies back on the future items to be addressed after the budget season is over.
9. Next Meetings
• Department budget presentations Wednesday March 20*, Thursday March 21°, and Sewer Enterprise and any
remaining departments as well as the Public Hearing Thursday March 28%.
10. JM motioned to adjourn at 9:04. BL seconded, approved 6-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
