===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
0. MASS,
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Steven Raboin
3/28/13
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
3/20/2013
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, J. Smith, I. Burchfield, S. Raboin
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications
• ME read the notice inviting people interested in filling the Finance Committee vacancy to apply.
• ME noted that the public hearing will be held on 3/28/2013 to make recommendations regarding the budget and any warrant
articles having fiscal impact.
The Annual Town Election will be Tuesday, April 30* and the Town Meeting will be May 4th.
3.
Department Budget Presentations
Martha Moore presented the Library budget noting the state funding requirements to maintain certification and reviewed the
programs and services offered through the Library.
Jack Rodriguenz presented a dire picture of Public Works services given the lack of funding for the pavement project and
street sweeper request through the Capital Planning Committee. Years of pushing repairs off have left roads in bad shape.
Additionally, he stated that failure to replace the sweeper will create problems with sand and salt run off. He reported that
while the town budget has better than doubled since 1995, the general highway budget has increased by $1,000. This
represents a reduced workforce, and failure to maintain funding at a level adequate to meet the needs of the town addressed
through the department.
Mike Sauvageau presented the Building Department budget. No changes are proposed, the office will continue to work on
the reduced schedule imposed by the budget cuts of FY2013. The scope of work was also reviewed, as were trends in
permits pulled.
Marion Benson reviewed the Planning Office budget. As with the Building Department, no changes are proposed. Ms.
Benson reviewed the current caseload being addressed by the office and Planning Board. She highlighted the development
of a group of interested parties working to address the needs of the agricultural community and maintaining the identity of
Lunenburg and its agricultural history.
4. Next Meetings
• Last department budget presentations Thursday March 21%, and Public Hearing Thursday March 28th.
BL motioned to adjourn at 9:04. SR seconded, approved 6-0.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
