===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
5/23/2013
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, T. Burchfield, S. Raboin
J. Smith
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Regional Dispatch
Nathan Kenney, Director of the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch Center announced that the Center will be opened on
June 18"h
, and reviewed the steps that will be taken to prepare to go live that day. Police Chief Jim Marino and Fire Chief
Patrick Sullivan were also present. Concerns regarding staffing the safety building 24/7 were raised. Also discussed was
the absence of VolP at the safety building.
3. Communications
ME shared a current public hearing notice.
4. Committee Reports:
SR reported that Capital Planning Committee met and decided to continue meeting through the summer to ensure
procedures work more smoothly and communication concerns are addressed before the next budget season begins.
SR also reported that the Council on Aging is going through several changes on its board.
5.
Building Reuse Committee
Jamie Toale was present from the Board of Selectmen (BoS) as the new liaison. He also discussed the ad-hoc committee
created by the BoS to identify potential combined municipal use areas and the town properties that may become vacant with
consolidation of town offices. The committee will start with the potential for reuse of the Passios school building as the
school building project plans go forward. The BoS will appoint a member of FinCom as a member. TB motioned to
appoint SR as the FinCom representative to the ad-hoc committee. BL seconded, motion carried unanimously.
6. Next meetings
The question of energy audit will be raised with the Green Communities Task Force.
Fiscal policies will be put on hold until our new members are on board.
7. TB motioned to adjourn. SR seconded, meeting adjourned at 8:36 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 17 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
