===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
John Male
Steven Raboin
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
2/28/13
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
2/7/2013
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Also Present:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, J. Male, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield
J. Smith
K. Speidel
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 0 4 2013
1. Meeting called to order at 7:03 pm.
LUNENBURG TOWN
2. Meet and greet
CLERK OFFICE
There are no additional departments to meet with.
3. Communications
• K. Brochu forwarded the quarterly reports.
• There will NOT be a special town meeting, as a 2/3d vote of the Select Board was required to move the debt exclusion to a
vote. The vote was 3-2.
4. Minutes
BL moved to approve the minutes of 1/10/2013 as corrected. SR seconded, approved unanimously.
SR moved to approve the minutes of 1/24/2013. BL seconded, approved unanimously.
5. Committee Updates
SR reported that the Capital Planning Committee continues to be on target to have recommendations reached soon.
Discussion ensued regarding the portion of budget assigned to capital. With the allocation to roads, 5% of budget
is to capital. It is also 10% of debt service.
• With S Giles gone, DPW is left without a liaison. TB will pick up DPW, and SR will take Council on Aging, as he
is better able to attend their meetings.
• JM reported that the sewer commission has raised rates, which should lead to a balanced budget this year. Asked
about usage, JM replied that 25% of 3,520 households are on sewer. He also reported that there is a contract out
for pump station maintenance and that the commission may look to budget 65,000 for engineering consultation to
get at infiltration issues.
• ME reported that the School Committee has been working to build community engagement. The school design
team has been selected
• SR mentioned that he found Kerry's review of budget assumptions at the last Select Board meeting very helpful.
Discussion ensued regarding the need to find more opportunities to find savings on the expenditure side, as well as
to continue to visit the sale of excess properties. Dave Matthews of the Select Board participated in the discussion
Energy of people from the community is needed to look for and study opportunities for regionalization,
outsourcing, etc.
6. Town Manager Updates
Update on local aid figures from the state: the senate rejected setting a date to set figures.
JM's previous questions regarding percentages in the forecast were addressed
Notice of Library legislative breakfast was forwarded.
7.
Discussion Points
• Finance Committee Report for Annual Town Report. ME circulated will forward the report as presented to the town
manager.
Mark will work with Kerry to schedule upcoming budget hearings for every Thursday in the month of March.
8. Next Meetings
• 2/28 budget presentation
===PAGE 2===
• Budget hearings every week in March.
• April 4'' vote on recommendations for the warrant. Town Meeting May 44h.
9. Budget Opportunities
Buildings list will be reviewed.
Regional Dispatch is a trial balloon. Success there may lead to other opportunities.
Big push for volunteers through tax abatements.
Energy audit (Green Communities Task Force?)
Purchase of street lights as an option.
I1. IM motioned to adjourn at 8:33. SR seconded, approved 5-0
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
