===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Meeting-October 16, 2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Caroline Griffis, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Mark Erickson at 7:00 pm.
2. We are delighted to welcome our newest members of the Fin Comm--Caroline Griffis and Jay
Simeone.
3. Communications:
a. Public: None.
b. Committee:
i. Meet and Greet sessions with Department Heads and town officials will kick off the
Budget Process and are a chance to set expectations for the Budget Presentations.
:: 1. Perhaps one session could be for public safety (Police and Fire)
2. Another could be for Land Use and Department of Public Works.
il. Note that the fourth Thursday of November is Thanksgiving, and the fourth
Thursday of December is Christmas Day. The committee will have to change the
meeting dates these two days.
ili. On Tuesday, November 4 at 6:00 PM the Board of Selectmen and Fin Comm will
have an open discussion with the Town Treasurer, Town Accountant, and Finance
Manager about the Financing of the School Construction project. The purpose is to
determine how to structure the borrowing to minimize total costs of financing the
project given projected cash flow and estimated total costs.
iv. The recent issue of The Beacon was circulated to the committee.
4. Town Manager Updates-as Kerry was unable to attend Mark presented in her stead.
a. There will be a joint session between the Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board on
Monday, October 20t at 6:30 to discuss the economic element of the master plan.
b. Certification of Free Cash.
i. The State of Massachusetts has certified $484,117 as free cash from FY 2014.
5. Review of Minutes:
a. Terri moved that the minutes of the September 11 meeting be approved as corrected.
Karin seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion 4-0 with two abstentions
as the new members had not attended the September 11 meeting.
b. Karin moved that the minutes of the September 25 meeting be approved as submitted.
Terri seconded the motion and the committee approved the motion 4-0 with two
abstentions for the same reason.
10f3
===PAGE 2===
6. Committee Liaison Updates:
Committee/Department-
Reported By:
Capital Planning--John H.
Public Works--John H.
Library--John H.
PACC--John H.
Building Re-Use--Mark E.
School Building-Mark E.
Schools--Karin M.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Update:
The committee will address two issues to prepare for the
capital plan:
• Assuring that Marjorie Boggio, Administrative Assistant
of the Planning Board, has the information she needs
for the spreadsheet for the capital planning process.
• Modifying the Capital Planning Committee web site to
be consistent with the capital projects and regular
borrowing sections of the Town's newly adopted
Financial Policies, and familiarizing all participants in the
planning process with these policies and how they affect
the plan.
In addition, during Karin's summary of the asbestos abatement
project (see Schools-Karin M. below) it appeared there was
some misunderstanding during the Capital Planning Process last
year on the scope of the abatement being funded.
No news on whether Jack R. has received lower quotes for road
sand and salt; there remains a risk of a $30,000 overspend.
• Action Item: John will ask Jack R. for more specific details
on specs and costs of the proposed new street sweeper.
The library will track the effect of higher electricity costs from
December on to measure their effect on the budget.
Nothing to report.
At the most recent meeting the committee discussed each of
the six properties that are prospective candidates for re-use.
Decisions on the approaches of most of these properties are on
hold due to issues that are not yet settled, for example:
• The boundary between the TC Passios Building and the
Brooks House.
Access to specific properties, and
Parking spaces-specifically adjacent to TC Passios.
As of the October 8 School Building Committee meeting the
project is pretty much on schedule and a bit under budget.
Some pes 50s 120 cubie yard or to Ret ere being bile d
on site daily.
Aerial fly-overs to document this major project and which will
cost $450 per flight will take 40-50 photos. The committee is
sensitive to public sentiment on cost control and is attentive to
how many fly-overs are appropriate.
The FY 2015 capital appropriation of $138,000 for asbestos
abatement in specific areas of the Middle School was
insufficient to cover costs in light of the bids that were
submitted. Not having useable bids, nor time to re-scope and
re-bid the project, no abatement work has taken place YID
FY2015. John Londa has developed an alternate approach-
stretching the project over seven years.
Nothing to report.
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
Council on Aging--Karin M.
Public Safety--Terri B.
Nothing to report
During the Public Safety Building Open House Terri discussec
the Meeting/Greeting sessions with Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan.
She also reported that Police Chief Jim Marino has pragmatic
concerns about publically airing potential effects of certain
resource constraints.
Sewer Commission-Terri B.
The Sewer Commission will put together a capital plan paid
from the Sewer Enterprise fund and separate from the Capital
Planning Process.
Jamie T. voiced concern that the Town make sure that none of
the costs of Sewer Commission capital projects be borne by the
Town, either directly or indirectly. John H. concurred.
Note: There was nothing to report on the PACC (no meeting), Agricultural Commission, or the
Green Community.
7. Budget Opportunities:
a. Mark recapped the discussion the Fin Comm had opened up with the Parks Commission or
collecting fees for use of the Town athletic fields and tracks as a way to accrue funds for
maintenance and/or replacement of the fields and tracks as necessary.
b. Karin reported that schools had not been collecting fees for bounced checks.
8. Future Agenda Items:
a. Review the updated Pavement Management Plan—this is to be addressed when the PMP is
set.
b. Continue work on Budget Calendar and set expectations for Department Budget
Presentations—a main point is how budget constraints may affect service levels.
c. Meeting to review the school construction project financing. See page 1, 3. B. ili.
d. Review OPEB (Other Post-Employment Benefits).
i. Unfunded liability to pay for post-employment benefits.
il. There is no mandate to fund medical expenses for retirees.
ili. The Town receives a report on projected OPEB liabilities every other year. FY2015
is a year that the report is due.
9. Mark suggested to both Caroline and Jay that each look over the committee liaison assignments
(see table under point 6 above) and choose a couple that each would be interested in being the
liaison to. We could then divvy up the liaison assignments among the six members.
10. Meeting Adjourned: Jay moved to adjourn the meeting; his motion was seconded by Terri. The
committee voted 5-0 in favor (the one abstention was Caroline who has not formally been sworr
in as a Fin Comm member). The meeting adjourned at 8:37 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw October 17, 2014
3 of 3
