===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
Town of Lunenburg
Gurder
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
5/22/2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, B. Laffond, S. Raboin, J. Henshaw
J. Smith, K. Menard, T. Burchfield
1. Meeting called to order at 7:02 pm.
2. Public and Committee Comments: None
3. Minutes of April 24, 2014 Finance Committee Reviewed. Steven Raboin motioned to approve the minutes as submitted
and Brian Laffond seconded. The motion was approved 4-0.
4. The Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, reported to the committee that there are no issues with YTD actual revenues and
expenditures as both are closely tracking the Town's FY 2014 budget.
5. Turf Field and Track: Initial discussion on future costs for maintenance and renovation.
• The committee reviewed a spreadsheet from Karen Brochu covering construction funding and user fees.
• A general discussion covered initial funding, user fees, and possible ways to prepare for repair, renovation of
the Turf Field and Track.
• Next step will be to gather more information on the situation.
6. Committee Reports:
• SR--Building Re-Use Committee is in the process of reviewing building permits and how they may affect building re-
use.
• BL—Lunenburg Public Library:
• The library received the second state aid check for this fiscal year.
• The installation of the shared resources computer system is complete. It may be an approach other
departments in the Town can benefit from in terms of cost savings for computer equipment.
• The Library's windows were cleaned, which was paid for by the Friends of the Library organization.
• ME—School Building Committee is scheduling a peer review meeting with the Planning Board as well as a meeting
with the abutters to the Junior-Senior High School building project.
• ME-Schools: Superintendent Calmes forwarded the FY2015 School Budget, which includes $27,000 from health
care cost savings to offset the budget shortfall.
• JH-Dept. of Public Works:
Summer Street Project: The MassDOT has moved the Summer Street Project from 2018 to 2017 because of
assurances that if the state will not pay for the design phase, the Town of Lunenburg will. That prompted a
concern that money slated for the Pavement Management Program may be used to pay for this design phase.
• Chase Road Project: As this is a relatively small (by Mass DOT standards) project, and may not require much
design work, it may be able to be inserted into the TIP schedule at the end of a fiscal year depending on
availability of funds.
7. Next meeting is Thursday, June 12 at Town Hall.
Brian Laffond made a motion to adjourn. Steven Raboin seconded, meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by John Henshaw.
