===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Town of Lunenburg
9/24/4
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes of August 21, 2014 Meeting
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark. Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Mark Erickson at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
a. Mark E. passed around the recent issue of The Beacon for the Fin. Comm's information
b. The ATFC Annual Meeting and Workshops will take place Saturday, October 18 at Tri-
County Regional High School in Franklin, MA.
3. Town Manager Updates: (Note as Kerry Speidel was not present Mark Erickson gave a brief
update in lieu of the Town Manager Report.)
a. Karen Brochu will likely be able to present the final accounting of revenues and
expenditures in fiscal 2014 at the Thursday, September 11 Fin Comm meeting.
b. The Town is to advertise for candidates for the three vacancies on the Fin Comm.
c. Mark E. said the Town Charter regarding a quorum for Fin Comm meetings suggests that a
majority of the sitting members (members who are currently on the committee) of the Fin
Comm constitutes a quorum. This contrasts with the interpretation that a majority of the
number of members of the entire Fin Comm as established by the Town Charter
constitutes a quorum.
4. Review of Minutes: Karin M. moved to approve the minutes of the July 11 meeting. Terri
Burchfield seconded the motion. The motion was approved 4-0.
5. Finance Policy Document:
a. Terri B. moved that the committee recommend that the Board of Selectmen [BOS]
approve the Financial Policies submitted by the Fin Comm. Karin M. seconded the motion.
The committee approved the motion 4-0.
b. Action Item: Mark E. will email a request to be put on the agenda of an upcoming Board
of Selectmen meeting to present the policies to the BOS.
i. Mark will notify members the date when the BOS will consider our recommendation.
1 0f3
===PAGE 2===
6. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
Building Re-Use
School Building
Schools
Monty Tech
Council on Aging
Update
No meeting, nothing to report.
Site work is progressing.
• The committee agreed to
set up a submittal
exchange to increase the
transparency of the bid-
invoice process.
• A web cam will be set up
to enable monitoring of the
school construction site.
Project costs for out of district
placements is $150,000 less
than budgeted so this amount
was transferred from that
account and will fund two
educators to head up an in
district transition program.
There is a new administrator
at Monty Tech.
Nothing to report.
Reported by:
Mark Erickson
Mark Erickson
| Karin Menard
Karin Menard
Karin Menard
Public Safety
• Terri will meet with the
Terri Burchfield
Police Department the
week of August 25.
• The Fire Department has
begun the process of
purchasing the new fire
engine in the FY 2014
capital plan.
DPW
Library
Public Access Cable
Nothing to report.
Nothing to report.
The PACC balance increased
John Henshaw
John Henshaw
John Henshaw
during FY 2014 from $241,000
to $266,000 at the end of FY
2014. The increase was
mainly due to lower
expenditures than budgeted.
Note: There was nothing to report on the Sewer or Agricultural Commissions or the Green
Community.
2063
===PAGE 3===
7. Budget Opportunity:
a. Turf Field Policies/Fees: Mark Erickson will set up a meeting between this committee and
current and former members of the Parks Commission to get a better understanding of the
history and decisions that led to the policies and fee structure.
8. Future Agenda Items:
Review the updated Pavement Management Plan
Set Expectations for Budget Presentations
c. Meeting with Parks Commission on history of the Turf Field and Track.
9. Meeting Adjourned: Terri B. moved to adjourn the meeting and John H. seconded the motion.
The board voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:20.
Minutes respectfully submitted by John Henshaw September 1, 2014
3 of 3
