===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
* Lunenburg, MA. 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
6/12/2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, J. Henshaw, T. Burchfield, K. Menard, S. Raboin
J. Smith, B. Laffond
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Announcements
The Board of Selectmen will have a booth to recruit volunteers for committee assignments at the bonfire and hope
committee members will be available to answer questions.
3.
There will be a High School construction abutters meeting at 6 pm on June 25* to review plans, schedules, and traffic.
Meeting minutes
SR motioned to accept the minutes of 5/3/2014 as presented. JH seconded, motion carried unanimously,
TB motioned to accept the minutes of 5/8/2014 as presented. JH seconded, motion carried 4-0, SR abstained
SR motioned to accept the minutes of 5/22/2014 as presented. JH seconded, motion carried 3-0, TB and KM abstained.
4.
Fiscal Policy Update
K. Brochu had submitted a change related to capital borrowing that would be more in line with related state laws.
Consensus was that, although what we had discussed was more restrictive, the change was appropriate and the concerns of
the committee were addressed in other areas of the policy.
K. Speidel had not completed her review.
5. Committee Reports
SR said the Building Reuse Committee will meet with the Planning Board on June 18** to discuss the Village overlay. The
overlay will hopefully allow more flexibility to take action with the Town buildings in the center, as issues with the Passios
nd Brooks House include non-conforming egress and boundaries are uncertain. Members of the School Building
Committee will also be available. The old Primary School has been added to their agenda
KM reported that Jeff Mendoza is the new chair of the Agriculture Commission, which is addressing Farmer's Market
regulations and right to farm signage.
Regarding the School Building Committee, ME said everything continues to move forward on the new school project. The
detailed plan has been submitted but not yet approved. MSBA has signed off, but DESE still has to sign off. Early bid
packages are out, and construction should begin on or about July 7.
JH discussed the funding of the design process for Summer St.
The Committee discussed taking a fresh look at which Departments and Committees-weneed.to set liaisons with. A
consideration should be the degree of budget participation.
6.
Turf Field
Collection of fees from groups using the field appears to have-ended once the Lunenburg Track and Field group completed
payments for construction of the field. As a large capital expenditure to replace the field is on the horizon, the committee
would like to workshop with the Park Commissioners to review how costs associated with maintenance, lighting, and
rebuilding the turf are being addressed.
7. Future Agenda Items
Pavement Management Plan update; Budget presentations; What committees do we want to interface with in the context of
budget presentations. Next meeting is June 26th.
TB motioned to adjourn. KM seconded, meeting adjourned at 8:06 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
