===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
3/6/2014
RECEIVED & FILE?
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, T. Burchfield, J. Henshaw, K. Menard
J. Smith, S. Raboin, B. Laffond
MAR 17 2014
LUNENDURG TU
....
CLERK OFFIC
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm. The meeting is televised and available through local cable and rebroadcast through
lunenburgaccess at youtube.
Planning Board Public Hearing notice read regarding a zoning bylaw amendment for Marijuana Dispensaries on 3/24.
TB asked if budget presentation materials from the departments could be made available electronically and uploaded to the
Town website.
2.
Library Budget Presentation
M. Moore presented the recommended 2015 Library Budget, and reviewed accomplishments and plans for the future. ME
asked how our Library's budget, activities and use compared to other communities about our size.
3.
Minutes
4.
KM motioned to accept the minutes of 2/27/2014 as written. JH seconded, approved unanimously.
Fiscal Policies
The numbers discussed last week regarding the debt policy were reviewed with the Town Manager. The draft is about
ready for presentation to the Select Board after a final read.
5. Council on Aging Budget Presentation
D. Noble presented the Council on Aging Budget and discussed other supports the Eagle House uses to support activities
there. She reviewed a couple of increased requests around transportation and meals which have been incorporated into the
Town Manager's Budget recommendation. Other supports include $16,800 from the state's formula grant, based on about
$8 per resident over 60 years of age, and about $3,100 per month for regional transportation.
Committee Reports:
JH reported that Public Access Cable is running short of projected expenditures, but may be looking at capital purchases
which will catch them up.
7. DPW Budget Presentation
J. Rodriguenz of the Department of Public Works discussed the DPW budget and activities undertaken to create and
document efficiencies and services in the Department, and distributed logs tracking services provided for weather events, in
response to citizen requests and town vehicle maintenance. He highlighted the need to survey the tree line to stay on top of
tree removal needs. He also addressed concerns regarding compliance with street sign mandates, which the Town has
accomplished through developing a plan to replace signs not meeting the new requirements. He also reiterated the need for
a street sweeper as presented through a capital request, and discussed the cost of outsourcing as running about $27,600-
35,000 for a single pass, which he thinks will be insufficient for the amount of salt and sand used this year. As the Capital
Planning Committee will present priorities next week, any additional discussion regarding the sweeper was put off until
then.
8. Next meetings
We will continue meet each Thursday for the next 3 weeks to hear department presentations.
TB motioned to adjourn. KM seconded, meeting adjourned at 9:25 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
