===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
LUNG
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes: December 11, 2014
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Per 9-0 voTe
Town Hall
19/15
Mark Erickson (left before end of meeting), Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John
Henshaw
Jamie Toale-BOS Liaison (Note: Kerry Speidel unable to attend.)
Caroline Griffis
1. Meeting called to order by Mark at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
A.
Public: None.
B. Committee:
i. A joint meeting of the Board of Selectmen and the Finance Committee will hear the
Town Manager's FY16 revenue and expenditure budget and projections through FY20.
ii. Mark circulated The Beacon to the committee.
3. Meet & Greet: Adam Birney, Land Use Manager, Jack Rodriquenz, DPW.
A. Adam gave an overview of the initial steps for an updated land use plan for the Town.
i. Establishing the direction residents of the Town want to pursue regarding land use.
ii. Updating the 2002 Master Plan and addressing some by-law issues (e.g. regarding
parking, signage).
B. Adam said that there may be some opportunity for commercial development in selective areas
along Route 2A.
C.
Department of Public Works (DPW), Jack Rodriquenz
i. Update on YTD FY 2015 expenditures and challenges:
•
Although the cost of sand stayed the same, the cost of road salt increased by
20% to 30% over FY 2014 with the consequence that the $260,000 in the
budget to cover snow is down by his estimate to $77,000.
• Only area DPW has overspent resulted from the micro-burst at Lake Shirley.
li. Capital requests highlight the need to replace a backhoe, 6-wheel dump truck and
sander, and the street sweeper, all showing signs of wear, needing more
maintenance, and each approaching the end of a productive life.
ili. Jack suggested two ways of augmenting tax dollars for financing the pavement
management plan and the stormwater drainage system.
In densely settled neighborhoods with a well-organized, tightly knit population
(e.g. Hickory Hills, Whalom) the Town could propose the neighborhood raise
funds for pavement betterment for their local roads. Jack is talking with the
town manager about the Town paying part of the costs.
• To raise funds to pay for upgrading the Town's aging stormwater drainage
system Jack is proposing a uniform fee that each homeowner in the Town
would pay, irrespective of the value or size of house or land.
iv. Adam and Jack said that they would require 20 minutes and at least 45 minutes
respectively to make their presentations.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-141212.docx
1 of2
===PAGE 2===
4. Committee/Department Liaison Updates:
Committee/Department-
Reported By:
Capital Planning--John H.
Public Works--John H.
Library-Caroline G.
PACC--John H.
Building Re-Use--Mark E.
School Building--Mark E.
Schools--Karin M.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Council on Aging, Caroline
Public Safety--Terri B.
Update:
• All departmental presentations have been made.
• The initial rough priorities have been set as general guidelines.
There is nothing to report.
No update.
The newly constituted PACC will meet in the near future.
• Town Hall: Front should be re-painted.
• Feasibility Study: Cost of renovating Town Hall as an office building;
Regarding Ritter Building, Old Primary School, TC Passios, Brooks House:
What is the best alternative for Town offices? Is new construction the
most feasible alternative?
• The new school construction committee approved the guaranteed
• Construction is coming in at or slightly under budget to date.
• Projected construction costs are $58 to $59 million.
The school committee has begun work on the FY2016 budget.
Nothing to report.
No Update.
Nothing to report.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
• The commission approved an extension of Highland Street, adding three
more houses.
• The Pratt Street-Lakeview project in on budget.
• Overall the FY 2015 Sewer expenditures and revenues are in good
Green Community-Jay S.
* The Green Community is warking with the Senior Center on installing
LED lights.
5. Future Agenda Items Proposed:
A. Review the effect of increased electricity costs on departmental budgets and overall budgets.
B. Review YTD cost avoidance from the solar array.
C. Review contract commitments (e.g., sick leave buy back) related to OPEB.
6. Meeting Adjournment: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Jay and approved 4-0. The
meeting adjourned at 8:44 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw January 7, 2015
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-141212.docx
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 12 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2 of2
