===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
Town of Lunenburg
lyur
7/10/14
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
6/26/2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, J. Henshaw, T. Burchfield, S. Raboin, B. Laffond
J. Smith, K. Menard
1. Meeting called to order by BL at 7:00 pm.
2. Committee Assignments
Need KM and ME present for assignments, ME will be coming later from another meeting
3. Meeting minutes
SR motioned to accept the minutes of 6/12/2014 as presented. JH seconded, motion carried 3-0 with BL abstained.
4.
Committee Reports
SR said the Building Reuse Committee met with the Planning Board on June 18" to discuss the Village overlay. Zoning
changes will be needed to move ahead. As of now, the plan originally presented to the Board of Selectmen remains the
plan. Record retention as a space need will be addressed at some point as well.
SR wanted to be sure people knew what the time commitment for this and the Capital Planning Committee would be as
assignments are worked out going forward.
3L reported on the Library Trustees meeting. Employee evaluations are being set and they are discussing having a
perpetual book sale as well as the periodic sales. The Library is moving more into reading material. They are also
discussing whether the Friends should be paying for some of things they are paying for, such as re-grouting, that seems
more appropriately addressed through the Capital Plan. Some technology equipment they have funded have been passed on
to the Council on Aging and schools.
ME said the School Building Committee voted to ratify the reconciliation of the architect's and construction manager's
stimates and send in the 60% construction documents to the MSBA. The funding agreement needs to be signed
H said he would have some prospective discussions with the DPW Director regarding the street sweeper. He will also ge
information regarding work that has been done on the turf field and track.
5.
Committee Vacancies
With BL and SR not seeking reappointment, the Committee discussed quorum issues which may arise until the vacancies
are filled. As JS has had continuing schedule conflicts and has been unable to attend meetings with any regularity,
discussion ensued regarding the effect future absences would have on our ability to achieve a quorum. BL made a motion
to inform JS that we agreed to give him the opportunity to resign by 6/30/2014 or we will recommend his removal to the
appointing committee on 7/1/2014. SR seconded, motion carried 5-0.
6.
Fiscal Policies
The Committee reviewed changes recommended by K. Speidel and K. Brochu. JH will come with a final draft to the next
meeting.
1. Brian and Steve were thanked for their service to the Committee and community. Nice things were said. In their final
official acts, SR motioned to adjourn, BL seconded, meeting adjourned for carrot cake at 8:57pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
