===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
..
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes of July 10, 2014 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark. Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Mark Erickson at 7:00 pm.
2. Election of Officers for Fiscal 2015, Term is July 1, 2014-June 30, 2015:
a. Chairman: Motion by Terri B, to nominate Mark E., Seconded by Karin M. Approved: 4-0.
b. Vice-Chairman: Motion by Mark E. to nominate TerriB., Seconded by Karin M. Approved:
c. Secretary: Motion by Karin M. to nominate John H., Seconded by Terri B. Approved: 4-0.
3. Reorganization of Department and Committee liaison responsibilities, approved at the discretion of the
Fin Comm Chair.
a. Assignments:
Assignment
School Dept.
Public Safety
Public Works
Library
Council on Aging
School Building Project Committee
Building Re-Use Committee
Capital Planning Committee
Sewer Commission
Public Access Cable Committee
Liaison
Karin Menard
Terri Burchfield
John Henshaw
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
Mark Erickson
Mark Erickson
John Henshaw
Terri Burchfield
John Henshaw
b. Discussion Points:
i. As the committee is short three members, our consensus was that we would
respond to issues involving the Agricultural Commission or the Green Community as
necessary rather than formally assign a liaison to either.
ii. Regarding departments with relatively small budgets, we agreed that liaisons could
track ytd actual expenditures relative to budget less formally than attending regular
meetings.
1 of3
===PAGE 2===
4. Communications:
a. Mark E. circulated the most recent issue of The Beacon for the Fin. Comm's information
b. The ATFC Annual Meeting and Workshops will take place Saturday, October 18 at Tri-
County Regional High School in Franklin, MA.
5. Town Manager Updates:
a. The final accounting of revenues and expenditures in fiscal 2014 should be completed by
the week of July 21.
b. Town Manager estimated that the Town has incurred $20,000 to $30,000 in expenses as a
result of cleaning up downed trees and other debris in the Lake Shirley area from
Monday's (July 7) storm. The expense covers the hiring sub-contractors, equipment, and
paying for overtime for DPW personnel. These expenditures are not in the budget.
c. Solar Array status: We await the solar array going on line and beginning to realize the
savings in the Town's electric power costs.
6. Review of Minutes: John H. moved to approve the minutes with one minor amendment. Terri
Burchfield seconded the motion. The motion was approved 3-0, with Karin Menard abstaining.
7. Finance Policy Document:
a. The committee corrected four errors to the pre-final draft policy.
b. Substantive changes:
i. There is one broken link in the body that John Henshaw will correct.
ii. After discussion with Town Manager, the committee agreed to change the word
"shall" to "should" (1 I, B, 1.) regarding to maintaining a balance of four percent of
the omnibus budget in the general stabilization fund; and change the words
"should" to "shall" (9 I, B, 3, a, b.) regarding actions to be taken to replenish the
general stabilization fund.
c. Action Items:
i. John Henshaw will check and correct all links.
il. He will also make the changes and circulate a final draft for committee review and
advice before the July 31 Finance Committee meeting.
8. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
Building Re-Use
School Building
DPW
Update
Reported by:
Building Re-Use discussed the
| Mark Erickson
relevance of the boundaries of
the Brooks House and TC
Passios School for planning for
sub-division of property
associated with the school and
to locate an access road.
Requisite modifications in the
Mark Erickson
design of stormwater drainage
will lead to a minor overspend
relative to bid.
The wiring to the Turf Field
needs to be repositioned due
to the school building project.
The DPW paid an invoice for
John Henshaw
$3,300 for repairs to the track
around the turf field.
2 0f3
===PAGE 3===
Library
Public Access Cable
Martha Moore sent the
committee a report comparing
Lunenburg Public Library
funding, usage, and resources
with other libraries of similar
size in the area.
Year-end actual revenues and
expenditures should be
available to report on at the
August 24 Fin Comm meeting.
Mark Erickson
John Henshaw
9. Budget Opportunity:
a. Turf Field Policies/Fees: Mark Erickson will set up a meeting between this committee and
current and former members of the Parks Commission to get a better understanding of the
history and decisions that led to the policies and fee structure.
10. Meeting Adjourned: Terri Burchfield moved to adjourn the meeting and Karin Menard seconded
the motion. The board voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:21.
Minutes respectfully submitted by John Henshaw July 26, 2014
3 of 3
