===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes: November 13, 2014
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Caroline Griffis, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Also Present: Jamie Toale--BOS Liaison, Kerry Speidel--Town Manager
Absent:
Karin Menard
1. Meeting called to order by Mark at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
A. Public: None.
B. Committee:
The Association of Town Finance Committees updated the Finance Committee
Handbook on CD; The Fin Comm decided to get two of these CDs.
ii. Mark circulated The Beacon to the committee.
3. Meet & Greet: Council on Aging Director Doreen Noble, Chief of Police Jim Marino, Fire Chief
Pat Sullivan
• A. The goals of these Meet & Greets are:
i. Give an overview of the FY2015 budget process.
ii. Review Finance Committee guidelines for budget presentations.
ill. Give department heads a chance present requirements, issues, and concerns
before they make their formal budget presentations.
B. Council on Aging/Eagle House Senior Center, Doreen Nobel, Director:
i. The Council on Aging (COA) is the only social services agency in the Town
and, Doreen reports, the most active, vibrant in the Lunenburg area.
il.. The COA provides services to a forty year span of senior citizens-from 55
year olds to 95 —of citizens of the Town, who comprise a third of the
population of Lunenburg.
ill. Services include:
• Providing meals on wheels to seniors at home and congregate lunches
at the Eagle House. They provide 5,600 to 6,000 meals each year.
• Transportation: The Eagle House is MART stop where seniors can get
on MART vans and be taken to various stops in the area. MART funds
the transportation service at $3,000 per month, covering costs.
• Education on fraud, fire safety, available social services.
iv. The Council on Aging is about half of one percent of the Town Budget.
C. Police Department, Chief Jim Marino (Police Department Budget Memo FY2015 gives
supporting detail.)
i. Police Dept. (PD) staffing levels lag increases in calls, incidents, or arrests.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-141113.docx
1 of3
===PAGE 2===
• There are 16 people (excluding reserve officers) in the Lunenburg
PD—1.6/1.000 population--below the recommended 2.5/1,000.
• About 15 experienced reserve officers augment PD staff, and are on
call and paid per diem from the Police Department overtime budget.
• In the five years from 2009 through 2013 calls for service, incidents,
and arrests increased significantly, taking more personnel time and
effort. Incidents have become more unpredictable and potentially
dangerous, partly from the increased chance that suspects have taken
designer drugs, formulated to induce specific effects.
• A goal is to have two officers on the road-at times not possible, like
when an extra officer is at the lock-for arrests or to monitor suspects.
• Added personnel time required to respond to "walk-ins" to the station
for help. In one 30 day period, there were 400 walk-in visits.
ii. Unfunded mandates for training and/or specific duty requirements (e. g.
School Resource Officer) take up time. The same is true for the Fire
Department (FD). An example is that the PD and FD must train responders in
the procedure to respond to potential Ebola cases.
ili. PD Capital:
• Cruisers run about 50,000 miles per year and need to be replaced
frequently. The chief keeps the old police cruisers as replacement
vehicles as they have low re-sale value.
• The PD is mandated to have body armor for policemen. This is
unfunded, though half the cost may be covered by a grant. There is
also an increased need for Tasers due to increasingly unpredictable
and dangerous behaviors confronted by Lunenburg police.
D. Fire Department, Chief Pat Sullivan
i. The FD has major capital requests in the next five years: Aging fire engine,
ladder truck, car, ambulance) and repairs over the next five years have an
estimated cost about $1.8 million.
ii. Another challenge is staffing. Currently:
• There are five career employees in the FD, three of whom are
firefighters. Two EMTs are on call and paid per diem.
• Call firefighters augment them, but it retention is a problem. The job
and requisite training take a lot of time: 3/5 of call firefighters quit
after a couple of years.
• Annual calls several years ago was several hundred. It's now
projected at 1,700 to 1,800 in FY2015--a 6% increase over FY2014.
ili. Chief Sullivan expects the number of calls to increase as the population grows,
especially the elderly population need two additional firefighters and perhaps
an additional EMT for coverage and to insure quick response time.
E. Mark said during their budget presentations department heads should:
i. Explain the effect on service levels given the FY2016 budget. (e. g. the effect
on response times) and/or show trends over the past few years (e.g. numbers
of calls, arrests, or meals served) and/or compare department actuals and
budget to similar towns.
F. Doreen, Jim, and Pat respectively estimated the time needed to make their
presentations: COA, 20 minutes; PD, 45 minutes; FD, 45 minutes.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-141113.docx
2 of 3
....
===PAGE 3===
4. Mark said Kerry would present her financial forecast Thursday November 20 or Thursday,
December 4.
5. Committee/Department Liaison Updates:
Committee/Department-
Reported By:
Capital Planning--John H.
Public Works--John H.
Library-Caroline G.
Update:
PACC-John H.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
School Building-Mark E.
Schools--Karin M.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Council on Aging, Caroline
Public Safety -Terri B.
Sewer Commiss.—Jay S.
Green Community-Jay S.
• Technology FY16 requests total $64,900 from all departments;
Fire Department FY16 request total is $60,000.
There is nothing to report.
Caroline reached out to library personnel and Trustees to find out
current issues the library faces.
The PACC has not met yet.
• TC Passios: Await resolution of the zoning and lot line issues.
• Town Hall: Front should be re-painted and studying the feasibility
of Town Hall as an office building needs to be done.
• The new school construction project is on schedule and on
budget. Site work is wrapping up; The committee approved
payment of invoices to date.
• The parking lot issue awaits resolution.
• The committee will do six or fewer aerial photography flights
timed to document progress. (E.g. the steel building framing phase)
would be documented, but interior work, not visible from an aerial
view, wouldn't be. Cost will not exceed $2,500.
No update.
No update.
See notes on Doreen Noble's presentation at the Meet & Greet.
See notes on PD & FD presentations at the Meet & Greet.
The current sewer project funded by the State Revolving Fund
(SRF) is on schedule.
• Two projects have been completed at TH Middle School.
• The Green Community is working with the library and public
safety buildings to install higher efficiency lighting.
6. Future Agenda Items:
A. Review the updated Pavement Management Plan.
B. Meet and Greet-Land Use, DPW.
C. Review contract commitments (e.g., sick leave buy back) related to OPEB.
7. Meeting Adjournment: Terri moved to adjourn the meeting, seconded by Jay and approved
5-0. The meeting adjourned at 9:29 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw November 23, 2014
Copy: Doreen Nobel, Jim Marino, Pat Sullivan
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-141113.docx
3 of3
