===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
6/12/14
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
5/8/2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, J. Henshaw, T. Burchfield, B. Laffond, K. Menard
J. Smith, S. Raboin
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Announcements
The Bocce Ball court is opening at the Eagle House. Planning Board is having public hearing.
3. Review of Town Meeting
General consensus that the Town Meeting went very well, and that the Town Manager deserved kudos for a clear, concise
budget presentation, and the preparation in advance of the meeting. Additionally, information presented by the department
heads was very helpful.
4. Town Accountant Update
K. Brochu brought forward a salary reserve fund transfer request of $21,868 to appropriate salary accounts to cover contract
changes. BL motioned to approve the transfer. KM seconded, motion carried unanimously.
She also reviewed 3°° quarter revenues making particular note of traffic fines and meals tax collections running greater than
estimated
5.
Town Manager Update
A question regarding the engineering cost of the Summer St. project that came up at a previous Board of Selectmen meeting
was addressed as to where the amount was derived and whether the amount would be reimbursed through the state. The
amount was tied to the Lunenburg share of the cost of design. While the cost should be covered by the state, it is not clear
that it Will be forthcoming, but because failure to complete the design would impact the timing of the project and project
approval, and because the Summer St. project is a top priority for the town, using funding for the pavement plan to pay for
the design was approved.
The question of the turf field, and who is responsible for setting policy regarding fees was raised. As the cost of
maintaining the field is also a concern, the Committee will look further into this.
6.
Meeting Minutes
The minutes of 4/24/2014 and 5/3/2014 were not presented.
7.
Committee Reports
JH reported that he will be meeting with P. Bertram and J. Rodriguenz to discuss being more prospective obtaining grants.
8.
Fiscal Policies
The policy draft will be sent for review by finance and legal consultants before review by the Board of Selectmen.
JH motioned to adjourn. TB seconded, meeting adjourned at 8:15 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 16 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
