===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
URO.MASS
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Brian Laffond, Vice-Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Secretary
Jason Smith
Steven Raboin
John Henshaw
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 10 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERKGFNICE
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
2/27/2014
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, S. Raboin, T. Burchfield, J. Henshaw, B. Laffond, K. Menard
J. Smith
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm. The meeting is televised and available through local cable.
2.
Town Manager Budget Presentation
K. Speidel presented the recommended 2015 Town Budget, which is also available for review on the Town website.
Department presentations are scheduled for each Thursday in March.
3. Minutes
SR motioned to accept the minutes of 1/23/2014 as written. KM seconded, approved unanimously.
4. Committee Reports:
BL reported that the Library is on track for expenditures.
ME reported that the School Building Committee has established a work group and is working to get the prequalifications
and bids out for the middle-high school project.
ME also said he began working on the Finance Committee contribution for the Annual Report, but found that it is
somewhat redundant with the Budget letter we submit, and confusing because of the calendar vs. fiscal year focus. He
recommended that we not do the Annual Report, and the consensus was to focus solely on the Budget letter instead.
5.
Fiscal Policies
JH shared all of the draft policies as amended with all feedback incorporated. We agreed on the language for each area and
will review the portion on Capital expenditures with the Capital Planning Committee before finalizing our
recommendations to the Select Board. He will circulate revised drafts for review. JH will incorporate comments received
for final review at a later meeting. ME commented that he was happy to see the budget document was consistent with the
policies as we have been discussing them over the year, and felt this was a reflection of the value of having spent the time
addressing them.
6.
Next meetings
We will meet each Thursday for the next 4 weeks to hear department presentations. The schedule of presentations will be
adjusted to accommodate the Capital Planning presentation and discussion which was postponed with the cancellation of
our last meeting due to snow
KM motioned to adjourn. SR seconded, meeting adjourned at 9:20 pm.
Minutes respectfully submitted by Terri Burchfield.
