===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Town of Lunenburg
10/16/14
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes of September 25, 2014
Meeting
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark. Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Mark Erickson at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
a. Public: None.
b. Committee:
i. Mark handed out invitations to each of the committee members to the official
groundbreaking of the Junior-Senior High School to be held on Saturday, October
ii. The Planning Board will have a public meeting on October 14 to review plans for a
75 KW ground mounted solar array at 322 Flat Hill Road.
ili. Mark circulated the recent issue of The Beacon.
3. Joint Meeting with the Parks Commission
a. Mike Masciarelli, Chairperson and Corinne Scouten of the Parks Commission joined the
Finance Committee to discuss funding for repair/renovation of the fields and tracks in the
Town.
i. Groups which had used the turf field adjacent to the High School and Middle School
had paid fees to use the field until 2012, but these fees were not charged after
2012.
ii. Because of the cost of upkeep of the fields and the highly likely prospect that the
turf field and track will need major reconstruction in an estimated cost range of
$600,000-$800,000 in the next few years, usage fees are one way to fund these
expenses.
1. Kerry said that these funds would have to accrue at about $100,000 per
year to fund the reconstruction of the track and turf field alone.
2. Usage fees have to be determined. The usage fee for the turf field had
been $100 per 90 minute session. This compares to $150 per 60 minute
session for Doyle Field in Leominster, (which also covers the cost of a
person on site). The goal is an equitable rate for the Town and the users of
the fields and one that does not dissuade potential users of the facilities.
3. Kerry said that we do not know the cost to maintain the fields: Cut the
grass, draw the lines on the fields as well as keeping the track and turf field
in good repair during the period before it needs to be reconstructed.
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
b. Jack Rodriquenz suggested that the Town needs to decide on a long term goal for the
fields in town—whether they stay as is or become destination places-e.g. with food
vendors, better parking.
4. Town Manager Updates:
a. Kerry informed the committee that there would be a joint session between the Board of
Selectmen and the Planning Board on Monday, October 20 at 6:00.
5. Review of Minutes: There were three errors in the September 11 meeting minutes which John will
correct and re-submit the minutes for approval at the next meeting.
6. Calendar of Events for the Town Budget Process:
a. The committee came to a general agreement that the budget process should start earlier
in FY 2015 than it usually has.
b. Kerry said the governor formally files his budget at the end of January. There will be
changes to the state budget after that—but as Mark observed, if we understand that there
is some fluidity in the situation, we can start the process and react to changes.
c. Further, the FY 2015 Annual Town Meeting is on May 2, 2015-roughly a week earlier than
usual.
d. Kerry said she would try to put a rough draft of a schedule for the budget process by the
next Fin Comm meeting, Thursday, October 16.
7. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department—
Reported By:
Capital Planning--John H.
Public Works--John H.
Library--John H.
Update:
Initial meeting will be on Monday, September 29* to set dates
and times of meetings and to elect officers.
Tree removal expenses from the Lake Shirley microburst this
past summer put DPW over budget in that line. That may
affect tree removal activity through FY 2015.
Costs for road salt and sand have increased and may mean
$30,000 higher cost than FY 2014. Jack is looking into other
suppliers.
DPW is near budget in all areas except tree removal YTD
The library awaits verification of a projected 45% increase in
electricity supply prices as of December, 2014. Co-incident
with this the library is looking into replacing incandescent light
bulbs with LEDs to save electricity.
PACC--John H.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
Jo M. and John D. met with a member of the architectural tean
of the new school on AV equipment for the studio there
lans are to tour the old primary schoo
The property lines around the Brooks House and TC Passios ar
The Charrette presentation is pending.
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
School Building--Mark E.
The School Building Committee had not met since our last
meeting; their meeting is October 8.
Schools--Karin M.
Costs for asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill Middle School have
risen.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Nothing to report.
Council on Aging--Karin M.
Nothing to report.
Public Safety--Terri B
Nothing to report.
Note: There was nothing to report on the Sewer or Agricultural Commissions or the Green
Community.
8. Future Agenda Items:
a. Review the updated Pavement Management Plan
b. Continue work on Budget Calendar and set expectations for Department Budget
Presentations.
c. Review of the school construction project financing project.
d. Review and/or update OPEB (Other Post-Employment Benefits)
9. Meeting Adjourned: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting; her motion was seconded by Terri. The
committee voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:39.
Minutes respectfully submitted by John Henshaw October 6, 2014
3 of 3
