===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburen
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes of September 11, 2014
Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark. Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Mark Erickson at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
a. Public:
i. Tom Bodkin conveyed to the Fin Comm his concerns that a potential increase of
interest rates between now and 2016 would raise the cost to the Town of financing
the High School/Middle School project.
ii. Main points discussed:
1. Voters approved the school construction project and the structure and
duration of financing it by a 2-1 margin.
2. It is not certain if, when, or how much interest rates may increase, but
financing costs to the Town will be higher if interest rates increase before
ve issue bonds (borrow) to finance construction costs.
3. The standard practice is to bond when construction is complete--the Town
will not know the final total cost of construction until then; cash flow is
uncertain at the beginning of the project.
4. There are risks to issuing bonds prior to completion:
a. A slight risk that the project will not be completed.
b. The Town may end up borrowing more money than we need, or
borrowing for a longer period of time if bonding is done up front to
lock in rates
5. The Town does have the opportunity to refund bonds as the situatio
6. Arbitrage may be one way to lessen the expense of borrowing early.
7. It would useful to know what options the Town has to mitigate the potential
risk of higher interest rates before the end of the construction project in
2016, and to find out what other towns have done or are doing to address
b. Committee:
this.
i. Mark passed around the recent issue of The Beacon.
il. The ATFC Annual Meeting and Workshops will take place Saturday, October 18 at
Tri-County Regional High School in Franklin, MA. John will attend and Karin may.
1 of3
===PAGE 2===
3. Town Manager Updates:
a. Chapter 44 § 33B transfer of $10,033.44 from Health Insurance to Legal Expenses.
i. The transfer of these funds from Health Insurance to Legal Expenses is to cover
the shortfall in legal expenses in FY 2014.
ii. Karin moved that the Town Transfer $10,033.44 from Health Insurance to Legal
Expenses and Terri seconded the motion. The Finance Committee approved the
motion 4-0.
b. Summary of FY 2014 final accounting:
i. Actual revenues exceeded budget by about $275,000 or 0.9%
• Fines and forfeits, Local Option Meals tax, Motor Vehicle excise tax, and Misc.
Non-recurring revenue were the main contributors to exceeding budget.
ii. Total Expenditures were $216,700 below the revised budget.
ili. Undesignated Fund Balance (Revenue + Free Cash + underspends) for the year
was $562,131.
iv. Estimated Free Cash is $483,320, pending DOR certification.
4. Review of Minutes: There was an error and an omission in the minutes of the August 21 meeting.
John will correct them and re-submit the minutes for approval at the next meeting.
5. Finance Policy Document:
a. Action Item: John will submit the Financial Policies to Stephen Malandrinos to be posted
on the Town web site.
6. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
Building Re-Use
Reported by:
Mark Erickson
School Building
Update
Building Re-Use will meet on
September 15 to discuss the
Charrette presentation,
Scheduled tours, and property
lin A meeting of abutters
affected by the
construction went well.
• There is a $50,000
The next construction
package to go out for bid
is structural steel.
• Instead of the web cam
which is very expensive,
the SBC is considering
documenting progress by
taking aerial photos.
• The official ground
breaking will be Saturday,
October 18t, which is
Homecoming Day.
Mark Erickson
2 of3
===PAGE 3===
Schools
Monty Tech
Council on Aging
No news to report.
The salary of the new principal
at Monty Tech is $3,000 less
than the prior principal's salary
was.
Nothing to report.
Karin Menard
Karin Menard
Karin Menard
Public Safety
DPW
Library
Chief Marino discussed capital
| Terri Burchfield
needs and the dispatch center.
Nothing to report.
John Henshaw
The library is concerned about
John Henshaw
the projected increases in
have on he ry 2015 budgetay
Next steps are to get a better
handle on potential increase in
costs and what actions the
library can take to mitigate the
costs. The Board of Trustees
meet on Sept. 18.
Public Access Cable
Nothing to report.
John Henshaw
Note: There was nothing to report on the Sewer or Agricultural Commissions or the Green
Community.
7. Budget Opportunity:
a. Turf Field Policies/Fees: Mark Erickson will set up a meeting between this committee and
current and former members of the Parks Commission to get a better understanding of the
history and decisions that led to the policies and fee structure.
8. Future Agenda Items:
a. Review the updated Pavement Management Plan
b. Set Expectations for Budget Presentations
c. Meeting with Parks Commission on history of the Turf Field and Track.
d. Mark will add a review of the school construction project financing project to the future
agenda item list.
9. Meeting Adjourned: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting; her motion was seconded by Terri. The
board voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 9:12.
Minutes respectfully submitted by John Henshaw September 23, 2014
3 of3
