===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Fihance Committee
Minutes: January 22, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Jamie Toale--BOS Liaison, Kerry Speidel
Caroline Griffis
1. Mark called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
A. Public: Dave Rodgers suggested that one of the school's two modular buildings they no longer need
could be used by the Cemetery Dept. to augment their building on Holman Street, and the other may be
useful at the sanitary landfill. He also said the HVAC system at the library does not work very well and
thought that may be a factor in the library energy use.
B. Committee:
i. The Massachusetts Foundation Budget Review Commission will have a public hearing
Saturday, January 24th at Nashoba Regional High School to solicit public comment on the
formula for the Foundation budget for Education, which they are reviewing.
ii. Mark circulated to the committee a hard copy of The Municipal Financial Data 44t edition
updated for 2014, put out by the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation.
iii. The Board of Assessors put out a flyer summarizing the Town of Lunenburg valuation and Tax
Summary, and Mark circulated this to the committee.
iv. The Mass Municipal Association meeting is on January 23 and 24 in Boston.
3. Town Manager Updates:
A.
Reserve Fund Transfer Requests:
i. The Fire and Police Departments project vehicle maintenance costs for each are projected to
be over budget by $8,000 - $10,000. However, vehicle maintenance costs as a whole for the
Town are not projected to be over budget.
ii. Interim Director Teresa Hathaway and Dick Mailloux, Vice-Chair of the Library Board of
Trustees, requested $15,000 from the reserve fund to cover increases in electricity and natural
gas costs as a result of increased electric and gas rates.
YTD energy costs are over budget and the increased unit costs for electricity and gas
are in addition to that. Kerry said the rate increase is due to a requirement for
utilities to stockpile oil in the winter and should come down in a few months.
• The library has initiatives with the Green Community and considering changing their
schedule to reduce energy usage, but both are prospective.
Increased energy costs may affect whether the library qualifies for state grants tied
to the total library budget and the amount the library spends on circulation materials.
• Mark said it has been the Finance Committee's practice to approve reserve fund
transfers toward the end of the year when the exact amount and need is clearer.
The library's concern is having meeting operating costs between now and then.
Kerry said that previous Finance Committees had approved reserve transfers in the
middle of fiscal years, but her concern is that any transfer to the library to meet their
higher energy costs would increase the minimum required library budget to qualify
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150122.docx
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
for the state grants in future fiscal years (e.g. in Fy16 the estimated increase in the
minimum required would be $4,000. So Kerry would like more time to work out a
plan to deal with this issue.
Mark reassured the library that the Town would not let any of their bills go unpaid,
while the Town works on the best approach to managing the effects of the increased
B. Unanticipated Overages:
i. Projected costs of Veterans' Benefits in FY15 is $20,000 over budget. The State reimburses
the Town 75% of the cost of these benefits but only in the next fiscal year, so the Town will
have an outlay over budget for these benefits until then.
ii. There is a potential overage in health care insurance costs of $12,000. The Town will try to
mitigate this within the overall budget.
ili.
Because of an increase of about 30 school choice students, and some other overages, there is
the potential for an over spend of about $100,000. (See Karin's committee report below for
more details on this.)
iv. The Town has free cash that will help meet potential overages in FY15, but free cash may be lower
going into FY16, which would affect line items in the FY16 budget, like funding capital purchases.
4. Capital Planning Committee Recommendations presented by Jamie Toale, Chairman of the CPC
The budget for new capital projects-including pavement management-is $850,000: Total budget is
$1,000,000 less $150,000 in debt service costs from borrowing for capital projects. This may change
during the budget process.
B. Of 25 capital project requests from Town Departments for FY15, the top nine priority projects cost nearly
$850,000 in total. The street sweeper is the tenth priority item and costs $180,000.
Borrowing to pay for the projects that cost over $100,000 would allow funding of some lower priority
projects, and/or invest more in the pavement management program, or spend less money on capital
projects in FY15.
D. But borrowing would also reduce capital budgets in future years.
The CPC recommends borrowing to finance the backhoe ($120,000) and dump truck ($190,000)
requested by the DPW. If the Town projects sufficient funds both in FY15 and beyond, the CPC also
recommends purchasing the street sweeper through borrowing.
F. The CPC recommends that the horizon for capital projects be extended from the current five years to ten
years. This would give the CPC more visibility of anticipated future high cost projects.
G. Discussion Items:
Item
Borrowing for Capital Projects
Previously appropriated capital
requests that remain unspent.
Issues/Questions
-$100,000 is the minimum the Town would use
borrowing to fund, but the goal was to fund much more
expensive projects. One option may be to fund two less
expensive projects together (for instance the backhoe
and dump truck) but Mark said this should be an
exceptional case.
-Concern that the out year costs of this year's borrowing
would constrain the Town's ability to replace the ladder
truck for $850,000 or other expensive projects.
Unspent capital funds should be returned to the capital
budget and re-appropriated at Town meeting.
-How should these projects be funded?
-Should they be part of the capital project process or
handled another way?
abatement request.)
Multi-year capital planning be extend
to ten years.
: This would provide longer term visibility to capital needs
and guide borrowing decisions. There was general
; approval for the extended horizon.
5. Minutes of the January 8, 2015 Meeting: Terry made a motion to accept the minutes and Karin seconded her
motion. The committee voted 5-0 to accept the minutes as submitted.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150122.docx
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
6. Committee/Department Liaison Updates:
Committee/Department-
| Update:
Reported By:
Capital Planning-John H.
There is nothing further to report.
Public Works--John H.
There is nothing to report.
PACC-John H.
The PACC's next meeting will take up the budget and expenditures.
Library-Caroline G.
Nothing further to report.
Public Safety-Terry
Both Chief Marino and Chief Sullivan were interested in how the committee feels
about making any personnel increases in the Police and Fire Departments in FY16.
Building Re-Use--Mark E.
There is nothing to report.
School Building-Mark E.
Schools--Karin M.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Council on Aging, Caroline
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Community-Jay S.
• Structural steel is 30% complete, concrete work is complete, site work
has been demobilized until the rest of the building is complete. There will
e temporary lighting installed in building A once the root is on
• The Town needs to sign a temporary agreement with Unitil for :
transformer to be delivered at the end of January and the permanent
easement for that transformed will be voted on at Annual Town Meeting.
• The project remains on schedule and on budget.
• At the request of the school committee Superintendent Calmes has
added paraprofessionals into the FY15 budget. This means that the FY16
budget for the schools as of that meeting is a 9% increase over FY14.
• Supt. Calmes is working on understanding the reported increase in the
school choice out numbers. It looks like the numbers reported by the
state are in error.
There is nothing to report.
No report.
The Sewer Commission is primarily working on their budget.
• The Green Community has bids for the LED lights for the parking lot in
the Library and parking lot in the Public Safety Building. They have a
significant amount of money and are looking for more projects to do.
7. Net Me 2g hurtine, Febrace the TogeManser Presents tie 2015 budget, and February
8. Adjournment: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting, her motion was seconded by Jay and approved
5-0. The meeting adjourned at 8:42 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw February 9, 2015
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150122.docx
3 of 3
