===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
ark Erickson, Chairma
erri Burchfield. Vice Chairma
John Henshaw
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
spUnenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes
May 14, 2015
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
M. Erickson, T. Burchfield, K. Menard, Jay Simeone
Jamie Toale - BOS Liaison, Kerry Speidel, Town Manager
J. Henshaw, C. Griffis
1. Meeting called to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Annual Town Meeting Recap
a.
Lost Quorum - remaining articles can be taken up at Special Town Meeting anticipate for fall of 2015.
3. Town Manager Updates
a.
Senate Budget Committee released their version of the budget. Full senate hasn't voted. Slightly more favor-
able than the numbers used to create budget presented at Annual Town Meeting. Possible opportunity to make
some adjustment/increase at town meeting in fall.
b.
Budgeted 116k to the School District for one-time expenses but state budget has more coming back to the
town than that amount. K.S. would be surprised if they asked for the balance as the school doesn't have any
other one-time expenses in their FY16 budget. Remaining monies would fall to free cash. T.B. asked about
latest TIP meeting.
C.
Per K.S. Summer Street still programmed at 100% in FY17. Close to having required public hearing. Une
interesting comment was that highway safety improvement funds are used for projects at high accident sites
but in this region there are not enough projects to use those funds. Towns were told if they had potential
projects that might meet the criteria they should submit. Chase Road may be a potential project that could be
submitted.
4. General OPEB discussion
a.
K.S. - Selectmen have some ability to put forth health insurance regulations (i.e. retirement eligibility timing -
elect to take health care at time of retirement vs. further down the line) to gain a better idea when projecting
our costs. We are seeing retirees joining the plan years after retirement because of the changes we have made
that make the costs of our insurance plans a better deal. J.S. asked what other towns do and K.S. said many
already have this sort of regulation in place.
b. ~265 town employees (including retirees) and approximately the same amount from the school are enrolled in
town insurance plans.
c. We don't currently cover reserve officers but Affordable Care Act may change that if they work 30 or more
hours per week.
5. Meeting Minutes
a. T.B. motioned to accept the minutes of 4/2/15. J.S. seconded. No discussion. Motioned moved 4-0.
b. T.B. motioned to accept the minutes of 4/23/15. J.S. seconded. No discussion. Motioned moved 4-0.
6. Committee and Department Reports
a. Capital Planning - Over the summer K.S. will ask departments to prepare 10 year capital plan to look at long
term funding proposal for capital planning purposes.
b. Public Safety - Per I.B. chiets anticipate being on target.
===PAGE 2===
c. Sewer Commission - Per J.S. they had a discussion on small water systems and grease traps at their last meet-
ing. Pleasant View project is moving forward
d. Lunenburg Public Schools - K.M. reports they are moving $17k from electricity line to gas line. Gas supply
costs are up and electricity costs are down. Reduction in electricity is due to LED lighting in select locations,
4 variable speed drives, and a new air compressor that is now 1/2 horse power that replaced an old 1 horse
power compressor.
e.
Building Reuse Committee - M.E. said School Committee and Building Reuse Committee had a joint meeting
to establish clear lot lines for TCP property. Question arose as to whether it would create issues with the
MSBA as it would be a change to the approved plan for the property lines of the new school site. At subse-
quent joint Building Reuse Committee and School Building Committee meeting it was determined that taking
parking spots away from the school project, in order to draw the lot line further away from the TC Passios
Building, shouldn't be an issue as long as those parking spots are replaced elsewhere. They have asked archi-
tect to draw plan of what that would look like.
School Building Committee - Per M.E. SBC toured the building. Concrete flooring is 75% poured and roof-
ing laid on two wings. First layer of external siding is up on building B and the inside is starting to take
shape. Fire proofing laterally completed on building A. They are several weeks behind due to weather but are
why this would fall under the contingency funds as it was it wasn't something changed or unforeseen. Ac-
cording to M.E., the architects don't guarantee drawing articles to be 100% complete and this should not be a
cause for concern.
7. Miscellaneous Items-
a. J.S. asked about 80 West St. (old Parks Department building) - K.S. said it was declared surplus and trying to
tie it with the cemetery property to see if anyone wants to raise an move it.
b. Street Lights - Can we purchase to maintain ourselves? K.S. thought she had a consultant to work on this but
it fell through. Green Communities Task Force not interested in the project as the payout is too long. Would
need to find a new consultant to work with to do a valuation so the town can go back and forth with Unitil on
purchase price. Will put on list for future budget opportunity.
K.S. mentioned fire chief made presentation on transitioning from intermediate to advanced ambulance service
as the state will no longer license ambulances as intermediate in 2017 and are only licensing at basic,
advanced or paramedic. Advanced level of service would significantly increase what we are able to provide.
Approximately $6700 would be needed in equipment and medicines, and there would be additional personnel
cost. Four employees are already paramedic level although they are not functioning as such for the town and
4 would need additional training as they are intermediate licensed. Important for the department to get a sense
if this is something the town wants to do as it's a big commitment for the individuals to obtain and maintain
higher level licensing.
8. Next Meeting - rune 0; 2015, /pm at lown Hall.
9. K.M. motioned to adjourn. J.S. seconded, meeting adjourned at 8:34 pm.
JUN
Minutes respectfully submitted by Karin Menard.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 15 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
