===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
3/5/15
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes: February 26, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Jamie Toale--BOS Liaison
Caroline Griffis
1. Mark called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Communications:
Public: Carl Luck, further to Chief Marino's call for adding three officers (see 4.B.), recommended the
Finance Committee include in the projected total costs to the Town of adding personnel: nominal wages
for the fiscal year, but also current and projected costs for insurance, and other benefits as well as
projected future wage and salary increases.
B.
Committee: Mark reminded the Town of the 6:35 PM Planning Board meeting on March 9 at Town Hall
to amend and correct a by-law.
3. Town Manager Updates: None.
4. The Police Department FY16 Budget by Chief Dan Marino.
(Note: Click here for specific details about the FY16 Police Budget and service levels.)
A. Over the past five years at least there has been a significant increase in the demands on the police:
i. Arrests, protective custody, and criminal complaint summons have increased by 78%.
ii. Reportable incidents and field interviews have risen 81%, and the incidents are more likely to
become confrontational.
ili. In the past year the number of arrests have increased significantly.
iv. These increases have put increasing pressure on Police Department staff.
B. Since FY2012 when there was an increase of one officer-from 11 to 12, personnel has not increased.
The target Police Budget included a request for three additional officers, which is not in the Town
Manager's Preliminary budget due to lack of funds.
C. Costs have increased due to step increases in salaries and unfunded mandates.
i. Mandated training amounts to at least five days per policeman.
il. Mandated supplies (E.g. Narcan-used to counter over doses from narcotic use, and Quick Clot
to staunch bleeding). Under the proposed FY16 budget neither is funded.
D. Effects on Police Department service levels:
i. Reduced resources for Community Policing, a form of outreach to the community that is a
bridge between the community and the Police Department.
ii. Funding is for the same number of officers to handle increases in incidents, complaints and
arrests.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150226.docx
1 of2
===PAGE 2===
5. The Fire Department FY16 Budget Presentation by Chief Patrick Sullivan
Note: Click here for specific details about the FY16 Police Budget and service levels.)
A. In the four years from 2010 to 2014, Fire/Hazard and EMS/Medical calls have increased from about
1,400 calls to about 1,600 per year-12.5%. This increase may be due to the population increase and
the increase in elderly residents in Town. If so, this trend may continue.
Five full time staff are employed in the Fire Department, augmented by 31 call fire officers and fire
fighters/EMTs.
i. Chief Sullivan presented a chart that showed that response times tend to increase in times full
time staff is not at the station.
C. Fire Department Goals
i. Increase the number of EMTs on full time staff and lower the response times to medical
emergencies to National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards.
ii. Increase the budget for supplies that has run out in previous years.
ili. Replace an aging fleet of fire trucks and other emergency apparatus.
D. Effects on Fire Department service levels:
i. Because of funding constraints, the preliminary FY16 budget does not fund an increase in
staff, which may translate to less improvement in response times.
il. Replacing the Fire Department's aging fleet per Chief Sullivan's schedule will present
challenges to the Town over the next few years.
6. Discussion on Trade-offs:
A. Any decision to pay for something not funded in the Preliminary FY16 budget must be accompanied by a
source of funding.
B. Sources of funds may be not funding something that had been funded in the preliminary budget, or by
finding an alternative source of funding. An example of an alternate source of funding are user fees.
7. Minutes: The minutes of Tuesday's meeting were not ready for review, revision, and/or approval.
8. Committee/Department Liaison Updates: None.
9. Next Meetings:
A. Thursday, March 5-the Library, Schools, and the Council on Aging budget presentations and
effects on service levels.
B. March 12, Sewer Enterprise and DPW will present their budgets and effects service levels.
10. Adjournment: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting, her motion was seconded by Terri and approved
5-0. The meeting adjourned at 8:30 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw March 4, 2015
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150226.docx
2 of 2
