===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes August 27, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark. Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Jay Simeone, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur
Not Present: Tom Alonzo, BOS Liaison
1. Meeting called to order by Mark E. at 7:02 pm.
2. Comments:
a. Public--None.
b. Committee:
i. Public Hearing, September 13", to consider an applications for a Pet Service
Facility on Electric Ave. and an application for cluster development to develop
66 dwelling units on Northfield Road.
il. Terri B. asked John H. for Dick Mailloux' email address so she can get in
touch with him prior to Trustees meeting. John will get it for her.
3. Town Manager's Report:
a. Kerry directed our attention to Karen Brochu's spreadsheet on personnel costs as a
percentage of total Town budget:
i. Direct wages and salaries were just under 50% of the actual expenditures in
2015, and are planned to be slightly lower in the 2016 budget.
ii. Adding health insurance costs and other benefits linked to salaries and wages
increases the total personnel costs to a bit over 60% of overall expenditures
and budget.
ili. Mark E. asked for the FTE count in total as well to get a handle on the total
cost of employees-salaries and associated costs-health insurance, etc.
• Associated costs to employment increase costs to the Town by some
18 percent.
iv. John H. has roughly approximated the annual growth in personnel costs-
excluding the school department- between 2013 and 2015 of about two
percent.
• It does not include the school department and personnel costs vary
somewhat because of new hires and open reqs.
However, as Mark observed, to be of use in planning, it just needs to
be directionally indicative.
Mn-FY16-150877 (local and remote drives)
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
• Wages and salaries appear to have grown by about 2% per year from
FY2013-2015 which means that those costs have declined relative to
total Town revenue over that time.
4. The FY2017 budget process: Projecting revenues and expenditures and setting priorities.
a. Expenditures:
i. The building re-use project and the potential renovation to repurpose Turkey
Hill--both long term capital projects which, along with current capital
requests in the pipeline, could divert revenues that would otherwise fund
future operating expenses. Note: The Town has in the past approved
ii. Ongoing projects: Pavement management plan, capital projects (e.g. fire
trucks, ambulances, ОРЕВ.
ili. Ways to manage expenditures or their timing:
• Number of employees.
• Material costs?
• Applying the regional dispatch model to other Town functions.
b. Revenues:
i. Structural limits constrain revenue growth (e.g. proposition 2 ½ and
projected growth in the Town).
• There may be the potential to put an override before the Town voters
to consider.
a. In contrast to debt exclusion overrides, the additional
revenues that result from Proposition 2 ½ overrides go in the
general funds--they are not earmarked for any specific uses).
• Use fees for some services to generate revenues.
c. Establishing a process going into the budget:
i. Is the process to divvy up growth among the various departments as the
Town has done in the past?
ii. Or by re-assessing priorities of the Town, should there be a reallocation of
resources based on need?
• This would involve determining which expenditures are non-
discretionary, which are partly discretionary, and which are
discretionary.
• Non-discretionary costs establish a baseline, and partially
discretionary costs add to it.
• Fully discretionary costs are a small part of the budget.
ili. Or by restructuring the Town's budget to achieve a different balance
between the operating and capital budgets.
iv. Kerry framed the issue as whether any extra revenues should go into
maintaining roads (e.g. further funding the PMP) or public safety (e.g.
advanced life support (ALS)).
v. For context over the past several years the Town has lowered operating
costs by:
• Reducing the hours and number of Town employees.
• Implemented the solar proiect.
• Regionalized some services like the dispatch center.
• Minimized repairs of Town buildings.
Mn-FY16-150827 (local and remote drives)
2of3
===PAGE 3===
• • Suggestion to list what the Town has done to contain costs and
increase revenues.
d. Action item for our next meeting:
• Think about the budget process:
Priorities, actions.
Note: Karin departed now.
5. Minutes:
a. Jay made a motion to approve the minutes and Terri seconded the motion. The
committee approved the minutes 4-0. (Karin, who was not present at the August 11
meeting, did not vote.
6.
Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
DPW-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Public Access Cable-John H.
Library-Terri B.
Public Safety-Terri B.
Update
Schools-Karin M.
Monty Tech-Karin M.
Sewer Commission —Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S.
School Building Comm-Mark E.
Building Re-Use Mark E.
No report.
The committee will meet on Tuesday, September 8 to
begin planning for FY16 and beyond
Rhonda Lisio has circulated a document on how other
towns use their Public Access funds.
No report
Chief Marino and Chief Sullivan have looked into a hybrid
model where employees are cross-trained to perform duties
for both the Fire and Police Departments. But the chiefs do
not think it would result in cost savings, and do not believe
it would meet the needs of the town.
No report
No report.
The Commission met to review the pump issue.
No report.
Mark is arranging a time when the committee can visit the
Junior-Senior High School project site to see progress to
date.
The committee arrived at a consensus to recommend that
the Board of Selectmen approve one of the vendors who
bid on the project to provide plans for building re-use to
best meet the needs of the Town. The RFQ documents are
available for public review at Town Hall.
7. Future Agenda item: Mark has added sale of surplus property to our future agenda. The
next meetings will be Thursday September 10 and Thursday September 24.
8. Meeting Adjourned: Terri B. moved to adjourn the meeting and Jay S. seconded the
motion. The board voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:49.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw September 8, 2015
Copy: Karen Brochu, Tom Alonzo
Mn-FY16-150827 (local and remote drives)
3 of 3
