===PAGE 1===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    1 of 7 
 
  
          
Town of Lunenburg  
Finance Committee: 
Mark Erickson, Chairman 
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman 
John Henshaw, Secretary 
Karin Menard 
Caroline Griffis 
Jay Simeone  
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
   Minutes:  March 26, 2015 Meeting 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148  
Location: Town Hall 
Present: Mark Ericson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw 
Also Present: Jamie Toale--BOS Liaison, Kerry Speidel, Town Manager 
Absent:  Caroline Griffis  
 
 
1.  Mark called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. 
 
2.  Communications:  
A.  Public:  None. 
B.  Committee:  
i.  Mark passed around the latest issue of 
The Beacon . 
ii.  There is a meeting of the Planning Board on April 13 on a requested zoning change.  
 
3.  The FY2016 Budget Public Hearing:  The Town Manager reported on changes in revenues and 
expenditures subsequent to the preliminary budget dated February 15. 
A.  Changes in  revenue: 
i.  Net increase new revenue is nearly $430,000. 
•  $145,000 is due to an increase in new growth as calculated by the Town’s 
assessor. 
•  This is recurring source of revenue, which may be used to fund operating 
expenses. 
ii.  Net increase in state aid in the Governor’s new budget is nearly $225,000.  
iii.  This includes $116,000 Chapter 40S state aid to Education-which is a revenue source 
the Town cannot count on going forward. 
•   Chapter 40S aid is to reimburse educational expenses in specific situations 
(only two towns in the Commonwealth qualify for this aid, and it must be 
applied for) which also means that it is vulnerable to being cut from the state 
budget,   
•  As this is non-recurring revenue, it should fund non-recurring expenditures.  
Superintendent Calmes identified $116,000 of these, so Kerry set the 40S 
grant at $116,000 to equal the amount of expenditures.    
iv.  Net changes in available funds account for the rest of the increase—about $60,000. 
v.  The increased revenue does not include any re-imbursements either for the first 
storm, or for the subsequent three storms because it is not certain that the Town will 
receive any reimbursements.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    2 of 7 
 
B.  Adjustments to expenditures: 
i.  Net increases in expenditures related to the adjustments in revenues is about 
$300,000. 
C.  The net surplus (increased revenues less increased expenditures) is nearly $130,000. 
i.  Although a surplus like this would be significant in most household budgets, it’s 
slightly over 0.4% (four-tenths of one percent) of the Town omnibus budget. 
D.  Proposals to apply the net $130,000 increase in revenue: 
i.  To address areas of public welfare and safety: 
•  Narcan and Quick Clot having them would enable police officers, who often 
are first responders, to administer them to people and mitigate serious 
health consequences or even save lives. 
•  CPR training for Police Officers, with the same benefits Narcan and Quick 
Clot confer.  Note:  This may already be included in training in the FY16 
Police Budget. 
ii.  To address maintenance of assets: 
•  Increase the vehicle maintenance budget, which was over budget in FY14 
and FY15. 
•  Earmark some of these funds to repair/upgrade some of the stormwater 
system. As Paula Bertram reported, new requirements for stormwater 
systems will take effect at an as yet unspecified date.  Compliance, which is 
mandated, may cost $250,000 to $500,000. 
iii.  To address increasing class sizes in the schools. 
•  Note:  This would need to be done with care to make sure non-recurring 
revenues were not used to fund recurring expenditures, like personnel.  For 
instance, the increase in new growth, which is a recurring source of revenue, 
could be used to fund recurring expenditures.   
iv.  To address the fact that actual spending for snow and ice removal regularly exceeds 
the budget by several tens of thousands of dollars, increase the snow and ice 
account to more closely approximate actual costs the Town has spent in the past few 
years. 
•  Kerry referred the meeting to the chart of the Ten-Year History of the Snow 
and Ice Removal Account in the Preliminary FY16 Budget Presentation.  In 
eight of the last ten years the snow and ice removal account exceeded 
$300,000.  The average expenditure over that period was $311,384.   
•  In each of the last five years snow and ice removal cost over $300,000, and 
the average was $354,539.  This excludes the winter of 2014-15. 
•  Karin advised caution on how much the Town should increase this account.  
If the cost of snow and ice removal in future years is less than the budgeted 
amount, the Town may risk jeopardizing a subsequent option to deficit spend 
in this account 
v.  To alleviate the need to fund capital projects by borrowing, which may crowd out 
funding for operating expenditures. 
•  Terri stated that she would prefer to use this surplus to fund capital projects 
rather than funding operating expenses for two reasons:  First, it is surplus 
and may not recur, and second because funding capital projects through 
borrowing increases debt service costs, which extends through the borrowing 
period. 
•  Mark shares her concern and added that deciding to borrow to fund capital 
acquisitions should take these consequences into account. 
•  John described a spreadsheet tool being worked on that would let the Capital 
Planning Committee project future debt service costs based on variables—
principal, interest rate, borrowing term, and down payment.   Jamie is 
reviewing it, and John sent it to Kerry and Mark for them to look at. 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    3 of 7 
 
•  The Capital Planning Committee will meet this coming Tuesday, March 31 at 
4:00 at Town Hall and all interested are encouraged to attend.   
•  In light of this meeting, Mark would like to postpone capital discussion until 
capital planning committee meeting has taken place. 
E.  Opportunities for improvements and questions about the budget process: 
i.  Timeliness: 
•  Carl Luck stated that if the public had had more time to look through all final 
department budgets before the public hearing they would have been better 
able to review and understand these budgets.  Carl cited the school 
department’s budget as an example. 
o Although the Town is obligated to put together a balanced budget, 
and that entails setting the overall school budget, the School 
Committee is responsible for setting the line items in the school 
budgets and had public meetings during the FY16 budget process. 
So, although the final school budget proposal was finished this week, 
with a presentation scheduled for Wednesday, April 1, the public had 
opportunities to review the budget—albeit it one that did not align 
with Town budget goals. 
•  Mark stated that the budget process is iterative:  Initial budgets, based on 
improving service levels, were presented to this committee over the past 
month.  After that departments developed and subsequently submitted 
budgets at levels required to provide level services and which align more 
closely to targets set by the Town Manager.  State law mandates that the 
Town’s budget be balanced—expenditures equal revenues—that is, a budget 
constrained by projected revenues. The sole permissible instance of deficit 
spending is the snow and ice account. (See point 3.D.iv above for 
background.)   
•  As these iterations take time and as changing revenues require changes to 
the budget, one result is that there is a risk of having less time for review. 
ii.   Limitation of the use of non-recurring revenues: 
•  Carl Luck said that the schools had arguably used non-recurring revenue--a 
one time savings from SPED--to fund an ongoing program with recurring 
costs. 
•  Mark stated that it is the policy of this committee to use one-time revenues 
solely to fund one-time expenses and specifically not to fund on-going 
expenses. Indeed, the Town’s Financial Policy—formally adopted earlier this 
fiscal year—explicitly proscribes funding on-going expenditures with one time 
revenues. 
F.  Mark tabled the rest of the Public Review of the FY16 Budget until next week. 
  
4.  Review of the Articles in the Warrant: 
 
 
Article Explanation/Discussion Vote 
1-6:  Consent Calendar:  Annual 
reauthorization of Revolving Funds. 
o The Town cannot overspend a 
revolving fund.  
o The ambulance revolving fund 
is the only one that increased 
  
Terri made a motion to 
recommend approval of the six 
articles on the consent calendar 
and related expenditures.  Karin 
seconded.  The Committee 
approved the motion 5-0. 
===PAGE 4===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    4 of 7 
 
7 To hear and/or accept written 
reports. 
No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
8 Payment of prior year’s 
expenses. 
Payment of prior year’s expenses. Terri made a motion to 
recommend approval to allocate 
$1,782 to pay prior year expenses, 
 
John seconded. The Committee 
approved the motion 5-0. 
9 Transfer from available funds to 
amend amounts in the budget. 
No direct financial effect on the 
total budget. 
No vote necessary. 
10 Related to collective bargaining. No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
11 Related to collective bargaining. No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
12 Related to collective bargaining. No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
13 Related to collective bargaining. No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
14 Capital Plan Proposed 
adjustment. 
The committee will take this up 
next week after the Capital 
Planning Committee has decided 
on the proposed change to the 
capital plan. 
Pending 
15 Supplementing the Stabilization 
fund. 
The committee will take this up 
next week when more information 
is available. 
Pending 
 
16  FY16 Budget The committee will take this up 
next week. 
Pending. 
17 Sewer Enterprise Fund The committee will take this up 
next week when the amount in 
question is set. 
Pending. 
18 Solid Waste Disposal This account is self-funded by 
sales of trash bags.   
There is no increase in bag fees. 
Terri made a motion to 
recommend approval of $265,000 
to operate the solid waste program 
enterprise fund in FY2016. 
Karin seconded. The committee 
approved the motion 5-0. 
19 Water Department Enterprise 
Fund 
Typically none of the $25,000 in 
this account is spent.  It is in 
reserve in case it is needed by the 
Water Department. 
 John made a motion to 
recommend approval to fund the 
account with $25,000.  Terri 
seconded the motion.  The 
committee approved 5-0. 
20 Lake Whalom Access No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
21 Marijuana in Public No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
22 Pawnbrokers No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
===PAGE 5===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    5 of 7 
 
23 Sexual Offenders No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
24 Granting an easement for gas 
line right of way to new school. 
No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
25 Granting an easement for 
Electric lines right of way to new 
school. 
No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
26 Using bond premiums to reduce 
future borrowing and related costs 
of the new school. 
Committee to decide after the 
amount of the premium is known. 
Pending. 
27 Architectural District No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
28 Village Center District No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
29 Zoning By-law change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
30 Zoning By-law change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
31 Zoning By-law change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
32 Zoning By-law change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
33 Zoning By-law change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
34 Zoning map change No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
35 Flat Hill Road scenic Await determination about whether 
having this designation would put 
the Town in any future obligation.  
Pending. 
36 Northfield Road scenic Await determination about whether 
having this designation would put 
the Town in any future obligation.  
Pending. 
37 Whether to make White Tail 
Crossing a Public Rd? 
The committee would like to know 
the estimated cost to care for and 
maintain this road before deciding 
to make a recommendation. 
Pending. 
38 Zoning change-Commercial to 
Business. 
No direct financial effect. No vote necessary. 
39 Sewer Collection System 
$300,000 for an extension to 
Pleasant View St. 
 
This betterment project is to 
address a real need on the part of 
residents who live in this area, per 
criteria in the Comprehensive 
Wastewater Management Plan.  No 
general levy money will be 
expended as all costs will be 
covered by betterment charges.  
Terri made a motion that the 
committee recommend approval of 
a transfer of $300,000 for the 
betterment project, and Karin 
seconded.  The committee 
approved the motion 5-0. 
  
===PAGE 6===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    6 of 7 
 
 
40 Police Special Fund-Detail Sal. The purpose is to pay special detail 
salaries for off duty details.  
Terri made a motion that the 
committee recommend approval 
for $10,000 to be put in the Police 
Special Fund, John seconded.  The 
committee approved the motion 5-
0. 
 
41 Reserve capacity stabilization 
fund. 
Establish this fund and set aside 
fees to pay for reserve capacity 
fund as needed.   
 
John made a motion to 
recommend approval to establish 
this fund and set aside fees to 
fund it.  Terri seconded.  The 
committee approved 5-0. 
42 Establish a revolving loan to 
assist qualified town residents to 
upgrade/replace septic systems or 
connect to sewers. 
To be considered April 2 meeting.  Pending 
43 Rescind the remaining 
borrowing authorization from 
article 2 of the November 2001 
STM.   
To be considered April 2 meeting. 
 
44 Minor re-wording of articles To be considered April 2 meeting.  
45 Minor re-wording of articles To be considered April 2 meeting.  
46 Minor re-wording of articles To be considered April 2 meeting.  
47  Re-wording Farmers’ Market To be considered April 2 meeting.  
 
 
5.  Minutes of the March 19 meeting:  Karin made a motion to approve the minutes, and Terri seconded her motion 
and the committee approved the minutes as submitted 4-0.  As Mark did not attend the March 19 meeting, he 
did not vote. 
 
6.  Committee/Department Liaison Updates: 
 
Committee/Department—
Reported By: 
Update: 
Capital Planning--John H. The CPC will meet on Tuesday, March 31 at Town Hall to take up changes in 
the Town Manager revisions, review the priority of capital project requests, 
and take up a request from the library and financing or purchasing capital 
items. 
Public Works--John  H. No report. 
PACC--John H. No report. 
Library—Caroline G. The Library Trustees will meet on Wednesday, April 1 on the library FY16 
budget. 
Council on Aging—Caroline G. No report. 
Public Safety—Terry No report. 
===PAGE 7===
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150326.docx    7 of 7 
 
Schools—Karin No report. 
Monty Tech—Karin No report. 
Sewer Commission—Jay No report. 
Green Community—Jay No report. 
Building Re-Use—Mark Next building re-Use meeting will be on April 6. 
School Building—Mark No report. 
 
7.  Future Agenda Items:  
A.  Budget Goals and Opportunities 
B.  Pavement Management Program 
C.  Review contract commitments (E.g. sick leave buy-back.) 
  
 
8.  Next Meeting:  April 2, Special Meeting: 
A.  Complete the review of the FY16 Budget. 
B.  Resume discussions on articles in the Fiscal Year 2016 Warrant and votes on those articles 
that have a direct financial effect on the Town’s revenues and/or expenditures.   
C.  Mark plans to bring a copy of the Finance Committee budget letter to the Town and the 
committee will review it. 
 
9.  Adjournment:  Terri moved to adjourn the meeting, Terri’s motion was seconded by Karin and 
approved 5-0. The meeting adjourned at 9:11 pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw April 20, 2015 
 
 
Copy: Paula Bertram 
 Carl Luck 
 