===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes December 10, 2015
Location:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Absent:
None
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager, Tom Alonzo, BOS liaison
1. Mark called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. The school committee has a quorum and Greg Berthiaume called the School Committee to
order at 7:00.
3. Comments:
a. Public:
b. Committee: The audited reports for FY15 will be presented to the Finance
Committee, probably at our January 14 meeting.
c. Mark briefly described the State House notes program as a vehicle to finance
relatively small (less than $5,000,000) loans for terms of three years or less. This is
the way the Town financed the back hoe, dump truck, and sweeper.
4. Workshop with Superintendent Calmes and Members of the School Committee
a. Mark began by saying that John's recent analysis of annual school expenditures net
of Chapter 70 state aid and Monty Tech have remained nearly the same percent of
total annual Town expenditures over the five-year period from FY2011 to FY2015:
Annual School Department expenditures ranged from 38.5% of total Town
expenditures for the same fiscal year to 40.8% of total Town expenditures. Tom
Alonzo said he had done a similar analysis a few years ago and he found the same
thing-that annual school expenditures were
b. Both Greg G. and Loxi C. spoke about the need for more specialists to provide
• special services:
• The school provides a needs based program. But the costs are
unpredictable because it depends on the needs of a shifting student
population from year to year.
C. The Finance Committee has been looking into a priority based budget process based
on the costs of providing the current level of services in the following year. Mark
explained that level services means starting with the same people and the question
is how to deploy them.
Mn-FY16-151210.Draft (local and remote drives)
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 19 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
d. Both Loxi said the School Department budget is needs based-how much funding
the schools would need to maintain services they provided in the prior year.
• Greg stated that the student population changes from year to year, and that
more students need special services. This has meant having to provide more
services each year. Further the school department dynamics can limit the
changes the schools can make in utilizing their personnel.
• Loxi explained that the school department has a process they go through to
decide how to best utilize the funds they have each year. Greg added that
the process helps the school department evaluate and articulate what
services they need to provide and how to provide them.
• During the budget process Greg said that they don't know what the revenues
from the state and the federal government will be.
e. Revenues:
• Chapter 70:
• Greg said there recently had been an increase in Chapter 70 state aid,
but also that Chapter 70 state aid was aid to the Town, and that it
was not earmarked for the schools. There is a foundation budget for
the schools-a minimum level of the school budget-calculated from a
formula. As long as the school budget equals or exceeds the
minimum level, Chapter 70 funds are not required to be spent on the
schools.
• Mark said that it is, however, the practice of the town to earmark any
increases in Chapter 70 aid to the schools.
• Loxi said that a couple of years ago the Town had someone give a
presentation on Chapter 70 that was a very helpful explanation of this
complicated topic.
a. Both committees were interested in seeing the presentation.
b. There may be an open School Committee meeting when the
School Committee could schedule this presentation and both
committees could attend.
• Increased fees:
• Loxi stated that the fee burden was pretty high, though Karin said
that Lunenburg is less expensive than other towns in the area.
f. The budget process:
• There was a general understanding that the School Committee and the
Finance Committee would have areas of disagreement.
• Loxi said that the perception that schools are pitting groups against each
other is very concerning to her. She has seen what happens when people
are pitted against each other. But Mark said we can respectfully disagree
without being disagreeable.
g. Public Comments:
• Selectman Tom Alonzo observed that by their nature budgets are
controversial and the process can be contentious. Town departments have to
craft a budget that reflects needs, not limited by revenue constraints. But
having data and a supporting narrative to go with the data can help clarify a
• Selectman Bob Ebersole noted that the management of Town departments is
a challenge when the ability to meet real public needs is constrained by lack
of revenues. Then the Town Manager can act as an intermediary between
competing department requirements.
Mn-FY16-151210.Draft (local and remote drives)
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
• Carl Luck stated that it is up to the individual department whether to build in
a wish list of requirements, but the resulting budget can become so
unrealistically high may be construed as unrealistic.
h. The school committee adjourned their meeting at 8:32 pm.
5. Minutes:
a. Terri made a motion to approve the minutes of the December 3, 2015 meeting. Jay
seconded the motion. The motion carried 5-0.
6. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
a. Budget Priorities and the Priority Setting Process:
• Emphasis on facts and narratives.
• Budget working committee was in Tom's and Mark's estimation a useful
committee to address how to fund service levels that served as a discussion
group. It explored the tensions that existed between departments and
boards. But it was disbanded three or four years ago.
7. Committee Updates:
Committee Department
DPW-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Update
Public Access Cable-John H.
Library-Terri B
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools-Karin M.
Monty Tech-Karin M.
Council on Aging-Karin M.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S.
School Bldg. Comm.--Mark E.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
No report
Jamie Toale and I have been in touch regarding setting up
meetings now that Kerry has issued the five-year financial
forecast.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
Mark was unable to attend the December 9 meeting. But
with 70% of the building project completed, total
contingency expenditures are under $200,000.
No report.
8. The next two meetings:
a. January 14 hearing a presentation of the audited report on FY2015.
b. January 28-tentatively receive the capital plans recommendation.
9. Meeting Adjourned: Terri moved to adjourn the meeting and Jay seconded the motion.
The board voted 5-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 9:16.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw January 13, 2016
Copy: Karen Brochu, Tom Alonzo
Mn-FY16-151210.Draft (local and remote drives)
3 of 3
