===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of tunenburn
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 4 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes September 24, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark. Erickson, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Not Present:
Terri Burchfield, Tom Alonzo, BOS Liaison, Karen Brochu, Town Accountant
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager, Lisa Cohen
a. Public-Mark gave an overview of the Finance Committee:
i. Requirements for a quorum---a majority of the seven member committee.
•
We are two members short of being a full committee.
il. Meetings run between one and two hours.
ill. The committee usually meets twice a month. During the three months or so
when meeting on the budget, the committee meets virtually every week.
iv. Liaison roles and standing committees (e.g. School Building, Capital Planning)
as well as other departments like Public Safety, Schools, DPW.
b. Committee:
i. The Open Meeting Law Workshop will be held at the Senior Center on
Wednesday, September 30 at 7:00 pm, Kopelman and Paige, PC will cover
open meeting law: Public records, conflict of interest, disclosure statements,
and site visits. This notice went out to all Attendance is strongly
recommended. This has been sent to all appointed and elected boards and
committees. Members are strongly urged to attend.
ii. The annual Association of Town Finance Committee meeting will be held on
Saturday, October 17, in Sturbridge, MA. Link to www.MMA.org for more
information.
2. Town Manager's Report:
a. The BOS has called a Special Town Meeting, Monday, November 16.
i. Articles not taken up at May meeting, which was suspended because the
ATM no longer had a quorum.
• There are several articles that had yet to be taken up at the May ATM
when the meeting was suspended, but few have any direct financial
effect, so the Finance Committee would not need to address them.
• There may be a budget adjustment article
• State aid has risen but the budget has not changed
• There are a couple of by-law modifications.
• The Personnel committee is proposing some changes to the salary
administration plan.
RECEIVED & FILED
Mn-FY16-150924 (local and cloud drives)
OCT 1 3 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1 of 4
===PAGE 2===
a. The changes would go into effect July, 2016-the start of
FY2017.
b. The proposed changes would-if approved--increase personnel
costs in future years.
c. Mark asked if we could schedule the Personnel Committee
could meet with the Fin Common October 8th (preferable) or
the 22nd.
i. Before then the personnel committee will meet on the
changes Thursday, October 1.
ii. John asked if the Finance Committee could get a copy
of the proposed changes.
• The Town may have a settlement with the Fire Fighter's Union.
• Kerry has asked the Town Clerk if the Town has any unpaid bills and
awaits an answer.
il. Unless and extra-ordinary issue presents itself for consideration by the
Special Town Meeting, the Finance Committee will not publish a statement
for this meeting.
b. Kerry is meeting with Nexamp on a net metering proposal. It's a private project
being built in Fitchburg. It would be for any Unitil (as opposed to Con Edison)
customer to buy new metering credits. The Board of Selectmen voted to enter into
a 50/50 project the Town gets 50% of the credits, and individuals may purchase
50% of the credits.
i. Projected savings for the Town are about $40,000 per year:
• The first six months from 11/2015-4/2016 the rate is 11.98 cents/kwh
• The six months from 5/2016-10/2016 is 8.9 cents/kwh.
c. John Londa is working on solar electricity for the Middle School-High School Project.
• This may be one investment to fund with the contingency funds that
remain after completion of the Junior-Senior High School.
d. The Town is re-funding the 2004 bond issue for the library and DPW buildings at a
potential savings of $100,000 over the life of the bond-through 2024. There is
another bond callable in 2017, but is currently at an interest rate that is closer to the
rates now and thus has less opportunity for savings.
3. Minutes:
a. August 27 minutes-Karin made a motion to approve the minutes and Jay seconded
the motion. The committee voted 4-0 to approve the motion.
b. September 10 minutes-John made a motion to approve the minutes and Jay
seconded the motion. The committee voted 3-0 to approve the minutes. Karin did
not attend that meeting, so she did not vote.
4. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
a. Background:
i.
The Town is in a period when revenues have been particularly tight.
ii. One area that has helped in recent years has been a smaller rate of increase
in health insurance costs.
ili. A small portion of the total Town budget is discretionary, which constrains
the leeway there is to shift resources around.
RECEIVED & FILED
Mn-FY16-150924 (local and cloud drives)
OCT 1 4 2015
LUNENBURG ROAN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
Mn-FY16-150924 (local and cloud drives)
• Discretionary items include departments like the Council on Aging and
the library-both of which have constituencies.
iv. The budget process over the past few years has been to allocate the Town's
revenue at a level that each department can provide the level of service it did
over the previous year. Prior year expenditures is a large factor in
determining the allocation of revenues.
V. Terri had sent the committee information on a priority driven budget process,
which is a way to develop a budget. This process begins with a strategic
plan which sets priorities which guide decisions on allocating revenues to
fund programs and departments, rather than based on previous
expenditures.
• Potential issues:
a. The paper listed much larger cities which had used this
process and which likely more staff to work on the budget
issues.
b. Our Town may lack the staff to establish priorities, determine
funding levels to support the priorities and do the requisite
follow up.
c. Discretionary expenditures are a small part of the total Town
d. Mandates and/or incentives from the state regarding funding
priorities is another potentially limiting factor.
e. Building the necessary political buy-in on this.
• Potential Opportunities:
a. This approach may be useful to apply to the discretionary
parts of the budget.
b. It could also provide a framework for measuring the results of
funding in terms of services, the analogy being return on
investment.
C.
It could also be a tool to help prioritize allocations of growth in
revenue-concern more with the new money.
i. Allocating year-to-year revenue growth would not
involve taking revenue from departments.
ii. Some principles could clarify decisions about allocating
growth in revenue among departments.
• Issues with some current metrics:
a. Comparisons between Lunenburg's allocations of revenues
with other towns' allocations are not ideal due to the disparate
circumstances of the communities being compared. (E.g.
whether Towns belong to regional school systems.)
b. Showing how much in local taxes the average taxpayer spends
on specific services the Town provides is fomenting discontent
on how their taxes are being spent takes care.
i. The resulting discussion was about presenting what
the alternatives would be to investing the money.
• We will continue this conversation when Terri in back with us for the
discussion.
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 4 2015
LUNENBURG TOW.+
CLERK OFFICE
3 of 4
===PAGE 4===
5. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
DPW-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Public Access Cable-John H.
Library-Terri B.
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools-Karin M.
Monty Tech-Karin M.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S.
School Building Comm--Mark E.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
Update
No report.
The time horizon for the capital plan has been extended to
15 years at least. This is to get a longer term future capital
requests to aid in budgeting and scheduling, large capital
requests defined as over $100,000.
No report.
No report.
No report.
Total enrollment of students attending Lunenburg schools
has increased by 17 students since June, 2015 and is now
1,574 students. The increase is concentrated in the 4th and
6" grades, and the schools added one teacher in each of
these grades in response to keep class sizes at acceptable
levels. They are working on their 15 year plan for capital
planning committee. John Londa is working on a plan to
extend THMS longer than 2024, at the request of Dr.
Berthiaume.
No report.
No report
No report.
No report-they have not met since Mark's last report.
RFQ awarded to Tappé Associates. Tappé has 12 weeks
roduce their findings. Separately the committee wil
hange the night it meets to accommodate members
schedules.
6. Ongoing Business:
a. Pavement Management Plan
i. Kerry may have a recommendation on or by November 10th on the funding of
the PMP which may lead to a discussion of how to fund road maintenance.
b. Contract Commitments (e.g. sick leave buy back).
c. Rules for retainage for the school construction project.
7. The next two meetings will be October 8t and October 22nd.
8. Meeting Adjourned: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting and Jay seconded the motion.
The board voted 4-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:38.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw September 28, 2015
Copy: Karen Brochu, Tom Alonzo
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 4 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Mn-FY16-150924 (local and cloud drives)
4 of 4
