===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
Town of Lumerbye
12/3/15
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes November 12, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Absent:
None
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager, Tom Alonzo, BOS liaison
1. Meeting called to order by Mark E. at 7:00 pm.
2. Comments:
a. Public--None.
b. Committee:
• Mark said the revised assessment from Monty Tech went down to $799,478-
a reduction of about $2,500.
• Mark referenced the Town Senior Tax Work-off Abatement Program where
senior citizens who qualify can work off up to $1,000 of their property taxes.
• The Lunenburg Planning Board will meet on November 23 to review a
request for a site planning review for a patio dining area at One Main Street,
a request to construct driveways and an application to cut down some shade
trees. Applications and plans are available at the Planning Office.
• In light of the fact that Veterans' Day was yesterday. Mark expressed
gratitude to all veterans for their service.
3. Review and Recommendation of Articles on the November 16, 2015 FY2016 Special Town
Meeting Warrant: Please refer to the warrant for more specific details on each article.
#
Explanation
Recommendation &
Vote
3
Funding first year of Firefighter's Agreement-will be
passed over.
Funding to pay prior year expenses-moot-there are no
prior year expenses.
FY 16 Budget Adjustments: As revenues changed after the
Annual Town Meeting, Kerry recommends minor changes in
the FY16 budget. Note: This routine process is a result of
the ATM voting on a budget in early May before next year's
revenues are finalized.
No recommendation or
vote.
No recommendation or
John moved to
recommend approval of
article 3 as written in
the warrant. Karin
seconded the motion.
The motion carried-5-0
Mn-FY16-151112 (local and remote drives)
1 of 4
===PAGE 2===
Rescind borrowing authority previously granted.
8
9
Bylaw to regulate use of vehicles on Whalom Lake
Bylaw to regulate public use of marijuana or THC
10 Licensing pawnbrokers in Town
11
Granting Agric. Commission oversight of Farmers' Market.
12
Granting BOS to make agreements w/alt. energy-
continuing the authorization from earlier Town Meeting.
13 Updating Art. XV of Salary Admin. Plan Presentation by
Cheryl Vallera.
14 Adding funds to the Stabilization fund-to keep the
stabilization fund at 5% of the omnibus budget.
The committee had
voted to recommend
approval at the Annual
Town Meeting. There
was no reason to re-
visit this issue.
No direct financial
effect.
No direct financial
effect.
We will await
presentation to
determine if there is a
direct financial effect.
The committee had
voted to recommend
approval at the Annual
Town Meeting provided
there is a direct financial
effect.
The committee had
voted to recommend
approval at the Annual
Town Meeting provided
there is a direct financial
effect.
Terri moved to
recommend approval of
article 13 as presented
at the Special Town
Meeting. John
seconded the motion.
The motion carried- 5-0
Karin moved to
recommend approval of
article 14 in the amount
of $7,136. Terri
seconded the motion.
The motion carried-5-0
No direct financial
effect.
15
Non-binding resolution opposing the NE direct Energy
Project.
4. Town Manager's Report:
a. Kerry proposed presenting the revenue forecast on Thursday, December 3, 2015.
The committee agreed to meet on the first Thursday of December as long as the
committee has a quorum.
5. Minutes:
a. Oct 8 Meeting minutes: Terri made a motion to accept the minutes as corrected and
Karin seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion 5-0.
Mn-FY16-151112 (I ocal and remote drives)
> of 4
===PAGE 3===
6. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
a. Mark said that the school committee is welcome to attend our December 10 meeting
b. John reported that expenditures for Special Services (special education, free and
reduced lunches, etc.) expenditures, over the past several years have grown faster
by about one percent annually than the school department budget as a whole and
exceed the rate of growth of total Town revenues for that period. He suggests we
take this up either on our meeting of December 3 or December 10. Mark stated that
the meeting on the third would be dedicated to the Town Manager's five year
revenue forecast, so the meeting on the tenth would be the more opportune time for
this discussion.
7. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
DPW-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Public Access Cable—John H.
Library -Terri B
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools-Karin M.
Monty Tech-Karin M.
Council on Aging-Karin M.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S
School Bldg. Comm.--Mark E.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
Update
Jack said that increases for salt and sand were much lower
than last year's increases.
The committee has met with the four departments that
account for nearly all capital requests-Fire, DPW, Police,
and schools to explain the longer planning horizon and to
go over preliminary requests. This led to a spreadsheet
that combines vehicle requests from DPW, Police, and Fire
Departments that may lead to timing of vehicle requests.
Rhonda Lisio resigned from the PACC and CAC.
No report.
Everything is on target in Fire and Potice Depts.
No report.
No report.
Last meeting they announced the senior citizen tax work
off program. There also were some building repairs done.
No report.
No report
The project is about 65% complete, on schedule, and on
budget. The building is weather tight going into the
winter. Permanent power is turned on and the heat is on
buildings A & B. The committee may be able to tour the
construction site on November 18th. Change order #5 is to
change the grade in the auditorium and for installation of
cement filled cylinders called bollards--recommended by
the Fire Dept. as extra protection for gas lines entering the
building. These two changes cost $8,203, and change
orders now total a little over $170,000. The budgeted
contingency is about $4 million.
The committee met with Charley Hay of Tappé Assoc. who
has updated the Town's space requirements, performed a
preliminary audit of the buildings, and developed
alternatives in terms of cost and suitability. Charley is on
schedule. At the next meeting is Nov. 24 and the
committee will work on developing a list of FAQs for the
public's information.
Mn-FY16-151112 (local and remote drives)
3 of 4
===PAGE 4===
8. Ongoing Business:
a. Pavement Management Plan-BOS had a review of the PMP with emphasis on
prioritizing funding for the plan.
b. Rules for retainage and release of funds of the school building project: Every line
item has a 5% retainage subject to release upon satisfactory completion, and the
retainage is released line item by line item.
9. The next three meetings will be November 16 at 7:00 -- the Special Town Meeting, and
December 3, when Kerry presents the five year revenue forecast, and our regularly
scheduled meeting on the second Thursday in December-the tenth.
10. Meeting Adjourned: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting and Terri seconded the motion.
The board voted 5-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:00.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw December 1, 2015
Copy: Karen Brochu, Tom Alonzo
Mn-FY16-151117 (local and remote drives)
4 of 4
