===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Caroline Griffis
Jay Simeone
Тони о непризна
1/22/15
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes: January 8, 2015 Meeting
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Also Present: Jamie Toale--BOS Liaison, Kerry Speidel
Absent:
Caroline Griffis
1. Mark called the meeting to order at 7:02 pm.
2. Communications:
A. Public: None.
B. Committee:
i. Mark circulated to the committee notification of the Central Mass. Mosquito Control
meeting at the Northborough Free Library on January 14 on the FY16 mosquito
control budget.
il. Mark also handed out the Budget Hearing Schedule and the Proposed Schedule for
FY2015 Annual Town Meeting.
3. Highlights of the Review of the Report of the 2014 Audited Financial Statements by Powers and
Sullivan, LLC. For more detail than given below, note that the audit report is on file at Town Hall.
A. The Town received a clean report finding on the way the Federal Award Program funds was
accounted for and managed
B. The audit tested internal controls and audited the Town's Balance Statement and Accounts
and found all in good order.
C. Financial statements conform to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
D. Their audit established that the budget is operationally sound and cited in particular:
i. Free Cash levels and planning.
ii. Stabilization funds - general and dedicated - prudent balances.
ili. Funding of capital expenditures.
iv. Debt Reserve balances.
V. Budgeting for Snow and Ice Removal.
vi. The Town's projections of reserve requirements are valid.
E. The Management Report included recommendations in three categories:
i. Documenting the work processes of Town Hall employees so that when new or other
employees have to fill in or take over other jobs, the transition is smooth.
ii. Computer passwords and restricted access to documents to those who need access
to do their work to better secure information.
ili. OPEB: The recommendation is that the Town take proactive steps to at least mitigate
the long term liability consistent with those steps taken by towns that are peers to
Lunenburg in the state.
RECEIVED & FILED
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150108.docx
JAN 2 6 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN 10F3
TIERE OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
4. Town Manager Report:
A. Charlie Baker, as new governor, gets an additional month to prepare the state budget. Thus
the Town will put together the FY16 budget without formal input on levels of state aid.
However Kerry said that she does not think there will be any changes in state aid to the
Town-at least for FY16.
B. The Library is concerned about the effect to their expenditures relative to FY15 budget from
the increase in electricity costs. There may be a $5,500 overspend.
C. The Schools are looking into an apparent discrepancy regarding 87 students who reportedly
have opted to choice out to other districts. This if valid, means a $100,000 increase in costs
to the Town. However, 87 students is much higher than recent experience and may be an
overstatement. Loxi is working to find out whether the information is correct.
5. Minutes of the December 11, 2014 Meeting: Mark had two corrections, which John will make to the
Minutes. Terri moved that the minutes be approved as amended. Jay seconded her motion and the
committee approved the motion 5-0.
> Action item: John will correct the minutes, sign them and give them to the Town Clerk's
office next week.
6. Committee/Department Liaison Updates:
Committee/Department-
| Update:
Reported By:
Capital Planning--John H.
• The CPC has completed a nearly final priority list of capital requests for
funding in FY16.
• We also discussed scenarios of borrowing and the effect borrowing to
fund the purchase of high cost capital requests on the capital budget in
FY 17 and beyond. John handed out a work-in-progress spreadsheet
illustrating the process and framing the issues around borrowing.
• Mark recommended we study the spreadsheet/process to prepare for
the Capital Planning Committee presentation of the proposed capital plan
Public Works--John H.
Library-Caroline G.
PACC-John H.
Building Re-Use--Mark E.
There is nothing to report.
No update.
The PACC met, elected officers and reviewed the status of the Public
Access Cable.
• Mike Mackin brought a rough draft idea of the minimum lot sizes tor
TC Passios and the Brooks House.
• The Planning Board hopes to review the layout by January.
• Jamie will update his spreadsheet with the new information.
• The next meeting will be in March.
School Building-Mark E.
Schools--Karin M.
The School Building Committee will meet next week.
At the 1/7 meeting the school committee decided on an FY16 budget that
would be a 6.09% over the FY15 budget. This proposed budget will
increase further as the full effect of an increase in paraprofessionals and
regular teachers is factored in.
Monty Tech--Karin M.
Council on Aging, Caroline
Nothing to report.
No Update.
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150108.docx
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 2 6 2015
LUNANEERO :
CLERK OFFICE
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
Public Safety -Terri B.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Community-Jay S.
Nothing to report, but Terri will be in touch with both the Fire and Police
Departments regarding their budget presentations-e.g. round the clock
schedules and how budget constraints would affect service levels.
There is nothing to report.
• The Green Community is moving on installing LED lights at the Library
as there is grant money for this.
7. Future Agenda Items
• Capital Planning Presents the proposed capital plan for FY16 to the Fin Common January 22.
• Departmental FY16 Budget Presentations weekly from Feb. 19 through March 26.
8. Meeting Adjournment: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting, her motion was seconded by Jay and
approved 5-0. The meeting adjourned at 9:10 PM.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw January 16, 2015
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 2 6 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
3 0f3
Minutes-LFC-FY1501-150108.docx
