===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
12/10/15
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes December 3, 2015 Meeting
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Karin Menard, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Absent:
None
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager, Tom Alonzo, BOS liaison
1. Mark called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Comments:
a. Public-Superintendent Calmes invited townsfolk to attend performances of A Date
with Judy Friday, 12/04 and Saturday, 12/05 at 7:00 p.m. at the high school
auditorium: a taste of Broadway, a fraction of the price.
b. Committee:
• Mark said the Planning Board Meeting scheduled an informational meeting on
December 14 at 6:35 p.m. at Town Hall to hear and discuss a site plan
review for a proposed office and maintenance facility. The applicant is Unitil.
The application and plans are available for review at the planning office.
• Mark has the latest issue of The Beacon for the committee's review.
3. The Five Year Financial Forecast by Kerry Lafleur.
Note: These minutes cover the requirement of a forecast, its purposes within the
budget process, goals, and guidelines for doing a forecast. For specifics, click on
Forecast to link to a pdf file on the Town Web site. You can also link to a video of the
Town Manager's presentation on You Tube.
a. This forecasting process is required under section 4-2 S of the Town Charter. Bond
rating agencies look favorably on Towns that forecast which in turn contributed to
the Town's improved bond rating and lower borrowing rates.
b. The forecast provides a comprehensive, long term of service delivery based on
known information and assumptions. A budget, in contrast, is a specific plan to
provide services during the fiscal year.
c. Goals of forecasting:
• Providing a long term perspective especially regarding what to expect as the
budget process unfolds.
• Identifying any fiscal problems in the period forecasted.
• Providing the opportunity to plan for change.
• Emphasizes the need for long range considerations during the annual budget
process.
Note: If the forecast shows a shortfall, the forecast does not address ways to
deal with that.
Mn-FY16-151203.Draft Draft (local and remote drives)
1 of 4
===PAGE 2===
d. Forecast Guidelines:
• Statutes: Mass General Laws, Town By-Laws
• Generally Accepted Standards
• Town Financial Policies
• Trends and projections
• Contractual Obligations and debt service obligations.
e. The Town manager did not include any 40S funds in the forecast, but she did
include $150,000 of 40S funding in the target budget.
f. Summary of revenues:
• Forecasted Increase in Revenues in FY17: $861,920.
• Target budget is $150,000 more - see 3. e. above.
• Revenue from local sources is forecasted to increase at a faster rate than
revenue from state aid.
g. Expenditures in FY17 assumptions:
• For the most part expenditures are to fund level services.
• Exceptions are noted in the forecast spreadsheet.
• The total increase in costs is two to three percent.
• NexAmp project net credit is not included.
• Retirement assessment increases nine percent.
• Health insurance increases seven percent.
• The Town may have to take into account the "Cadillac" tax under a provision
in the Affordable Care Act taxing high cost health care plans.
h. Summary of expenditures:
• Lunenburg Public Schools (excluding Monty Tech) initial forecast is for an
increase of $1,200,000 or seven percent over their FY16 budget.
• Most of this increase would fund special education programs within
the district as opposed to out of district to provide a better
educational services at a cost saving and also to pay for increased
health insurance costs.
• The remainder of the increase is to fund additional teaching positions,
a custodial position, and an IT position.
• Public Safety department requested an increase just under $49,000 for level
services with funding for overtime and lockup.
Radio dispatch is a projected decrease of $15,100 with the same
levels of service. The Town will see a decrease in regional dispatch
allocation in FY17 and FY18 with the addition of Bolton and Berlin
respectively.
• Fire Department forecast an increase of $14,000 to maintain the same
service level.
• Public Works forecast is to:
• Add one member to make two full time three people crews to
increase efficiency.
• There is $40,000 in the budget for stormwater system maintenance,
but the Town needs a funding source to pay for the coming mandate
as we do not have a source of revenue to fund this.
• The goal is to fund the Pavement Management Program [PMP] at
$1,000,000 per year. The PMP is currently funded at $670,000
annually: $420,000 of Chapter 90 funds and $250,000 from the
operating budget. If, as the Town retires long term non-exempt
debt, we could shift the revenue consequently freed up, to fund the
PMP, that could reduce the shortfall between FY17 and FY20.
Mn-FY16-151203.Draft (local and remote drives)
7 of 4
===PAGE 3===
a. There are however other capital needs the Town faces.
b. Mark asked if there was room in the capital budgets going
forward for the expenditures of borrowing. Kerry said there
was-especially for shorter term borrowing. She said that
there was nothing wrong in prudent borrowing. She also
mentioned using State House Notes that make available loans
at low rates for up to $2,000,000 not to exceed five years in
duration.
• There are no funds for building maintenance in this forecast.
• General Administration increases are due to an increase in the audit cost and
contractual obligations.
• Excluded:
• Addressing the recurring annual shortfalls of the capital budget
relative to capital requests.
Town Hall restoration and expenditures related to building re-use.
• Other Post-Employment Benefits [OPEB]. The Town's contributions to
OPEB liabilities fall short of the growth of actuarial costs.
i. Next steps:
• Evaluate assumptions.
• Kerry will firm up the revenue estimates.
• The departments will prepare their actual requests for FY17.
• The Town will receive the insurance renewals in February.
• Kerry handed out the budget planning schedule.
• Recommend that the Finance Committee meet with Capital Planning early in
the process.
j. Mark thanked Kerry for the tremendous amount of work, the thoroughness and the
tightness of the forecast. He also congratulated her and her staff on getting the tax
rate certification in record time.
4. Minutes:
a. Minutes of the November 12, Terri corrected the reference to the Police Department
in the minutes, and John wrote her correction on the printed copy. Karin made a
motion to approve the November 12 minutes as corrected; Terri seconded the
motion. The committee approved the motion 5-0.
b. Minutes if the November 16 meeting. Karin made a motion to approve the minutes
of the November 16 meeting as written. Jay seconded the motion. The committee
approved the minutes 5-0.
a. Mark invited the Superintendent and the School Committee to attend our meeting.
Superintendent Calmes and Greg Berthiaume will attend. If enough other members
attend that the School Committee has a quorum they will call a meeting to order.
b. John asked if we could include a brief review of possible effects of the Salary
Administration Plan just approved by the Special Town Meeting.
Mn-FY16-151203.Draft flocal and remote drives)
3 of 4
===PAGE 4===
6. Committee Updates:
Committee/Department
DPW-John H.
Update
Jack said that the Parks and Recreation Committee and he
have been discussing ways to set up user fees for athletic
fields including the turf track and field. So far it is only in
the discussion stage.
Capital Planning-John H.
One result of Kerry's financial forecast will be that the
Capital Planning Committee will reconvene on the proposed
capital plan for FY17.
Public Access Cable—-John H.
Library-Terri B.
No report.
The trustees were discussing the celebration of the tenth
anniversary of the new library. They are very pleased with
the new library web site...
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools-Karin M.
No report.
The School Committee had a televised meeting to go over
their proposed new budget. The budget documents are
posted on the school web site so those who want to
familiarize themselves with the budget proposals can look
on the school web site.
Monty Tech-Karin M.
Council on Aging-Karin M.
Sewer Commission -Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S.
School Bldg. Comm.--Mark E.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
The committee will meet next week, and has not met since
Mark's last report.
The committee got an interim report from Charley Hay of
Tappé Associates on the review of the existing buildings
and the feasibility plan for Town offices. We have seven
alternatives Charley is looking at in terms of what the
potential cost may be. The committee looked at an
evaluation matrix. They began work on developing a list of
FAQs for the public's information. The review and
feasibility process is on schedule.
7. Ongoing Business:
a.
The consensus was there was no need to discuss this at this meeting.
8. The next three meetings will be December 10 at 7:00, January 14, and January 28. The
Town Manager has given us the budget planning schedule so we can plan our meetings
accordingly.
9. Meeting Adjourned: Karin moved to adjourn the meeting and Terri seconded the motion.
The board voted 5-0 in favor; the meeting adjourned at 8:26.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw December 9, 2015
Copy: Karen Brochu, Tom Alonzo
Mn-Fy16-151203.Draft (local and remote drives)
4 of 4
