===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
BURO, MASS
Finance Committee:
Mark Erickson, Chairman
Terri Burchfield, Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Secretary
Karin Menard
Jay Simeone
3/3/2016
Lunenburg Fiance Committee
Minutes February 18, 2016
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Town Hall
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Jay Simeone, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
Finay Leafleur, Town Manager, Karen Brochu, Town Financial Manager/Director of Municipal
1) Mark E. called the Finance Committee meeting to order at 7:00 pm. He announced that this meeting is
broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access Cable Channel. The video recording is posted on YouTube at
https://www.youtube.com/user/LunenburgAccess and select Finance Committee 02.18.16.
2) Comments:
a.
Public: None
b. New Communications:
i) John suggested that at a future meeting the committee consider a few issues that have potential
consequences on future Town budgets and that have surfaced during this budget process. Mark said
we could put this on a subsequent agenda after the Town budget process is done.
Note: These minutes are an overview of this presentation. For specific details, copies of Chief Marino's and Chief
Sullivan's presentations are attached to these minutes filed in the Town Clerk's office.
3) Police Department FY17 Budget Presentation by Chief Marino. Lieutenant Mike Luth was also present.
Police Department Fiscal 2017 Budget Presentation by Police Chief Jim Marino
Below is a summary of the presentation. For details you can access the presentation on the finance
Committee Page on the Lunenburg On-line site.
Overview:
• The FY17 recommended budget is $31,000, or 2.2% higher than the FY16 recap.
Effects on Current Service Levels:
The budget is essentially level funded, which Chief Marino said was not necessarily a
level service budget relative to the challenges that the department faces. As an
example, Chief Marino said that the number of arrests in Lunenburg have increased
180% in the past five years.
•
There is no funding for additional officers which Chief Marino has requested. That
means that the department will not have a larger presence in the community, and will
not be able to augment the community outreach efforts.
• Even if the Town were to fund one additional officer would help him, though
three would be much better.
• The more officers on patrol, the greater the deterrence to crime.
• Self-initiated police interventions and the deterrent effects of those actions have
declined as officers do not have time when they are busy handling calls.
Mn-FY16-160218-Draft.xIsx (local and remote drives)
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
Future Plans and Issues:
• The contract the police have with the Town expires this fiscal year. So a new contract
will have to be negotiated to set pay levels.
•
The Power DMS software will improve efficiency. See the presentation for details.
• The department needs a records retention room that was a capital projects request,
but was not approved for FY17.
•
•
Mandatory training and providing additional coverage when officers are in training.
Narcan has become so common that the price is starting to creep up. As of now funds
for Narcan is built into the police department budget, but as prices increase this may
strain future budgets.
Fire Department Fiscal 2017 Budget Presentation by Fire Chief Pat Sullivan
Below is a summary of the presentation. For details you can access the presentation on the Finance
Committee Page on the Lunenburg On-line site.
Overview:
• The FY17 recommended budget is $23,700, or 3.1% higher than FY16 recap.
• Note: The $282,000 in ambulance fees goes back to the general fund.
• The department responded to 2,000 calls last year, about 1 1/2% more than in 2014.
EMS calls have increased at a higher rate.
Effects on Service Levels:
•EMS supplies typically exceed the budgeted level and would be paid for by shifting
Tunding from other line items (e.g. equipment repair) if the funds are available.
Additional demand for EMS supplies has been driven increasingly by calls
related to drug reactions. The aging population is a factor too.
• The increased call volume-it now averages over four calls per day—is beginning to
strain the staff. For example, a typical EMS call lasts over four hours, including the
actual call and documentation.
Future Plans and Issues:
•
Because mandated training is not funded in this budget, this risks retention of call staff
who have to take training on their own time, which may force them to decide between
training and overtime at their paying job.
4) Mark related a message from Kerry asking that responses to increased chapter 70 and UGGA state aid to
cities and towns in the governor's budget be forwarded to Representative Benson's office within the next few
weeks.
5) Review of Minutes:
a. Minutes of February 11, 2016 Meeting: Karin made a motion to approve these minutes, and Jay
seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion by a vote of 5-0.
6) Budget Goals and Opportunities: There was no discussion at this meeting.
7) Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Update
DPW-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
No report.
No report.
Mn-FY16-160218-Draft.xisx (local and remote drives)
• 2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
Public Access Cable-John H.
Library-Terri B.
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools-Karin M.
The PACC postponed its meeting of Monday, February 8 due to
the snow storm. The meeting was rescheduled to Monday,
February 22.
The Board of Trustees have some concern over the increase in
CW Mars fees. This increase is a result of the state not funding
them at the level they had been, so member libraries will have to
make up the difference.
No report.
The only bid to provide busing for the schools for FY17 was from
the current provide and it would be an increase of $40,000. This
is a service we are mandated to provide.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
No report.
Monty Tech Karin M.
Council on Aging-Karin M.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
Green Task Force-Jay S.
School Bldg. Comm.--Mark E.
Building Re-Use-Mark E.
8) Next meeting: Thursday, February 25". The Department of Public Works and the Land Use will give
presentations on FY17 budgets
9) Adjournment: Terri made a motion to adjourn and Jay seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 5-0 at 8:47.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw March 1, 2016
Attachments:
Police Department FY17 Budget Presentation
Fire Department FY17 Budget Presentation
Mn-FY16-160218-Draft.xlsx (local and remote drives)
3 of 3
