===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
Hannah Anderson, Member
John Henshaw, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582,4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes July 14, 2016
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Mark Erickson, Terri Burchfield, Hannah Anderson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw
Absent:
Pate
None
Also Present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager, Karen Brochu, Director of Municipal Finance.
George Martin, a citizen of Lunenburg.
1. Mark called the Finance Committee meeting to order at 7:00 pm
2. Comments:
a. Public: None.
b. New Communications:
• Mark paid the committee's membership to the Association of Town Finance Committees [AFTC]
• Lunenburg Planning Board meets on 7/25 6:35 PM to discuss amending a protective by-law.
• The Volunteer Appreciation evening will be at the Eagle House on Tuesday, July 26 at 7:00 pm.
• There are now tours of the new school building on Thursdays and Saturdays.
• Mark circulated the latest issue of The Advocate.
3. Organization of the committee for FY17:
a. Chairman: John moved and Jay seconded the motion to nominate Terri to chair the committee. There
were no other nominations; the committee voted 5-0 in favor.
b. Vice-Chairman: John moved and Terri seconded the motion to nominate Mark as vice-chairman. There
were no other nominations; the committee voted 5-0 in favor.
c. Secretary: John moved and Terri seconded the motion to nominate Jay as secretary. After brief
observations from Terri and John that there are many ways to record meeting minutes, Jay accepted the
nomination. There were no other nominations; the committee voted 5-0 in favor.
2. Department and Committee Liaison assignments: The committee deferred liaison assignments until the July
28t meeting to give members more time to consider which liaison assignments they would like to take on.
3. Finance Committee Representative to Town Manager Search Committee: John H. moved and Jay S.
seconded a motion that Mark E. be the Finance Committee representative; the motion was approved 5-0.
4. Town Manager's Report:
a. There will be a Special Town Meeting on Monday, August 22.
• Committee members will receive the warrant review prior to the August 11 meeting, when the
Finance Committee will discuss the articles and make recommendations for the Special Town
Meeting.
• The brief time between our August 11 meeting and the Special Town Meeting, means the finance
committee recommendations will not be in the printed warrant.
b. Projected FY16 expenditures are under budget and revenues are over budget.
• This would result in more free cash, which would be used to help fund the capital budget.
• Further, the Town could also use some of the projected surplus to buy back some unused sick leave
that Town employees have accrued, thus reducing future liabilities as these employees retire.
Mn-FY17-160714 doc (local and remote drives)
1 of 3
===PAGE 2===
5. Revision of the Town's Policy on Debt Service Costs:
a. The Town's current policy sets limits on the amount of regular debt service costs the Town may incur,
but does not address the limits on debt service costs on excluded debt the Town may incur.
b. Our bond rating agency interpreted the policy to cover not only debt service from regular debt, but also
debt service costs from debt as a result of debt exclusion overrides.
• When debt service costs increased because the Town financed excludable debt to construct the new
Jr.-Sr. High School, the bond rating agency concluded that the Town exceeded the debt service cost
limits set in the Town's financial policy.
• However, this resulted from a mistaken application of the debt-service policy.
C. In response, the committee discussed guidelines on modifying the Debt Service Policy:
• The revision to the debt policy will include a policy on excluded debt as well as, but separate from,
the policy on regular debt:
• The aim is to set separate limits on when and how much regular and excluded debt service costs
the Town may incur in the future.
• Establish separate metrics and limits on regular debt and on excluded debt. These limits will be
clearly stated, and easy to measure and apply.
Please note: The Town's Financial Advisor has yet to give his opinions on the debt service policy
including excluded debt.
d. Next steps: John will revise the spreadsheet he is working on to show historical and projected debt
service costs from regular borrowing, debt exclusion overrides through FY21—the period of the Town
manager's forecast.
• This exercise would exclude all Capital Improvement Projects under $300,000 in the capital
improvement plan.
• It would include projected debt service costs resulting from the Pavement Management debt
exclusion plan approved by the Town in May, 2016.
• It would also include-if possibleprojected debt service costs arising from renovation/maintenance
of Turkey Hill School.
6. Review of minutes, June 9, 2016 meeting.
a. Mark pointed out two errors in these minutes: The letter that Mark wrote was to the Lunenburg Ledger
not to the Sentinel and Enterprise and second, in Mark's report on the school building committee, the
words "has begun" should be included in the second sentence.
b. John will make both corrections and submit the corrected minutes at the next meeting.
7. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
Library-Terri B.
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools, Monty Tech, COA-Karin
Green Task Force-Jay S.
Sewer Commission Task Force
Jay S.
Building Re-use - Mark E.
Update
Revenues are nearly level with FY2015 and the reserve balance is
about $320,000. PACC has upgraded old equipment and is
making investments to transition to high definition broadcasting
capabilities.
No Report.
No Report.
The library has hired a new digital librarian.
No Report.
No Report.
No Report.
No Report.
No Report.
Mn-FY17-160714.doc (local and remote drives)
2 of 3
===PAGE 3===
School Bidg. Comm., Building Re-
use--Mark E.
The committee approved change order #15 for $24,732. This
change order covers costs for 1) Capping a space near the
auditorium railings so maintenance is easier, 2) Adding covers to
fin tube radiators, 3) As the elevator could not be inspected during
the Verizon strike, the Town had to pay for an elevator operator
to operate the elevator until it could be inspected, 4) Additional
excavation and foundation drainage of the new maintenance
garage. Note: The maintenance garage is complete except for
the floor pad, which is being poured next week.
Change order #15 brings total costs of all change orders to date
to $1,058,736. This is well within the approximately $4,000,000
amount for contingency in the budget.
The gym was fully abated and the demolition of the gym has
taken place. The rest of the abatement continues and there are
no issues with abatements thus far.
8. On-Going Business:
a. Kerry reported that the pavement management process is finishing its Spring/Summer paving and plans
to begin the new round of pavement work this Autumn.
b. Stormwater maintenance: The Town has included generic maintenance in the plan, and it is mostly just
country road drainage. There is little risk of cost overruns due to the nature of the work and the 20%
contingency built into each project
c. Marketing Plan for surplus property: Kerry stated that the due date for receipt of bids is Monday, July 18.
9. Next meeting: Thursday, July 28", at 7:00 PM in the Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall.
10. Adjournment: Jay made and Mark seconded a motion to adjourn. The committee approved the motion 5-0
and the meeting adjourned at 8:35.
Respectfully submitted by John Henshaw August 7, 2016
Mn-FY17-160714.docx (local and remote drives)
3 of 3
