===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
Hannah Anderson
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes 8-25-16
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson
None
Kerry Lafleur - Town Manager
George Martin
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Comments:
a. Public: This is the last scheduled meeting with the Town Manger. Kerry accepted a new position as
Finance Director for the Town of Concord. Members congratulated Kerry for excellent service over the
past 9 years to the town.
Tim Murphy, Town Moderator was notified of a candidate for FinCom.
b. New Communications:
• Public hearings - Planning Board on 9-12-16
• Storm water management special permit for 9 single family homes. 155 Reservoir Rd.
• Lake Whalom Overlay District: 22 unit town home development at 274 Prospect St.
• Auto detailing shop at 8 Massachusetts Ave.
• Members discussion regarding Planning Board articles that might be of financial concern or liability to
the town. TM to request a list of projects from the Planning Director.
•Discussion of how removal of Overlay District would affect Emerald Place development and other
areas of Town.
• Comments on Town Meeting Overlay District article.
3. FY2016 transfers:
Sick leave buy back for AFSME union employee's estimated at $100k.
Waiting for all employee's to complete there applications for the buy back.
Funding from FY16.
4. Town Manager Report:
TM Reports:
Received final rewards credits totaling $8848 from our insurance company: Massachusetts Inter-local
Insurance Assoc. (MIIA) for attending training and inspections programs.
Pavement Management Program (PMP): DPW Director presented to the Selectmen the year to year project
forecast.
All crack seal work to be done in FY2016
Paving work has started in Hickory Hills area.
Asphalt bid once every three years. FY17 is year one. Contract awarded to Keating Corp.
Previously paying $62 per ton. New rate is $58 per ton.
Projected $500K for drainage work.
Ch 90 funds to be used for all other roads that are not in the PMP.
===PAGE 2===
Starting in FY-18, $50k per year from excise taxes will be added to the Ch 90 funds for annual road
maintenance.
5. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
Financial policy for managing debt service: JH talked with John Londa, School Facilities Director,
regarding prospective repairs and renovations to the Turkey Hill Middle School (THMS). There are
$900k in critical repairs in the capital planning budget. An estimated $3.5M in necessary repairs plus
several larger projects like a new roof and asbestos remediation. Several years ago a market study
estimated renovations to cost $11M. The committee is looking to see what that number would be in
today's dollars. John Londa will be presenting his plan for repairs and renovations to school
committee this week. John H. to follow up to see when the School Committee is looking to start any
of these repairs or renovations and what the cost estimates are. How much money will they be
looking for from Capital Planning and how much debt will be incurred.
Members discussion regarding excluded and non excluded debt. How are large renovations projects
like the THMS affected by the debt policy. What are the affects of excluded debt on the bond rating?
hand much excluded debt is acceptable? How much debt, excluded or non-excluded, can the Town
6. Minutes: None
7. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
Council on Aging - John H.
Library-Terri B
Public Safety-Terri B.
Schools, Monty Tech,
Update
PACC budget: FY17 budget is 20% less than their actual needs.
PACC budget funded thru Comcast cable contract. Not tax
supported
TM comment: State Law change requiring budget to be presented
and approved at Town Meeting, same as other budgets. FinCom
may be able to loan PACC funds from Reserve account. PACC to
meet with FinCom on 9-22-16.
Reviewing the Re-design of 5 intersections:
Gilchrist at Northfield - less expensive
Oak Ave to Northfield
Highland - Main st at Oak Ave
Page at Lancaster - most expensive
Kiburn at Lancaster
Storm water maintenance
Underground fuel storage tank replacement. 30 years old.
Sue Doherty - Director
Operational budget issue with replacement of oven/range
appliances costing $4K.
Capital issue - Repairs need to front entrance of the building. Issue
with ice dams causing hazard to entrance.
Building exterior needs to be painted.
No Report.
No Report.
===PAGE 3===
Green Task Force-Jay S.
Sewer Commission-Jay S.
School Bldg. Comm., Building Re-
use-Mark E.
No Report.
Town Manager Search Comm.
No Report.
BRC - Received two market analysis bids. Both exceeded the
budgeted amount. They asked bidders to revise there proposals.
They will meet again next Monday. Unlikely they will be able to do
what they had original intended to do based on the money that
was approved and the proposals received. They will be looking to
revise their plan, and may need more money.
One bidder presented a bold vision for the TC Passio property.
Proposed a public/ private project. Called the Liktintal project.
Combination of homes and business.
Talked about selection criteria. Reviewed resumes. Invited the TM
and other department heads to give input to the criteria. Set
tentative dates for interviews in September. Looking for three
candidates to present to the BOS.
Member question to TM regarding how items under the Capital Planning threshold of $10K are funded.
TM commented there should be a line item added to the Facilities budget for small appliance replacement. It was
recommended an inventory of appliances be made to better prepare for replacement based on life cycle.
8. Next meeting: 9-8-16, 9-22-16 at 7:00 PM at the Town Hall.
9. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 5-0 at 8:42 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
