===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
George Martin
Cindy Testa
Lunenburg Finance Committee DRAFT
09-14-17
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, George Martin
Cindy Testa
Heather Lemieux - Town Manager. Karen Brochu - Town Accountant
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm.
2. Comments:
a. Public: None
New Communications: The Chair circulated a "Notice of Decision" by the Planning Board that relates to
40 Pioneer Drive. There is a 20 day appeal period if any is aggrieved by the decision.
• The Chair circulaled the agenda for the Association of Town Finance Committee (ATFC) annual meeting this
fall. work shop on October 21, 2017
3. FY 2017 transfers: Request for a FY18 Salary Reserve transfer:
Transfer from the Salary Reserve to the Finance Director Town Accountant salary the amount of
$15.492.80.
And a transfer in the amount of $480 from the Salary Reserve transfer to the Finance Director Town
Accountant cell phone stipend. This is for the Town Accountant contract agreement.
Mark moved we approve the FY18 salary transfer as read. All in Favor 6-0
4. Town Financial Officers reports:
From the Town Assessor office: New Growth estimated at $374K for Real Estate. This does not
include the Personnel Property assessment that is being done by a contracted vendor. That figure is
expected with in the next few weeks. New Growth should be certified by the Special Town meeting
and then it will be available for appropriation this year.
Land Auction: $37K net after expenses that will go to Free cash. Four out 5 properties sold. 5K low
bid. $15K high bid. One lot had potential encroachment issue. The Treasure/Collector's office is in the
process of soliciting bids to survey the property.
Painting of Town hall. Bids to go out by next week. Color to be White with black shutters
Parker Elmore consultants to make a presentation regarding OPEB this fall.
Road salt bid came less than last year.
5. Review of minutes: 05-25-17
John motion as amended. Hannah seconded. Mark abstained.
6. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
Discuss Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) expectations:
There was board discuss around how to determine the cost of OPE and is there a way to break out
the OPEB cost between the Schools and the Town. The Town Accountant believes that the
information provided to Parker for the year end report shows that. Approximately 90% of Town
retirees are former school employees. How does funding OPEB effect the Town budget and school
budget in different ways?
===PAGE 2===
ananas at States looking for Towns to fund.
7. Committee and Department Updates;
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable -Teri
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
COA - Cindy
Library-Terri
Police Dept - John H.
Fire Dept - George
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force-
Jay
School Bidg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
Update
Making progress on changing the process. Took out projects that were
funded in the operating budget or no longer need. Removed projects
funded by FY 18 town mecting. Shifted over some DPW project over to
Library projects. To meet with Library Director to see which projects are
needed. Met with the TM and discussed how to simplify the new
spreadsheet.
Meeting next week.
Security cameras at Turkey Hill Elementary are near completion
One meeting to close out the budget. Meeting to pay bills
Charter review meeting. To meet the 2i nd 4 week of the month. Work
on areas of concern. Not looking to overhaul it, just tweak it. The Charter
is reviewed every 10 years. Bylaws are reviewed every 3 years
8. Ongoing business:
Pavement management plan. Starting Summer Street soon.
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties
9. Next meeting: 9-28-17
10-12-17
10. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 8:07 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
