===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECLIVED & VILED
Town of Lunenburg
ONLIES
MO/ 0C 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Cindy Testa
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes 07-13-17
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, George Martin, Cindy Testa
Hannah Anderson
Jamie Toale - Selectmen, Dawn-Marie Ayles - School Committee Liaison, Karen Brochu - Town
Finance Director
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Not televised
2. Comments:
Public: None
b. New Communications: Planning Board Hearing, Town Hall, July 24 @ 6:35 pm. 40 Pioneer Dr.
3. Town Manager/ Financial Director report: Karen Brochu - No reports
TM report: Surplus In Insurance. Went out to bid for Police/Fire Injured on duty (IOD)
insurance for FY18. Savings of about $7K
• Town Accountant: Still waiting for the 40S reimbursement of $119K for FY17 from the State, Karen
has contacted the DOR but has not received a response. The funds will be posted as revenue if
received. It has no effect on the FY18 budget.
• FY17 revenue looking good. FY17 expenditures are still coming in. No departments are having any
budget issues.
4. Budget goals and Opportunities:
Financial policy for managing debt service:
Teri attend the BOS meeting this past Tuesday. The BOS discussed the debt policy and reviewed the
draft that John sent. The BOS was in agreement with the policy as written.
The Chair wanted to confirm if any debt activity from enterprise funds like the Sewer and Water dept.
is part of the regular debt. It is not included in the debt service policy. Should the Sewer or Water
dept. fail to cover their debt, the Town would be financial responsible. In the context of the debt
policy, it is neither in the 3% or the 11% limits. Revisions to the Debt policy were intended to help
clarify the policy for the Town auditors. The Town Manager recommended explicit language be added
to the policy stating that the Enterprise funds are not included in the debt limits.
There was board discussion regarding how enterprise funds operate and how they pay for their debt
service and operating budget thru user fees.
5. Review of minutes: None
===PAGE 2===
6. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-Teri
Capital Planning-John H
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
COA - Cindy.
Library-Terri
Police Dept - John H
Fire Dept - George
Update
Engine 4 has been repaired and is back in service. The Chief is soliciting
bids to rebuild the pump on Truck 4. Question was asked if funds are
expended to rebuild the pump, would this extend the life of the truck?
George to follow up with the Chief
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force-
Jay.
School Bidg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
Not meeting as a body. but has been asked to sign the warrant. Still getting
monthly invoices, This month invoice is S347K and is being approved
outside of a meeting. A $9600 bill for stabilizers for the projectors was
question by the BOS. The SBC approved the bill. The BOS voted not to
sign the warrant for the invoice and ask for an explanation. They felt it
should not be a Town expenditure but the responsibility of the vendor or
contractor.
Nu Action. BOS work shop in August lo discuss Facilities
7. Ongoing business:
Pavement Management Plan (PMP):
The Chair commented the BOS asked about making sure the additional $50K from excise tax is
going in to the PMP budget to cover road maintenance, Adding to the Chapter 90 funds.
$50K for 10 years adds an additional $500K to the plan. Plus the additional $250K the Town adds
all goes to road maintenance.
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties
8. Next meeting:
August 10, 2017
September 14, 2017
9. Adjournment: John made a motion to adjourn. Mark seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 7:30 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
