===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
annah Andersor
George Martin
Cindy Testa
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes 05-25-17
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, George Martin
Mark Erickson, Cindy Testa
Jamie Toale - Selectmen, Heather Lemieux
- Town Manager, Karen Brochu - Town Accountant
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non Televised meeting. Recorder B06/08
2. Comments:
a. Public: The Chairmen announced several upcoming public hearings for the Planning Board regarding cell
tower and car wash. Memo from School Committee to Capital Planning regarding budget line item for
security cameras at Turkey Hill.
b. New Communications:
• John H. attend meeting Associate of Town Finance Committees (ATFC) on capital and budget process.
• Jamie Toale will serve as Selectmen liaison to the Finance Committee. Damon McQuaid will serve as
Selectmen representative to Capital Planning.
• Chairman asked for comments from members regarding the Town meeting results. Hannah A. asked about
donations, fund raising for town departments for the purchase of requested items, like an ATV for Public Safety.
• George M. commented about funding from the gas tax for capital items.
• Jamie Toale: State DOT to pave Rt. 2A from Shirley to Fitchburg.
3. Review debt Policy: John had sent out a final draft of the debt policy for review. Town Accountant and the
TM have reviewed the document and are OK with it. John to review final comments and prepare final
document.
4. Review minutes: John's notes from Town Meeting. John revised minutes of roll call votes taken at Town
meeting. John made a motion to amend the minutes. Hannah seconded. All in favor 4-0. Jay abstained.
5. Town officers reports:
Town Accountant:
At last BOS meeting presented third quarter revenues. Karen noted that 101% of Motor vehicle excise tax
estimate had been collected. Any additional collected MVX taxes will go to free cash. Third commitment of
motor vehicle excise was just sent out. $190k, which is double what the third commitment was last year at this
time. Preliminary Field work for 2017 town audit to start the first week in June.
Parker Elmore to provide two reports later in the summer. They are revising the GASB 45 report for FY17 and
the GASB 75 report for FY18.
Town Manager:
Cable hearing June 15' at 7 pm. Negotiation hearing.
Selectmen Goals: Incorporate Schools projects into the capital plan as well make sure we have a full inventory
of our other resources.
Town Hall: Removing old records from Town Hall basement. Records will need to be cleaned. Basement will
need to be cleaned and made weather tight. Mold remediation. May need a reserve transfer to cover cost.
Received grant funds of $40K Electronic permitting process.
Building Commissioner position still open. No response to job posting. Revising job description to hire a local
Building Inspector with a Commission certification.
wi
===PAGE 2===
6. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
Financial Policy for managing debt service:
Anticipation of large capital purchases
7. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-Teri
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H
COA - Cindy
Library-Terri
Police Dept - John H.
Fire Dept - George
Update
Holding their own with the budget. Truck 4 - accident damage from a
manhole cover. Damage estimated at 20 to 30K. Will be out of service for
extended period. $1000 deductible. New billing software on line in
January to support EMT services.
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force
Jay
School Bldg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
8. Ongoing business:
Pavement management plan
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties
9. Next meeting:
June 8, 2017
June 22, 2017
10. Adjournment: John made a motion to adjourn. George seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 5-0 at 7:53 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
wi
