===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
RECEIVED & MILED
NOV 0C 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Cindy Testa
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes 06-22-17
Town Hall
On
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, George Martin
Cindy Testa
Jack Rodriquenz - DPW Director, Town Manager-Heather Lemieux, Karen Brochu - Finance
Director
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non Televised meeting.
2. Comments:
a.
Public: None
b. New Communications:
• The Chairman circulated The Beacon newsletter.
• John H. attended the Association of Town Pinance Committee (ATFC) mecting about a month and a half'ago. At
the meeting, the head of Finance for the Town of Arlington, gave a presentation on their 5 year forecast and how
they use their 5 year forecast. John circulated a copy of their 5 year forecast for review and discussion at our
more resources than town of Lunenburg has. There was discussion regarding the differences in the town
budgets and how each town use various policies and operating principals to fund their bucigets..
3. Reorganization:
Review officer/committee/department assignments
Chairman - John nominated Teri as Chairman. Hannah seconded, all in favor. 6-0
Vice-Chairman - Mark nominate John for Vice Chair. Hannah Seconded. All in favor 6-0
Secretary - John nominated Jay. Hannah seconded. All in favor 6-0
Hannah volunteered to be back up Secretary.
Nominate Committee and Department Liaisons. No changes in committee assignments.
4. Town Manager/ Financial Director reports:
Reserve account transfer: For basement remediation in Town Hall and salary adjustment
Jack Rodriquenz - DPW Director, presented an overview of the mold and fungi contamination in
the Town Hall basement. An indoor quality analysis was done in March of 2017 at the request of
the Town Hall staff. A similar analysis was done 7-8 years ago and was marginal. The recent
analysis showed a great deal of black mold and fungal contamination. At that point the DPW had
Service Quest do a preliminary estimate. The estimate was six figures, Then the DPW contracted
a Hygienist to preform a more detailed analysis, pictures, air quality, develop a scope of work.
Then with the Hygienist help, and the TM assistance, sent the scope of work out to three
companies for an estimate. The DPW staff and Town hall staff cleaned out old records. The
Secretary of State office was contacted. Records damaged or contained mold where recorded
and then discarded. Two 30 yard dumpsters were filled with discarded files and records. The
other records are being stored in a trailer. Any old furniture will need to be removed. The
contracted company start the process of clean the basement. Install polyethylene, a sump pump
with drainage, a commercial dehumidifier. Basement will not be habitual, but accessible for
===PAGE 2===
maintenance. Three estimates were received. One bidder only estimated for the cleaning so it
was not considered. One bid is for $49K, the other bid is for $51.6K. This will be a two phase
project. Phase 2 to be done in FY18. DPW has postponed some work to save funds in FY17 to
fund the project. 14K for Line painting to be held until July and some funds from the Tree
budget.
There is presently 30K in reserve fund.
Mark motioned to approve a reserve transfer to cover the cost of the mold remediation project.
All in favor 6-0
Reserve transfer from the Salary reserve fund: The BOS approve the Town accountant, Karen
Brochu Contract FY17.
Mark made a motion to approve the Salary reserve transfer of $8259.76
For the Longevity account $247.79
Cellphone stipend account $480
John seconded. All in favor 6-0
Town Manager updates:
Grants received: The Community Compact received three grants:
$10K for cyber security assessment
$1OK for citizen engagement. To be used for revamping the Town website to create a more
interactive platform
$25K to implement Storm water measures that have been identified by the Storm Water Task
Force committee
Other grants:
$40K for E permitting software
$42K for Regional animal control. For design of a facility
Complete Streets: The policy was approved by Mass DOT. So that makes Lunenburg edge able
for up to $50k for technical assistants to put together a plan. Once the plan is submitted,
Lunenburg will be edge able for up to an additional $400K for construction of projects like side
walks, bike lanes etc, Projects that help connect the community.
Comcast hearing: was held last Thursday. Due to a technical issue, it was not recorded for future
broadcast. A transcript is available.
5. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
Financial policy for managing debt service. Final recommendation to BOS.
Mark moved to approve the Financial policy on borrowing and limits on debt service cost.
Hannah seconded. All in favor 6-0
6. Review minutes:
Minutes of 03-09-17 John motioned to approve for March gth as amended. Mark seconded. All in favor 6-0
Minutes of 03-15-17 John motioned to approve. Mark seconded. All in favor 6-0
Minutes of 04-13-17 John motioned to approve. Mark seconded. All in favor 6-0
Minutes of 05-06-17 submitted by John H. Taken at Town Meeting. John motioned to approve. Hannah
seconded. All in favor 6-0
7. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-Teri
Capital Planning —John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H
COA - Cindy
Library-Terri
Police Dept - John H
Update
Attended Comcast hearing
Met last week. But not enough members for a quorum
===PAGE 3===
Fire Dept - George
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force Jay
Sewer Commission —Jay
School Bldg. Comm. - Mark
Engine 4 damage from manhole cover. 33K in repairs. $1000 deductible.
Pump needs to be over hauled after July I*. No budget issues, On the
capital plan for replacement. Front line engine
Met May 1O. Most likely the last meeting until the final budget
reconciliation. Still monitoring invoices. The local share of budget $38M.
Projected local share expenses is $35M. Savings to the Town of 2.8M. Plus
what is saved from the owners contingency. Punch list items: Snow damage
to roof. Installed snow guards $82K. Student parking lot drainage $32k.
Regular invoices.
Building Reuse - Mark
8. Ongoing business:
Pavement management plan. $1.7M in paving will be completed by the end of summer.
Summer St. Finished with the engineering and easements. The project is scheduled to go out to
bid in August. Estimated at $10M.
Rt. 13 from Northfield Rd. to the Townsend Town line to be reconstructed. Going out to bid in
June. Estimated at $2M
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties
9. Next meeting:
July 13, 2017
August 10, 2017
10. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 8:36 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
