===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
George Martin
Lunenburg Finance Committee
minutes 09-28-17
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, George Martin
Hannah Anderson
Heather Lemieux - Town Manager, Karen Brochu - Town Accountant, Jamie Toale - Selectmen
1. The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non televised meeting
2. Comments:
a.
Public: None
b.
New Communications:
The Chair asked about a quorum for the Oct 10 BOS meeting to discuss Selectmen goals and opportunities.
• October 17" is the meeting to discuss Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB)
• Cindy Testa resigned from Finance Committee. The committee has one vacancy
3. Town Manager - Financial Directors reports:
Town Accountant:
Free cash awaiting certification: estimated at $821K. About $450K of that is from local receipts.
FY17 is officially closed in Unis. The audit process has started. Auditors will be here in third week in
October,
Town Manager:
Selectmen expected to vote Tuesday November 28, 2017 as the Special Town Meeting (STM) date
Finance Committee Public Hearing scheduled for Thursday, November 9, 2017
Some articles for STM: the Town Hall Cell tower lease agreement, the Police dept. is submitting two
MGL's to be accepted, union agreements, final numbers to close out tax rate.
4. Review of minutes: Minutes of 04-27-17, Mark motioned to approve as modified. John seconded. All in favor
5. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
John presented a sample spreadsheet he has been working on for the Capital Improvement Plan
(CIP). John gave an overview of the purpose and scope of the spreadsheet. John is working with
the Town IT dept to get the spreadsheet in to digital form like Google docs. The spreadsheet will
be available on line for all Town departments. Departments will have the ability to update the
spreadsheet for their specific capital request. The goal continues be is to have both the request,
the estimated cost of the request and the reason for the request on one central spreadsheet.
The Town Manager approves of the spreadsheet and complimented John on the work he has
done on the spreadsheet.
6. Committee and Department Updates:
===PAGE 2===
Presented spreadsheet with the status update from the Fire Chief. The
spreadsheet included updates on the new EMS software that was
implemented on July 1. Staffing Levels and schedules, training, budget,
vehicle maintenance and capital request.
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force-
Jay..
School Bidg. Comm. - Mark
Charter Review - Mark
Charter review committee. Voted to approve a super majority quorum for
their committee to reflect the fact that they need a super quorum, 2/3 vote,
at Town Meeting. Four phase approach to reach out to the community thru
7. Ongoing business:
Pavement management plan
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties •
8. Next meeting: October 12, 2017
October 17, 2017 OPEB discussion
9. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 5-0 at 8:06 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
