===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes 10-12-17
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson
Mark Erickson, George Martin
Karen Brochu - Town Accountant, Heather Lemieux - Town Manager (TM), Dave Passios-
member of public
1. The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non televised.
2. Comments:
a. Public:
b. New Communications: The Chair shared some discussion she had with the TM regarding creating one
Facilities Manager position to manage all Town and Schools buildings. There also are maintenance
functions that could possibly be contracted out. The budgeting piece would be one part of changing to
that business model. There may be personnel issues with the different unions to work out. There may be
other areas where job positions could be shared between the Town and Schools to avoid duplication
which may reduce cost in health insurance and retirement benefits.
Circulated the Beacon Newsletter
Announced a public hearing for the Planning Board for Asian Imperial on October 23, 2017
• John shared some comments on the Debt policy revisions and presented the new amended version. At a
previous meeting the FinCom voted to send the revised policy to the Board of Selectmen for review and
comments. The only question was if the Enterprise funds were included in the policy. There was board
discussion about that question. Enterprise funds are not part of the policy. Part of reason for revising the policy
is to clarify the policy for the Town auditors. The policy on the website needs to be updated.
Review of BOS workshop. Several speakers expressed concern about minute taking. A call for more
consistency, consider hiring a professional minute taker, explore software for minute taking, consistency with
the agenda, public comment at the beginning and end of a meeting, getting the content of a meeting.
Discussed ideas how to get more residents to volunteer for boards and committees.
Discussed how to get more funding for infrastructure and capital needs.
3. Town Manger/Finance Director reports:
Town Manger: The Warrant: The Warrant closed. The warrant will need to be re opened due to
not being posted in the newspaper. The Warrant will close again the following week. Special
Town Meeting (STM) will be on November 28.
Dave Passios 55 Whiting St. Commented that he raised the issue with the Warrant open and
closing dates not being properly posted in the paper. Per the Charter the Warrant is to remain
open for 5 days after being posted in the paper. Per the Charter all boards or committees should
be notified and can submit an article.
There are approximately eight articles that the FinCom would need to make a vote on.
Hannah asked about grants for sidewalks.
The Complete Street Grant. The Town adopted the Complete Street policy. The Town received
$38K to pay for a consultant to create a priority plan for projects that create accessibility in Town
like sidewalks.
===PAGE 2===
The Chair gave a review of the meeting.
Some item of discussion was to look at the form of Town government. Open meeting form or
representative town meeting. Town meeting date. Saturdays versus meeting at night during
the week. Quorum issuers on Saturday meetings. How do we get more resident to Town
meeting. What to call the BOS or Select board? Discussed a Facilities Director for the whole
5. Review of minutes: None
6. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-Teri
Update
Still waiting for Cable Advisory Committee to have an agreement with
Comcast regarding the contract
Capital Planning-John H.
John has working with the TM on the Capital Plan process. Combining the
spreadsheets with the binder and submitted to the final version to the TM
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
COA -
Library-Terri
Police Dept - John H.
Fire Dept - George
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay.
Sewer Commission Task Force-
Jay
School Bldg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
7. Ongoing business:
Pavement management plan
Contract Commitments
Sale of surplus properties
8. Next meeting: October 17, 2017 Joint meeting with Board of Selectmen to review OPE report.
October 26, 2017 regular meeting
9. Adjournment: John made a motion to adjourn. Hannah seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 4-0 at 8:04 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
