===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Cindy Testa
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
02-02-17 Minutes
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson,/
/George Martin,
Cindy Testa
None
Jim Marino - Police Chief, Heather Lemieux - Town Manager, Members of the Board of Selectmen,
Karen Brochu - Town Accountant, members of the public
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non televised.
2. Public Comments:
a. Public: Katy Adams. 45 Williams Dr. Working on improving student safety and security in Lunenburg as a
result of the January 12 incident at TurkeyHill Elementary School were a student was approached by an
intruder. Lunenburg PD where not able to respond in a timely manner as they were involved in another
situation at a different school. Ms. Adams states due to the lack of surveillance cameras, and the delayed
response by the Police, the situation had no resolution. Ms. Adams is requesting the Town give serious
consideration to increasing funding to the Police Dept. to add more officers. Ms. Adams has consulted
with Chief Marino regarding adding a School Resource Officer. Police would have to expand staff to add a
School Resource Officer.
b. New Communications:
Town Warrant is open. Articles to be submitted in writing to the Board of Selectmen office by 4
pm. On March 23, 2017.
Public hearing for Lunenburg Planning Board - 119 Mass Ave.
Received an advertisement by mail for turning Municipal data into actionable insight.
• 46th addition of Municipal financial data.
• Invite to new Town Manager welcome reception. Monday night, 6 pm at the Senior center.
3. Town Accountant - Town Manager report:
a. Budget schedule: Reviewed the schedule for department budget presentations. The Capital
Planning committee is scheduled to present their budget on 02-09-17.
b. Financial forecast: As the new Town Manager has only been on the job a couple weeks, the TM
and the Town Accountant presented preliminary budget information. The TM has asked department
heads for level service and above level service budgets. No target budgets. A document was
presented showing the financial forecast for FY2018-2022, and revenue and expenditures
assumptions. Health insurance increase is estimated at 2%. There was member discussion on the
data presented.
The TM will be presenting the new budget at the BOS meeting on 2-14-17.
4. Review of minutes: none
===PAGE 2===
5. Budget Goals and Opportunities:
Financial policy for managing debt: John H. presented a draft policy on debt service. Working on
formal policy for debt borrowing for the auditors to use as a guideline.
John also looked at some socioeconomic data from the Division of Local services comparing the per
ca-pita income from the Dept. of Census by year, against the property tax for that year. There was
member discussion around the policy, borrowing, future debt needs, the effect on the budget, and
the schools large capital needs in the future.
6. Committee and Department Updates:
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable- Terri
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
COA - John
Library-Terri B.
Fire - George
Police - John H.
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force
Jay
School Bldg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
Update
Meeting on Monday. Working on Budget
Meeting next Tuesday to finalize priority request. Working on converting
capital budget binder into spreadsheet form to put online. Reserve some
funds from capital budget into reserve/stabilization fund for large capital
items. 15yr. projection
No report.
Meeting Feb. 15th
Chief" s initiative is to increase EMS service levels to Paramedic grade
and to provide 24 hour coverage. The present business model they have
been using doesn't support present operations. George presented a
spreadsheet on EMS runs showing an increase in runs and increase in the
elderly population. Dept depends on mutual aid for paramedic service.
Hard to retain trained staff.
No report
Email from the School Supt. Loxi Calms, "Attached please find an updated
Supt. Recommended budget with all the FY17 budget transfers to date.
Nothing in FY18 recommended has changed ONLY the amounts in FY17
are changed to reflect every line-item-transfer that has been approved since
7-1-2016. There were several line item transfers approved last week by the
SC and those ARE included. The changes in FY17 to current approved
budget amounts obviously changes the difference column and also the %.
However the bottom line total request of $19,628,762 which represents a
6% increase from FY17 is unchanged."
Working on the budget.
No Report.
No Report.
SBC to meet next week. Project near completion.
Met on Monday. Worked on Draft RFP. New TM is a Chief Procurement
Officer who can certify the RFP processs. TM outlined the RFP schedule.
May be able to make a recommendation at annual Town Meeting. Hoping
to have BOS sign off on RFP on 02-14-17 so it can go out to bid. Not sure
about including the TC Passio school in the RFP process.
7. Next meeting: February 9, 2017
February 14, 2017
8. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 8:33 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
