===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Mark Erickson, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
John Henshaw
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Cindy Testa
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Minutes 01-12-17
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, George Martin
Hannah Anderson
Karen Brochu - Town Accountant
1. Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. Non televised.
2. Comments:
a. Public comment from the Board: None
D. Public comment from the public: None
c. New Communications: From the Chairman
• Annual fiscal year report due February 16th, 2017
• Received an invoice for care of pit bull from Animal Control officer in the amount of $4525 to pay for
the care and custody of the dog.
• Presented proposed monthly meeting schedule for 2017 Annual Town Meeting.
• New Finance Committee member Cindy Testa joined the meeting.
3. Town Account report: Karen Brochu
Presented a report from S&P Global rating. Affirmed the Town's rating of AA+.
Reviewed the five year forecast.
Reviewed and adjust the proposed meeting schedule for 2017 ATM.
Still waiting for free cash to be certified. Estimated at $912K
4. Town Manager Report: None
5. Review of minutes: Mark made a motion to approve the minutes of 11-28-16. John H. seconded. All in favor
Budget Goals and Opportunities:
7. Committee and Department Updates:
Financial policy for managing debt policy: John to present data for debt policy at next meeting.
Committee/Department
Public Access Cable-John H.
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works-John H.
COA -
Update
CPC has met with the four depts. Police, Fire, DPW, Schools, that have
the largest cost request of the capital plan. CPC has initiated a project to
combined the binder into a spreadsheet to put the data on Town website.
More capital request than there is capital budget. Trying to spread out
capital cost for high cost items. Set aside some funding from capital
budget into a stabilization fund for large capital items.
No report.
===PAGE 2===
Library-Terri B.
Police - John
Fire - George
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Task Force -Jay
Sewer Commission Task Force
School Bldg. Comm. - Mark
Building Reuse - Mark
No report.
John H. will work with the Police Chief on capital items. Chief is
concerned about staffing issues. Adding staff may add need for more
police vehicles.
George will work with the Fire Chief on capital items.
Feasibility study of paramedics staff to upgrade service. Concerned about
sustainability. Issue's hiring and retaining employees. Service calls
increasing. George reviewed town census to create a spreadsheet of Town
age population to compare to the ambulance calls.
No report.
No report
No report.
No report.
Met 1-11-17. Working on punch list items. Drainage, landscaping issues.
Expecting to receive about $790K in credits against the Guarantee
maximum price of $58M. Does not include owners contingency of $4M.
Of which $1.2M has been spent. Project is nearing completion. Installing
solar panels on Middle/High school to help save on electric cost.
Met 12-19-16 Reflected on changes to Article 5. BOS does not have
authority to sell surplus buildings, only to solicit marketing proposals.
Trying to complete the RFP process to be ready for annual Town meeting.
Waiting on a Chief procurement officer to manage the RFP process.
8. Ongoing business:
Pavement management:
Sale of surplus properties: Tax lien properties. Received a letter from a Company that buys tax title
properties. Town Accountant and Tax collector have discussed. Tax Collector is interested in pursuing.
Parks Dept. West St.
Cemetery Dept. Holman St.
9. Next meeting:
February 2, 2017
February 9, 2017
10. Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 8:50 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
