===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
iviarc LuescuieT
Lunenburg 5i-00-1 Comites
9/13116
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Guest:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, Géorge Martin, Marc Luescher
Karen Brochu, Town Accountant, Heather Lemieux, TM.
1. The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. This meeting is being recorded and televised for re-
broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access cable channel.
2. Communications:
a. Public: Dave Passios, 56 Whiting St. Follow up on Town of Ashby capital finances.
b. New Communications:
• 2 possible candidates for Finance committee
Election of officers: Chairman:
Chairman: John nominated Terri, Hannah seconded. All in favor 6-0
Vice-Chairman: George nominated John. Jay seconded, All in favor 6-0
Secretary: John nominated Hannah, Marc seconded. All in favor 6-0
Appoint Liaisons:
Public Access Cable- Marc
Capital Planning Committee- Marc nominated John. Hannah second. All in favor 6-0
Department of Public Works- George
Council on Aging- John
Library- John
Police Department- Marc
Fire Department- George
Schools- Hannah
Monty Tech- Hannah
Green Common Task Force- Jay
Sewer Commission- Jay
Charter Review Common- Mark Erickson
Review Data from Marc and George as it relates to budget discussions.
Marc focused on 3 years and 3-4 expenditures. Picked 10 towns similar to Lunenburg to see
how we are spending compared to similar towns. Marc pick 2013, 2014, & 2015 because those years
were available to get data from. The idea behind this report is to understand how other towns spend their
money compared to ours. Reports focus on ten towns in the state of Massachusetts.
Reports also focus Police, Fire, & Education for departments.
Marc plans to continue drilling down on Police, Fire, Education, and Cable access.
===PAGE 2===
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street asked to comment. Recollected in a previous meeting
discussion on how the 5% or what number is used when the 5% for stabilization is calculated.
Seems to think it had something to do with the debt level also being included in that number when
it shouldn't be. It was a total dollar amount and 5% of that dollar amount was going into the stabilization
account and there was discussion back and forth about part of that total number really shouldn't be going
in there. Questions if it were debt or...
Terri answered believing it had to do with a special stabilization fund that was particular to town, Tri-
Town Landing. Since that was incorporated into the 5% and the question was if it should be. But what
the total 5% is of is the total omnibus budget.
7. Review of Minutes: No minutes for reviewing
8. Town Financial Officers reports:
TM report: Cherry sheet increase, $162,133.00 in spending capacity. No final number on new growth
yet.
Also in state budget $130K for the Turkey Hill asbestos abatement. We will be able to re-appropriate
those funds that were included into the fiscal 19 capital plan at the special town meeting towards other
capital projects. This would cover phase 2 of 3 of the asbestos removal.
9. Public comment:
Dave Passios 56 Whiting street, would like to reiterated again something he has said in the past, for the
past 10 years all he had heard about is our non-exempted debt. Concerned about putting as much money
lual for rainy days as we do, where we could be paying down non-exempt debt to free up money in the
John H. Asks to put on the agenda for next meeting new growth discussion, and how to factor in new
growth in to anticipating budgets.
10. Next meeting: August 23, 2018
11. Adjournment: John made a motion to adjourn. Hannah seconded the motion. The committee approved the
motion 6-0 at 8:01 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone & Hannah Anderson
Attachments (0):
