===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Lunenburg Finance Committee
06-05-18
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
John Henshaw, Vice-Chairman
Jay Simeone, Secretary
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Mark Erickson
Hannah Anderson
George Martin
Marc Luescher
Location: Town Hall
Present: Terri Burchfield, Mark Erickson, Jay Simeone, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, George Martin, Marc
Luescher
Absent:
Guest: BOS, members of the public.
1. The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:28 pm. Joint meeting with BOS. Meeting is recorded for
broadcast on Lunenburg Public Access.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9826IcdwzU
2.Comments:
a. Public: None
3. Joint meeting with BOS to on long term staffing for Police & Fire Dept. ALS staffing and not taxing to
the levy limit.
The Fire Chief presented a power point on the history of Lunenburg Emergency Medical Services
(EMS), present staffing of the EMS, proposal on increasing EMS staffing and providing Paramedic
level EMS verses the present Advanced level service.
The Chief gave an overview of the potential of providing Paramedic level EMS, which is a higher level
of service then the present advanced level EMS. The potential benefits of provide a higher level
service, training required, equipment and medical supplies needed and the cost to upgrade both
ambulances. A projected salary expense was presented showing the potential cost of additional
staffing at paramedic level.
There was board discussion from both boards.
The Police Chief spoke to staffing and equipment needs of the next several years. Plan for future needs.
Amanda Moore gave an overview of the proposed budget cost for hiring officers over the next ten years.
The TM commented on how the process started and is moving forward.
Taxing to the Levy: The FinCom Chair commented on needs and objectives of taxing to the levy.
The TM commented that not taxing to the Levy will have a negative impact on services and staffing
levels. There was board discussion on the Levy.
4.Adjournment: Mark made a motion to adjourn. John seconded the motion. The committee approved
the motion 6-0 at 8:55 pm
Submitted by Jay Simeone
Attachments (0):
