===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
Lunenburg Finance Committee
October 24. 2019 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Jay Simeone, Michelle Walton, Peter
Beardmore
Dave Passios
1. Call to Order
• Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7pm. This meeting is
being recorded for broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
Terri Burchfield informed the committee that there may be a need to
discuss the Police Union contract on November 7th and inquired it the
members would be available. All present members indicated that they
would be available
• Terri Burchfield reminded members and the public of the informational
symposium at 6:30 PM on October 29th.
Terri Burchfield confirmed that all members, with the exception of Peter
Beardmore, would be available for the special town meeting on November
12th.
2. Public Comment
Peter Beardmore commented that the regular schedule only includes two
regular meetings in the current calendar year and expressed concern that
the committee would be able to make progress on informal discussions
with department heads prior to budget season as well as make progress on
committee goals, particularly arriving at definitions relating to spending
levels. Terri Burchfield reported that she has heard back from four
departments and will schedule those, as well as follow up with
departments that she hasn't connected with.
3. Warrant Articles for Special Town Meeting
===PAGE 2===
constitutes financial impact and would trigger a Finance Committee
position, and as to whether a recommendation of the finance committee
relating to the health of a particular business may establish precedence
without having been considered as policy. Terri Burchfield commented
that her view of the role of the Finance Committee is to take positions on
budgets before us. Terri Burchfield also commented that she wants to
follow-up on economic development with the Planning Board. The
committee took no additional action on the articles.
• The town manager reported that the Board of Selectmen held a hearing on
Butterfly Lane and accepted the layout. Terri Burchfield asked if the town
has a road acceptance policy? The town manager reported that the BOS
has a process, but town meeting voters are under no obligation to accept
the road. Terri Burchfield emphasized that it is important for both the
Finance Committee and Town Meeting to understand the financial impact
of accepting a road. The Town Manager reported that the cost of
maintaining Butterfly Road could reach $2200 annually. The committee
took no additional action.
• John Henshaw commented that the discussions on the warrant articles
had gone well and been informative.
4. Department and Committee Reports
• Peter Beardmore reported that the School Committee met on September
16th. MCAS scores were reported by the Superintendent and the
Principals. Middle and High Schools are doing well, compared to previous
scores and like communities. The Elementary School performance relative
to like communities is an area of concern. There was also a financial
update. The year end report has been submitted. There were also line-item
transfers of approximately $297,000, reconciling salary changes resulting
from retirements, new hires, and allocation of specialist employees that
cover multiple buildings.
• Terri Burchfield reported that the Ham and Beans supper occurred the
prior weekend and went-off well.
• Michelle Walton announced that she and Dave Passios will be attending
the Association of Town Finance Committees meeting on Saturday at
Bridgewater State University.
5. Town Manager / Town Accountant
===PAGE 3===
AVA.
LLLED
• John Henshaw moved to accept minutes September 26th and October 3rd,
seconded Jay Simeone. Approved unanimously.
7. Next Meeting
October 29, 2019, 6:30 symposium at LMHS auditorium
November 7th
8.
Adjournment
• John Henshaw motioned/ Peter Beardmore seconded; unanimous
approval
RECEIVED
FEB 13 2020
TOWN CLERK
