===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
Lunenburg Finance Committee
December 12. 2019 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Peter
Beardmore
Michelle Walton
1. Call to Order
• Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 6:30 (all expected
members were in attendance).
2. Communications
• Public Comment - none
3. Reserve transfer request for $16,890 for Fire Vehicle/Maintenance
line
• Chief Sullivan presented to the committee the need for the transter
described above due to un-projected repairs to an ambulance and a fire
truck pump rebuild. The transfer is anticipated to cover scheduled
maintenance for the remainder of the year, but not additional
unanticipated repairs. The chief referenced an email addressed to the
committee (Appendix A).
Peter Beardmore moved to approve the request, John Henshaw 2nd,
Unanimous Approval
• Dave Passios publicly thanked the Chief and first responders for services
rendered during a recent emergency that he experienced.
4. Informal Discussion with Library Director - Muir Haman
===PAGE 2===
the past 5-7 years.
• Hopes to appropriate more municipal funding for programs, such as
museum passes, which is currently funded by The Friends of The Library.
• There may be more staff and space needs in future fiscal years (not
FY2021).
• There is likely to be increases costs relating to CWMars due to
Lunenburg's population expansion (we are currently paying the 'small
library rate, despite our population exceeding 10,000 residents.
Terri Burchfield relayed a request from Michell Walton to specifically
identify non-town funding sources in upcoming budget request.
• 70% of the current library budget currently goes to salary.
State funding mandates 16% of budget allocated to circulation. Lunenburg
currently exceeds this minimum by $17,000. This includes things like
telescopes, yard games, digital content.
• Peter Beardmore requested that the budget request include some
comparison and details with respect to the ratios and costs of both digital
and physical materials.
5. Informal Discussion with Police Chief - James Marino
• John Henshaw asked about ratio of squad cars to police officers. Currently
every three new officers triggers the need for an additional squad car.
• The police department currently replaces three front-line squad cars every
two years. That rate will likely increase to four or five vehicles per two-year
period due to the 10-year force expansion plan.
• Longevity of vehicles seems to be improving slightly with shift to Tahoe's
over the past few years, and anticipated lifespan of hybrid vehicles.
• Most recent police contract corrects mistakes that were made in the
original hiring plan. Going forward we will be hiring new officers at lower
rates, which will reflect some savings.
• Traffic and motor vehicle incidents continue to increase. Radar trailer
counts have shown increases over the past several years. This is
attributable to both growth in town and transient traffic.
• Ultimate goal of hiring plan is to have an additional patrol on duty at all
times. There may also come additional savings in lines such as
Investigations and Field Services that can not currently be covered
sufficiently by on-duty patrols.
===PAGE 3===
• October 24 - John Henshaw moved to approve, Jay Simeone 2nd,
unanimous approval
• October 29 (symposium) - John Henshaw oved to approve, Jay Simeone
2nd, unanimous approval
7. Town Manager Report
• Correction made to November 29 error in Lunenburg Ledger regarding
certified new growth #'s.
• Monty Tech assessment for FY20 decreased
Snow removal is likely to be further over than previous years due to
increased use of contractors, higher contractor rates, and covering for staff
shortages in the school department.
5-year forecast will incorporate School Department participation,
presented on January 23 along with Capital Plan.
Initial Budget presentation on Feb 13th. Weekly meetings and following
Monday's will be posted in the weeks following. Final budget hearing will
be March 26th. Warrant will go to printer on April 6th. Finance Committee
Report will need to be ready for March 26th, BOS will likely host a pubic
forum in late January to discuss budget (probably Jan 28th).
Town Meeting Warrant opens January 14th
• Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness Planning Grant has been submitted.
RFQ is out for TC Passios design services. RFQ for West St. properties will
go out soon.
8. Committee Reports
• Peter Beardmore reported that the school department provided a budget
update at their last meeting. There were a few small line-item transfers.
• John Henshaw reported that the Capital Planning meeting on December
10th completed the process of discussions with all stake-holding
committees. The new scoring system is being rolled-out an seems to be
beneficial for deliberations.
9. Public Comment
• Dave Passios suggested the board make an effort to inform the public
about the limited effect that the new education funding bill is likely to have
on Lunenburg
===PAGE 4===
11. Adjournment
• Dave Passios motioned/ Jay Simeone seconded; unanimous approval
Appendix A:
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS
FIRE DEPARTMENT
CHIEF
Patrick A. Sullivan
CEL: (976) 583-4155
:A.X: (078) 582-105:
555 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01482
PHE INC
MEMORANDUM
TO:
FROM:
MS. HEATHER LEMILAX~
SUBJECT: VEHICLE MAINTENANCE BUDGET OVERAGE
November 26, 2019
Paying the invoice for the pump repair leaves us at approximately $400 for the romainder of the FY
A rough estimate for anticipated expenses for the remainder of FY "20 include:
600 for scheduled services on Rescues 1 & 2 ($300/unit)
$ 1,200 for scheduled services of Car I, Car 2, Engine 2 and MI (S200/unit; 2 services each for
190 for ennual Vehicle Safety inspections @S3s/inspection @ S35/inspection&: @S60/inspection)
: $ 5,000 for estimated miscellancaus supplies
Toral- $19,890
Ayain, these are knowas or anticipated expenses. It does not account for breakdowas or needed repairs
beyond scheduled maintenance. There are anticipated repairs to the emissions system on Engine I, baltery
replacement on Squad 3 and an ABS system issue on Sound 3 that are currently figured as part of the
remaining funis and the $5000 in miscellaneous supplies.
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 13 2020
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
