===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
Lunenburg Finance Committee
October 10. 2019 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Michelle
Walton, Peter Beardmore
None
1. Call to Order
• Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7pm (all expected
members were in attendance). This meeting is being recorded for
broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
2. Public Comment
• Peter Beardmore acknowledged the passing of former Lunenburg Police
Officer Pat Barney and conveyed sympathy to the Lunenburg Police
Department and The Barney Family
Terri Burchfield announced the planned symposium meeting scheduled
for October 29th at the LMHS auditorium. Presenters will include the
Town Manager, Land Use Director, and Superintendent of Schools
3. Public Hearing for Special Town Meeting
Brandon Kibbe, chairman of the land acquisition committee presented
Article G, the proposed acquisition of the Saliba Brothers property on
Northfield Road. Of the six criteria outlined for consideration of property
acquisition in the open space and recreation plan, the Saliba property
meets five. The assessed value of the property is 996,900. The appraised
value is 1,110,000. Negotiated price is $775,000, 22% below assessed value
and 29% below appraised value. Additionally, state grants will contribute
===PAGE 2===
Dave Passios called attention to the interest costs associated with
borrowing, which should be considered as part of the overall costs.
• Adam Burney, Land Use Director, presented Article N submitted by the
Planning Board dealing with earth removal and fill, which strikes the
entirety of the existing bylaw and replaces it. The bylaw proposes to
transition the licensing authority for earth removal and fill from the Board
of Selectmen to the Planning Board and adjusts the thresholds and terms
of licensing. Mr. Burney communicated there may be financial impacts to
the town as result of the bylaw but are indirect and unpredictable.
Town Manager Heather Lemieux presented the following Articles:
• Article A, a budget adjustment for FY2o. Adjustments are based on final
state aid figures, and an adjusted estimate to new growth ($18,367 less
than annual town meeting estimate), debt principal (a required pay-down
on the LMHS principal), interest and temporary interest accounts,
changes to the assessor's administration fund (due to new software), tax
title (increased to $24,000). The net effect of the changes come to a
$78,604 surplus available for appropriation.
• Article B, to purchase street lights from Unitil; or pay Unitil for conversion
of the streetlights to LED. The projected cost of conversion is $65,493. We
annually pay approximately $74,300 for streetlight service. Until is
projecting a savings of $31,000 annual after LED conversion. The cost of
acquiring the street lights from Unitil is $87,646, plus there would be
subsequent costs for conversion of the lights after purchase (there are
potentially grants available to recoup the conversion costs), plus costs to
run and maintain the lights. The Green Communities Committee is
recommending acquiring the lights, and long-term savings are expected,
but more analysis is needed. It is currently unknown what option the town
wants to pursue on this project.
Members pointed out that the article, as written, did not sufficiently
account for the purchase option, and may need to be reworded.
Were the town to vote to purchase the lights at the special town meeting, it
would position the town to apply for the Green Communities grants for
conversion in March. A delay would likely push out the conversion project
until the following-year's grant cycle.
Article C, special purpose stabilization. The town manager recommended
that the budget surplus be appropriated to the special purpose
stabilization fund (the account was originally created for capital purchase,
===PAGE 3===
• Article E, an article to move retained earnings of $7,513.66 from Sewer
Enterprise Retained Earnings to the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund.
• Article F, the collective bargaining agreement with the Police Union has
not been finalized, thus the Town Manager is unable to present figures.
Dave Passios expressed concern as to whether there would be sufficient
time in advance of town meeting to review the terms of a contract, would a
new contract be agreed to between the Police Union and the Board of
Selectmen.
• Article H, to acquire 635 Massachusetts Avenue would likely be removed
from the Town Meeting Warrant.
• Article I, to acquire 250 Howard Street would likely be removed from the
Town Meeting Warrant.
Article J, to acquire 842 Chase Road by gift, rather an in lieu of taxes as
has been voted in a previous town meeting. The owner of the property has
requested to pay the tax balance and then gift the property to the town.
Article K, to add 189 Cross Road to the Sewer Service Area map. The
article was submitted by the sewer commission. There is a residence at the
property that is operating on a tight tank. It is unclear as to whether the lot
is subject to be subdivided, or if an extension will better other properties
or what the development ramifications may be. Peter Beardmore advised
caution on this article, as there is considerable undeveloped, wooded land
around the property.
• Article L, amendments to the Salary Administration Plan. The article
would change the lifeguard position from grade 1 to grade 3, the position
of Public Access Production Assistant to be added and assigned Grade 9,
the position of Recreation Director to be added and assigned Grade 9, the
position of Building Commissioner to be changed from grade 14 to grade
16, the position of Council on Aging Director to be changed from Grade 11
to Grade 14, and the position of Assistant Town Manager/HR Director to
be added and assigned Grade 16. The only change that would reflect
access to monies from the Salary Reserve Account would be the Council on
Aging Director position.
• Article M, an amendment to bi-laws which would change the deadlines of
submission of articles for the annual town meeting. The article would
move the deadline date from a Saturday to the preceding Monday. This
would allow more time for town committees to consider and make
recommendations prior to the printing of the warrant.
===PAGE 4===
Orchards. This would sit outside the town's quota for licenses driven by
population.
• Article R, a home-rule petition to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
petition the General Court for an additional retail liquor license (there is
no current applicant). This would sit outside the town's quota for licenses
driven by population.
Finance Committee deliberation and recommendations
Peter Beardmore moved to recommend Article A, Dave Passios Seconded.
Unanimous Approval.
• Dave Passios moved to defer any recommendation on Article B to town
meeting, Peter Beardmore seconded. Unanimous Approval.
Peter Beardmore moved to recommend Article C, Dave Passios seconded.
Unanimous Approval.
• Peter Beardmore moved to recommend approval of Article D, John
Henshaw seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• John Henshaw moved to recommend approval of Article E, Jay Simeone
seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• The Finance Committee agreed to defer recommendation on Article F.
• Peter Beardmore moved to recommend approval on Article G, Michelle
Walton seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• John Henshaw moved to recommend approval on Article J, Peter
Beardmore seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• David Passios moved to recommend to defer on Article K, Peter
Beardmore seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• John Henshaw moved to recommend approval on Article L, Peter
Beardmore seconded. Unanimous Approval.
• Peter Beardmore moved to defer on Article N, John Henshaw seconded.
Unanimous approval.
• Michelle Walton moved to defer on Article O, John Henshaw seconded.
Unanimous approval.
• Dave Passios moved to not make a recommendation on Article P, John
Henshaw seconded. Approved 5-0-1 (Peter Beardmore abstained)
• John Henshaw moved to defer on Article Q, Jay Simeone seconded.
Unanimous Approval.
• Dave Passios moved to defer on Article R, John Henshaw seconded.
Unanimous Approval.
===PAGE 5===
5. Next Meeting
October 24, 2019, 7PM
August 29, 2019, 6:30 symposium at LMHS auditorium
6.
Adjournment
• John Henshaw motioned/ David Passios seconded; unanimous approval
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 13 2020
LUNENBURG TONY
CLERK OFFICE
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 13 2020
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
