===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman
Peter Beardmore, Secretary
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
October 3, 2019 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Peter Beardmore, Michelle
Walton
Absent:
John Henshaw
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 6pm.
2. Communication
• Public Comment: None
3. Review Warrant Items for Special Town Meeting
The town manager presented the draft warrant items for the special town
meeting and provided a brief synopsis for each article. The articles'
numbers and sequence had not been established, nor had a final review
been received by town counsel.
With respect to the article to acquire the property in front of the public
safety building on Mass Ave., Peter Beardmore inquired if a 2nd means of
egress for the public safety building had already been established during
===PAGE 2===
With respect to the article to acquire the Saliba Brothers property on
Northfield Road, Dave Passios opened a discussion as to whether it would
be beneficial for the town to seek a one-time capital exclusion, rather than
to service the debt over time with non-excluded, capped funds.
The committee took no action on any articles, pending the public hearing
scheduled for October 10, 2019.
4. Public Comment
• Resident David Rodgers commented, with respect to Finance Committee
goal setting, that the committee should look to the role of the Finance
Committee as set forth in the Town Charter, which is limited. He also
commented that any future funding policies for the School Department should
take into historical spending decisions.
5. Next Meeting
• October 10, 2019 (public hearing for warrant articles)
6. Adjournment
• David Passios motioned/ Peter Beardmore seconded; unanimous approval
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 13 2020
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
