===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
June 13. 2019 Meeting
Location:
Town Hall
Present:
Peter Beardmore, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Michelle Walton
Absent:
Hannah Anderson, Terri Burchfield
Also Present: Karen Brochu, Dir. of Town Finances
1. Call to Order:
• John Henshaw, Vice-Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. This meeting is not being
recorded for broadcast on the Lunenburg Public access channel.
2. Communications:
Public Comment:
• John Henshaw recognized the contributions made by Dave Passios and Peter Beardmore to
the Town's Memorial Day ceremony this past May 27th.
New Communications:
• Dave Passios said that the Board of Selectmen was considering advertising all prospective openings
on boards and committees as open irrespective of whether an incumbent was running for another
term.
3. Committee Reorganization Upcoming:
• At the first meeting of each new fiscal year the Finance Committee reorganizes. This will be at the
July 11 meeting.
• Reorganization entails voting for a chairman, vice chairman
• , and secretary to serve a one-year term.
• All members on the committee are eligible to run for any of these positions.
4. Proposed Review of the Town's Financial Policies:
• Dave Passios had recommended in May that the committee review the Town's financial policies,
especially the policy on borrowing. As a role of the Finance Committee is to make
recommendations about the financial policies and as they have been in place for a few years now,
the committee began this process at this meeting. At the meeting we all got printed copies of these
policies to review. Links to the policies are on the Board of Selectmen page on the Town's website.
• This committee can recommend changes to the policies and the Board of Selectmen will
decide whether to adopt the recommendations.
• The BOS has modified these policies over the years.
• This committee will continue the review when more members are present, probably at the July 11
meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Lilialy-
michene will sentuule a meetig On the hurdry s capildi letus Will wilit
Haman, library director, herself and John Henshaw.
DPW - John H.
Police Dept - No liaison
Fire Dept - No liaison
Schools & Monty Tech-Hannah
A.
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
S.
Sewer Commission -Jay S.
Land Acquisition Committee -
Terri B.
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
6.
7.
Minutes: There were no minutes to review.
Town Manager/Financial Officer Report: None.
8.
Committee Comment: Peter Beardmore suggested two topics to be scheduled for upcoming
meetings, prior to the FY21 budget review process:
• Discuss strategies to address potential consequences of the Town's changing demographics at a joint
meeting with the Board of Selectmen, particularly with respect to school enrollment in the coming
years. Peter suggests inviting the Town's Land Use Director to attend to share insights he may have
regarding new service demands we should anticipate from developments on Howard St. and Hollis
• Ask the Town Manager to present her process and methodology for building her budget proposal,
and an ideal calendar for oversight in pearing with the Boat new race Commi and So toey are
prioritized relative to anticipated outcomes, existing functions, available funds, compliance, etc.
9. Public Comment: None
10. Next Meetings:
• July 11, 2019 & July 25, 2019
11. Adjournment: Jay Simeone moved to adjourn and Michelle Walton seconded the motion. The committee
voted 5-0 in favor. Meeting adjourned at 7:55 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
•JUL 15 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
