===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman
Peter Beardmore, Secretary
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
MINUTES for
July 25. 2019 Meeting
Approved Uninamously on August 8th,
2019
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Michelle
Walton
Peter Beardmore
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7pm (all expected
members were in attendance). This meeting is being recorded for
broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
• Terri Burchfield announced that during the previous meeting the
committee determined that all future meetings will be televised and
recorded unless there is a reason to not televise the meeting.
2. Public Comment
• Michelle Walton read a prepared statement proposing the board agree to
goals to accomplish over the course of the current fiscal year. She included
some ideas that could be considered: Evaluate staffing levels against
industry standards. Cost/benefit analysis of salaries vs. training vs.
outsourcing. Build and maintain a comprehensive list of all municipal
===PAGE 2===
• Resident David Rodgers: Inquired what the anticipated Chapter 70 and 90
numbers were and how they compare to the town budget. The town
manager and Terri Burchfield reported that the numbers are still not final.
Mr. Rodgers also expressed concern that the budgets for the Parks
Department and Cemetery Commission were not prepared or ratified by
their respective committees, but were rather proposed by the town
manager as part of the overall budget. He encouraged the Finance
Committee to invite these elected boards for presentation or comment as
part of the budget process. Mr. Rodgers also inquired about analysis of the
effects of anticipated housing developments in town. Terri Burchfield
advised that demographic trends and anticipated changes would be
included in the joint meeting that would be discussed later in the agenda.
Mr. Rodgers also requested that the committee identify and explain what
funds are "discretionary" during the budget process. He advised that the
committee adopt a "cautiously optimistic" plan. Mr. Rodgers also
requested that the committee take a look at the Master Plan work that the
Planning Board is outsourcing and suggested that the work should be done
by the Land Use Director instead.
3. Request for Joint Meeting/Presentations
• Terri Burchfield recommended that in response to the School Committee's
invitation for a joint meeting that the Finance Committee propose a
'symposium' presentation in October; delivered by the Town Manager,
Superintendent of Schools, and Land Use Director; and overseen by the
chairpersons of the Board of Selectmen, School Committee and Finance
Committee. The chairpersons could then call upon their respective
members, and the public, for questions and comment. This would allow
the presenters to focus on delivering relevant information (outside of the
context of any specific budget or budget request) and alleviate the
confusion that comes with moderating a meeting of three committees,
nearly twenty members, and the public. The topic of the symposium would
focus on the anticipated effects of development and shifting demographics
on town services over the next several years.
• The Town Manager expressed support for the 'symposium' concept.
===PAGE 3===
Superintendent of Schools, and Land Use Director as outlined above.
4. Department Head Meet and Greets
This topic came up and was discussed in Budget Request for Joint
Meeting/Presentation discussion. Finance Committee will extend
invitation, through the Town Manager, for discussions with department
heads during regularly scheduled meetings in the fall.
5. Budget Process Initial review
This topic came up and was discussed in Budget Request for Joint
Meeting/Presentation discussion. Town manager agreed. Presentation will
be scheduled for a meeting in September or October.
6. Committee/Department updates/assignments
• Terri Burchfield: Grants have been filed by the Land Acquisition
Committee for acquisition of land off Northfield Road.
7. Minutes
• From 7/11/2019: Accepted (John Henshaw motioned/David Passios
seconded; unanimous)
8. Town Manager/Financial Office Reports
• Four earmarks were included in the joint budget resolution and are
awaiting signature by the Governor.
• $100,000 self-contained breathing apparatus
• $165,000 fuel tanks
$40,000 Eagle House HVAC
$27,000 handicapped ramp at town hall
Bonding for school project are in process for issue in January
===PAGE 4===
9. Public Comment
• Resident David Rodgers asked where the need for the handicap ramp for
town hall was previously discussed or addressed. The Town Manager
responded that it was considered in the capital planning process, but not
included in the budget proposal. Also Mr. Rodgers asked for clarification
on the budget structure for the Parks Department and Cemetery. The
Town Manager clarified as outlined above. Also Mr. Rodgers asked for
clarification on how the impact of new development will be considered
Terri Burchfield explained that this will be included in the joint
meeting/symposium. Discussion ensued about the historical effects of new
development on the school department. John Henshaw explained some
research that he had done, initially indicating that there had been no
immediate increase in school population resulting from developments
over the past ten years. Additional factors, such as aging population
demographics and exit of Shirley students, need to be considered.
10.
David Passios highlighted the effects of additional vetting on certain
budget items, specifically suggesting that the scrutiny on the fuel tanks
lead to their partial-funding in the state budget. He asked that in the
future, additional vetting should happen in advance for similar requests.
Next Meeting
• August 8, 2019
11.
• August 22, 2019
Adjournment
• Jay Simeone motioned/ David Passios seconded; unanimous approval
