===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman
Peter Beardmore, Secretary
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
December 19. 2019 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Peter Beardmore, Michelle
Walton
Jay Simeone
1. Call to Order
• Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 6:30 (all expected
members were in attendance).
2. Communications
Public Comment - none
3. Informal Discussion with Fire Chief
• The board held an informal discussion with Chief Sullivan to discuss the
operations of the Fire Department and upcoming budget expectations.
Topics discussed include overtime, and effects of overtime from expanding
full-time staff, motion to paramedic-status rescue service, costs ot
training, recruitment and retention of trained staff, collections for
rendered services, changes in firefighting science.
4. Informal Discussion with DPW Director
The board held an informal discussion with Mr. Rodriquenz, DPD Director
to discuss operations of the DPD and upcoming budget expectations.
Topics included expectation for level-funded budget (excluding pavement
management), lack of resolution on funding for stormwater management
mandates, maintenance of deteriorating buildings, vehicle maintenance
management and reporting, the pavement management program (which is
===PAGE 2===
due for revision), shared services with other departments (DPW is
currently plowing the School Department due to staffing shortage), and
snow removal.
5. Minutes
• November 7 - Dave Passios moved to approve, Jon Henshaw 2nd,
unanimous approval
• November 14 - Dave Passios moved to approve, Jon Henshaw 2nd,
unanimous approval
6. Town Manager Report
• The town finance director explained that the committee will be given
access to our online budgeting software.
7. Committee Reports
• Dave Passios reported that the TCP redesign RFQ is out and there have
been requests for 30 packets. Responses are expected by January 7th.
Process for selection is in development.
• Jon Henshaw reported that the most recent meeting of the capital
planning was cancelled. He anticipated their next meeting will be January
7th.
8. Public Comment - none
9. Next meeting
• January 9 -
, January 23-
10.
Adjournment
• Dave Passios motioned/ John Henshaw seconded; unanimous approval
RECEIVED
MAR 12 2020
TOWN CLERK
