===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw, Vice-Chairman
Hannah Anderson, Secretary
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Jay Simeone
George Martin
Marc Luescher
Lunenburg Finance Committee
01-10-19
Michelle Walton
Location: Town Hall
Present: Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, Michelle Walton, Marc Luescher, George Martin, Jay
Simeone
Absent: none
Guest: Heather Lemieux, TM.
1. Open Meeting:
The Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00 pm. This meeting is not being recorded and
televised for re-broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access cable channel.
2. Communications:
Public Comment:
Carol Archambault, 662 Page Street- Carol addressed how she attended a forum sponsored by 11
local school superintendents (including Lunenburg) describing the need for reform in the allocation
of Chapter 70 funds. At the moment the formula to allocate Chapter 70 funds is 20 years old. The
Senate, House, and Governor have made bills to blend into one to formulate a new Chapter 70
funding formula. From what Carol understood, it looked like more money would be coming to
Lunenburg IF one of those funds came through.
*The URL recording of this meeting is listed below under attachments*
New Communications:
Terri read the Open Space and Recreation Plan letter of support to the committee and asked for
any changes needed be spoken now so she can make them.
3. Review status of member projects, budget dashboard led by George Martin
Skipped
4. Review terminology and definitions for web site inclusion
Skipped
===PAGE 2===
Michelle noted that she really liked how the 2018 Finance Committee Report listed out the
highlights/changes by bullet points. Terri said we can continue to do that. Michelle noted that this
was especially great for town members that are not always paying attention to the town
government, but it was easy to understand if you are not following along.
6. Committee/Department updates
Committee
Public Access Cable-Marc
Capital Planning-John H.
Dept. of Public Works - John H
Department updates
1. CPC voted to recommend ATM approve 11 project
requests 1,607 k.
2. Capital Planning Process:
a. Spreadsheet worked well
b. Capital Priority score: Collins Center
scoring matrix from Heather
1. Organized in categories: Asset life, Cost
reduction, Effect on revenues/efficiency, asset
management. Improve Town services.
2. Lot of overlap with current spreadsheet,
and additions-e.g. effect on revenues and
expenses.
3. IMO needs simplification.
4. Next: Working on a summary to circulate to
Heather and CPC.
Touch base with Police, Fire, DPW w/
proposed changes.
1. Snow & Ice budget $257,000. YTD this week
$121,149.
2. Summer Street: Town Expenses: $11,592.
COA - John H
Library- Michelle W.
Police Dept - Marc
Martha Moore is retiring at the end of March.
Martha and the board are struggling to understand how
much money they have to spend of all of the money
put into Bartholomew and how can they access it.
Michelle needs to know how she can help them with
this. Karen Brochu said she would send Michelle all the
information and believes that the principle is non-
expendable, but the interest is. Karen also said Martha
should work with the treasurer.
Having a hard time to get to find people, even
volunteers for the Police Department.
===PAGE 3===
a lot of work to help with costs but they cannot do any
of the electronic work which needs to be done through
the factory.
Currently he has one paramedic in training from the
new hires, so far $17K of that training has been
covered but he will need more funding if something
else comes up.
As of January 1, 2019, Chief Sullivan has spent 60% of
his overtime budget, 43% of that is just for firefighters
and the rest went to EMTs.
FY20 he is expecting to be above target request for the
overtime funding and also for repairs. He did receive a
grant this year for education for the public schools and
senior center for $7500.
Schools - Hannah
Monty Tech - Hannah
Green Comm Task Force-Jay
Sewer Commission -Jay
Charter Review Comm - Terri
Reviewed the work of the Charter Review Committee,
the Public Hearing, and the changes being brought
forward.
Of most interest was the change in the language
regarding Finance Committee appointments to require
that appointees be registered voters. The Charter
Review Committee discussed the change and the
current status of having a member unable to register to
vote. The consensus was that Terri would go back to
the Charter Review Committee and express to them
that while there seems a preference that members be
registered voters, we have not seen a detriment having
a member who is not.
Terri also asked folks if they felt a particular way after
thinking about it and wanted to write her, she would
bring those thoughts forward.
7. Minutes
8.
none
Town Manager/Financial Officer Reports
ClearGov 2018-2019 needs more adjusting for data and will not open until it is updated correctly.
Budgets were sent out. Departments will be meeting with Heather soon.
===PAGE 4===
until Heather, town manager, came in read the charter and pointed out this is the public Hearing
for the town meeting. We can raise the question if people have questions about those things to
have someone available to answer those, but we don't necessarily need them to have a full
presentation on it.
John mentioned to have it put on the agenda at the 1.24.19 meeting as to if we would have one or
two public hearing meetings. There was mention it needed to be figured out by February, so
Michelle mentioned to add it to the 2.7.19 meeting instead to give more time for the FinCom to
discuss having more than one Public Hearing.
9. Public Comment
None
10. Next Meetings
• January 24, 2019
11. Adjournment
John made a motion to adjourn. Marc seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion
7-0 at 9:08pm
Submitted by: Hannah Anderson
Attachments:
https://videoplayer.telvue.com/player/yycCAZPbONN3zj205qio-
YFMNC43NjCG/media/405218?autostart=true&showtabssearch=true
LFC Support Letter(doc.)
