===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman
Peter Beardmore, Secretary
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
Approved
MINUTES for
Unanamocsly
September 12. 2019 Meeting
9124/10B3)
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Peter
Beardmore, Michelle Walton
Absent:
none
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7pm. This meeting is
being recorded for broadcast on the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
2. Public Comment
John Henshaw commented that he researched open meeting law with
respect to whether a member could vote on approving minutes having not
attended the meeting in question, which is acceptable.
Peter Beardmore commented that he would like the board to engage in
discussions with town department heads on the topic of process
automation software, which could potentially lead to greater operational
efficiency and cost savings.
3. Joint meeting
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 1 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
invitatons nave been extended to departel deals all selling Cales are
in process. This has been complicated somewhat by the scheduling of the
Special Town Meeting
• Special Town Meeting has been scheduled for November 12, 2019. The
Finance Committee will hold a public hearing on October 10th. The
warrant closes on September 30. Consensus of the Finance Committee was
also have a meeting on October 3rd at 6:30, prior to Open Meeting training
which was previously scheduled.
5. Goals
• The committee discussed adopting the following potential goals:
GOAL: Develop a working definition of Level Service, Level Funding, and hybrid
alternative concepts.
PURPOSE: To evaluate budget requests in a consistent manner.
GOAL: Develop an instrument or method of forecasting, 5 years, budget requests
and recommendations, particularly the inter-departmental affects.
PURPOSE: To have a more practical and accurate projection of the financial
consequences of current budget decisions.
GOAL: Obtain information on the application of Free Cash as it impacts the
budget.
PURPOSE: Gain transparency in how we end up with Free Cash, how the Town
uses Free Cash, and the priority the Town places on having Free Cash.
GOAL: Gather a full accounting of operating expenses funded by non-municipal
funds (ie grants, donations; does not include state funding).
PURPOSE: Raise awareness of potential future budgetary exposure should the
non-municipal funds become unavailable/unobtainable.
GOAL: Develop a guide or framework to analyze the financial impact of new staff
positions.
PURPOSE: To be able to evaluate the cost/benefit of a new position in order to
make a recommendation.
===PAGE 3===
appied lot two separate grants totalig approxe 9500,000. I we
grants were to be approved, the cost to the town to acquire the property
will be approximately $280,000. An article is anticipated for town meeting
and there will be a presentation at the public hearing.
Peter Beardmore reported that the School Committee met on September 4.
They received an update from the business manager relating to year-to-
date expenditures and they are expecting a full report relating to
budgetary effects of retirements and resignations at their next meeting.
The School Committee is also looking at school choice numbers. The
outbound number of students using school choice is substantially higher
than the inbound number (a difference of roughly 50 students). The
School Committee also discussed the budget timeline, ultimately opting to
begin their needs-analysis portion in late-November or December.
7. Town Manager Report
• New Growth numbers should be submitted by first week of October. There
will be a place-holder budget adjustment article at Special Town Meeting.
• There will be a place-holder article for the police collective bargaining
agreement, involving a transfer from the salary reserve account (which is
an existing appropriation).
• There will be an article to re-vote the Chase Road property that was
acquired in lieu of taxes for conservation land.
• There will be an article submitted by the Personnel Committee relating to
the salary administration plan.
• There may be an article to change the date for the submission of articles
for the annual town meeting.
• The Selectmen are considering a right of first refusal for a property on
Howard Street.
===PAGE 4===
Peter bearamore commented that he belleves there is a marketing
problem' which leads citizens to believe the town is operating with a
surplus due to the way we purposefully create and expend free cash.
8. Public Comment
• Dave Passios commented noting the passing of Janice Carrier, a great loss
to the town.
• Michelle Walton commented that on September 27th there will be the
Massachusetts Municipal Association Legislative Breakfast from 8-10 at
Fitchburg State University.
Terri Burchfield commented there will be the Selectmen's appreciation
night on September 19th, 6-8PM ,at the Eagle House.
9. Minutes
David Passios moved to accept the minutes from August 22, 2019 meeting
, John Henshaw). Approved unanimously.
10. Next Meeting
• September 26, 2019
11.
Adjournment
• John Henshaw motioned/ David Passios seconded; unanimous approval
