===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Christopher Menard
David Passios
Jay Simeone
Lunenburg Finance Committee
October 15, 2020 Meeting
Public Hearing STM Warrant Articles
Location:
Present:
Zoom Virtual Meeting
Terrri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, John Henshaw, Jay
Simeone, Chris Menard, Heather Sroka
Absent:
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the
COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement.
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iSOVTrqv66U6:30
2. Public Comment
Peter Beardmore would like to briefly reraise the issue of the purchase of
the Trackless by the Town Manager and the DPW. He is still exercised
about the issue. Reading a statement addressed to the Select Board
expressing his disapproval of the trackless purchase. Statement can be
viewed on the recording at 6:01 - 8:16.
Terri Burchfield- one of the issues that Michele Walton brought up a lot -
off book transactions. Grant funding at Eagle House, the Library, because
it's happening offbook should be following fiscal policy - however they are
not covered in fiscal policy.
===PAGE 2===
Article 12 - Amendment of SAP - Salary Administration Bylaw - recommended
by the Personnel Committee.
Article 13 - Purchase of 250 Howard Street
Article 14 - Acceptance of Portion of 250 Howard Street for Conservation Land
Some confusion around Articles 13 and 14.
Article 15 - TIF with Greenhouse LLC - Tax Increment Financing
Article 16 - Presentation from the TCP Building Design Committee
Article 17 - 111 Mulpus Road Rear - transfer land to Conservation Commission
Article 18 - 970 NW Townsend Road Rear - transfer land to Conservation
Commission.
Article 19 - Streetlights - Green Community Task Force - LED Lights
Article 20 - Amendment to Chapter 204-1 on Stormwater Management
Recommendations tonight -
Comeback to Article 1 with total $ figure: Slide had various figures for different
articles.
Article 1 - Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Dave seconded, unanimous
Article 2 - Vote to defer to STM - Dave motion, John seconded, unanimous
Article 3 - Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Heather seconded, unanimous
Article 4 - cannot take action do not have a figure
===PAGE 3===
fund articles. Look at some and vote to defer in a grouping? Peter low
probability change and would want to fund
Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Chris seconded, 6-1 - Dave No.
Article 7, 8
, 13, 14 and 20 - Defer to STM, Chris motion, Peter seconded,
unanimous
Article 9 - Vote to recommend - Dave motion, Chris seconded, unanimous
Article 10 - Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Dave seconded, unanimous
Article 11 - Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Chris seconded, unanimous
Article 12 - Vote to recommend - Peter motion, Jay seconded, unanimous
Article 15 - Defer to STM - Peter motion, Dave seconded, unanimous
Article 16 - Vote to recommend - Chris motion, Peter seconded, unanimous
Articles 17 and 18 - Motion - No financial Impact - Peter motion, Jay seconded,
unanimous
Article 19 - Defer to STM - Jay motion, Dave seconded, unanimous
Dave to contact Dave Blatt to present to FinCom prior to STM
No meeting next week. Meeting on 10/29. Play by ear. Dave motion to move
next week's meeting to 10/29 if Chair deems necessary. Jay seconded.
Unanimous. Chris would like to see the LED presentation. Dave Blatt to present
on the 10/29.
Public Comment -
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, Clarification provided by Heather L. - in
order to take money from stabilization requires a 2/3 vote and majority vote to
put money in stabilization funds.
===PAGE 4===
do this and selling the TIF would be easier with hard numbers.
Terri - a very good way to kick off the Economic Development Committee to
make policy around TIFs.
Chris - thinks we should move forward with a policy on TIFs even without EDC.
Chris - question about minutes - could we sponsor someone in the Senior Tax
Work Off to take minutes.
Heather L. Senior Tax Work off already spoken to Julie - ATM on committee
looking for people to help with TCP Building Design and Cap Planning. Formal
request has gone in.
Dave - TCP Meeting postponed to next week agenda posting issue
Cap Planning - criteria for capital projects for next meeting - adjust the $
Parks - Monday 10/19
Chris - Open Space - 360 Flat Hill Road - looking at other ways of exercising
Right of First Refusal to a Trust to keep it farmland. As a Town we should be
looking at ways of keeping good farm land as opposed to adding another
development.
9:10 p.m. Motion to Adjourn - Dave, Jay seconded, unanimous
