===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chairman 
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman 
Peter Beardmore, Secretary 
John Henshaw 
Jay Simeone 
David Passios 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
January 23, 2020 Meeting  
(Approved March 12) 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Town Hall 
Present: Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Peter Beardmore, Michelle 
Walton, Jay Simeone 
Absent:  
 
1. Call to Order 
 
o Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7PM (members Dave 
Passios and Jay Simeone arrived late).  
 
2. Communications 
 
o Public Comment – Tarri Burchfield noted the vacancy on the committee 
and invited members of the public to submit talent bank forms. 
 
3. 5-year Financial Forecast 
 
o The Town Manager, with collaboration and supporting documentation 
from the Superintendent of Schools. Topics discussed included all topics 
outlined in the PowerPoint presentation linked here: 
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/files-docs/20-01-26/fy2021-fy2025-financial-forecast-
presentation 
There was extended discussion about the significant increases in the 
school department five year forecast when compared to current 
projections of available funds. The Superintendent described the process 
and methodology of their strategic and needs-based development of the 
forecast 
o Resident Carl Luck asked several questions for clarification relating to the 
difference in “base planning” and “5-year staffing plan”. He also requested 
access to the underlying excel spreadsheets containing the forecast data. 

===PAGE 2===
He also expressed concern about the exclusion of debt projections in the 
financial forecast and suggested the town run several debt scenarios to 
consider. 
o Dave Passios requested that the finance committee formally review the 
debt policy. 
 
4. Capital Plan 
 
o The Town Manager also presented the capital plan for FY2021 linked here: 
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/files-docs/20-01-26/fy-2021-capital-plan-presentation 
o Dave Passios sought to clarify what additional asbestos remediation would 
be required in advance of a renovation of Turkey Hill. The Town Manager 
will inquire. 
o Peter Beardmore asked for a comparison of police vehicles vs. previous 
purchases.  
o Dave Passios commented that the cemetery parking lot is the first step to 
making North Cemetery accessible in the winter. 
o Peter Beardmore expressed reservations about additional spending on The 
Ritter Building, absent of clarity on future use of the building. 
 
5. Committee Reports 
o Dave Passios reported the TCP Committee will be interviewing design 
firms on Jan 29th.  
 
6. Minutes 
o December 12 – Dave Passios moved to approve, Jon Henshaw 2nd, 
unanimous approval 
  
7. Public Comment - none 
 
8. Next meeting 
 
o February 13 – Town Manager budget presentation 
o January 20 – Department presentations begin 
o Warrant is open, closes on March 16th 
 
9. Adjournment 
o John Henshaw motioned/ Dave Passios seconded; unanimous approval 
 
 