===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Heather Sroka, Secretary
John Henshaw
Christopher Menard
David Passios
Jay Simeone
FAX 918.584.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
October 29, 2020
Location:
Present:
Zoom Virtual Meeting
Terri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris
Menard, Heather Sroka
Absent:
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the
COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement.
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrgv66U6:30
2. Public Comment
Terri announces that John Henshaw has resigned from FinCom. He did not
anticipate being available for tonight's meeting. She has notified the
appointment Committee. She notified Town Manager to post the position. Terri
will miss working with John. He was always a thorough and thoughtful member
of the Committee.
Peter Beardmore echoed comments about John Henshaw. He has not worked
with him as long as Terri, but notes that John has a fantastic analytical mind and
will be sorely missed on this Committee. He wanted to make an additional
comment regarding the Trackless and the process regarding the purchase. He
would like pursue a proposal of Town Policy after STM regarding this type of
purchase.
===PAGE 2===
for the Street Lights. Dave to forward to Peter for screen sharing.
3. Green Community - Street Lights Project
Dave Blatt - Power Point Presentation - Attached
Questions -
Cost associated with this - negotiate a private maintenance contract - savings
would go toward those costs.
Heather L. - thank Dave Blatt for his work on this project. She agrees that the
savings are attractive. She has one concern - the added responsibility to both
TM and DPW - have been understaffed. She hasn't been able to connect with the
Fitchburg DPW to discuss streetlights and their contractor. Info is online for the
Committee to see.
Chris- Could we coordinate with Fitchburg regarding the contractor?
Heather - would still have to go out to bid for the contract.
Jay - not for the initial purchase or conversion.
Heather - would have to put to bid for both.
Jay - once all converted we shouldn't have too much maintenance. How many
lights does Fitchburg have? It would be considerably more than we do - they're a
city.
Discussion around this contractor and the cost of the maintenance.
Dave Blatt - Fitchburg had around 1,400 lights converted.
Dave Passios - Disagrees with the load of work being touted for this project.
DPW is already the go to for streetlight management. He doesn't see a lot of
added work for the DPW. Tired of this holding the Town back from these
savings. The Assistant TM was suppose to lighten the load of the TM and we
have made that investment.
===PAGE 3===
Heather L. could put an estimate together per Chris's request - for contract
management costs. Length of contract would be 3 years.
Terri - this street light conversion has been lingering so hopefully we will come
to a decision at the STM. Any other info needed for the Committee to make
recommendation at STM?
Dave Blatt will finetune this presentation so that it's more accurate with
numbers.
Chris - do we need all the street lights.
Heather L. - public safety would have to review lights if any were suggested for
removal.
Peter - Would like to finally take advantage of updating the street lights -
environmentally and financially. There was a recent article in the Globe
regarding this. Makes sense for good progress. The FinCom not ready to make a
recommendation. When do you think we'll make a recommendation?
Terri - Nov 12th to run through the warrant articles again. Doesn't see a need to
add a meeting at this time. Much thanks to Dave Blatt for all the work with the
Green Community to get this project to this point.
Dave Blatt - which ever way the Town votes - he thinks the Town needs to do
something.
4. Town Manager and Finance Reports -
Heather L. - updates related to the warrant. Karen B. was working on the
CARES Act round 2.
Warrant was finalized the last SB meeting. The Articles were reordered so that
the Streetlights were now Article 4 from Article 19. Reasoning the vote outcome
would help with the final figure for the Stabilization fund.
===PAGE 4===
Fire $8427.30 creates longevity that moves from a % to a flat rate that is
$2,536.27 creates educational stipend $4,000, ALS Stipend $1,500
Total Impact for Fire - $16,463-57
Clerical -$13,389.42
Dave - on course to half dozen negotiations at the same time. Pretty dangerous.
Terri - How many collective bargaining agreements?
Heather L. - Town has 4 not including the School.
Heather S.- School has 4 as well.
Peter - in the big picture - this big one is the teachers. COLA's being handed out
while the School Department hasn't gotten a 2% COLA. He didn't get an
increase, is friends didn't get an increase. He has to question these increases.
The teachers did not see an increase like this across the board.
Heather S. - the contracts are much smaller for the Town. If the schools gave
2% the financial impact would be much higher. People at this point are lucky to
have jobs.
Peter - not sure we should take that attitude. We should be good employers. We
have to be fiscally responsible. He predicts touch negotiations in a really tough
year. Teachers are killing themselves this year and will likely expect some
renumeration in the coming years. He doesn't feel good about this.
Terri - to Heather L. - what were the previous COLAs?
Heather L. - 2% COLA
Heather S. - what did the Police Department receive and it was a 3 year contract
correct?
Heather L. - 2% for the 3 years
===PAGE 5===
250 Howard Street - SB meeting on that article - triparty agreement at that time
Chris - TIF - looking at a possible expansion - would they be looking for a TIF
on that expansion as well?
Heather L. - that would be part of the SB discussion. All the details and
obligations on both sides would be discussed. TIF discussion around possible
expansion.
Terri - Does anyone want to take up Articles 8 and 9 for recommendation? No
rush as the Warrant has already been published.
Peter - agrees not rush. Does FinCom have copies of the agreements?
Heather L. - the MOUs need to be signed but have been voted on. Have not
been circulated.
Dave - thinks this should be discussed thoroughly about this. STM will be the
only place for the Town to send it back to collective bargaining.
Terri- will set aside warrant articles for this meeting.
Inquires it Dave wants to
make a presentation regarding Capital Planning's possible policy changes.
Dave - if I had my notes organized I would.
Terri - do we want to highlight the CP policy changes for the SB.
Dave - the major policy change is the threshold goes from $10,000 to $30,000
and some other conditions.
Heather L. -
Approached by MAYA our insurance plan to participate in the post 65 program -
not medicare eligible. MAYA has done this for some communities - shifts
employees into medicate part A from active plans. Reduces renewal costs and
has a long-term OPEB cost effect. 2% discount on 2022 renewal cost. Good
===PAGE 6===
Heather L. when the new DPW director is on he will make that decision.
Chris - the special revenue fund list Karen sent out. How the funds can be used?
Karen - Many of the fund listed are grants- you would have to let me know which
one you would want to know.
Peter - should we make this an agenda item?
Chris - yes - we should discuss
Dave - we should look into the revolving funds, when they were made and what
they're used for. MGL at times creates revolving funds and some may be
outdated.
Peter - taking over chair as Terri has left the meeting and not returned.
5. Minutes - none for approval
6. Committee Reports.
Dave - TCP Building Report
Terri returned - 2 min
Peter - School Committee Report
School Improvement Plans and Curriculum
Budgetary Concerns - Livestreaming - Tech Director was to apply for a grant
Specifics misread and missed the deadline for the grant - $62,000
Heather L. -timing would not have worked out grant announced at Thanksgiving
but cameras needed prior. CARES Act funding will be used in it's place.
===PAGE 7===
Terri - new Police Chief was approved permanently assumes this means there
will be more staff movement in the PD.
7. Public Comment
Peter - future discussion topics
CARES Act Funds - updates to fully take advantage of funds
Capital Expenses approved at ATM - where we are in the process
Karen B. - CARES Act - Round 2 reimbursements on the Town Side
Total Eligible Amount the Town Had $1,027,771
Submitted in Round 1 - $147,421
To be submitted in Round 2 $282,112
Remaining - $598,238
Some discussion on what CARES Act monies cover -
First Responders Salaries - overtime
Chromebooks - IT - Zoom Costs
Remote Meeting Coordinator
Cleaning and Disinfection of Public Building
Election Expenses
BOH Expenses
Signage related to COVID
PPE
Extensive but narrow list
Must have delivery of items prior to the end of the year. Exception allowed for
the Chromebooks if they don't receive them by the end of the year because they
order was placed in June.
Peter - are we being creative enough to use available funds??
Next meeting 11/12
===PAGE 8===
Chris - what agenda item is that?? Capital Planning Fiscal Policy Change
discussion?
Dave - the FinCom to review the changes discuss for their feedback.
Chris - can we add to that agenda - more detail around Capital Planning Items.
More like a one-pager for the item.
Dave - those details are part of the job of the Cap Planning Committee. For
transparency that information should be provided.
Terri - thank you to Chris for the share document providing an example from
another town with the one-sheet info.
Dave - prior to Town Charter changes - capital item each had their own warrant
articles.
Chris - aren't there towns that include some capital items in their operating
budget?
Heather L. - yes
Peter- likes the oversight of the Capital Planning process.
Terri - the longer look ahead has been helpful
Peter - while you were offline we discussed an agenda item of special accounts,
revolving account and grants for discussion
Terri - will include as a standing item so it can be discussed. We should follow-
upon debt and recommendations on building projects We have a long agenda on
the 12th. After that STM - nice to see everyone in person. 11/17.
Dave - before we adjourn... quick request - wondering if Jay can send around
the email he sent prior to STM.
===PAGE 9===

