===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chair 
Peter Beardmore, Vice-Chair 
Heather Sroka, Secretary 
John Henshaw 
Christopher Menard 
David Passios 
Jay Simeone 
 
             
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
August 27, 2020 Meeting  
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, John Henshaw,  
Chris Menard 
Absent: Jay Simeone, Heather Sroka  
 
1. Call to Order 
 
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the  
  COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:   
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrqv66U 
 
Jay Simeone will be late if he is able to attend 
Heather Sroka will not be present  
 
2. Public Comment (1:42 – 8:12) 
 
Peter Beardmore note the passing of Bruce Smith.  Mr. Smith was a 
lifelong resident of Lunenburg.  He was an original member of the Luneburg Blue 
Knights Football Coach in the 1960’s.  He went on to coach in the 80’s when Peter 
played.  He was a member of the 1980’s network of dads at all school events, 
school events.  He had a son who was a classmate of Peter’s in 1990, another son 
who was in class of 1992 and a number of step-children.  Peter wanted to 
acknowledge his passing and acknowledge all that he did for Lunenburg and 
himself.  He wishes his family all the best.   
 
Carol Archembault the Lunenburg School Committee Chairperson is the 
Sole Spokesperson to the SC.  This statement is being shared with permission of 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
the SC Chair.  “At the last Finance Committee Meeting there were many 
comments involving the School District’s remote model.  I wish to clarify the 
remote model the Lunenburg Public Schools will be operating with as schools 
open this fall with most students participating in a hybrid model.  Any student 
that is registered to attend school remotely will be taught by Lunenburg Public 
School Educators.  All Educators will receive additional training in remote 
education and meet regularly with their hybrid teaching peers, teach to the 
established Lunenburg curriculum, and develop a classroom community within 
the remote cohort.  There are rare cases where a High School student may select a 
course that other remote students haven’t selected such as an upper level foreign 
language course.  In those cases the school district will arrange for that course to 
be taught through Educere at a cost of $200 per student per course.  Otherwise 
the school district will teach all remote students.  As was brought up by Finance 
Committee Members at the last meeting students may choose to attend another 
school through school choice or choose to home school.  That is a decision each 
family needs to make.  All remote registrations need to be in by tomorrow, 
August 28th so we can adequately plan for each student.  Students that register 
remotely are welcome to switch the hybrid model at the end of each quarter if 
they so desire.  I hope this clears up any questions you may have regarding the 
remote learning plan.  Thank you.” 
 
Peter this is not on the agenda and reports come later – he sent an email to 
the Superintendent about the cost related issues associated with School Choice 
and on-line learning.  She acknowledged his email and basically said they are still 
in the process of calculating based on the aforementioned information Mrs. 
Archembault mentioned as a result of the survey and that they would be 
communicating with us down the road as the numbers become clearer.  He did 
not realize at the last meeting that there is some potential negative impact as well 
with relation to the enrollment and potentially if a high number of students chose 
to home school in particular that would decrease our enrollment, and could have 
a negative effect on Town in the coming years on the cherry sheets.  We should be 
aware and ask about it in the future.   
 
Committee Reports (8:20 – 16:08) 
 
John spoke to the Police and Fire Chief a few days ago.  There has been a 
Covid effect on the PD in two ways.  When the PD responds to a call and there is a 
good chance they have been exposed to Covid, the officers get tested and 
sequester for two to three days.  The PD puts other officers on overtime to pick up 
slack.  There are three times this has happened.  Second, the Covid pandemic is a 
tense and open-ended time.  They police are getting an increase in calls involving 
neighbor to neighbor or in-the house conflicts.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Fire Chief Sullivan expects the Ladder Truck and Engine 4 sometime at the 
end of the month of in September.  The Paramedic training on how to use the 
defibrillator has been postponed due to Covid.   
 
Terri – to John – are the types of Covid costs like over-time are they 
recoverable through the Covid funding/grants?  John – the Covid overtime costs 
he doesn’t believe are recoverable.  However the increase PPE that the Town has 
made has been recovered 100%.  The issue there is that the reimbursements have 
not been received yet, so there may be a cash flow effect at least short term. 
 
Dave reported on the Parks Commission meeting with Karin Menard.  
Action items the chair is going to work on:  Marshall Park and the direction to 
plan for that park.  Hoping to pull together a list of what the commission sees the 
park looking like after a complete renovation, possible uses, changes of use, etc.  
Then go to the public and ask for public input then start to develop a master plan 
start source of funding.  So far not seeing grant money for these projects drying 
up and doesn’t look like it will in the foreseeable future.  Very optimistic – hope 
to have a new Marshall Park within 5 years. 
 
Dave – TC Passios Committee met once since our last meeting.  Discussion 
about inviting or soliciting other community groups in Town.  The Chair made a 
Public Comment at the BOS meeting a couple of weeks ago to that effect inviting 
the Public or any other Boards specifically they should go to the Chair for 
consideration.  Another look at where the architects and engineers are – starting 
to pull together a good picture of the condition of the building.  Aspects that 
won’t change no matter the configuration – such as a new roof.  Things are 
moving forward.  Hoping community groups are satisfied and have a chance to 
put in their input.   
 
 Not on the agenda however Chris brought up the notion of a rubric the 
Committee uses for building projects.  This will be put it on the next agenda.   
 
 Chris – as the Finance Committee we make recommendations on Warrant 
Articles and their financial impact and he was wondering in the past if the High School 
Middle School came forward and if these other building projects if the Finance 
Committee put together a rubric for the community to help the voters decide whether 
they support or don’t support a warrant article as written.  How will we decide and 
discuss these topics and decide on supporting a warrant article?   
 
 Peter – the debt discussion is part of that.  The effects of debt on both the budget 
and tax rates – all part.  Other side of that the discussion – the benefits side – and the 
rubric side may be beneficial.  Cost vs. benefit analysis would be worth discussion and 
exploration. 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 John – the idea of a rubric appeals to him.  It would help in the data gathering 
section.  Great idea.  
 
Jay joined the meeting.  (20:00)   
 
 Terri - Will add rubric to the agenda for discussion and exploration.   
 
  
3. Town Manager/Finance Director Report (21:42 – 41:01) 
 
Karen Brochu – Overtime costs related to Covid would be reimbursed from the 
CARES Act and FEMA.  In FY20 the Town submitted overtime and received 25% 
so far.  So far not a huge amount of money for FY20--approximately $7,000.  
Costs could escalate but to the best of her knowledge they are reimbursable 
through the CARES Act and FEMA.   
 
Next Tuesday will present the close of FY20 revenues and expenditures.  The 
revenues of FY20 exceeded estimate of .6% or a total of $267,291.  Expenditures 
were 2.8% less than budgeted for a total of $1,207, 219 in appropriation close-
outs.  Our undesignated fund balance which is the starting point for free cash 
certification is $644,000 higher than at the close of FY19.  Believes we will have a 
significant free cash certification once it’s submitted.  Last year’s certification of 
free cash was $1,107, 694 – close out this year was higher than the prior year so 
that may translate almost dollar for dollar in free cash certification.   
 
Dave has a question for Karen.  He is appointed to the Capital Planning 
Committee.  As such he read all the charges of the CPC and was surprised to learn 
that because the CP was voted as a lump sum money could be moved anywhere 
within the CP without a vote at TM.  Has that ever been done? 
 
Karen – we do not do that.  If there was an item on the Capital Plan that exceeded 
the amount that was appropriated if the Dept. requesting the capital item had the 
ability to fund within their appropriations the difference as long as it was a small 
percentage over what was budgeted we have allowed that to happen.  We have 
never shifted dollars amongst the total capital plan.   
 
Dave – was shocked that was in there and the way it was worded.  Dollar amounts 
tied to each project.  By-law reads differently even if it hasn’t been done.   
 
Karen – unaware it was in the By-law.  Does not make sense.   
 
Dave – Wallace Park – DPW shifted monies for the overage of the Park.  How 
does it affect close-out funds?  Could there be an instance where more money 
would roll more free cash into the process? 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
 
Karen – if you had the ability to move the monies within the Capital Plan and use 
those monies rather than incumbering in the general fund as was the case with 
the Parks Department with the resurfacing of the court – if you have the ability to 
use the CP funds rather than the general budget you would have more free cash at 
the end of the year.   
 
Dave – less restrictive under the policy.  Once money under a CP project keep it 
there even unexpended Capital goes into another capital project. 
 
Karen – correct. 
 
Peter  - unspent expenditures – will Fin Com see a list of what wasn’t spent? 
 
Karen – will provide the Fin Com the reports.   
 
Peter – would like to see what is Covid impact.   
 
Karen – discussion on close-outs.  
 
Peter – 2020 busing issue been resolved. 
 
Karen – going to the BOS on Tuesday.  
 
Peter – calendar for Fall TM.  Capital items that may need a different level of 
consideration for things going on socially and politically. 
 
Karen – Heather L. looking at her pre-Covid budget to reinstate to bring forward 
the CP that was there.  Unsure if the CPC has met with different needs or 
reprioritize. 
 
Peter – personally some of that needs to be reconsidered.  Two areas are body 
cameras in PD and at least the long term plan for those and the School 
Department want to broadcast from classrooms – don’t have infrastructure to 
broadcast to students learning remotely and what we would have to do to get 
there.   
 
Terri – is CPC meeting prior to Fall TM?  Peter should send an email to Town 
Department heads to bring that to the CPC.   
 
Peter - Unsure of the process of Special Town Meeting.   
 
Terri – Federal Source of Funding.   
 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
Peter – information from SC.  Body cameras – nonspecific information from 
Chief Marino both times he was at Fin Com.  School - Legal hurdles and technical 
hurdles.  What is the cost? 
 
Chris – the IT issues may come into with the need to go to a better platform. 
 
Peter – Bandwidth and infrastructure issue.  Networking speed and switches and 
routers in THES – but none of the work has been done to determine the cost 
associated with it.   
 
Meeting Minutes (40:33 – 44:18) 
 
Terri – at the last meeting we did see the minutes for July 23rd that Heather had 
wanted to make changes to.  Wondering about minutes for June 11th Meeting 
Minutes and if they were approved.   Peter believes they were approved as they 
were submitted.  May want to come back to them.   
 
Does anyone want to proceed with the July 23 meeting minutes?  
 
Peter moves to approve the July 23rd meeting minutes.  John hand up.  John sent 
an email regarding meeting minutes.  John wants to hold off as they are not time 
sensitive.  Peter withdraws his motion.  John wants Heather to polish them up a 
little.  
 
Budget Review  (44:20 – 1:05) 
 
Terri – Did everyone have a chance to review the budget information?  Does 
anyone have comments, questions, want to start a discussion now.  Or since the 
BOS will be discussing budget priorities at their next meeting.  Do we want to 
hold off until after that? 
 
Peter believes a detailed discussion at the next meeting is the most appropriate 
given the TM is absent.  Only request he has is that he is one that requested the 
Dashboard Document and it has proven to be a useful document to him to keep 
track of what we did over the budget season.  His request through Terri and 
Karen is that they don’t lose this when they are deciding what they are going to 
make whole in the fall.   
 
Terri asked Chris if he found any of the information helpful.  Chris said he did 
find it helpful.  On the expenditures side he found that both on the Police and 
Fire additional personnel had been removed so he supposed that meant it would 
be kept level.  He is interested in a five-year plan.  If so, is it available.   
 
===PAGE 7===
 
 
There is a five- year forecast.  However, Terri believes Chris is speaking to the 
staffing plan the Police and Fire put together for the 10 year bringing them up to 
24 hour coverage.  He was looking for all the departments.  There is no staffing 
plan.  There is a five-year forecast.  Unsure if staffing changes is represented in 
the five-year forecast.  Peter recalled that the school department had included a 
great deal of staffing issues in it and it became a very controversial item.  Unsure 
if all the departments include it but the school department did.   
 
Only staffing plan Terri recalls was Police and Fire.  Terri will attempt to locate 
the document and forward it with the five-year forecast.   
 
I'm more than happy to relinquish my role as Secretary to someone who likes to 
have things that are easier on the eye and more detailed than I have prepared.   
 
File sharing options – Chris could share – options from Steve Malindrinos – 
Google Drive, OneDrive, or moving from OneDrive to a Share Point.  Shared 
repository.   One Drive on the individual to set up.  Steve said one thing with 
Share Point is $6 per user per month.  Not a lot of money in the grand scheme.  
Having all the data in on spot would be good on the broader town wide level.  
Chris set up a OneDrive using his Lunenburgonline account.  He has to share 
with others.  Threshold for cost – 6 gigabites.   
 
Chris has issues with Google Drive.  It can be confusing if you have two google 
accounts.  One Drive shared with his daughter’s.  He feels Share Point would be 
the best option.  Could start with One Drive and move to Share Point.   
 
Peter – Threshold cost with OneDrive it is expensive as well.  Personal opinion 
Whatever it is, it has to have unique logins so that there can be record keeping.  
Share Point is the most elegant but it has a cost associated.   
 
SharePoint gets into work flow/shared calendar.  
 
Terri- meetings would run themselves and no chair would be needed.  Chris joked 
that would be SharePoint Plus.   
 
Terri question or concern – helpful for sharing information.   Storage – can go in 
and look but not manipulate data – that could be a violation of open meeting law. 
 
Peter – Not be able to collaborate on the platform and edit as some people do on-
line.  Could share editable documents, download, edit and then share as a new 
version.  What he has done with the minutes in the past for a document that 
hasn’t been shared to the Town Website – downloads it, puts it in a PDF version 
and then sends it along to become a Public Document.  Sharing documents that 
would be linked to in the minutes. 
===PAGE 8===
 
 
 
John – the 6$ per month per person - Is that discounted if everyone in Town 
Government logs on or is this just Fin Com?  With Share Point -  can he log in 
and keep the tabs without paying $6.  OneDrive is free.  SharePoint can google 
and look.  Peter will share some folders so John can look at SharePoint.  John will 
look and call Peter if he feels overwhelmed.  
 
Terri- documents can be any type.  Might be worth starting with OneDrive.  
Security an issue?   
 
Peter- standardized on Microsoft on work and personalize – this would be 
another login using the Lunenburgonline.  Could turn into a usability issue but 
probably not a security issue. 
 
Terri – happy to move toward this – does SharePoint eliminate the usability 
issue?   
 
Chris – SharePoint is more remotely managed by giving permissions – would 
appoint an administrator as fincom page – could have a public page.  Unsure of 
records management for the Town but this could be helpful to go to digital 
records Town wide. 
 
Peter – spoke to Mr. Malindrinos within the past few years– have a municipal 
records management system and still have one in place.  Most of the town storage 
is standardized on google – due to the price.  
 
Terri has no problem pursuing it.  She is technologically inept.  But she is happy 
with jumping on board.  
 
Peter – Chris should coordinate with Mr. Malindrinos.  
 
Chris -spoke to Mr. Malindrinos and he is more than happy to help set this up.  
Chris to set-up OneDrive and Town Manager’s thumbs up.   
 
 
   
4. Public Comment (1:05 - :  
 
Dave Passios a couple of things he left out earlier.  Addition to the Parks Report – 
the Wallis Park basketball court resurfacing capital project is now complete – just 
a few touch-ups for the DPW.  Looks fantastic.   Budgetary point of view 
Resurfacing dollar amount was exactly what was appropriated.  $7,000 
incumbered for the fence work from the Parks Budget.   
===PAGE 9===
 
 
Spoke to Town Counsel – Town Charter has cleared the legislature.  Last he saw it 
was on the Governor’s desk.  Heard there was an article.  Close the finalization of 
the Charter. 
 
Peter Beardmore – questions regarding the money incumbered in Parks 
Department.  Shouldn’t that require a formal request for a transfer of funding if 
we’re incumbering a Town Department Budget something that was on the Capital 
Project Plan?   
 
Dave – that would be a good question for Karen.  She did cover that in our back 
and forth saying that rather than transfer capital money between projects in a 
capital plan in a few instances we’ve covered overages on Capital Plan Projects by 
incumbering available money in a department’s line item that would otherwise 
roll to free cash.  If you start to question outside of the powers to be especially if 
you go to the Attorney General’s office -they just say unless it egregiously out of 
wack what they’re doing if that’s been common practice they’re not going to fight 
it.   
 
Terri asks a clarifying question – Was the fence part of the Capital Plan?   
 
Dave – believes the Capital Plan was worded as improvements and resurfacing of 
the basketball court so that is why the fence was included. 
 
Peter would like to inquire what the practice is.  If the regulations specify that 
money in a budget for operational expenses in a department requires a transfer to 
move it to a capital function.  No harm no foul – but sooner or later there will be 
harm and foul and people are going to do it anyway.  In his opinion if this a 
process we’re not following he thinks it should be followed. 
 
Karen – clarify that the funds aren’t actually transferred to Capital Article.  The 
expenditure is split so that whatever was in the Capital Article is expended from 
Capital and the balance not covered comes from the Parks Department’s 
operating budget.  There is no physical transfer of funds. 
 
Peter doesn’t recall fence repair in the Parks Budget.   
 
Karen there is a line item in Parks Budget that is pretty general – Parks 
Department Expenses. 
 
Chris – was the difference in money just the cost of the fence.   
 
David – pretty much so.  The fence happened first.   
 
Chris – fences are repaired under operating budgets.   
===PAGE 10===
 
 
 
Difference between a repair and replacement and a difference between a Capital 
Plan Project and a repair.  This wouldn’t necessarily show up in the Capital Plan 
because it doesn’t meet the threshold.   
 
Interesting question work some future discussion when Heather L. is available.  
In what situation would we see a line item transfer.   
 
Peter – Debt Project – expecting to meet with Superintendent, Mr. Cassidy and 
Mr. Londa to discuss THES scope.  Question for Dave - Do we expect to see some 
TCP big ticket items – do you think those will be of any value for scoping of final 
project?   
 
Dave  - only in the realm the early figures with be costs are going to be constant – 
roof, infrastructure heating and electric.  Want to ensure they bring forward 
numbers that are not going to change dramatically.  Very often the first number 
that we hear is the number brought to Town Meeting.  Only numbers that will not 
change to be brought right now.   
 
Municipal uses to be vetted for the next few meetings.  Dave does not see any new 
number coming out until late September.  As reports become more reliable they 
will be posted for public.   
 
Dave - discussion around the Capital Project – paying for that project that way is 
that it skews the actual figures for the Capital Project.   
 
Terri – also possible that if the court was not repaving the fencing could have 
been replaced anyway.   
 
Dave agreed with that assessment.  
 
Jay encouraged Committee members to watch the Board of Assessors July 13th 
meeting.  He happened to watch they were ratifying the new Assessor.  One of the 
issues that came up with the State and the process and the software wasn’t very 
user friendly.  Concerned with running two systems causing tax bills to run late.  
Software issues – state v. other.   Jay had a bad signal and could not hear him. 
 
Karen doesn’t have a lot of information on it.  Need new software.  Entered a new 
contract.  Assessing software IAS World.  Conversion is not complete.  Working 
on issues with the conversion.   Legal Counsel is involved.  New Assessor wants to 
make a switch to move from new software to another software.  
 
 
5.  Adjournment  
===PAGE 11===
 
 
 Next Meeting September 10  
 Motion to adjourn Dave seconded by Jay all in favor 