===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chairman 
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman 
Peter Beardmore, Secretary 
John Henshaw 
Jay Simeone 
David Passios 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
April 28, 2020 Meeting  
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting –  
Joint Meeting with the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Dave Passios, Michelle Walton, Peter Beardmore, John 
Henshaw 
Absent: Jay Simeone 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
o Terri Burchfield, Chair called the finance committee to order at following 
the Chairman of the Board of Selectmen calling the BOS to order and 
reading of the Open Meeting and COVID-19 statement.  
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b34TBCYajNU 
 
2. Joint meeting with the BOS to meet with Representative Stephan Hay 
and Senator Dean Tran.  
 
o Town Manager Heather Lemieux reported this meeting was requested by 
the Fincom.  
o Senator Tran stated the Governor published his proposed budget in 
January for Chapter 70 at about $5.5Billion. Currently we do not know 
how the legislature will react to the proposal. The intent for now is we are 
in a holding pattern until we get past some obstacles. We are trying to find 
a way for them to meet and vote in a formal session. 
o Representative Hay concurred with Senator Tran in that everything right 
now is up in the air. He believed the revenue projections are going to be 
different from what the Governor used in his budget proposal in January. 
This could change once the House and Senate get back together and 
discusss the budget.  

===PAGE 2===
o Peter Beardmore expressed thans to both legislators for meeting with 
them. He did not believe anyone in town expected the Student 
Opportunity Act (SOA) would be a windfall, but was driven to improve the 
quality of education statewide. However, what we’ve seen to date is a 
Governor’s proposal that was driven by changed Chapter 70 formulas, 
resulting from the SOA. The resulting increases were less than what they 
had been in previous years without the SOA, and without the reporting 
requirements now required to qualify for the funding. A subsequent 
meeting with the Monty Tech representatives revealed the formula 
changes also adversely effected Lunenburg with respect to our 
contributions to Monty Tech.  
o Discussion ensued on how to address the Governor’s budget and reduction 
to it. Ms. Burchfield asked if the town should plan for a 10% reduction in 
state aid. Senator Tran could not answer that as currently the numbers are 
fluid. Rep Hay concurred with him. 
o Ms. Lemieux asked about the status of SB 2602/ HB4611 for emergency 
hazard pay. Senator Tran stated it was still in sub-committee and would 
need to be forwarded to the Ways and Means Committee and then to the 
Senate floor for a vote. 
o Ms. Lemieux asked about how Lunenburg could apply for CDBG funding 
under the CARES Act. Senator Tran stated some of the towns that had 
already received CDBG funding would receive a portion of that funding. 
o Representative Hay offered to forward a letter to House leadership looking 
for additional budgeting guidance for town planning and agreed to share 
subsequent communications. 
o  
 
 
3. Adjournment 
o Terri Burchfield adjourned the Finance Committee meeting and the 
Selectmen’s meeting continued.  
 
 