===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
Lunenburg Finance Committee
June 11, 2020 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Zoom Virtual Meeting -
Joint Meeting with the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen
Terri Burchfield, Michelle Walton, Peter Beardmore, John Henshaw, Jay
Simeone
Dave Passios
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair called the finance committee to and read the Open
Meeting and COVID-19 statement.
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MZXiZ9iQU3A
2. Public Comment
None
3. Town Manager and Finance Director Report
Cares act funding for approximately $147K has been received.
4. Minutes
• April 2, 2020, John Henshaw moved to approve, Jay Simeone 2nd (4-0-1,
Michelle Walton abstained)
5. FY21 Budget review
Recommendations for deferred items
Article 4 (Passed over) - Peter Beardmore moved to not make a
recommendation, Jay Simeone 2nd (unanimous approval)
Article 9 (Passed over) - Peter Beardmore moved to not make a
recommendation, Jay Simeone 2nd (unanimous approval)
===PAGE 2===
opposed to reserve). It was unclear it the temporary powers of the BUs
with respect to accessing stabilization funds will sunset within FY21. Peter
B thought that the reserve account would give us the greatest possible
flexibility in the event the school opening costs turned out to be
significantly greater than anticipated.
Generally, the members supported the idea of deferring items on the
capital plan and appropriating the remaining free cash to the reserve fund
to ensure maximum flexibility.
Discussion ensued about what capital expenditures could possibly be
deferred, deferring on the streetlights article, and moving unappropriated
free cash to either stabilization or reserve funds.
Peter Beardmore moved to recommend against approving Article 21
(streetlights), Michelle Walton 2nd. (Unanimous approval)
• The town manager identified the following capital projects as critical:
Culvert, Police Cruiser, SCBA, ACO Vehicle, Asbestos Abatement
• Chief Marino clarified that the cruiser remaining on the capital plan is not
a replacement vehicle but intended to outfit new recruits coming out of the
academy in July. He also expressed concern with respect to the lead time
for vehicles. Further he explained that the current ACO vehicle is not safe
and very inefficient, to the point that it isn't usable by the ACO, not does it
comply with green communities requirements and may negatively affect
availability of further grants. The ACO is currently using her own vehicle
but does not have requisite communications capabilities.
Peter Beardmore floated the idea of deferring all capital items except the
cruiser and the Flat Hill culvert design and appropriating the funds to free
cash. Generally the committee agreed. Jay Simeone suggested prioritizing
the SCBA equipment over the culvert design and closing the road in the
area of the culvert.
The committee took no action.
6. Formation of Debt Group
Peter Beardmore outlined a proposed charge debt project including:
• Cost and timeline for anticipated projects that will require
borrowing (TCP, THES, 635 Mass Ave., Old Primary School, etc.)
• Examine the effects on the operating budget and property taxes
over time for each project.
===PAGE 3===
None
8. Public Comment
Peter Beardmore noted the recent events in town including the senior class
motorcade and the demonstration that was held on the previous Sunday.
He echoed the comments that were made by Selectman Jefferies and
lauded the Lunenburg Police Department.
Resident Carl Luck commented that the debt project is a great idea, but
recommended opening membership to the public and check with town
counsel on open meeting law. He recommended preserving cash with both
deferring the streetlights and capital items at town meeting. He is also
concerned with funding sources for streetlight replacement, citing a 2017
green communities report.
9. Next Meeting
Town meeting on Sat, June 13
• June 25
10.
Adjournment
Jay Simeone motion, Peter Beardmore 2nd, Unanimous approval
