===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Finance Committee:
Terri Burchfield, Chairman
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman
Peter Beardmore, Secretary
John Henshaw
Jay Simeone
David Passios
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Lunenburg Finance Committee
January 9. 2020 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Town Hall
Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Peter
Beardmore, Michelle Walton
Absent:
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair called the meeting to order at 7:00pm (all expected
members were in attendance).
2. Communications
Public Comment
Michelle Walton reported that Dr. Burnham will present her budget to the
School Committee on Jan 22.
Dave Passios reported that the REQ's for TCP had closed on Jan 7th, There
were three proposals. Interviews are being planned.
3. Minutes - none
4. Town Manager, Finance Director Report
The town manager reported that the snow removal budget was projected
to move into the red tor the current FY.
• Jay Simeone asked questions relating to the budget for snow removal tor
the school department. There is still no resolution on school department
contribution to the snow budget.
The town had been awarded the complete streets grant for upgrades to the
town center sidewalks and Oak Ave intersection.
The gas station project has been approved for Phase 2 site evaluation and
environmental review, we are now eligible to apply for clean-up costs.
===PAGE 2===
• 5-year forecast will be presented on January 23rd, Dr. Burnham will also
present the School Department portion of the forecast.
5. Open items, goals, definitions, committee reports
• John Henshaw reported that the capital planning committee met on Jan 7.
21 requests total $1.329M. Previous requests were $1.45M and $1.68M in
previous two years. Vertex items are not included.
Peter Beardmore reported that at the School Committee meeting in
December, Dr. Burnham did present a forecast of new positions.
A discussion ensued as to the difference between "Level Funding" and
"Level Service". The town manager explained that the target budget will
reflect a blend, due primarily to contractual increases. Jay Simeone and
Peter Beardmore disagreed as to whether adding a police officer
represented an increase in service when staffing still fell below
recommended 'foundation' staffing given our population. Terri Burchfield
recommended focusing on 'met' and 'unmet needs'. The committee agreed
that it will hold each other accountable when using these terms and will
specific exactly what previous levels we are referring to.
The term "target budget" was discussed extensively. The town manager
defined it as a "baseline for the budget process" and a starting point for
discussions with departments for getting to the final budget.
6. Alternative funding for capital
• Dave Passios lead a discussion on alternative funding for capital, which
was initial prompted by the Saliba property, and whether we should be
looking at one-time capital exclusions, rather than non-excluded
borrowing. In the case of the Saliba property, we could potentially save
$35-38K in interest over five years, will also saving $30-50K in the
operating budget. Mr. Passios was unclear as to specifically what could be
done at this point with respect to the Saliba property.
• Mr. Passios noted that the Town of Ashby uses this approach for all
capital, rather than funding capital through the regular budget.
• The Town Manager noted that there is existing debt maturing, but that
there are expected expenses coming relating to TC Passios, and Turkey
Hill that we need to keep in mind
• The committee discussed the pros and cons of exploring such a policy at
length, and how this could be brought to the town via a warrant article.
• Peter Beardmore expressed general support for bringing forward a
proposal, whereas Michelle Walton and John Henshaw expressed
reservations for supporting this on behalf of the finance committee.
===PAGE 3===
7. Public Comment - none
8. Next meeting
January 23-
9. Adjournment
• John Henshaw motioned/ Jay Simeone seconded; unanimous approval
RECEIVED|
MAR 12 2020
TOWN CLERK
