===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
John Henshaw
Christopher Menard
David Passios
Jay Simeone
Lunenburg Finance Committee
August 13, 2020 Meeting
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Zoom Virtual Meeting
Terri Burch field, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, John Henshaw, Jay
Simeone, Chris Menard, Heather Sroka
None
1. Call to Order
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read
the COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement.
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrqv66U
2. Public Comment:
• (1:44 - 2:37) Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street sends his
condolences personally and for this committee to the family of
Douglas MacMillan. A wonderful procession of tractors and tribute
to Douglas MacMillan.
3. Town Manager:
(3:33 - 9:51) Heather Lemieux to provide the same report
provided at the last Selectman's Meeting.
• The State Announced a commitment to no less than the
Fiscal Year 2020 Level of Funding for Unrestricted General
Government Aid and Chapter 70 as the baseline for Fiscal
Year 2021.
• Fiscal 2021 Capital Plan
• Town Hall Ramp Project will be included in the
Complete Streets Project - encompasses Town Center
===PAGE 2===
progress
The ALS Equipment Phase I on hold
The ACL - Animal Control Vehicle has been ordered
Mid-Life Overhaul of Squad 3 on hold - however the
pump may need to be repaired/replaced sooner at a
cost of $15,000 of the $65,000 total project.
• Portable radios some have been purchased for new
officers - $2,000 of the $45,000
• AC design for Primary out to bid
, Senior Center Front Design in progress and then
needs to be put out to bid
Legislature Passed an Infrastructure Bond Bill - 2 of 4 Lunenburg
Projects Chosen - $150,000 Turn Out Gear for the LFD and
$100,000 Fire Alarm Upgrades at the Primary School - sent to
Gov. Baker on 8/3 for approval.
In April Federal Stimulus Package Grant Project MRCP to put
together an Applicatio. BOS Signed a letter in support of a Regional
Coronavirus Community Block Grant Application and it was
approved. Towns included Lunenburg, Shirley, Royalston,
Townsend and Westminster. $296,100 for microloans for small
businesses and to support local food banks.
Town Treasurer has a list of unclaimed checks on the Town website.
Process takes years. Possible auction for town property. All
possible money generating projects.
Board Questions for TM: (9:52 - 19:05)
Peter on State Aid Commitments - Had heard it had not made it to Gov. Baker's
desk - TM's reply Both Gov and Legislature committed and the Town received a letter
from the Dep. Of Revenue with numbers. Peter feels we still need to be careful and
conservative.
Peter asked about the timeline for Fall Town Meeting - Date Set by BOS at Sep. 1
Meeting. TM response Free Cash/New Growth/Local Receipts will all come into play
===PAGE 3===
things. IM could estimate an October timetrame.
Peter - Why weren't Cap Planning Projects funded or why are on hold. TM -
Delays in Training due to Covid 19. Being conservative in not committing to projects
that were not time sensitive.
Terri - Microloans - Does that include the local farmers? TM - unknown -
documents have not been issued and does not know specifics. Businesses with 5 or less
employees and no more than $10,000.
Dave - Still nervous of funding. No State Budget. The commitment sounds good
in the press, but still cautious. List ofItems in the Bond Bill - do you foresee the Town
applying to any grants - Town infrastructure/ Library? TM - typically get notifications
around grants and parameters. Will apply if eligible.
4. Meeting Minutes (19:06 - 24:21)
• 4/28,5/7, 5/14, 5/28, 6/11
• 4/28 joint meeting with BOS and Senator Tran
• 5/28 remove Michelle Walton as a participant
• John move to approve with Amendment removing Michelle
Walton as an attendee on 5/28
Jay did not see 6/11 Minutes
Dave has not seen all
John Amended Motion to approve 4/28, 5/7, 5/14 and 5/28
with Amendment Jay Seconds
• Vote to approve block John - aye, Heather - abstain, Jay -
aye, Chris - abstain, Dave - aye, Peter - aye, terr - aye
• Peter to redistribute 6/11
7/23 table to next meeting
5. Review By-Laws/Committee Appointment (24:22 - 39.59)
Terri - Email from Chris Town Bylaws list Capital Planning as a 3 year
appointment. Discussion to review FinCom appointment. Terri reviewed
Bylaws searching FinCom terms. Please make Terri aware of any
inconsistencies in practices and Bylaws. TM made a spreadsheet of
appointments and Terri screen shared
===PAGE 4===
fulfill that on FinCom. Motion to appoint Dave Passisos to a three year
term made by Peter Beardmore, Seconded by Jay Simeone. All in tavor
roll call vote.
6. Committee Reports (40:03 - 1:21)
Heather has a meeting scheduled with Council on Aging on Monday the
17th
Chris has been not heard back from the Association of Town Finance
Committees - unsure what being a liaison entails - receive any info to
bring to the Committee's attention - Chris was wondering in general if this
Committee could moveto a google drive to store documents so that
information is easy to access. Heather L. believes that would be easy to do.
Take this offline. Chris is going to work with Steve M. to get a google drive
for FinCom with a record of who accessed it and when.
Dave - TCP Committee to meet on Monday - 2 Members had a
• discussion with SB - Agenda item was charge of the committee came up
Article 24 of 2019 ATM and their interpretation of charge and committee's
interpretation are aligned.
Terri brought up discussion around access to TCP - Specifically the Boys
and Girls Club or general use or open upto individual groups. All groups
who expressed interest being considered and interviewed. Was this
advertised or just people who have expressed an interest? Terri felt there
was a lack of open notice to access TCP - General Community Use and
Town Offices was the charge. Now space could be committed to a group
and unavailable to other town groups. Public Space not Public Meetings.
Peter thinks there is a risk of overcomplicating this already complicated
issue. Boys and Girls club similarity of use with the Extended Day taking
care of kids outside of school hours. School Department struggles around
finances and ability to support and Boys and Girls Club has expressed
interest in helping assist. Peter had this in mind when he voted for this
committee at Town Meeting. No other group in town has the standing.
Chris completely disagrees with this assessment. A National Organization
such as the Boys and Girls club should not get preferential treatment. Was
===PAGE 5===
Peter - School Committee - SC approved new school calendar around
170 school days opening on September 16. SC approved to open school
under a hybrid learning plan. Many factors in the hybrid plan - available
space, social distancing, limited lunch room space, bussing challenges.
Bussing is the biggest challenge - 10 busses with DESE guidelines of 25
students per bus. Long four hour meeting. Would like Financial
ramifications from TM to date. Peter met with Superintendent Burnham
and Mr. Cassidy, HR Director. Had a list of positions to fill. No additional
budgetary requirements with new hires.
Dee Bus payment still unresolved and on the SB agenda for next Tuesday.
Fiscal year 2021 need to reengage with transportation providers - 4 days a
week perhaps some cost savings. Additional costs for sanitization etc. to
work out.
Teacher contract negotiated with LEA one year -minor language change
with some financial impact - no COLA increase a .5% increase after 90
days for teachers in the toptier of steps - 85 teachers. Cost associated
with that.
Received 2 sizeable Covid related Grants from DESE
$377,550 - CVRF School Reopening Grant
$198,073 - Elementary and Schools Emergency Relief Fund
These grants a variety of Covid related stipends, PPE, custodial overtime,
substitute teachers, possible increase in unemployment costs, tech needs
online programs and training - hiring 2 one year positions - Psychologist
and a Social Worker and Nurse all are Covid related impacts. Back up of
kindergarten screenings. Will be utilizing the Psychologist in this process.
Chris - Chapter 70 Funding and the Cherry Sheet - concerned about the
school receipts and assessments. School Choice could be something
parents and students look at. We send 78 students and receive 34. Public
Virtual Schools - two MA Virtual Schools will have a decade of experience
over a traditional Public School. We should monitor these trends.
This year allowing students to make hybrid, remote or choice quarterly.
Doubtful there will be an accurate October 1 report. What is MontyTech
looking to do and how will that impact Lunenburg? Unknown. MT
assessment will not increase this year. MT is on a hybrid plan.
===PAGE 6===
replacement, boiler replacement, starting to add up to over $6M in Capital
Planning projects.
This project is going to take longer than expected. Probably not report
ready in November.
John - a huge project with a lot of unknowns. Will probably generate a
range - low - high. Leave it to the Town voters to decide what projects to
do when.
Two year large projects to plan for next ten years.
Wants to get agreement with project principals as to a figure not an exact
number but will it be close?
8. Public Comment: None
Terri -
Next Meeting August 27
Peter - No need to have Debt discussion on the agenda
State Aid monies with Town Department heads and School Committee
Begin Budget Discussions - PreCovid and Post Covid
Flag lines that were deferred
History of development and notes
John wants to contact Heather Sroka about meeting minutes
9. Adjournment
John makes motion to adjourn, Chrisseconds. All in favor roll call vote. 8:34
