===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 28, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Peter Beardmore, Chris Menard, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Tom Balish, Tom Gray, 
Evan Watters 
 
Guests: Massachusetts Association of School Committees Field Director Tracy O’Connell Novick, Town 
Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Public Schools Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham, School 
Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault, School Committee member Brian Lehtinen, School 
Committee member Sophie Shapiro via Zoom, Lunenburg Public Schools Business/HR Manager Michael 
Cassidy, Town Accountant Karen Brochu, Select Board Member Lou Franco via Zoom, Select Board 
member Michael-Ray Jeffreys via Zoom 
1. Call to Order –Joint meeting with Lunenburg School Committee 
Mr. Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
Ms. Archambault called the Lunenburg School Committee meeting to order. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/Gp102JkcQdU 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: Mr. Beardmore explained that this joint meeting of the school committee and 
finance committee was to provide an opportunity for both committees to learn more about the 
Commonwealth’s Chapter 70 program, which addresses funding for public elementary and 
secondary schools, and also establishes minimum spending requirements for each school district 
and minimum requirements for each municipality’s share of school costs. 
Mr. Beardmore highlighted that the finance committee has noticed that as the school’s budget 
has risen, Chapter 70 funds have not, and that the intent of this meeting is to determine the 
best routes to improve the town’s standing. 
Mr. Beardmore also informed those in attendance that Lunenburg’s delegates in the state 
legislature were invited to this meeting, and they intended on being present, however, the 
legislative schedule had since changed, and both houses were in session, so none of the 
delegates could be present.  
 
4. Public Comment: none at this time. 
 
5. Chapter 70 Presentation and Discussion: Ms. Archambault introduced Ms. Novick who 
complimented both committees for getting together to learn more and discuss Chapter 70 
funding. Ms. Novick explained the history behind Chapter 70, how it is calculated, and how 
Lunenburg’s figures are formed, as well as the circuit breaker and how it works locally, along 
with how Montachusett Regional Vocational School tuition factors in to Chapter 70 funds.  
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Novick explained that the Commonwealth determines a base foundation for all districts, 
then considers how many low income students, and English language learners there are in each 
district and adds more funds based on those numbers. Ms. Novick explained that the inflation 
rate also affects the base foundation, but pointed out that increase in costs surpasses the rate of 
inflation. Ms. Novick alluded that without higher enrollment, more low income students and/or 
English language learners, inflation is the only other factor that would raise the base foundation. 
According to Ms. Novick, base foundation numbers are determined based on enrollment from 
the prior year. After the Commonwealth determines how much each district is required to 
spend, municipalities are obligated to fund 59 percent of that foundation budget, while the 
Commonwealth provides 41 percent.  In order to determine how much each district is 
responsible for, all taxable property in each municipality is taken into consideration, as well as 
income tax filed, and sets them equal to each other to develop a common calculation to come 
up with a combined effort yield.   
Ms. Novick went on to talk about the Student Opportunity Act, which goes into effect this year 
so won’t be accounted for until next year’s numbers are determined. The act contains four 
financial changes affecting the the base foundation amount concerning health insurance, special 
education, English learning students, and low income students.  
Ms. Novick explained that in FY22 the state determined the town’s contribution to be 
$10,908,378, with Chapter 70 funds coming in at $7,500,000, and that since the base foundation 
can’t meet the cost of operations, the town spent over and above its required amount. Ms. 
Novick also pointed out Lunenburg’s enrollment pattern has had several ups and downs before 
seemingly levelling out.  Ms. Novick also said that several municipalities have passed a 
Proposition 2 1/2 override in order to fund changes to the budget, and suggested looking at the 
base foundation determination and discussing an override with legislature representatives. Ms. 
Archambault asked about charter school reimbursement changes. Ms. Novick explained that 
those changes will be addressed when the Student Opportunity Act takes effect. Mr. Lehtinen 
asked about transportation and the circuit breaker. Ms. Novick explained that the state plans to 
eventually reimburse all funds for transportation, but the amount would come back in phases.  
 
At 8:25 p.m. the school committee adjourned, and the finance committee took a 5 minute 
recess.  
 
6. Public Comment: Resident Dave Rodgers called in and said he found the Chapter 70 talk 
enlightening, and opined that the cards are stacked against Lunenburg because the State House 
does not care about municipalities beyond Route 128.   
Mr. Beardmore added that looking at other municipalities in the same situation as Lunenburg, 
and having a discussion with Lunenburg’s representatives could help the town’s case, and 
reminded those attending that the town has an obligation to do its best to educate its kids.  
 
7. Finance Committee Business Meeting:  
a. Discuss conduct of public hearing on Nov. 4: The committee agreed to use the actual 
article numbers listed in the warrant as opposed to the letters they used when the 
warrant was in draft form. Mr. Beardmore informed the committee that Michael Ray 
Jeffreys would attend the meeting to give two presentations, one on Article 7 as a 
===PAGE 3===
member of the T.C. Passios Building Design Committee Member, and another 
presentation on Article 8 as a Select Board member. 
b. Business pertaining to Special Town Meeting Nov. 16: Ms. Lemieux had no new items to 
discuss. Mr. Beardmore said more information will be discussed at the Nov. 4 hearing 
pertaining to Articles 3, 7, and 8.  
c. Minutes: Mr. Watters motioned to accept the minutes from the October 14, 2021 
meeting, Mr. Menard seconded. Mr. Passios abstained. Motion carried: 6-0-1 
d. Committee Reports: Mr. Passios explained how Mr. Jeffreys would present Articles 7 
and 8 at the public hearing Nov. 4, and that final figures pertaining to those articles 
were still unknown.  
e. Items for future meetings: Next regularly scheduled meeting is Dec. 9, 2021. Topics to 
discuss include the Green Communities Committee street light project, follow up on 
Chapter 70 discussion with state representatives, and ARPA funds. 
f. Next meetings: Nov. 4, Nov. 16 (STM), Dec. 9. 
8. Adjourn: Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn, Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion passes 
unanimously. 
 