===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chair 
Peter Beardmore, Vice-Chair 
Heather Sroka, Secretary 
Christopher Menard 
David Passios 
Jay Simeone 
Evan Watters 
 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
February 25, 2021 
Minutes  
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris 
Menard, Heather Sroka  
Absent: None 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
o Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM and read 
the COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
o This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MD-v74NN8GA&t=30s 
 
Announcement made regarding member emails, they should be 
information only and no engagement among members.  
 
 
2. Public Comment:   
Peter Beardmore read an email regarding Heather Sroka’s request for salary 
schedule information regarding all departments as well as benchmark 
information used to adjust salary schedules over contract periods. Expressed 
need for way to present true personnel costs between school and other town 
department budgets.   
Peter Beardmore wished Dave Passios a happy birthday. 
Heather Lemieux responded to Mr. Beardmore’s remarks and requests. 
Committee looks forward to reviewing all the information when it is pulled 
together by both the Town Manager and School Superintendent and related staff. 
Having a way to make the information more transparent for folks attending Town 
Meeting should be a goal for this year. 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
3. Parker Elmore, OPEB: 
Parker Elmore and Francis Fraine were present from Odyssey Advisors to 
address the GASB 75 report on Other Post Employment Benefits (non pension 
related) and answer any questions. 
Highlights:   
Total OPEB Liability as of 6/30/2020 is $56,141,225 (mostly health benefits 
earned by current and retired staff).  The OPEB Trust Fund as of that date had 
$375,269, leaving an unfunded liability of $55,765,956.  
Assumptions include the Municipal Bond Rates which drive the liability rate over 
time. Also includes termination and retirement rates, percent of employees who 
elect coverage through the town, and health care cost inflation.  
The Town currently has funded less than 1% of the liability, which is true of 33% 
of other Massachusetts municipalities.  
C. Menard asked questions related to the benchmark community comparisons. 
H. Lemieux reported that part of the Town’s actions to help the costs moving 
forward will be a move to Medicare for retirees currently covered on active 
insurance. This led to a 2% discount for active plan coverage. 
The service cost per eligible active employee is $6,330. 
Mr. Elmore also presented a 40 year forecast of the Total OPEB Liability. Costs 
appear stable over that time when considered using the present value of money 
against budgetary inflation.  
C. Menard asked if the Town was limited to investment options. We do have 
fiduciary responsibilities to invest responsibly. Long term we are currently 
assessed 6.72% return on investment. 
 
4. David Eisenthal, Debt Service Projections 
Projected impact of potential Passios building and Turkey Hill renovation debt 
was reviewed.  The basis used was $21 million dollars, upped to $27 million for 
Turkey Hill based on when that is anticipated to start. The amounts were 
compared against debt policy ratios to see if such debt would comply. Spread over 
30 years, and going out over 40 years, it would be. Discussion ensued regarding 
longer vs. shorter term debt and why one is preferable over another. 
 
5. Department Budget Presentations 
Fire Department Chief Sullivan 
Chief Sullivan reviewed the department’s structure, staffing and responsibilities. 
Majority of calls are Emergency Medical Response, with a large uptake starting 
with the jump in growth with the apartment complexes in town.  Plans are to 
transition to Paramedic level designation during FY22. Budget supports 1 new 
firefighter/paramedic in year 4 of the 5-year staffing plan. Paramedics are hard to 
recruit as they are high demand. Should have 24/7 Paramedic coverage during 
FY23. Above target requests for paramedic training and protective gear 
replacement are in the current budget numbers. Salary schedules are being 
considered as part of the issue around recruitment and retention. Desire is to 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
cover protective gear in the operation vs. capital budget. Some ambulance 
equipment that might have otherwise been earmarked but for Covid has been 
obtained through CARES Act funding. Need expressed to keep legislative team 
aware of needs as state funding comes available. 
Police Department Chief Gammel 
Chief Gammel reviewed the Police Department organization chart and 
operations. The FY22 budget includes a new patrol officer position per the 10 
year staffing plan. There were over 20,000 calls for service over 2020. Motor 
vehicle stops were down due to Covid. The department is trying to assure 
supervision across shifts so differential is a new issue. The Chief reviewed 
departmental goals and what they mean over the next several years as the staffing 
plan continues to be implemented. Grant funded items were discussed, including 
body cameras which will be implemented soon. Questions regarding some of the 
forward-looking needs, such as increased admin support in 2023. Because there 
are many junior patrolmen, COLAs with steps will lead to larger annual salary 
line increases in the near term. Police reform requirements, especially around 
certification of reserve officers, will also have significant budget impact. The 
estimated cost to get the current reserve officers trained for certification over the 
next few years is around $90,000. C. Menard commented that these mandates 
really need to be funded at the state level and we should be following this up with 
our state legislators. D. Passios asked about whether there is enough information 
to rate the new hybrid vehicles. It’s too soon, but so far the Chief thinks they are 
good vehicles. He also commented on the need to track maintenance costs over 
the life of vehicles to have better data for planning. 
 
6. Town Manager Report 
H. Lemieux reviewed a spreadsheet tracking the current adjustments that have 
been made since the budget was initially presented.  C. Menard remarked that he 
feels the Town needs to make better investment in IT to get us better efficiency 
and transparency. A second document reviewed the Health Insurance 
adjustments (rate reduction and month premium holiday) which significantly 
lowered costs for the year. She is recommending a Health Insurance stabilization 
account for holding next year’s savings to support the anticipated spike in cost in 
2023.  
Some discussion around covid vaccines and local centers and the issues around a 
regional vaccine site relates to an insufficient number of vaccines available. The 
state is getting 139,000 vaccines per week and it’s not enough. 
 
7. Minutes: Motion to approve the minutes of 2/11/2021 Passios, 2nd Menard. 
Passed 5-0 Burchfield abstained.  
 
8. Committee Reports 
P. Beardmore reported on School Committee meeting and the reopening of full 
time classes. There was substantive budget discussion in preparation for their 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
vote. They plan to withdraw AC request for Primary School and replace it with 
Alarm System to the Capital Planning Committee. 
 
9. Motion to Adjourn 
March 4 Monty Tech and DPW and Finance Committee letter and draft warrant 
articles to date. 
P. Beardmore motioned to adjourn at 8:45 C. Menard seconded Roll call vote was 
unanimous. 
 
Minutes submitted by T. Burchfield 
 
 
 