===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 23, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris Menard, Evan Watters via Zoom,  
 
Absent: Tom Balish, Tom Gray 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Finance Director Karen Brochu, Superintendent of Lunenburg 
Public Schools Kate Burnham, HR Director Michael Cassidy, School Committee Chairperson Carol 
Archambault.  
1. Call to Order 
Peter Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/gslPh-rXx9M 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements: None 
4. Public Comment: None 
 
5. Discussion with Schools Superintendent Kate Burnham and HR Director Michael Cassidy: Dr. 
Burnham said the last year and a half has been full of surprises for the schools, and the 
administration has been working on filling the educational, as well as, socio-emotional gaps left 
by the pandemic. The biggest challenge the schools have faced is handling contact tracing as it 
has taken up a majority of the nurses’ time. The schools are working on implementing a “Test 
and Stay” program, which is to be funded by the state, but finding ways to staff the program has 
proved difficult. Currently the schools are using local funds for the program, which should be 
reimbursed with the Elementary and Secondary Schools Emergency Relief (ESSER) formula grant 
funds. The schools are advertising for a new facilities director in the wake of John Londa’s 
retirement, but the applicants’ experience has not met the demand for the position. There is 
one principal at the Middle High School, and though working with two vice principals has been 
working out so far, the administration will advertise for a second principal for the high school. In 
the meantime, the administration will seek out feedback on the current arrangement of school 
leadership. Mr. Passios asked about bussing. Mr. Cassidy replied the schools will go out to bid in 
January, and may need to increase the fleet by two busses over the next three months. Dr. 
Burnham highlighted the challenge the schools face with bussing as there is no way of knowing 
which families will actually use the bus. Mr. Beardmore commented that the committee should 
be out of the realm of ambiguity when it comes time to approve the budget. Mr. Cassidy added 
the administration is going through an assessment of their IT, and that could impact the FY23 
budget. Dr. Burnham added that a multi-year plan will be developed when the assessment is 
complete. 
===PAGE 2===
6. Discussion with Town Manager on general government function: Ms. Lemieux stated that her 
highest priority is IT, and she’s currently working with a consultant to look at infrastructure, 
security, network upgrading, and additional support services. Ms. Lemieux informed the 
committee she is also applying for a grant to fund a network upgrade, which may involve a 
budget amendment. Ms. Lemieux informed the committee that the Town Accountant Clerk will 
be retiring, and she is planning to hire an Assistant Accountant to assist the Finance Director, so 
there will be someone qualified to stand in when the Finance Director is out. Ms. Lemieux stated 
this should not impact the FY23 budget.  Ms. Lemieux also informed the committee that the 
treasurer/collector’s office will be looking for more funding to put liens on properties in order to 
maintain their schedule. Ms. Lemieux will also be looking to create a new department to 
accommodate the town’s facilities as it’s not typical for the Department of Public Works to also 
be responsible for all the town’s buildings. Outside of the omnibus budget, Ms. Lemieux is 
working on a public records management plan, which will entail a centralized catalogue. Ms. 
Lemieux stated her challenges are unanticipated retirements along with the resignation of the IT 
Director. It has been difficult to find the right people for the vacant positions. Other challenges 
include the proposed 40B project, as well as simultaneous road projects (Complete Streets, 
Pleasant Street bridge, D.O.T. work on 2A) 
 
7. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux informed the committee that the 
Principal Assessor submitted receipts for $430,254 in new growth for the town, which came in 
$149,664 higher than what was estimated at Annual Town Meeting, the uptick in funds will 
cancel out the deficit left by school choice and charter assessments. Ms. Brochu informed the 
committee that she is working on the free cash balance sheet, and it looks like there will be $2.6 
million for the town to spend.  
 
8. Old Business 
a. Review Special Town Meeting Draft Articles: The committee decided to hold an 
additional meeting on October 7, 2021 to discuss the articles on the warrant before the 
public hearing on October 14, 2021.  
 
9. New Business: None 
10. Minutes: tabled 
11. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective committees. 
12. Public Comment: None 
13. Items for future meetings: Earmarks. Mr. Beardmore suggested if any committee members had 
any thoughts on earmarks to bring them up at the next meeting in order to be put on a future 
agenda. 
14. Next Meetings: October 7, October 14 (STM public hearing), October 28 (Joint meeting 
w/School Committee to discuss Chapter 70) 
15. Adjournment: Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn, Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 