===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chair 
Peter Beardmore, Vice-Chair 
Heather Sroka, Secretary 
Christopher Menard 
David Passios 
Jay Simeone 
Evan Watters 
 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
February 18, 2021 
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris 
Menard, Evan Watters, Heather Sroka  
 
Absent:  
 
1. Call to Order 
 
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the 
COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrqv66U6:30  
 
 
2. Chair Report  
 
Tonight’s meeting will be the COA, Library and Land Use Director Budget 
reviews.   
 
Next week the meeting will begin at 6:00 to have presentations regarding OPEB 
with the actuary and the Debt.  7:00 for the Police and Fire Budget presentations.  
 
3. Public Comment  
 
None 
 
4. Counsel on the Aging – Sue Doherty, Eagle House Director –   
No increase requests for operating costs.   
Increase request for salaries. 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Roll with the changes. 
See attached presentation. 
 
70 volunteers a total of 1743.25 hours helping 131 people 61 and older.   
5187 Meals on Wheels delivered to 61 Lunenburg Residents 
 
Question and Answer session with the Finance Committee.   
 
How to help – Friends of the Eagle House Membership Forms can be found 
outside the building.   
 
5. Library Budget Presentation – Muir Haman, Library Director 
 
See Attached Presentation  
 
Question and Answer Session with the Finance Committee.  
 
How to Help  - Friends of Lunenburg Public Library.   
 
6. Land Use Director – Adam Burney  
 
No presentation – Their budget is incorporated in the Town Manager’s Budget 
Recommendation.   
 
Permits are not to be used to generate revenue.   
 
Questions and answer session with the Finance Committee. 
 
7. Questions for Karen Brochu 
 
Peter – next week’s discussion with the consultant – will they have the 
information regarding the debt financing questions.   
 
Karen – received the OPEB presentation and has been uploaded to the OneDrive.  
Schedules have been put together for the Building projects for next week.  She 
forwarded emails to David so he is prepared.   
 
 
8. Minutes  
 
December 10 
January 14 
January 21 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Evan – all three have a mistake at the end from a prior meeting.   
 
Heather – that’s when you go in and clean it up.  That’s why they are on the 
OneDrive so that the committee can take care of that prior to the meeting.    
 
Peter motion to approve with correction 
Chris seconded. 
In Favor Terri, Chris, Peter, Dave, Evan, and Heather  
Abstain Jay had not reviewed them.   
 
9. Reports 
 
Dave  
 
Parks Department  
 
Hunting on parks property.  Created and voted on a policy for that. 
Working on policy for field use. 
Working on opening the Town Beach in the Spring.  
Programs have been successful. 
 
Possible Article for Spring Town Meeting regarding the revolving account.   
 
TCP Design Committee –  
 
Met as a committee to spend time drilling down on the proposals.  An adjusted 
program was submitted with some savings, but not substantial.  Emailed with a 
request as to why significant savings not made.  Joint Meeting with the Select 
Board.  Charge, Proposal, Numbers – what is the next step? 
 
10. Public Comment   
 
None  
 
11.   Adjournment  
 
Next meeting at 6:00  
 
Motion – made by Dave, Jay seconded  
All in favor 9:38 