===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, August 26, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris Menard, Evan Watters, Tom Gray, Tom 
Balish 
 
Absent: None 
 
Guests: Town Accountant Karen Brochu, Fire Department Chief Patrick Sullivan, Council on Aging 
Director Susan Doherty 
1. Call to Order 
Peter Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tPdpklZ0snY&ab_channel=LunenburgAccess 
 
2. Announcements: None 
3. Public Comment: None 
4. Finance Director Report 
Ms. Brochu updated the committee on fourth quarter revenues and expenditures, and 
said the town had a very good year with revenues exceeding expectations by 2.2 
percent. Ms. Brochu added that the town had a very conservative outlook at the 
beginning of FY21 due to the pandemic, and that because the town was able to push 
back on collection of excise tax there was an actual increase in collections.  
Mr. Beardmore questioned whether the town was spending its money in a timely 
manner. Ms. Brochu added that there were a number of years when the town didn’t 
levy to capacity, and that sometimes changes are made at Annual Town Meeting, as well 
as certain factors that can’t be known at the time the budget is set.  
Mr. Menard asked when decisions would be made pertaining to ARPA Funds. Ms. 
Brochu answered that projects need to be checked against U.S. Treasury guidelines to 
be sure the funds are spent accordingly. 
 
5. Discussion with Fire Chief 
Mr. Sullivan informed the committee that he will be looking to hire another full-time 
staff person next year, and added that it’s a challenge for him to retain personnel due to 
not being able to compete with the schedules and salaries of surrounding cities and 
towns. Mr. Sullivan also informed the board that he wouldn’t be requesting funds for a 
new truck until 2027, but has suggested using ARPA funds to replace an aging rescue 
vehicle. Mr. Sullivan also drew attention to the now 23 year-old public safety building, 
which is facing issues with mold due to a faulty HVAC/sprinkler system, as well as drafty 
windows that let out the heat. Mr. Sullivan said he doesn’t know what the cost would be 
to fix the issues. Mr. Menard commented that it would be helpful to see the complete 
===PAGE 2===
list of concerning issues at the public safety building. Mr. Passios added that the 
windows may be something the Green Communities Committee could work into their 
April 2021 grant season.  
 
6. Discussion with COA Director 
Ms. Doherty informed the committee that the senior center is getting back to normal, 
and that the staff at the senior center never stopped working, they just changed the 
way they did things. Ms. Doherty informed the committee that she will be looking to 
hiring a new kitchen manager in FY23, and the position would be non-benefitted.  
Mr. Beardmore asked about the facility. Ms. Doherty answered that the roof over the 
main entrance, which has handled many ice dams in winters past, has been repaired and 
replaced with a rubber roof, which was covered under the capital plan.  Ms. Doherty is 
now looking to make the back outdoor area of the senior center more usable for its 
patrons, and that she is looking into a $20,000 grant to get started. Ms. Doherty added 
that additional parking behind the Eagle House is in the capital plan in the future, and 
hopes the patio project will tie in with that.  
Mr. Passios asked if Ms. Doherty was able to make use of any Cares Act funds. Ms. 
Doherty answered that since she was able to carry over Formula Grant funds this year, 
along with donations, and the 501c3 fund raising group for the senior center, she didn’t 
look into Cares Act Funds. She informed the board that she was able to use existing 
funds to invest in a new projector and sound system for the senior center’s main 
meeting room.  
 
7. Old Business 
a. Finance Committee procedures and goals document review and approval 
Mr. Balish edited the portion of the document concerning off budget spending, and the 
Town Manager approves of the new paragraph. Mr. Menard motioned to approve the 
procedures and goals document as amended, Mr. Watters seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
b. Special Town Meeting timeline and calendar 
The committee will hold a public hearing on the Warrant on November 14, 2021. Special 
Town Meeting will be held on November 16, 2021. 
 
8. New Business: None 
 
9. Minutes: Mr. Passios motioned to approve the minutes with corrections from the August 12, 
2021 meeting, Mr. Menard seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
10. Committee Reports: 
Committee members updated each other on their respective assignments 
 
11. Public Comment: None 
12. Items for Future Meetings: No discussion 
13. Next Meetings: September 9, September 23 
14. Adjournment: At 8:40 p.m. Mr. Watters motioned to adjourn; Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously.  
 