===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 9, 2021 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Peter Beardmore, Dave Passios, Jay Simeone, Chris Menard, Evan Watters, Tom Gray 
 
Absent: Tom Balish 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Library Director Muir Haman, Land Use Director Adam Burney, 
School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault.  
1. Call to Order 
Peter Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/KnaBTOgjiLc 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: October 28, 2021 at 7 p.m. at Town Hall there will be a joint meeting of the 
Finance Committee and School Committee featuring Tracy O’Connell Novick of the 
Massachusetts Association of School Committees to talk about Chapter 70 funds.       
 
4. Public Comment: None                                                                              
 
5. Town Manager Report:  Ms. Lemieux briefed the committee on what happened at the Select 
Board meeting on September 7, 2021.  
 
6. Discussion with Library Director: Mr. Haman informed the committee that the carpeting project 
covered by the capital plan is complete. The 10-year strategic plan being developed by the 
Board of Library Trustees is almost finished. The plan aims to improve convenient access to the 
library digitally, along with expanding its user base to accommodate growth in town. According 
to Mr. Haman, the pandemic shed light on the need for more electronic resources while the 
circulation of physical books decreased. Mr. Haman will be looking for funds to cover the cost of 
licenses for electronic materials, and will be looking for more staffing in the future due to the 
increase in population. Mr. Menard asked if the library would be looking to extend hours. Mr. 
Haman said yes. Mr. Menard asked if a draft of the 10-year plan was published anywhere. Mr. 
Haman said the Trustees are almost finished and might publish the plan after their next 
meeting. Mr. Haman added that he may be requesting funds to address the HVAC system as a 
future capital planning item. Mr. Passios encouraged him to consult the Green Communities 
Committee when the time comes.  
===PAGE 2===
7. Discussion with Land Use Director: Mr. Burney informed the committee that his department 
looks stable for FY22. There is a potential retirement coming up that deals with clerical work and 
site inspections. Mr. Beardmore asked about the town’s Master Plan. Mr. Burney replied that 
there has been a Request for Proposals, but no response has been received.  
 
8. Old Business 
a. Special Town Meeting update and time line: no change 
 
9. New Business 
a. Technology planning and investment opportunities: Mr. Beardmore expressed concern 
over how the town will handle its technology moving forward in the wake of the 
resignation of the Information Technology Director. Mr. Beardmore inquired about what 
the strategy is to protect the town from a cyberattack. Ms. Lemieux assured the 
committee that protecting the town is her first priority and she’s currently doing 
research to put a solid plan in place. Mr. Menard commented that the schools and town 
should be on the same platform. Ms. Lemieux responded that the same services are not 
available to both entities.  
 
10. Minutes: Mr. Menard motioned to approve the minutes as amended from the August 26, 2021 
meeting. Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
11. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective committee 
assignments.  
 
12. Public Comment: none 
 
13. Items for future meetings Meeting on September 30 possible, but not likely. 
 
14. Next meetings: September 23 (Superintendent, Town Manager) October 14 (Special Town 
Meeting public hearing)  