===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Finance Committee: 
Terri Burchfield, Chair 
Peter Beardmore, Vice-Chair 
Heather Sroka, Secretary 
Christopher Menard 
David Passios 
Jay Simeone 
Evan Watters 
 
             
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
April 29, 2021 
 
 
 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148 
  
Location: Zoom Virtual Meeting 
Present: Terri Burchfield, Peter Beardmore, Jay Simeone, Dave Passios Chris 
Menard, Evan Watters, Heather Sroka, Michael Ray Jeffreys, Thomas 
Alonzo, Carol Archambault  
 
Absent: None 
 
1. Call to Order 
 
Terri Burchfield, Chair, called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the 
COVID-19 / Zoom meeting advisory statement. 
 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube:   
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jSOVTrqv66U6:30  
 
 
2. Chair Report  
 
Terri - there will be 2 seats open for FinCom – Please fill out a Talent Bank form 
if you are interested.   
 
Chris and Terri had some discussion about whether there was a Public Hearing 
on monied articles.  All meeting are open meetings and there was a public 
hearing regarding all articles in the Town Meeting Warrant.   
 
3. Public Comment  
 
None 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
4. Policy Discussion 
 
Chris - Procedural policies must be worked out and implemented by the Finance 
Committee.  There should be a document with procedural items in it and this 
should be worked on after Town Meeting.  All documents should be in the Drive 
at least 48 hours prior to a meeting.  This gives all committee members time to 
prepare and review for the meeting.  This should be in writing.   
 
5. TCP Discussion  
 
Michael Ray Jeffreys – Chair of the TCP Building Committee 
 
Have been working for 2 years on this project  
 
School, Town, Community, Arch Engineering, Research, Environmental, 
Plumbing, Electrical 
 
Had several public hearings to identify space needs – 
B&GCL 
Schools 
Lions 
Farming – for large kitchen space 
 
Prioritized -  How to maximize space in the building?  Cost to consolidate? 
 
Received the total figure and it was shocking.  The Building is 69 years old – 
expected a figure on in the range of $10-15M actual was $21M 
 
$8M to keep the building running – in current state and use  
Roof, plumbing, electrical, earthquake proof 
 
50% remodel level 3 trigger to get the building up to current code.   
 
TCP Building trying to decide how to move forward.  Would like to find out the 
cost for a rebuild now that the remodel figure came in so high.  New build would 
be approximately $275 per square foot – 55,000 square feet.   
 
Finding out the cost to rebuild is the prudent thing to do.   Asking for $54,000 to 
possibly save millions of $$.   
 
Peter – intent of the proposal for a new build cost analysis is to compare apples to 
apples.   
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Mr. Jeffreys wanted to inform the public that the Town of Lunenburg is 293 years 
old and has never had to build a Town Hall.  The current Town Hall was donated. 
 
Chris has been watching the TCP Building Committee meetings and commented 
that they have done an excellent job.   He pointed out that years ago there was a 
Building Reuse Committee that intended to provide the Town with a big picture 
view of the Town Buildings and what needed to be done.  TCP was transferred 
from the schools to the town which he feels was an error.   
 
Mr. Jeffreys - The goal of the TCP Building Committee is to have a vibrant Town 
Center and Village District.  Parking requirements are one spot for every 300 
square feet of a building.  We are currently not meeting the needs of the Town.   
 
6. Warrant Articles 
 
Heather L. presenting some changes in the figures for the Town Meeting 
Warrant.   
 
Article 3 – Payment of Prior Year Bills  
- to transfer $645,000 from free cash.  There was an outstanding invoice relating 
to EMT recertifications.   
Motion to recommend warrant article as recommended by Town Manager  
Evan motioned, Chris Seconded, all in favor. 
 
Article 5 – Capital Plan  
 revised figures and revenue sources presented by the Town Manager.    
Raise and appropriate $682,502.42 
Free Cash - $804,041.00 
Motion to recommend the article with Town Manager revisions  
Peter motioned, Evan seconded, all in favor.   
 
Article 6 – Omnibus Budget  
additional $105,100 regarding the recycling program.  The only bid the Town 
received is a 3 year contract.   
Motion to recommend article 6 as recommended by the Town Manager  
Peter motioned, Dave seconded, all in favor. 
 
Article 17 – DPW Collective Bargaining Agreement  
3 year contract – transfer funds from Salary Reserve Year one - $32,697.42 
Contract Dates July 1, 2021 – June 30, 2024 
Motion to recommend approval as recommended by Town Manager 
Peter motioned, Chris seconded, all in favor 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
Dave – Asked Town Manager if the the Town is rescinding unused funds for the 
feasibility study related to the LMHS project.  $750,000 which was initially 
included in the amount and authorization for the school project.   
 
Total amount being rescinded is $4.8M the total cost of the project was $72M.  
The $750,000 from the feasibility study was included in the amount rescinded. 
 
7. Reports 
 
Peter – School Committee 
Strategic Planning was discussed.  Mr. Londa focused on the fire alarms at LPS.  
There is $25,000 earmarked for Capital Planning this year.  However, the district 
used unspent funds and transferred to use for the fire alarm project this year.  
The money earmarked will go toward other capital projects.   
 
Dave – Parks 
Earth Day projects through out town.   
Reviewing Town Beach rental policies. 
Hiring for Town Beach – seasonal positions 2-3 more lifeguards are needed.  
OHAC is having lifeguard training.   
 
TCP – presented earlier in the meeting  
 
Cap Planning – Document to the Committee for a policy change of $20,000 
requirement for a capital project.   
 
8. Town Manager Report 
 
Heather L. the Flat Hill Road Culvert project will not be done until late FY22.  
Pleasant Street will begin June 1st.   
Complete Streets Project beginning the end of May and complete by July 1st. 
2 week sidewalk projects – Memorial/Main/Oak Ave intersection 
 
Live Meetings/Hybrid Meetings 11 person at Town Hall with masks and socially 
distant.    
 
9. Public Comment  
 
Dave Rodgers – 82 Highland Street 
 
Is the ACE Program at TCP a state mandated program?  Could that be placed 
elsewhere?  What is the direct cost?   
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
Dave Passios – Whiting Street 
Acknowledging the passing of Dwight Wentworth at 93 years.   
 
10. Adjournment  
 
Town Meeting on Saturday, May 1st check in begins at 8:00 a.m. 
 
Motion to adjourn  
Dave  
 Seconded by Peter 
 All in favor  
 8:49 