===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, March 17, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Peter Beardmore, Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Dave Passios, Evan Watters, Tom 
Balish 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham, Lunenburg Public School 
Business Manager Michael Cassidy, School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault, Adam Suzor and 
Casey Chisholm of Suzor IT 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement 
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held 
remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/7yNtfe8w2ks 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: none 
 
4. Public Comment: Lunenburg resident Dave Rodgers asked for the total number in back taxes 
from the Meadow Woods trailer park. Ms. Lemieux answered that the full amount owed was 
$733,000 and has been paid in full by new owners of the property. Mr. Rodgers also sought out 
clarification on how the schools will afford their costs after Covid related monies are spent. 
 
5. Chair Report: Mr. Beardmore reported that the Finance Director will present the FY22 2nd 
Quarter report at the March 23, 2022 meeting. An engineering consultant for the Flat Hill Rd 
culvert project will present findings at the Select Board meeting scheduled for March 22, 2022.  
 
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux updated the FY23 capital plan, and 
presented at the Select Board meeting on March 15, 2022. (New lineup of projects displayed 
below.) One project was removed from the plan as there is no cost estimate, and another 
project formerly on the plan has been pushed out to FY24. As a result two senior center projects 
have been moved up from FY24, a generator, which will allow the building to operate in a power 
outage, and possibly serve as an emergency shelter for the town’s senior citizens, as well as an 
improved outdoor recreation area. The HVAC system for the Primary School is also now on the 
FY23 plan, bringing the total for all 29 projects to $3,861,049. Ms. Lemieux also reported that 
the State Legislature has earmarked $50,000 to fund the School St hazardous materials 
abatement project. Seven bids were received for the project. Contract will be awarded to Air 
Quality Experts, who was the lowest, most responsive bidder at $44,650. Ms. Lemieux also 
reported the town has received an update from Unitil via Town Counsel on street light costs, 
which are now approximately $91,300. The Green Communities Committee will apply for grants 
to offset the cost to convert the lights to LED.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
7. Budget Presentations: 
a. Lunenburg Public Schools: The schools FY23 budget totals $22,325,309 which is a 3.11 
percent increase from FY22. It will cost $212,182 to keep services level with FY22, New 
positions will increase the budget by $193,522, salary reserve is $30,000, and expenses 
will cost $232,913. The $673,617 increase reflects increasing costs of health insurance, 
transportation, as well as year one of the implementation of a five-year staffing plan. 
New staffing will include, more hours for the music teacher, one teacher for Grade 4, a 
kindergarten teacher, kindergarten paraprofessional, a high school teacher, and an 
athletic trainer. Dr. Burnham pointed out that if for whatever reason these positions are 
not needed, the schools will employ an additional clinical social worker/adjustment 
counselor. Dr. Burnham also cited the uptick in low-income students, that resulted in an 
increase in Chapter 70 funds, which make up for 39 percent of the school’s budget. Ms. 
Lemieux added that she spoke with someone at the Department of Education and 
Secondary Education and found out that the federal poverty level has increased, due to 
the Student Opportunity Act, from 133 percent to 185 percent. Families that were able 

===PAGE 3===
to stay on Mass Health longer because of the pandemic also added to the new Chapter 
70 figures.   
 
Dr. Burnham highlighted the challenges the schools have met in dealing with the Covid-
19 pandemic such as, nursing demands, a number of students opting for home school, 
addressing behavioral issues, and MCAS testing, as well as state mandates. The FY23 
budget proposes funding for a social worker in each school in order to deploy the 
Behavioral Health Curriculum Pilot. The schools were awarded several competitive 
grants that cover costs for summer school, after school, IT products, and curriculum 
materials. The schools also are seeking grant funds to employ more faculty positions, 
such as a teacher with both ELA certification and history, a paraprofessional to assist in 
an intervention classroom, a teacher who can also facilitate the community service 
program, and a technology teacher for the high school.  
 
b. Administrative: Ms. Lemieux presented budgets for general government and highlighted 
increases to budgets for the Tax Collector, Town Clerk, Land Use, IT, Health and 
Sanitation, Veterans Administration, Unclassified, Health Insurance, and other 
categories. The budget reflects a $4,200 increase for the assistant tax collector, an 
increase to the IT budget to address “Contracted Services,” as well as $900 for 
“Registration and Census Salaries, and postage lines. The Land Use budget adds a 
$10,116 for clerical assistance for Conservation, as well as $5,000 to cover the cost of an 
alternate Building Commissioner. Technology Department initiatives were presented by  
Ms. Chisholm of Suzor IT.  The IT budget includes, a new Help Desk system for all IT 
requests, $12,200 for Email cloud hosting (a MIIA Risk Management grant has been 
received and will cover $10,000), a $52,000 network upgrade, $12,000 to upgrade 
phones to VOIP, and $20,000 for computer upgrades, including funding for Library IT 
needs.  $5,697 will go toward an upgrade in internet access, $15,118 will cover 
contractual increases for existing software, and software for the Town Clerk’s office, and 
$3,400 to update the Town Website. A tech support position will also be added to the 
payroll at $23,545, as well as a remote meeting coordinator for $5,000. 
Ms. Lemieux also highlighted a 22 percent increase for both Nashoba Health and 
Nashoba Nursing, as well as a $5,000 increase to the Veterans Administration salary line. 
 
 
c. Unclassified: 
The actual health insurance renewal for active town employees came in at a 5.56 
percent increase, which totals $43,467, and a five percent increase for retirees at 
$19,738. School retiree health insurance costs will rise $57,496. 
Unclassified categories include a 5 percent increase for Workers’ Compensation and 
Liability, a 6.6 percent increase ($19,925) in Medicare costs, an additional $450 for 
Montachusett Planning, and $1,800 for Town Band concerts. There is no increase for 
Public Safety personnel injured on duty, Historical Commission expenses, the reserve 
fund, salary reserve, town reports and physicals.  
 
===PAGE 4===
d. Debt Service: Ms. Lemieux also highlighted that the town’s debt is decreasing, and no 
new borrowing has been scheduled. The Primary School and Public Safety building will 
be paid off, and dropped from the debt schedule in FY23, as well as DPW Renovations. 
Mr. Beardmore pointed out that more debt capacity will be available, and to keep 
inevitable improvement projects in mind. Committee members also discussed paying 
down debt ahead of schedule in order to lower tax rates. Ms. Lemieux added that the 
Select Board is also looking at ways to give property tax relief to senior citizens. 
 
8. Annual Town Meeting Warrant Updates: Ms. Lemieux reported another financial article will be 
added to the warrant concerning the Salary Admin Program pay scale. 
 
9. Warrant Letter: Tabled to next meeting.  
 
10. Minutes: Mr. Watters motioned to approve the minutes from the March 3, and March 11, 2022 
meetings. Mr. Menard seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
11. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective liaison 
assignments. 
 
12. Public Comment: Mr. Balish asked about the financial details of the budget concerning the 
schools, and pointed out that there were only a few slides in the presentation that described 
how funds are spent. Mr. Menard agreed, and opined that some other departments also 
focused on how their department operates rather than a presentation of a financial analysis. 
Mr. Beardmore also agreed that the committee should work with the Town Manager, Finance 
Director, and Superintendent to lay out the Finance Committee’s expectations during budget 
season. Mr. Passios added that the Finance Committee does not have a say in how the school 
spends its budget, and only passes or denies the budget as a whole. 
 
Mr. Watters thanked the School Committee, Town Manager, and Capital Planning Committee 
for taking another look at the Capital Plan to get the HVAC installed at the Primary School. Mr. 
Passios added that he spoke with the Superintendent about reviewing the plans for the HVAC 
project to be sure it’s done properly.  
 
13. Items for Future Meetings: Quarterly report will be added to March 23, 2022 agenda. 
 
14. Next Meetings: March 23 (Remote), March 24, 2022 
 
15. Adjourn At 10:20 p.m., Mr. Passios motioned to adjourn, Mr. Menard seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
 