===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee joint meeting with Select Board 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, September 20, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Finance Committee members: Chairperson Evan Watters, Chris Menard, Peter Beardmore, Tom 
Gray, Tom Balish, Jay Simeone. Select Board members: Chairperson Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Louis Franco, 
Heather Sroka, Todd Dwyer 
 
Guests:  
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the finance committee meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.  
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/tQdRbe4YLUc 
2. Special Town Meeting Bylaw Proposed on Capital Planning: Mr. Watters explained that Mr. 
Beardmore worked with Town Counsel to develop the language in the following proposed 
bylaw. Mr. Watters read the bylaw for the record. 
"§ 81-11 Amending capital appropriations. Warrant articles and floor motions shall not 
restrict Town Meeting voters’ ability to propose and approve amendments in totality, 
description, and/or scope to individual items or projects in capital appropriation articles and 
motions. Notwithstanding the above, amendments shall not limit the Town Manager’s 
authority to reapply capital funds among the individual items and projects in the capital 
plan, nor shall Town Meeting be authorized to increase the total capital plan appropriation 
printed in the warrant.” 
Mr. Watters explained that at the last Annual Town Meeting, some finance committee members 
felt they needed more information on some items on the capital plan before they could support 
the plan in its entirety. It was learned that because of the way the warrant article regarding the 
capital plan was written, residents that attend Town Meeting can only support or deny the plan 
as a whole, regardless of the amount of information available on each item. Mr. Beardmore 
explained that the proposed bylaw does not change the process of how the capital plan is 
developed, but it does seek to restore legislative authority to Town Meeting. Mr. Beardmore 
also pointed out that the capital plan has increased at about 15 percent per year since the 
current capital planning process began 20 years ago. Mr. Beardmore opined that the capital plan 
used to serve as a list of needs for the town, but has recently shifted toward a list of wants that 
lack proper vetting and oversight. Ultimately, Select Board members agreed that the proposed 
bylaw should be allowed to be heard by those who attend Town Meeting, but Mr. Jeffreys, Ms. 
Sroka, Mr. Dwyer, and Mr. Franco all opined they’d prefer the current capital plan warrant 
language remain the same, and fret that the approval of the proposed bylaw will cause a Town 
Meeting debate of the capital plan line by line, which will then lead to a longer Town Meeting, 
and therefore eventually, even less participation. Mr. Jeffreys opined that as it stands, those 
who regularly attend Annual Town Meeting do not fully represent the whole town. Mr. Jeffreys 
also pointed out that the school’s budget is accepted as a whole, and is not debated. Mr. 
Jeffreys expressed that he believes in the current process of how the capital plan is developed -   
Approved by Finance Committee 
at November 10, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
through proper vetting of department heads, the capital planning committee, and the Town 
Manager -and that Town Meeting participants should be able to trust the current process. Mr. 
Beardmore reminded the Select Board that if the finance committee thought the Select Board 
would not put the bylaw proposal on the warrant, that it would be put through via a citizen’s 
petition. Mr. Beardmore iterated that the bylaw does not propose to separate the capital plan 
into individual warrant articles. Mr. Beardmore pointed out that Town Meeting is allowed to 
amend the omnibus budget, minus the schools’ budget, and that there hasn’t been an 
amendment proposed to the omnibus budget since 2019. Mr. Beardmore also pointed out that 
in 2020, the “COVID year,” Mr. Passios and Mr. Beardmore motioned to reduce the amount of 
the capital plan, and remove items, given the financial uncertainty during the pandemic. Their 
motion was heard, debated, and failed in about fifteen minutes, but that same language of the 
capital plan article is what prevented Mr. Beardmore from proposing an amendment in 2022. 
Mr. Beardmore opined that the Select Board mischaracterized the proposed bylaw, and thinks 
that most people agree that the current capital planning process is sufficient, however, if there 
are particular items that deserve more scrutiny, and it’s determined that Town Meeting wants 
more information, they should be able to request that information on Town Meeting floor, and 
debate the item. Mr. Jeffreys opined that there is a lot of potential for the proposed bylaw to be 
abused, and he is personally against it, but he would support the bylaw article to be placed on 
the warrant for Special Town Meeting.  
3. Debt Capacity: Mr. Watters explained that the finance committee has observed the tremendous 
effort put forth to develop concepts and ideas to remedy issues regarding municipal buildings, 
and all things related, only to find projects denied at Town Meeting because the cost is too 
expensive. The finance committee is satisfied with the town’s current debt capacity, but would 
like to see a financial forecast involving various scenarios to see how much money the town 
could feasibly borrow in order to form an affordable and obtainable vision. Mr. Jeffreys opined 
that the town is aware of what they can spend, but that the debt capacity is weighed down 
because of school building projects. Mr. Jeffries entertained the idea of relooking at the 11 
percent excludable debt policy, and suggested the possibility of putting limits on school projects 
in order to address municipal building issues, and other financial issues due to face the town. 
Ms. Lemieux pointed out that her annual five-year financial forecast does illustrate the town’s 
debt capacity. Mr. Beardmore suggested that the five-year forecast does not account for 
projects that need to be done, and the forecast they’re proposing could. Mr. Balish pointed out 
that a professional financial planner could form an analysis in a few weeks, and that the 
proposed forecast is not an exhaustive process. Ms. Sroka opined that she, and many people in 
town, would like to see any project get done, and understands the value in having a financial 
planner map out different scenarios in order to define and execute affordable projects. Mr. 
Jeffreys suggested a follow-up discussion on the finance committee’s idea.  
Mr. Jeffreys asked members of the finance committee what the Select Board could do to make 
them feel more supported. Committee members agreed that they’ve never felt not supported 
by the Select Board, and suggested that board members continue to attend, and watch finance 
committee meetings on pertinent issues. Select Board members agreed they’re favorable to 
more joint meetings with the finance committee, and are looking forward to collaborating more 
in the future.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
4. Adjourn At 8:38 p.m., Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn the finance committee meeting. Mr. 
Beardmore seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
 