===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee                                                  
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Jay Simeone, Tom Gray, Tom Balish (via Zoom and in person),  
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Finance Director Karen Brochu (via Zoom), Principal Assessor CJ Caroll 
(via Zoom), Capital Planning Committee member Dave Passios (via Zoom) 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7:07 p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open 
Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/HC6Fplo95Q0 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements:  none 
 
4. Public Comment: Mr. Passios reported on Capital Planning Committee actions 
 
5. Chair Report: Mr. Watters suggested other committee members watch the Select Board meetings to 
learn more details on Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles.  
 
6. Public Hearing Special Town Meeting Warrant: At 7:11 p.m. Mr. Watters opened the public hearing. Ms. 
Lemieux reminded those in attendance that the Warrant is still in draft form, but is in the recommended 
order. 
Article 1: FY23 budget adjustments  
Mr. Simeone motioned to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 2: Prior Year Expenses 
Mr. Simeone motioned to recommend approval, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 3: Police collective bargaining agreement 
Mr. Simeone motioned to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 4: Special Purpose Stabilization Fund 
Ms. Lemieux explained that she is still waiting on the new growth number from the state, and that 
articles 1, 4, and 5 are interconnected. 
Mr. Simeone motioned to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 
Article 5: Marshall Park final engineering funding 
Unanimously approved by Finance Committee at 
their 1/12/2023 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Simeone motioned to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 6: Sewer Reserve Stabilization Fund 
Mr. Simeone motioned to recommend approval, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 7: Sewer Stabilization Fund regarding Inflow and Infiltration (I/I) 
Mr. Simeone motioned to recommend approval, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 8: On-call/reserve firefighters and police officer retirement fund 
Mr. Simeone motioned to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
Article 9: Salary Administration Plan 
Ms. Lemieux explained positions on the plan have already been funded. 
Mr. Simeone motioned the article would have no direct financial impact, Mr. Gray seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
Article 10: Amending Capital Appropriations 
Mr. Simeone motioned to recommend approval, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
Mr. Gray commented he would entertain hearing a better alternative to the proposed bylaw. Mr. 
Simeone added the tax payers should have rights to make changes to the capital plan considering 
the number of items, and financial amount of the plan. Mr. Balish added he understands the pros 
and cons of the article, and is anticipating feedback received at Special Town Meeting. Mr. 
Watters pointed out that the Select Board is split in their support of the article, and that it is 
important the Finance Committee have a stance on the article prior to Special Town Meeting. 
 
Article 11: Use Table; special permit for motels –Planning Board 
Mr. Simeone motioned the article would have no direct financial impact. Mr. Gray seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
Article 12: Override denial of certificate to alter Ritter Building (New windows vs. restoration of 
original windows) 
Committee members discussed whether there was a financial impact of this article. Mr. Simone 
figured that since the FY22 capital plan funded alterations of the building the article would not 
have a financial impact. Mr. Gray pointed out that if the current windows aren’t replaced with 
new windows, there could be a financial impact on future budgets when it comes to heating the 
building. Mr. Balish agreed the article does have a potential financial impact. Mr. Balish motioned 
to defer to Town Meeting, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
Article 13: Amend Code of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation District Certificate to Alter 
Application procedure 
Mr. Simeone motioned the article would have no financial impact. Mr. Balish seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
Article 14: Amend Zoning Map at 199 Mass Ave 
Mr. Simeone motioned the article would have no direct financial impact. Mr. Gray seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Article 15: Change Annual Town Meeting and Elections from May to April 
Mr. Balish motioned to recommend to not approve the article, Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
 
7. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux reported that the DPW is applying for a Work 
Safety Grant. The Facilities Director is working with COA Director on the ADA Patio design. Engineers are 
coming back with an updated cost after soil testing. The chiller project at the Public Safety Building will be 
complete after final testing is done. Asbestos removal at the McNally Park building is complete, 
demolition will start soon. The Facilities Director is also working with the COA director to find costs on a 
back-up generator, as well as roof work at the Eagle House. The 30 School Street project is being looked at 
by an architect and environmental consultant.  
The Page Street culvert design is 90 percent done with bid documents. 
The Flat Hill bridge replacement project is undergoing easement establishment.  
Ms. Lemieux has been informed that local funds will not be available in the state’s supplemental budget 
bill, and the Economic Development bill that contained the 30 School Street project has been put on hold. 
The FY23 capital plan will fund the project if the Economic Development bill does not pass.  
 
8. Conversation with Assessor’s Office: Principal Assessor CJ Carroll explained the roles and responsibilities 
of the Assessor’s office.  
 
9. Debt Capacity Forecasting Review: Ms. Brochu met with David Eisenthal, the town’s financial advisor, and 
a few scenarios were run regarding excludable debt, and what the town could afford to borrow while 
staying within the parameters of the financial policies over the next 40 years. According to the report, the 
town should be able to borrow up to $42 million for upcoming projects. Committee members agreed that 
the information, which demonstrates different ways the money could be repaid, should be shared with 
department heads, and other boards and committees, as well as Lunenburg voters.   
 
10. Minutes Mr. Gray motioned to approve the August 28, 2022, and September 15, 2022 minutes, Mr. Balish 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
11. Committee Reports Committee members updated each other on their liaison assignments. 
 
12. Public Comment: Mr. Gray informed those who may not have known that John Male’s memorial service 
was scheduled for October 15 at 11:00 a.m. at United Parish. 
 
13. Items for Future Meetings Meet DPW Director, Meet with School Department to learn about 
functionality portion of their budget presentation. 
 
14. Next Meetings October 27, November 10, November 15 (STM) 
 
15. Adjourn At 9:36 p.m. Mr. Simeone motioned to adjourn, Mr. Gray seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
 