===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Police Chief Thomas Gammel, Public Safety
Coordinator Amanda Moore, Lunenburg Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan
1. Call to Order
Mr. Beardmore called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and read a statement
concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held
remotely.
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/P8kkMNI8!Y
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements: none
4. Public Comment: none
5. Chair Report: Mr. Beardmore informed the committee that he has accepted an invitation to
appear on a cable access show in Fitchburg, Fitchburg Leominster Access Politics, which will
discuss local municipal finance, along with regional and national political issues.
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux reported that Monty Tech has
distributed their preliminary budget for FY2023, and there is about a $2,000 difference from the
Town Manger's preliminary budget. Ms. Lemieux also reported that Chapter 90 Funds to be
reimbursed will total $419, 940. The Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch budget has come in at
$204,606, which is $8,519 less than the Town Manager's preliminary budget.
An amended capital plan should be distributed at the next Finance Committee meeting on
March 10, 2022.
7. Budget Presentations:
a. Police Department: Chief Gammel and Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore
presented the police department's budget. Chief Gammel said that 2021 was his first full
year serving as chief, and explained all the financial needs of his department, including a
$5,000 increase to lease a motorcycle for the force, and $8,000 for a new K9 officer.
Chief Gammel is also seeking an additional part time clerical employee to assist the
Public Safety Coordinator as the 10-year staffing plan is filling out, and her
responsibilities are growing as a result. The FY23 request lists a ½ year salary of $8,062
for the position.
Chief Gammel also explained his capital plan requests for a Ford F150 pickup truck to
tow the police department's boat, and fire arms with ammunition, as well as equipment
to close roads when needed, and to carry a snow blower and shovels in winter to help
===PAGE 2===
b. Fire Department: Chief Sullivan is looking to hire an additional career
firefighter/paramedic in FY2023, as well as continuing paramedic training. Partial
paramedic coverage is anticipated in late FY22, and full coverage will be needed by mid
FY23. Chief Sullivan is also seeking an increase in EMT stipends as well as an increase to
the amount of EMTs he has on-call. FY23 will be the fifth year of the department's five-
year staffing plan and will employ 3 shifts of 3 firefighter/EMTs Monday thru Saturday.
Chief Sullivan's request also seeks to increase SAP grades for on-call firefighters/AEMTs
and firefighter/paramedics. Salaries for current and anticipated positions and salary
increases come out to $1,106,102. Chief Sullivan also talked about grants that have
funded equipment, along with public outreach programs. Chief Sullivan had no capital
requests for FY23, and let the committee know he would be seeking a replacement
chassis for Engine 2 in FY24.
8. Minutes Mr. Watters motioned to approve the minutes from meetings held on February 17, and
February 24, 2022, Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.
9. Committee Reports none
10. Public Comment none
11. Items for Future Meetings Board of Health slated to be present at March 24, 2022 meeting.
Town Manager to present updated capital plan at next meeting March 10. Committee will
discuss letter to be written for Annual Town Meeting Warrant.
12. Next Meetings March 10, 2022 Monty Tech Preliminary budget presentation, DPW budget
presentation.
13. Adjourn At 9:20 p.m. Mr. Watters motioned to adjourn, Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote,
motion carried unanimously.
