===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
November 13, 2023 
 
Members Present: Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean 
Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone, Chair Evan Watters. 
 
1. Call to Order 
The meeting opened at 7:03 PM.   
 
2. Announcements 
Evan Watters announces Dave Passios has joined the Finance Committee. The board now 
consists of 6 members.  
 
3. Public Comment 
No public Comment. 
 
4. Town Manager Report 
Heather Lemieux does not have any additional reports but wants to review some of the 
articles with the Committee. 
 
5. Old Business 
a. Deferred STM Warrant Articles Updates 
Article 1 
Article 1 addresses budget adjustments for FY 24. Heather Lemieux refers to a 
previously sent out chart that reflects the changes in revenue projection.  
- There is an additional $200,000 difference from the annual town meeting 
estimate.  
- The estimated state aid presented at the annual town meeting was $119,000 
lower than projected since the annual town meeting.  
- The balance levy capacity of $9,772.70 will go towards the overall additional 
allowable appropriation.  
-  A salary survey was done at the request of the select board chair. The board 
all agreed to add an additional $20,000. This is based on the area comparable 
to other towns. 
Motion to approve Article 1 by Tom Gray, seconded by Jay Simeone. Roll call 
vote. Unanimous vote.   
      Article 2 
A total of $1,413.52 was meant to be carried over at the end of the fiscal year, 
but ultimately it wasn’t. These wages were supposed to be paid out FY 23. This 
money came from excess revenue. 
Motion to approve Article 2 by Tom Gray, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll call 
vote. All in favor. Unanimous vote. 
      Article 3 
===PAGE 2===
This article addresses collective bargaining that was finalized by the sick board 
and the bargaining unit. Comp analysis was completed by every bargaining unit 
to make sure employees were being paid fairly and by agreement it was found 
based on the 8 communities that were surveyed that the positions within the 
bargaining unit were severely underpaid compared to comparable positions and 
comparable towns between 8 and 20 percent. The bargaining agreement has a 
requirement to fund the first year. 
The board inquired about what employees this would cover. Heather Lemieux 
states it would cover Assistant Town Clerk, Town Accountant, Assistant Treasurer, 
Assistance Collector, DPW Executive Assistant, public Safety Coordinator, 
Conservation Administrator, Administrative Assistance. This would be an 
unknown cost but would be within budget. 
Motion to recommend approval for Article 3 by Tom Grey, seconded by Jean Russell. 
Roll call vote. Unanimous vote. 
b. Deferred STM Warrant Article Votes 
There are no additional deferments to address. 
 
6. New Business 
There was a short discussion about preparing for the November 13th Special Town 
Meeting starting at 7:00 PM at the High School. Members are to check in and obtain 
their voting clickers.  
 
7. Public Comment 
No public comment. 
 
8. Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call vote. 
       Meeting adjourned at 7:33 PM. 