===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 9, 2023 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Vice-chair Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Tom Balish, Caesar Nuzzolo 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Town Accountant Karen Brochu, School Committee and 
Capital Planning Committee member Peter Beardmore  
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Watters called the meeting to order at 7p.m. and read a statement concerning the 
Open Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/olcG99iRSew 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: Mr. Watters informed the committee they have been invited by the Select 
Board to attend their March 7, 2023 meeting with the town’s state delegation. 
 
4. Public Comment: Mr. Beardmore corrected a statement he made about the FY24 Capital Plan 
requests for two dump trucks for the DPW at the last Finance Committee meeting. Mr. 
Beardmore also pointed out that the Town Manager has reprioritized several of the original 
requests that fell in the middle of the FY24 Capital Plan. 
 
5. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: Ms. Lemieux reported the Town Accountant 
discovered a projected deficit regarding health insurance, but they’ve found surpluses in other 
areas of the budget to cover the deficit.  
 
Snow and ice has gone over budget by $170,000 due to the increase in cost of salt, as well as the 
cost of hiring contractors to clean up after storms. Money to cover the increased cost of the 
snow and ice line will come from the pavement management line in the DPW’s budget. Ms. 
Lemieux made clear that the money would not come from the excluded debt that funds the 
pavement management plan. There also appears to be a $60,000 surplus in the salary line for 
the DPW that could also go toward snow and ice.  
 
6. Capital Plan 
a. Possible use of ARPA funding for DPW and Public Safety requests: If ARPA funds are 
used to fund the two dump trucks, and the ambulance listed on the FY24 Capital Plan, it 
will reduce the number of items on the plan from six to three. More items couldn’t be 
moved up in priority in the plan because the purchases of those vehicles are slated to be 
funded from the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund. No other items on the capital plan 
are eligible for that funding source, according to Ms. Lemieux.  
Unanimously Approved by Finance 
Committee at February 23, 2023 
meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
7. Tax Abatement/Assessment Discussion: Ms. Lemieux has recommended to reserve all free cash 
in order to fund the overlay account which covers abatements. About 427 abatements have 
been filed. Whatever surplus is left from funding the abatements should be voted on by the 
Board of Assessors to turn over to the town to be appropriated. The Town Warrant closes March 
20, 2023. The Board of Assessors has 90 days (until May 1) to approve or deny abatement 
applications, and then if denied, the people can appeal. Mr. Watters expressed concern over the 
amount of time needed to make the decisions regarding the budget at Town Meeting.  
 
Mr. Watters created and presented a presentation describing Proposition 2 ½ , and explained 
that the levy limit is based on the total value of all property in town. Mr. Watters suggested 
people go to the mass.gov Proposition 2 ½ Primer, as well as mass.gov Division of Local Services 
to learn more.  
 
8. Public Comment Rhonda Lissio informed the committee that she is against using money from 
the pavement management line to fund the snow and ice deficit.  
 
9. Upcoming Meetings Preliminary Budget Presentation 2/16, Department Budget Presentations – 
COA, Land Use, Library 2/23, Police and Fire departments 3/2, joint meeting with Select Board 
and state delegation 3/7 
 
10. Adjourn At 8:13 p.m. Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn, Mr. Nuzzolo seconded, on vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
 