===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee  Meeting Minutes
September  14th, 2023
Members Present:  Board  Member  Tom Gray , Town Manager  Heather Lemieux , Board Member  
Jean Russell , Board Member  Jay Simeone , Chairman Evan Watters .
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7:02 PM .
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements  from Committee
No c ommittee announcements .
4. Public Comment
No public comment .
5. Town Manager / Finance Director Report
A quote was received by Supportive B usiness  A lternatives  regarding the contact 
with EL Harvey trash removal. This is the last year of  the agreement  for the pay-
as-you-throw  bag system.  The committee has inquired if  the town will be looking 
into a town-wide  system  for trash  as opposed to the pay-as-you-go  throw bags.  
Heather Lemieux confirms that there are currently no other avenues being 
explored.  If residents have issues  with the bags,  they are told to contact the 
vendor  and they will replace faulty bags.
The Page S treet culvert project is complete  and was completed  in a timely 
manner  and under the projected budget.
The LED street  light project  began last week . There were issues regarding wiring. 
The original completion date was the end of September,  but this has been 
pushed back due to  new issue s . If funding is needed it will come from the 
C ommunity G reen C ommunities G rant .
The ADA patio project will be completed  by the end of the month and the 
ribbon-cutting  ceremony will be on October 11 th  at noon.
The TC Passios  roof has had consistent leaking. An  article was submitted  t o  the 
special town meeting and the facilities director is soliciting quotes  to complete  a 
partial repair. 
The  n ew town website will be launching on October 10 th . This will include an  
upgrade t o the accounting system M unis .
Additional funding was approved for 925 Mass Ave . This includes testing  soil 
samples , monitoring well installation , and groundwater  sampling  removal . The 
first phase  which  remove d  the canopy and underground storage tanks,  has been 
completed and was covered by EPA dollars. 
===PAGE 2===
The third preliminary tax  and recertification for real estate deadline is 
approaching. The new v endor , V ision , will be working on this but it wo n't  be 
completed by the January 1 st  deadline . The D epartment of Revenue  has 
approved a late submission. 
Articles submitted for special  town meeting  include :
 Police chief article to transfer funds from opioid  settlement  stabilization  fund to 
be used for mental health co-response program .
 Capital P lan t o transfer amount from fiscal 23 Ca pital P lan for air conditioner  
project .
 The Sewer Commission has submitted multiple articles . This includes  the Sewer  
R eserve C apacity S tabilization F und and S ewer Infiltration Stabilization  F und to 
transfer the remaining funds.
 Article to transfer S pecial P urpose S tabilization  F und for an a mbulance and 2 
DPW trucks.
 Article to amend code 1 10 .
 Currently  no citizen's petitions have been submitted.
6. New Business
a. Special Town Funds
The interim  finance director  and treasurer are planning to mee t in November 
to go over accounts. The main  objectives of the meeting are to : Find the 
n umber of accounts currently active with funds in them  and the amount in 
each fund , identify if there are  any funds already appropriated and waiting to
be drawn on, and  if are there any opportunities  to consolidate funds in 
higher yield accounts .
b. Committee Reorganization
The  Fi nance C ommittee  needs an additional 2 members  to be considered full.
c. Liaison organization
Below are the liaison  assignments  per member :
E van Watters : Board of Health, Conservation Commission, Library, Police , 
Fire, School, Master Plan Steering Committee , Parks  and Recreation .
Tom Gray : Municipal Building Design Committee, Green Communities.
Chris M enard: Capital Planning Committee .
Jean Russell : Economic Development Committee .
Jay  Sim eone : Cemetery Commission, DPW, Sewer, Council on Aging .
Organizations that have no town budget or a small-town  budget  that don't  need 
a liaison ar e the  Agricultural  Commission, Architectural Preservation  Design 
Committee (APDC), and  the  Commissioner  of Trust Funds .
             7. Old  Business
===PAGE 3===
a. Primary School Air Conditioning
    The c ommittee m ember s agreed to discuss this topic after the special meeting .
8. Minute s
a.  Minutes  from June 8, 2023  and June 22, 2023
The meeting minutes  will be added to the next agenda as not all of  the     
committee members have reviewed the minutes.
9. Committee Reports
Municipal buildings  will meet on the following Monday where a discussion about
committee reports will take place. After that meeting, the committee will discuss,  
and this will  be on the agenda for the next meeting. 
10. Topics for Future Meetings
The calendar for this year ’s budget season will be available next month  and this 
topic will be on an upcoming agenda.  There will be a discussion about the 
meeting with the financial director and the town treasurer.
11. Public Comment / Public  Comment from the Committee
No public comment .
12. Upcoming meetings
Sep 28 th , Oct 12 th , Oct 26 th  of 2023.
13. Adjourn
Motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone , seconded by Tom Gray.  All in fa vor.
The meeting  adjourned  at 7:50  PM .