===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, April 6, 2023 
 
Location: In-person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast on Zoom 
 
Present: Chairperson Evan Watters, Vice-Chairperson Chris Menard, Jay Simeone, Tom Gray, Tom Balish (arrived later), 
Caesar Nuzzolo 
 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux (Remote) 
1. Call to Order 
Mr. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and read a statement concerning the Open 
Meeting Law, and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely. 
This meeting was recorded and is viewable on YouTube at https://youtu.be/ckCnO-5t0t8 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements: Mr. Watters announced that the annual fundraiser for the Boys and Girls, “Club Are You 
Smarter Than Our Sixth Graders?” is on Friday April 28, 2023 at 7:00 p.m.  
 
Mr. Menard turned the meeting over to Mr. Watters. 
 
4. Public Comment: Lunenburg resident Dave Rogers commented that he had trouble calling into the meeting 
from home, and came to Town Hall to inform the committee. Mr. Rogers also inquired as to when the public 
could comment on the Town Warrant.  
 
5. New Business: 
a. Update on Budget Numbers: Drafted warrant articles have been changed from letters to numbers, and 
committee members voted on updated articles as they’ve learned dollar amounts that go along with 
some articles. 
 
Article 6 (regarding the FY24 Capital Plan) Mr. Menard motioned to recommend approval, Mr. 
Nuzzolo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. There was a discussion regarding an 
email from a School Committee member regarding the latest items to be funded on the FY24 
Capital Plan. Ms. Lemieux explained that she added the next prioritized items on the plan when 
funds became available, and that the prioritized list did not change since the Capital Planning 
Process was completed at the beginning of the calendar year. 
 
Article 8 Collective Bargaining Agreement for Firefighters has not been finalized. The vote stands 
to defer to Annual Town Meeting.  
 
Article 14 (Sewer Enterprises) The Sewer Commission realized that the numbers in their budget 
for usage fees has increased, and as a result, the dollar amount of the article has changed. The 
committee learned the Sewer Commission would not be meeting until April 11, 2023. Mr. 
Menard motioned to defer recommendation to Annual Town Meeting, Mr. Nuzzolo seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Article 20 (Historical Commission edits) The article was edited to include all homes in town, not 
just those within the Historical District. Mr. Menard motioned to recommend approval. Mr. 
Nuzzolo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
Article 21 (Senior Tax Relief) The article was edited to add revocation of Senior Tax Relief at a 
future Town Meeting if needed. Committee members discussed whether the article would have 
financial impact. Mr. Watters commented that the budget would not be impacted, but it would 
have an effect on the property owners’ taxes. Mr. Menard motioned to recommend approval, 
Mr. Nuzzolo seconded. On vote, motion carried (4-1 Simeone -nay) 
 
6. Town Manager/Finance Director Report: none 
 
7. Old Business 
a. Town Meeting Finance Committee Report: Mr. Watters is still drafting the report, and pointed out that 
the town is facing a dilemma concerning the latest property tax bills, and using free cash to fund the 
overlay account for abatements, which took money away from funding the FY24 Capital Plan, and 
spending ARPA funds on capital items, on top of an unforeseeable future. Mr. Menard opined that the 
town is in good shape financially, and is weathering the storm, but municipal building projects have 
been sidelined. Mr. Nuzzolo added that he is optimistic, and the report can include all the ways the town 
is handling current obstacles. The committee agreed that focusing on factual information about the 
town’s finances in the report would suffice. 
 
b. Tax Abatement/Assessment: Third and Fourth Quarter taxes are due on May 1 and are being accepted 
with no interest charged. Abatement Applications are still being accepted. Extension forms are being 
mailed out by the Assessor’s Office. 
 
8. Minutes:  none 
 
9. Committee Reports: Committee members updated each other on their respective assignments. 
 
10. Items for Future Meetings: Invite Select Board Chairperson Michael Ray Jeffries to discuss potential issues going 
into next fiscal year.  
 
11. Public Comment Lunenburg resident Rhonda Lissio thanked the committee for not deferring the FY24 Capital 
Plan article to Annual Town Meeting. Ms. Lissio attended several Capital Planning Committee meetings, and has 
followed the process extensively. According to Ms. Lissio, for three consecutive years, the School Committee has 
asked to change the prioritization of items after the process has ended. Ms. Lissio read all the FY24 Capital Plan 
requests from the School Committee.  
 
12. Next Meetings: April 20, 2023 (Public Hearing), May 6, 2023 (ATM) 
 
13. Adjourn: At 8:24 p.m. Mr. Menard motioned to adjourn, Mr. Nuzzolo seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
 