===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
April 11, 2024
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, C lerk Tiffaney 
Tavares, Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean 
Russell (Zoom), Board Member Jay Simeone
1. Call to Order
T he meeting opened  at 7:00 PM .
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
There were no announcements.
4. P ublic Comment
Evan  Watters states the Boys and Girls Club is inquiring if the Finance 
Committee will be putting a team together for Are You Smarter Than Our 
6th Graders.
5. Town Manager Report
There were no reports from the Town Manager.
6.  Finance Director Report
There were no  reports from the Finance Director.  Ezequiel Ayala  states he
is currently reviewing the primary quarterly  reports. Once completed they 
will be provided to the Select Board then the Finance Committee the 
following week.
7. New Business
a. FinCom  Report for Warrant Review
Evan  Watters a nd Tiffaney Tavares  provided  an  update d  report with
the 10 bullet points and ha s addressed everything aside from 40S , 
the hiring freeze, and the increase in waste removal.
The Committee reviewed and adjusted the document titled 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Annual Report for FY 25.
Evan  Watters  will review the numbers and then email the document
to each member individually. 
Chris Menard believes there needs to be more time than a week 
between the hearing and when the report is due. 
===PAGE 2===
8. Old Business
a. FY25 Budget Discussion
There was  no  discussion about the FY 25 budget.
b. FY25 Override Discussion
There was no discussion about the FY 25 override.
c.  Votes on Recommendations for Warrant Articles
There are 2 articles (Article 4 & Article 5) that the Committee is 
currently def erred.
Article 4 : A rticle to see if the town will vote to raise, appropriate or 
transfer funds from a sum of money for payment of prior years ’ 
expenses .
Heather Lemieux  provided the total of  $1,994. 55.
There was a m otion to  recommend approval for A rticle 4 by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Unanimous approval 6-0 with 
1 member absent. 
Article 5 : Article  to transfer from available funds all sums of money 
necessary to amend  the amounts voted for the town ’s  FY 24 budget
from the reserve fund.
Heather Lemieux  states the snow and ice numbers from the last 
snowstorm totaled $ 226,000 .  The T own M anager recommends that
money come out of the reserve fund that currently has $ 275, 0 00 . 
There will be a minimum amount as well for the salary reserve to 
make that supplemental  amount that will be needed for FY 24 .
Chri s Menard questions if the reserve account  is the account that is 
voted on and Heather Lemieux confirms. Chris M enard 
recommends that someone  should come to the  Finance Committee  
and ask them to transfer  from  the reserve account  to avoid  having 
the warrant article. For these reasons Chris Menard  votes no as a 
recommendation.
The Committee agrees to remain deferred on A rticle 5 .
9. Minutes
The Committee has not reviewed  the minutes so this will be added to the 
next meeting ’s agenda.
Chris Menard states there are a few meeting minutes that can ’t be found. 
Evan Watters is planning to address this issue at a later date .
10. Committee Reports
===PAGE 3===
Chris  Menard states the Parks Committee has met and is  planning a 
clean-up day at the town beach and building. The volunteer events are 
provided on the recreation department ’s  webpage with sign up ability. If 
anyone wants to clean up roads,  you can go to the DPW to get a slightly 
different yellow bag .
Dave P assios attended the A ssociation of T own F inance C ommittee 
meeting  and there was a discussion about smart growth.  Dave Passios  
asked  Senator  Jim Crowley what was going on with smart  growth and  was 
told  nothing is being done  at this point.  There was also a discussion about 
the proposed changes to  the Municipal Empowerment  Act . Dave Passios 
provided that  presentation to the Committee.
Evan Watters states the Master Plan Steering Committee  met. They 
discussed a report that was last completed in 2002.  Evan Watters states 
that the needs of the town then were almost identical to what they are now.  
30% of the project s  that were suggested have  been  completed . The 
remaining were either started and not finished or not started at all .
Eva n Watters states the Board of H ealth met and came out with new 
regulations that will drop the parts down to about 4 parts per trillion. This 
means we are failing on several of  ou r w e lls and water services for those 
that are on public water supply. There will be a financial impact for 
residents who are on public water.
11. Topics for Future Meetings
Evan Watters started a list of topics to be discussed.
12. Upcoming Meetings:
a. 4/25/2024  – T entative M eeting
b. 5/4/2024 – Annual Town Meeting
13. Important Dates:
a. 5/18/2024 – Annual Town Election
14.  Public Comment
Evan Watters and Tom Gray plan on being in attendance on April 26 th  from
7PM-9PM for Are You Smarter Than Our  6 th Grader s.
There were no public comments.
===PAGE 4===
15. Adjour n
There was a motion to adjourn by Chris Menard , seconded by  Dave 
Passios .
The meeting closed at 9:28 PM.