===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
December 19, 2024 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Tanya Dall, 
Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member:  Vice Chair Jean Russell 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
   There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Scheduled Meetings 
  a. Update from Budget Task Force (possible Joint Meeting with Budget Task Force) 
   Renee Emkey and Ezequiel Ayala provided the following recommendations. 
1. Consolidation of town accounts  
This would include bank accounts and investment funds.  
It’s anticipated that the new Town Manager will update the 
ﬁnancial investment policy to achieve the highest yield 
possible. This should be reviewed every year. 
2. Targeted diagnostic audit to identify any missing crucial ﬁnancial 
information for the Town 
  This will be a deeper dive than the annual audit and a 1-time 
 cost to the Town.  Chris Menard questions if there are any 
 grants  available.  Ezequiel Ayala states there may be state or 
 federal grants available.  
3. Prudent investment rule 
   This was already voted for and approved at the Town Meeting.  
4. Community Preservation Act (CPA)  
   Renee Emkey conﬁrms there are exemptions available. The 
  minimum surcharge is .5% and the maximum is 3%. A portion 
 of the money received must be spent on 1. Historical 
 Preservation, 2. AƯordable Housing, 3. Parks or open space. 
===PAGE 2===
 Currently there are 200 communities who participate. If this 
 passes at the Town Meeting a new Committee will need to be 
 formed.  
5. Green Grants for the HVAC at schools 
This is currently in the works. 
6. Solar ﬁeld at the old town dump site 
  This could be a revenue source if the land is leased, and solar 
 panels are added.  
7. Solar ﬁeld on school lots  
Also, could be a revenue source. 
8. Brooks House lease 
   The lease is estimated to be between $30,000 to $50,000 
 based on what the building is used for. This number is based 
 on what other towns are leasing buildings for.  
9. Review Town trash and recycling program 
  When the recycling program was ﬁrst established it was free to 
 the Town. Currently it is costing $250,000 a year and rising.  
10. Chapter 90 funds for Town roads. 
   Depending on the number of roads this is estimated to cost 
 $10,000 to $20,000 per year. Chris Menard has reviewed the 
 list of roads that need to be established and conﬁrms they all 
 are currently being maintained. 
11. High deductible health insurance 
  This would be an alternate option for Town employees.  
12. Health insurance buyout option 
  This could be used as an incentive and will be a cost 
 savings.  Chris Menard questions how many people would opt 
 out. Ezequiel Ayala is not aware of how many people may be 
 interested. 
13. Payroll and purchase order streamlining 
14. Standardizing and improving workﬂow within the Town ﬁnances 
   This would improve and implement a standard chart of 
 accounts for all departments.  
15. School service contracts 
   This is currently being reviewed.  
16. Create regular review processes of School fees  
17. Create regular review processes of Town fees 
18. Delivery of warrant articles for Town Meeting. 
An option would include posting warrant articles   
electronically. If a paper copy is requested, they can be picked 
up. This could be a yearly cost saving of $7,500. 
===PAGE 3===
19. Consolidate Town and School snow removal and grounds 
maintenance 
20. Split tax rate  
6. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Ezequiel Ayala presented the FY24 year-end ﬁnancials and forwarded them to the 
 Committee. The ﬁnal free cash was approved at 2.25 and the tax rate was set at 
 14.36. 
7. New Business 
  a. Town Manager Search Committee Update 
   The Town Manager Search Committee has almost completed their job.  
  Interviews of 6 candidates were held last week. The candidates were then  
  narrowed down to 3. The names and interviews of the 3 going forward will  
  become public.  
b. Capital Planning Update 
   The Capital Planning Committee ﬁnalized their recommendations on   
  Monday for this year. They anticipate meeting monthly to look at the planning  
  aspects of capital planning and creating a 5- and 10-year plan. 
c. Review Budget Season Schedule 
   Chris Menard spoke with Carter Terenzini, and he conﬁrmed that he needs 25 
  days to put out a warrant. 
Ezequiel Ayala has emailed the budget sheets to the department heads to 
 get their recommendations for FY26. There is a deadline of the 21st to provide 
  feedback. 
Peter Beardmore questions when the 25 days start. Carter Terenzini needs all 
 ﬁnal actions in writing at least 25 days before the town meeting for quality 
 control, proof, printing and mailing. Chris Menard believes April 7th is the 
 cuto Ư date.   
Chris Menard anticipates having 4 weeks of meetings that include public 
 hearing, deliberations, draft, and a ﬁnal report. 
Peter Beardmore suggests agreeing on a date when the School Department 
 presents its approved budget. 
8. Old Business 
  a. Project 211 (School Funding Formula)       
  There were no updates from the Committee. 
===PAGE 4===
Carol Archambault, School Committee Secretary, conﬁrms that the group 
 has met with Representative Scarsdale. Representative Scarsdale held a 
 networking meeting to try to push this forward.  
b. Grant Writing Services 
   The Committee anticipates creating a policy related to grant writing. There  
  are some Boards and Committee that are trying to obtain grants, but they are  
  unaware of the process and what needs to be done. 
c. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
   There were no updates. 
9. Minutes 
There was a motion to approve the minutes from October 10th and October 24th by 
Tom Gray, seconded by Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
10. Committee Reports 
  Tom Gray states that the Municipal Building Design Committee has met. There was 
 a proposal submitted, and a company has been hired for renovations. On Monday  
 there was a meeting, and a rough draft was presented. This is regarding the 
 renovation of the Town Hall and renovation and addition to the Ritter Building.   
Jay Simeone states that the Sewer Commission had a meeting, and they ratiﬁed to 
support the hiring of a new Sewer Business Manager.  
Chris Menard states the Committees that were assigned to Evan Watters will need 
to be reassigned. 
11. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
Jay Simeone questions if Carter Terenzini is going to be presenting a preliminary 
budget in January. Chris Menard will make an inquiry with Carter Terenzini. 
Chris Menard conﬁrms that he will not be volunteering as the Chair for the next 
season and encourages people to inquire about being on the Committee. 
12. Important Dates 
 There are no additional important dates. 
13. Upcoming Meetings 
  a. 1/9/2025 & 1/23/2025 
b. 2/13/2025 Budget Season begins 
14. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios, member of Green Communities Committee and resident of JeƯerson 
===PAGE 5===
 NH provided comments. He states the Department of Local Services has several 
 services that are available to all cities and towns in Massachusetts that include 
 auditing the towns books. He suggests taking a deeper look as those resources are 
 free. Regarding the consolidation of accounts Dave Passios states any ﬁnancial  
 changes to the town need to be thoroughly thought through.  Additionally, he 
 suggests looking into the possibility of local income tax. This would be beneﬁcial to 
 seniors and low-income families. 
Tom Gray agrees with some of the recommendations from the Budget Task Force 
but is worried it may interfere with other high priority items and work processes that 
are already underway. He suggests prioritizing the things that we can do that will 
have the greatest impact but not also sidelining us from other things that need to be 
completed. Tom Gray questions if the town is going to have enough money to run the 
town in FY 26. 
15. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 8:55 PM. 
 