===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
March 7 , 2024
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Tom 
Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean Russell  (Zoom) , Board 
Member Jay Simeone
Absent Member: Clerk Tiffaney Tavares
1. Call to Order
Th e  meeting opened at 7:05  PM .
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
There were no announcements .
4. Public Comment
Peter Beardmore , 282 Pleasant  Street , states there has been discussion 
about proportional increases in the town budget relating to new spending 
versus contractual obligations. He b elieves these numbers derived from 
the proposed budget but were not specified.   Additionally, those numbers 
are to justify what he considers inequitable  budgeting . Peter Beard more 
requests th at the F inance C ommittee review and delve into what real 
savings are in terms of discretionary  funds/spending derived from retired 
debt services. There is a question about h ow much of th e $ 500,000 is 
actually spendable in the retiring  debt service .
5. Town Manager Report
There was no report from the Town Manager.
6. Finance Director Report
There were n o new reports or updates .
7. New Business
a.  DPW FY25 Budget Presentation
DPW D irector, Bill Bernard, presented the budget.
Starting next week, the department will be fully staffed. For the 
presentation Bill Bernard r eviewed the budgets for the past years to get an
average of the spending. The FY 25 request  is  5.5% higher than FY 24  
request.
===PAGE 2===
Bill Berard is requesting double the budget for this year ’s  tree removal.  A 
report was conducted in 2015 where an arborist came out to assess the 
trees. It was found that there are over 1,000 trees  that are  considered 
hazardous. There hasn ’t been a budget available so only some  trees are 
only being taken down,  but this has been on a reactive basis.  Evan 
Watters request s  a rough estimate of how much  it costs to have an arbor 
study done. Bill Bernard  states it ’s  between $30,000 to $50,000. To 
remove a small tree the  cost is roughly $1,000 . A large tree that requires a 
cran e  is  between $3,000 and $4,000 and needs  to be taken down by 
contract ors  since we don ’t have a tree bucket truck.  Dave Passios 
questions where the removed trees go. Bill Bernard states there are not 
too many trees that are brough over to the landfill.
Stormwater and drainage  related issues are the number 1 call that ’s being 
received  at the department.  There is a backup occurring in some pipes 
and are too small for  the water volume  to pass through.  Engineering needs
to take place to find the water volume level that can come through that 
pipe.  There will be upcoming public outreach related to a stormwater 
utility/enterprise fund so make the public aware of the issues.
There is a  continuing increase each year of roughly 50,000 for pavement 
management. Chapter 90 funds can also be used as another funding 
source for paving.  Jay  Simeone questions how  much money  right now is in
the chapter 90 fund. Bill Bernard confirms there is 1.6 millio n  in that fund.  
Evan Watters asks if there are any union contracts  coming to an end. The 
highway crew ’s union is up on June 30 th . Chris Menard requests putting a 
plan in place for tree removal and stormwater for next budget season.
Currently this year, we are $150,000 over the snow removal budget. Bill 
Bernard is hoping to get 4 new trucks before next winter. This will be cost 
effective as it will be much cheaper than  hiring  out for snow removal.
The vehicle maintenance is level funds. There are new trucks,  and the 
budget should be able to be maintained. 
Bill Bernard is requesting a larger budget for the cemetery.  The seasonal 
laborers  are requesting more hours and a higher pay rate. Chris  Menard  
asks if the presented budget will meet the cemeteries ’ commissions high 
level of service. Bill Bernard states the level of service with this budget will 
not be met.  The job title of Step 1 is currently $ 17 an hour and Bill Bernard 
is requesting $ 18 .58. The budget last year  was for  19 hours per week for 
17 weeks. Bill Bernard is looking  to increase 19 hours a week for 20 
weeks.
===PAGE 3===
Jay Simeone asks if they use inmates from the work progra m. Bill Bernard 
has used the DOC,  and they were very helpful. The  inmates don ’t get paid,
and the town only needs to supply them with lunch.  Bill Bernard  has been 
in contact with the DOC,  and they should be able to send a crew once a 
week . The C emetery  Commission has enforced  new rules  and regulations.
Bill Bernard would need more personnel than  just once a week to meet
their requirements. 
A grant has been received of $25,000 to complete a bridge and culvert 
prevent ative and maintenance  plan .
b. Facilities FY25 Budget Presentation
 The b udget was presented by the Facilities Director Christopher R uth .
In 2023, P arks, F acilities and G rounds were removed from the umbrella of 
the D ept of P ublic W orks and a new dept was created. The new 
departments c onsist  of a F acilities D irector, F acilities S uperintendent, 
F acilities C ustodian, part time R ecreation D irector , S easonal B each 
D irector, and S easonal L ifeguards . There are 11 town buildings  and 
grounds  that  facilities  are responsible for upkeep and maintenance.
For the FY 25 budget there is a request for an additional $5,000 for a 
landscaper. The current 3-year contract is up this year. In the past 3 years 
the prices have risen and there have been  services that haven ’t been 
completed over the years . 
There is a request to i ncrease the directors ’ hours from 19 hours to 28 
hours  per week. Currently there are not enough hours in the day to 
complete everything she is working on. This increase in hours doesn ’t 
include  school vacation weeks where programs were running 5 days out of
the week.   There is enough work for  this position to be  full-time  hours.
Another request is an increase in the salary for the beach staff. They are  
constantly running a $ 4,500 deficit  and need to use revolving funds.
Anna Lockwood  states the Parks Commission  ran programs at TC Passios
for 4 days  out of the week and  for 2 months . A total of $4,000 dollars were 
brought in of revenue from those programs.
Chris Menard asks for an estimated  cost for each building. Chris topher 
Ruth can get those numbers, but he doesn ’t have them available tonight. 
Christopher Ruth will send the numbers to Chris Menard.
===PAGE 4===
Evan Watters questioned why there is only a $4,500 difference in the 
facilities salaries from FY 24 to FY 25. Christopher Ruth states this is a 
very small department.
Dave P assios asks if the budgeted numbers and actual  numbers for the 
use of  electricity  are similar. Chris topher Ruth confirms that is the case. 
Dave Passios asks if there is  a way to offset the elec tric costs . Chris topher
Ruth and the Town Man a ger  along with the Facilities Department are  
working out their solar credits . Un itil has rules where we are allowed to 
adjust where credits are used twice a year.  Those adjustments should 
lower those  numbers .
Jay Simeone asks if there are any projects that would qualify for Green 
Communities.  Green communities are working with the DPW to get a grant
to replace sewer pumps .  The only caveat is that w ith G reen C ommunities  
you can ’t get another grant or apply for another until its spent and closed 
out. Chris topher Ruth has provided a list of future capital projects for them 
to review. 
Dave  Passios questions if any changes can be made to the Ritter Building 
and still be within the budget. Christopher Ruth states no. 
Capital Projects completed /ongoing.
 Senior C enter outdoor ADA pavilion .
 Ritter B uilding  is currently awaiting an architect to get updated construction 
estimates for an ADA Ramp and exterior improvements .
 Marshall Park
 Town H all renovations starting with the roof.
 Gas Station in the center of the town removal.
 Public S afety C arpet R eplacement  is almost complete . The c ost s  w ere  low 
enough to carpet the first floor and second floor a nd still fall within the capital 
budget.
      Goals
 Create and implement  a comprehensive building maintenance program.
 Better utilize the building management software .
 Catch up on capital projects.
 Look towards the future to prepare for the needs  of to w n facilities, grounds,  
and parks .
Jean Russell  states at the Board of Selectman meeting it was said that 
Marshall Park  was coming in at a much higher cost  around 5 million . Anna  
Lockwood states there are d ifferent  phases of project development with 
===PAGE 5===
different variations. An example is the price of the boardwalk. There was a 
request for 3 different  prices,  and it varied from $ 600,000 to 1.5 million. The 
scope of the project has not changed. 
Chris Menard asks if there are any grants that are being awarded or currently 
ongoing. Anna  Lockwood confirms that a half million-dollar grant was  received
and has  applied  for another million-dollar  grant .
Dave  Passios asks if there are  any small grant s available to fund the 
improvements on H ighland S treet at the end of the pond. Anna  Lockwood 
states  there was a new way of phasing,  so she doesn ’t have the numbers 
currently available .
Jay S imeone shows interest in how much funding we can get from Green 
Communities. Christopher Ruth says the  process started t o day with a  wal k  
through  of all the town buildings  with Unitils energy auditors to see what ’s  
available with them .
8. Public Comment on FY25 Budget Presentations
Peter Beardmore , 282 P leasant  S treet , asked if the  DPW direct or just 
present his proposed budget,  or did he present how he plans to meet with 
the town  manager ’s  preliminary budget . Bill  Bernard states  that he 
presented his proposed budget.   Heather  Lemieux confirms that 
historically departments present their needs budget including request s  that
weren ’t funding  in the preliminary budget.  Peter  Beardmore states he is 
stunned by the balance  in C hapter  90. He wasn ’t aware that we were 
accumulating  and not spending that amount of money. He b elieves  there 
needs to be communication with the F inance C ommittee and the S elect 
B oard to create a policy  for those funds.
Chris M enard is requesting a budget request t h at aligns to the town 
manager ’s  budget.  Chris Menard thinks there is a lack of clarity going on. 
Heather  Lemieux states that she  can point out the specific line items 
where there are difference s .
Carol Arch a mbault , Chair of the School Committee, states the Committee 
was looking at ways to cut funds out of budget. One of the options was to 
move out of TC P assio s due to the deterioration of the building .
Anna Lockwood , 91 M ain S treet , states there are  way s  of consolidating 
budgets. She h as looked at other towns such as Westford  that have  
double the size of our budget and they only have 1 facilities director  and  1 
===PAGE 6===
facilities  department. There is so much more we can accomplish by having
larger,  more meaningful facilities groups in town.
9. Old Business
a. FY21-FY23 Revenue and Expenditures Recap Discussion
This topic was skipped for this meeting.
b. FY25 Budget Update/Discussion
i. Previous FY25 Presentations
 There were no discussions about previous presentations.
ii. Upcoming FY25 Presentations
The F ire D ep artment  and S chool  C ommittee presentations are 
scheduled for next week.
The S chool  Committee  voted and provided the Select Board with an
override number.  The number was 715,000 dollars  and this 
reflected a level  service budget minus Esser positions . After the 
meeting , it was discovered  there was a hidden cell in the 
spreadsheet being used that included the dollar amount of the 
Esser funds. It was removed and then the S uperintendent sent an 
updated form with the T own M anager ’s  budget at 2.94%, a need s 
based  recommended  budget at 5.4% and the E sser cuts level 
service 8.59%. The  school committee will be before the Fi nance 
committee on the 14 th  and on the 21 st . The schools  recommended  
budget  won ’t be voted on until the 20 th .
Heather Lemieux states  there was a request by a  F inance  
C ommittee member to meet and have a negotiation with the School
Committee . There were no additional  funds available. The only 
thing  that could change is  when the  growth g e ts  certified. Any 
additional funding would be committed to the schools. The only  
change was that the BOA submitted  an article to change the 
exemption age for low-income  seniors.
There is a suggestion to move the School Committee presentation 
to March 21 st .  Ultimately, it was r ecommended  to move the 
presentation from the 14 th  to the 21 st  in hopes of creating less  
confusion.
iii. Override Warrant Article Update; Possible Vote
The Select Board didn ’t have a vote but agreed to put the article on 
the ball o t.
===PAGE 7===
Evan Watters questions if we  need to vote to stop the warrant 
article  and everyone believ es  that is not necessary. The Finance 
C ommittee is not involved in putting together a warrant article for an
override. 
10. Minutes
There are 2 sets of minutes that some members have not had a chance to 
read.
Chris M enard states there are 4 meetings on the website that don ’t have 
minutes  available. Chris Menard will get the dates of those meetings to 
look into this further.
11. Committee Reports
Dave  Passios states that Green Communities are fast tracking the sewer 
project into the April grant round.  The $ 195,000 is nowhere near enough to
complete  this project.  The caveat is that there is already  money in place to
balance . The next grant round that we  will be eligible for will be in April of 
nex t year.  Green C ommunities  is c ollecting information f rom various 
departments  to look over to review for possible grant opportunities.
Chris Menard says there was a Parks meeting and th ere  is an  upcoming 
volunteer  day to tear out the carpet  in  the  subfloor at the bea ch  house . 
Information to sign up will be made available soon.  Programming for most 
ages has been added to the lunenburgrecreation.com website.
Evan W atters states the Master S teering P lan C ommittee had a meeting. 
They received 457 responses from the second survey . A third survey will 
be released in mid to late April. The Committee is looking for more 
in formation for more results from renters, farmers, and M unicipal Building  
D esign C ommittee . Phase 1 has been completed and is now moving into 
the recommendation phase, phase 2.
12. Topics for Future Meetings
 There are no additional topics for future meetings.
13. Upcoming FY25 Budget Meetings
a. Mar 12th – Select Board Meeting
b.  Mar 14th – Fire & Lunenburg Public Schools (FinCom)
c. Mar 20th – Monty Tech & Administration, Sewer , Unclassified, & Debt 
Services (FinCom)
d. Mar 21st – Public Access Committee, Sewer, & Other Monied Articles – 
Lunenburg Public Schools Update (FinCom)
===PAGE 8===
14. Important Dates
a. Jan 9th-Mar 18th – Town Meeting Warrant Open
b. Mar 14th – FinCom Public Hearing - CANCELED
c. Mar 28th – FinCom Public Hearing
d. Apr 2nd – FinCom Report for Warrant
e. May 4th – Annual Town Meeting
f. May 18th – Annual Town Election
      15. Public Comment
       There was no public comment.
      16. Adjourn
There was a m otion to adjourn by Jay S imeone , seconded by  Chris Menard. Roll 
Call vote . Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye,
Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. Unanimous vote.
The meeting closed at 11: 16 PM