===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
Febr u ary 2 1 , 2024
Members Present: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tiffaney 
Tavares, Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean 
Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened  at  7:00 PM.
2. Pledge of Al legiance
3. Announcements
There were no  committee announcements .
4. Comment s
Committee  comment
Dave Passios had a brief conversation about the prior night ’s  
meeting with the state delegates. This is the 3 rd  year Dave Passios 
has sat through the states meeting and they have all been very 
similar. The programs and benefits are for towns other than 
Lunenburg.
Public comment
S able Kaufman , 27 O ak Avenue , prior  to this meeting had sent an 
email  to the committee.  In this email she offered that it seems 
incongruous for the members of the Committee to describe the 
feasibility to budget increases for the town departments requesting 
10% budget increases compared to what an equal increase would 
mean for the school ’s  districts multi- million-dollar  budget.  Sable  
Kaufman b elieves we should be talking about percentage  values 
rather than dollar amounts . Is a merit of a department ’s  budget 
increase judged  by its dollar sum over its relative percent increase if  
costs have risen so precipitously  for all business operations ? Why 
would we so easily assume  responsibility  for one service  sustaining
increase over another ?  Based on  the  meeting with the state 
delegation s  it seemed that they are ready to help . The S chool 
C ommittee shared their  concerns about per pupil spending, 
transportation  monopolies among other things. Sable Kaufman 
appreciated  that Evan Watters and Chris Menard advocated for the 
town. 
===PAGE 2===
Laura Br zozoski , 21 Francis Avenue , is not happy with the town 
manager ’s  proposed budget. It is not shared  equally among the 
town ’s  departments. The s chool is getting 2.94%  which is more 
than the typical 2.5% and knows they are bound by proposition 2 ½ 
without an override. Other departments are being given  a 
significantly larger budget than the schools. The schools are 
planning on cutting the IT contracted hours in half to save money. 
The town side is more than doubling the hours for their IT  
administrative assistant.  Laura Brzozoski  d oesn ’t agree with the 
town proposing to hire a town grant writer  at this time . This position 
is  a non-essential  experimental position that ’s not a priority while  
the school is making drastic cuts. The E sser money was spent to 
meet a lot of mental  health and behavioral  issues needs but it is 
now gone and is still needed . There are 17 other school districts 
aside from charter schools and online only schools that spend less 
money per student than we do. 
Peter Beardmore , 282 P leasant Street,  believes the  town 
manager ’s  budget is toned deaf and off ensive. After receiving the  
2.94% increase in the town ’s  budget  there are 17 positions  that 
need to be cut  including teachers, guidance counseling , 1 
secretary, reading specialist, special ed, custodians , maintenance 
worker, and title 1 coordinator . In order to  not cut  those additional 
17 positions there  would  needs to be a 10% increase. This  is a 
leadership problem .
Tiffaney Tavares responded and stated this is heavy  material to 
look over and impacts a lot of us. She believes that the grant writer 
position  could open  many avenues of income for the town. 
Currently there is only a certain dollar amount that the town has 
available to work with.  Tiffaney Tavares thanked  everyone who 
came out to voice their opinions.
Evan Watters shares his deep concern about the cuts at the 
schools but there is still a town to run. The process is transparent,  
and everyone is encourage d  to remain involved.
5. Town Manager Report
There was no report from the Town Manager.
6. Finance Director Report
A Finance Director was hired, Ezequiel Ayala , but has  only been with the 
town for 2 weeks and doesn ’t have any reports yet.
7. Old Business
a. Town Grant Writer Letter
===PAGE 3===
Tiffaney Tavares and Dave Passios are working on a letter for a 
grant writer, and they plan on presenting it at tomorrow night ’s 
meeting.
Dave Passios doesn ’t anticipate that this grant writer will not be 
added to the town payroll and anticipates this position will pay for 
itself multiple times over . At the state reg meeting there was a 
discussion  about legislation and allowing  administrative costs to be 
included in the grants.
b. FY 25 Budget Update/Discussion
This topic will be skipped since the preliminary budget will be 
presented later in the meeting. 
c. Overlay Account Balance and General Update
The overlay account has roughly  $ 562,000  dollars . The re is no 
indication that the Board of Assessors doesn ’t have any funds that 
will be deemed as a surplus that could be returned.
There is a spreadsheet provided to the B oard of Assessors that 
provides a  history of all overlay abatement  amounts and balances.  
The re is a suggested amount that should be kept in the overlap 
account provided by the DOR. At the present time, we are within 
that amount.
8. New Business
a. Town Manager ’s Preliminary Budget
Tonight is the start of the weekly budget presentations. The annual 
town meeting warrant  will close on March  18 th . The finance 
committee will hold their public hearing on March  28 th  to vote on the
recommendation of the budget including C apital Pl an and other 
articles  on the town  meeting  warrant that have financial impact.  The
a nnual town meeting will be on May  4 th and on that da y,  voters  will 
decide on the final outcome  of the budget and other decisions  on 
the town warrant. The i ndividual department presentations start on 
February 2 2 nd . These presentations include  an in-depth review of 
their programs, services, and needs.
The g oal for preliminary budget recommendation is to present a 
balanced budget that funds the operating budget using recurring 
revenues. Th e preliminary  budget does not accomplish or meet the 
needs of the town or school department  due to the loss  of state aid 
and the loss of E sser funding . The Esser funds have supplemented 
the school budget for the last few years. It does address 
incremental changes in person ne l that address staffing  shortages 
===PAGE 4===
and community needs to ensure  that the town is able to sustain 
these changes in  the long term. 
There are 4 main revenues sources to address the target budget. 
This includes  property taxes, state aid, local receipts,  and other 
available funds.  Property tax includes adding 2.5% to the prior  
year ’s  levy , there is an estimated  $ 400,000 for new  growth and debt
exclusion amounts.
Local receipts include  a $ 50,000 increase over previous  F Y ’s 
estimated for motor vehicle excise tax,  but level funded all other 
local receipt categories.
Other  available funds  are  cash and unexpected capital  for the FY 
25 Capital Plan, Sewer and Public Access Indirect costs, and 
artificial  turf revenue for debt payment.
Projected Revenues for FY 2025
- Property T ax- $32,587,335
- State Aid- $ 10,682,086
- Local Receipts- $3,266,491
- Other Available Funds - $2,431,884
o Totaling $48, 967,795
Expenditures are a r eflection  of  the cost of providing a level of service to 
residents of all ages in our community.  Expenditures are divided into the 
following categories:  
- Departments
- Non- appropriated  costs: cherry sheet offset charges, allowance for 
abatements, tax title, retirement assessment.
- Sewer Enterprise F und
- Enterprise F und
- Solid Waste Disposal  Enterprise Fund
- Cable Access Enterprise Fund
- Other warrant articles with a financial impact include  transfers into 
stabilization counts, OPEB trust fund and capital plan.
PRELIMINARY BUDGET  OUTLINE
- General Govt:   Funds  an  increase in hours for IT Administrative 
Assistant, includes adding a part  time position in Assessors 
Department to assist with data collection, and includes $50K for  grant 
writing contracted services . Overall increase of $197K .
===PAGE 5===
- Police :  Includes funding for an Operations Lieutenant for ½ year as 
part of 10-year staffing  plan; other contractual expenses. Decrease in 
Lock-Up Expenses. Overall increase of $129K .
- Fire :  Funds an increase in costs for EMS supplies and equipment line 
due to increased call  volume, an increase in IT software specific to 
Fire. Overall increase of $36K .
- Radio Watch :  The assessment for Nashoba Dispatch decreased by 
$12K and the salary reserve line  for desk coverage after the day shift 
was cut to fund the 2nd Lieutenant position, which will be  available to 
come to the front desk during the second shift. Overall decrease of 
$55K.
- Other Protection:   Eliminates non-reoccurring expense of kennel 
behind PSB and change in  personnel resulted in a reduction  in salary 
costs.  Overall decrease of $10K .
- Facilities :  Funds an increase in hours for the Recreation  Director, an 
increase in landscaping costs,  and adds a new line item for repairs and
maintenance not covered by the incoming revenue for  the TCP 
Building in the amount of $30,000. Overall increase of $50K .
- DPW :  Includes level service increases General Highway account for 
drainage related costs, stormwater  projects and purchase of services 
and tree removal expense line; additional $50K for  Pavement 
Management; a slight increase in the seasonal cemetery salaries line. 
Overall increase  o f $99K.
- COA :  Funds an increase in hours for the Meal Site Manager. Overall 
increase of $35K .
- Library :  Increase in hours for Teen Librarian, $4K increase in  
programming line, increases the Library Materials line to meet the 
min.16% towards Library Materials that maintains certification. Includes
certain IT requests in IT  budget. Overall increase of $33K in library  
budget.
- Worcester Reg. Retirement: 10.94% increase or $209K more than the 
previous  FY.
- Unclassified :  Includes final rate increase for active employees of 5.7% 
and  6% rate increase for retirees. The other insurances are estimated 
at 5% and the  Reserve and Salary Reserve Accounts  are funded at 
$100K. The overall  increase is $71K.  to expiring debt, our overall debt 
is decreasing by $576K .
===PAGE 6===
- Lunenburg Public Schools : Recommendation includes increasing LPS  
budget by $673K (2.94%).  This d oes not meet any of the budget 
scenarios  provided by the Superintendent . The l oss  of Esser funding  
has a  large effect.
- Mont achusett Tech  High School :  Recommendation includes a 3.75% 
increase of $44K.
- Solid Waste/Recycling Program :  Includes estimate of $17K increase.
Funding currently available:
- C ertified  free cash- $ 1,870,612
- Current stabilization fund balance $ 2,862,006
- Current special purpose  stabilization fund balance $ 2,211,683
- Current other post-employment  benefits (OPEB) Fund balance $ 1,310,058
- Moody ’s Bond Rating – Aa3
- Standard and Poor (S&P) Bond rating AA+
- Unfunded Pension Liability - The Town increased its funded ratio for pension 
obligations from 43.4% in 2014 to 45.3% in 2018. Currently, the Town is 
scheduled to fully fund its  pension liability in 2036 per State requirements.
      Free cash
Free cash is defined as the  close out of unexpected  appropriations at the end of a
fiscal year. There are multiple f actors that come into play . Free cash can come 
from e xcess receipts revenue , actuals versus estimated, taking in more money 
for tax titles, penalties,  and interest.  A cardinal rule of the budget is that free cash 
should not be used to fund operating expenses. 
     Questions  from the Committee
Tiffaney Tavares asks about the increasing budget for Monty Tech and how that ’s
related to the town. Heather Lemieux states that students from Lunenburg  are 
part of the regional technical school.  It ’s  an assessment amount based on the 
students enrolled from  Lunenburg. Th eir school committee votes on the 
assessment amounts for  each town and the town can  approve or not approve.
Tiffaney Tavares  questions who is responsible for that reconciliation where free 
cash ends up .  Heather Lemieux states the responsibility is on the town 
accountant and then the DOR reviews and certifies. 
Tom Gray  asks Heather Lemieux due to the reduction in income if she has 
thought about a hiring freeze for the year. Heather Lemieux believes that could 
be a possibility for FY 25 .
Dave Passios asks if  there was any unused capital  and if any of that money was 
a complete  project that was dropped off  from previous years . Heather Lemieux 
confirms the  public safety  carport project was a complete project. It was put out to
bid twice and both received bids far exceeded the appropriation.
===PAGE 7===
Evan  Watters inquiries about the Chapter 70 formula. It  seems like the state 
expects  the town to pay more in taxes to cover it ourselves based on our 
assessment values, based on our income evaluation . Tom G ray thinks this may 
be happening in other towns  and that the 2 ½ percent hasn ’t changed in over 40 
years . We can and should fight with  the state,  but  we probably won ’t get a lot of 
extra money . Chris Menard  shares that the  estimated inflations rate  from 2011 
and 2025  was 2.47%. Chapter  70 funding increased by 5% per year over those 
15 years . This was a running average and not linear.  Evan Watters asks how the
Town Manager foresees th e effect o f insurance rates continuing to climb abov e 
the rate of 2 ½ percent  what ab ility  will there be to service the town and maintain 
town employees ’ salaries . Heather  Lemieux  had  a recent meeting with the 
insurance rep resentative  and broker,  and we were the  only  community that saw a
single digit out  of every community they represent. It ’s going to be a continuing  
trend for a period . The health  insurance stabilization account will be depleted with
the FY 25 preliminary  budget .  Chris Menard requests the 10-year trends for 
health insurance increases.
Evan Watters asks if a balanced budget is being presented this year. Heather 
Lemieux states that this  is a continuing  discussion.  What the Town Manager is 
present ing  tonight is a balanced budget,  but it doesn ’t meet all the needs of the 
town,  especially the schools.
Evan Watters requested a level serviced budget for the town side.  Heather 
Lemieux states the target budget was all contractual increases with existing staff, 
existing programs.
b. Town Manager ’s 5 Year Financial Report
This agenda topic was skipped due to the financial director starting 
just 2 weeks ago. 
9. Minutes
There is a m otion to approve the minutes  from February  8 th  as amended  
by Tiffaney Tavares , seconded by Dave Passios.  Roll call vote.  The 
motion passed with votes from Dave Passios, Tom Gray, Jay Simeone, 
Tiffaney Tavares .  Evan Watters, Chris Menard, Jean Russell abstained.
10. Committee Reports
Chris Menard  attended a joint meeting with O pen S pace, P arks, and the 
S elect B oard regarding public access to the lake. There was no action 
taken during this meeting.
11. Topics for Future Meetings
Discussion will continue relative to the g rant writing letter .
12. Upcoming Meetings
===PAGE 8===
a. Feb 22 nd  – Land Use, Council on Aging , & Library
Land use  presentation was canceled
b. Feb 29 th  – Information Technology & Police
c. March 7 th  – DPW & Facilities
d. Mar 14 th  – Fire & Lunenburg Schools
e. Mar 20 th  – Monty Tech & Administration, Unclassified, & Debt Services
f. Mar 21 st  – Public Access Committee, Sewer, & Other Monied Articles – 
Lunenburg Public School Update
13. Important Dates
a. Jan 9 th  – Mar 18 th  – Town Meeting Warrant Open
b. Mar 28 th  – FinCom  Public Hearing
c. April 2 nd  – FinCom  Report for Warrant
d. May 4 th  – Annual Town Meeting
e. May 18 th  – Annual Town Election
14. Public Comment
Carol Archambault – 662 P age S treet-  is in opp osition to  the preliminary  
budget. The budget deficit on the school side is not all due to the E sser 
funding drying up.  The Esser funds in FY 24 funded 8 full time teachin g 
support positions  and  4 paraprofessionals . Currently the school has 
eliminated  6 of those positions, kept 2 social worker positions while cutting
2 budget funded guidance counsel ors and moved  the payment  for 4 
paraprofessionals  to the Title One Grant. Due to inflationary costs, health 
insurance , and some contractual agreements we find ourselves in the 
position  of cutti ng  11.7 additional teachers, an assistant principal, an 
instructional  coach, 4 part-time custodians, 2 maintenance  people, 3 part 
time secretaries , and a full-time  secretary as of February 7 th . Carol 
Archambault is having a d ifficult time wrapping her head around the town 
side  adding and or increasing hours to positions while the school is 
disassembling 5 years of work that was beginning to show an increased 
achievement for students. This budget sho w s  disregard  for the school 
community. There must be another way,  and something else that needs to 
be done.
Committee comment
Dave P assios  believes there  needs to be a conservation about correcting 
the problem of agenda posting . There is a p roblem with the submission or 
delivery of agendas. Dave Passios t hinks that the town employees need to
be back to a 5-day  work week .
Evan  Watters shared his frustration with the process of deliberation with 
the state delegates.  As a town he  believes  we should present them with a 
unified legislative  priority  list .  Everything is run through the executive and 
===PAGE 9===
is ineffective. Additionally, he think s the school committee should have  the
ability to sit down with the delegates. After budget season, Ev an Watters 
plans to have a meeting with  the delegates . There needs to be enough 
time for discussions and interactions , and cross  communication. Evan 
Watters felt the meeting was rushed and should be run differently.
Dave P assios suggests add ing  a few meeting dates to the calendar  in 
case  of inclement weather, so meetings aren ’t missed. Evan Watters will 
speak with the Clerk  about the possibility of Monday meetings.
Evan Watters will request  the committee  to  submit questions for the 
department heads  in advance to  prepare.
15. Adjourn
There was a m otion to adjourn by Tiffaney Tavares , seconded by  Dave Passios. 
Roll call vote.
The meeting closed at 9:34  PM .