===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
January 11, 2024 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
 
Members Present: Chair Evan Watters, Tom Gray, Dave Passios, Jean Russell, Jay Simeone, 
Tiffaney Tavares. 
Absent: Vice-Chair Chris Menard 
1. Call to Order  
The meeting opened at 7:01 PM. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Announcements          
 Tiffaney Tavares has joined the Board as the 7th member.  
 
a. Plan Lunenburg Survey: 
i. PlanLunenburg,org- Survey is live until January 21st.  
ii. Public Meeting 2/1/24 @ Adult Activity Center -Informational Session 
1. Session 1: 4 PM- 6 PM 
2. Session 2: 6:30 PM-8:30 PM 
4. Public Comment 
Dave Passios states that he witnessed inaccurate information at a recent 
meeting from a person of influence during a committee deliberation. Dave 
Passios stresses the importance of fact checking. 
 
Dave Passios shares a semi-prepared statement about the upcoming budget 
season. “This will be a challenge again this year with the knowns and 
unknowns in loss of grant funding and possibly state aid. Budget planning is a 
constant fluid process.”  Dave Passios assures us that at the end of process 
the best possible budget will be brought forward for spring Town Meeting. 
 
5. Town Manager Report 
Evan Watters spoke to Heather Lemieux and was informed that at the next 
Select Board meeting the Board will be interviewing a potential candidate for 
the Finance Director position. 
 
6. Old Business 
a. CPC Final Recommendations 
===PAGE 2===
Evan Watters provided a document with the Capital Planning 
Committee ranking priority for the Committee to review. Evan Watters 
asks if anyone has any comments or questions regarding the ranking. 
Tiffaney Tavares questions if additional information has been 
provided. Specifically, regarding a further breakdown of costs and how 
the costs were created.  Dave Passios shares that the estimates for 
many items were collected during the cost escalations during the 
pandemic. Dave Passios believes these numbers need to be 
requested again because the costs are most likely lower.  Evan 
Watters provides that the presentations and the Capital Planning 
meetings are available on Youtube. 
Dave Passios states that he has some concerns with several projects. 
Evan Watters questions about whether or not all of the top 13 projects 
will be able to get completed based on the current free cash situation. 
Evan Watters will ask the Town Manger if the departments heads can 
attend the next meeting to answer questions from the committee.  
 
7. New Business 
a. Committee Reorganization & Committee Liaisons  
The committee reorganization and committee liaisons were tabled to 
the next meeting in order to have the full 7-member committee 
present. 
 
b. FinCom Budget Review Discussion 
During budget season (scheduled to start on February 15) the 
department heads will present their year-over-year changes, what 
they anticipated to accomplish, and their budget.  This will follow with 
committee questions. 
 
The departments heads need to provide their presentations, 
spreadsheets, or supplemental information/documents 48 hours 
prior to their scheduled presentation. Evan Watters discusses the 
option of requesting the documents 72 hours prior to the 
presentation. Tiffaney Tavares suggests documents be provided a 
week prior to presentation. After discussion, the committee agrees to 
request budgetary lists a week prior to the meeting and presentations 
be provided 72 hours prior to the scheduled presentation. 
Additionally, Tom Gray requests the department heads provide 
historical data for the prior year and estimated year end budget. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Evan Watters read an Email that was sent from Governor Healey to the 
town manager regarding budget cuts. “It appears that there will be no 
impact to Lunenburg at this time. We did not receive any ear marks 
through the state this fiscal year.” 
 
8. Minutes 
a. 11/30/2023 & 12/7/2023 
There was a motion to approve minutes from November 30, 2023, and 
December 7, 2023 by Tiffaney Tavares, seconded by Jay Simeone. Roll 
call vote. Unanimous. 
 
9. Committee Reports 
Evan Watters states there is an issue with the scheduling of the School 
Committee presentation. The school committee vote regarding the budget is 
scheduled for March 20th.  Their presentation with the Finance Committee is 
March 21st. This date may need to be switched.  
Evan Watters will reach out to the school department and the Town Manager 
to ask what the current healthcare costs are due to the suggestions that 
there will be inflation in healthcare costs.  
There was a Green Communities meeting that’s scheduled for the end of 
January. Dave Passios shares that there is a Facebook page for Green 
Communities that includes informational and historical data. Several 
department heads have reached out regarding upcoming projects and the 
potential for Green Community funding.  
10. Topics for Future Meetings 
There are 2 more regular meetings before budget season starts and some 
topics are as follows: 
- Reorganization of board and liaisons.  
- List of Boards for liaisons. 
 
11. Upcoming Meetings 
a. January 18th – 5 Year Financial Forecast & Capital Plan Recommendations 
b. January 25th 
c. February 8th 
d. February 15th – TM’s Preliminary Budget Presentation 
e. February 22nd Land Use, Council on Aging & Library 
f. February 29th – Information Technology & Police 
 
===PAGE 4===
12. Important Dates 
a. January 19th– 20th (MMA Annual Meeting) 
i. Evan Watters and Dave Passios are registered to attend. 
b. January 9th– March 18th – Town Meeting Warrant 
c. February 1st – Public meeting for the Master Steering Plan Committee 
d. March 28th – FinCom Public Hearing 
e. April 2nd – FinCom Report for Warrant 
f. May 4th – Annual Town meeting 
g. May 18th – Annual Town Election 
 
13. Comments 
Public Comment 
Dave Passios shares that historical documents and materials were found in 
the vault in TC Passios. The documents have been released by the school 
committee and will be transferred to the historical society. These documents 
will be made available to the public in the near future. 
 
Committee Comment 
 There are no comments from the committee. 
 
14. Adjourn 
Motion to adjourn by Dave Passios, seconded by Jay Simeone. Roll call vote. 
Unanimous. 
The meeting closed at 8:14 PM. 
 
 