===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
February 29, 2024
Present  Members : Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Tom 
Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay 
Simeone
Absent Member: Clerk Tiffaney Tavares
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7:00PM.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
There were n o announcements .
4. Public Comment
Rhonda Lisio , 181 Reservoir Road , states that she came close to filing an 
open meeting law violation complaint against the chair because of  last 
week ’s  meeting.  She believes it ’s  o utrageous that the committee had a 
discussion  brief  and a vote on an item so impactful on the town.  This item 
was not added as an agenda item. If this item was posted on the agenda,  
she would have attended to voice her opinion. She questions what 
increases  in tax bills can we expect from a combination of the budget 
override and the debt exclusion  estimates needed for future projects. 
These items and details do matter,  and she is r equesting numbers.
5. Finance Director Report
There  are no new updates or reports.
6. New Business
a. Information Technology FY25 Budget Presentatio n
The IT Director, Casey Chis holm , presented the bud get.
The completed FY 24  initiatives are as follows:
 Internet service upgrade in the town hall
 Technical  support position  was filed.
 The n ew website launched  in October .
 Munis M igration
 H ardware M aintenance
FY 25  Budget Requests
===PAGE 2===
Software maintenance  includes any contractual increases/inflation for existing 
software .
Hardware maintenance includes  maintaining  the device replacement cycle 
totaling  $ 30,000 .
Public safety phone system upgrade  totaling  $ 12,000 . This includes the 
completion  of phase 2  and features for the phone system.
Increased hours for the administrative assistant  to aid in additional support  for the
department.
Questions
Ch ris M enard  asks how training  has been going. Casey  Chisholm  says training 
for Office 365 was 2 years ago and then a follow  up training is conducted a year 
later. The v endor  has  provided pamphlets  and brochure documentation about the
phone system . Casey Chisholm this has not been completed yet and they are 
working on continuing training because t hey are still using some older file shares 
on the server. 
Chris  Menard states the  S chool C ommittee mentioned that their phone costs 
went up because there not sharing with  the town  side of the budget . Casey 
Chisholm states  t he town no longer has  a phone bill  since moving to voiceover 
IP. 
Dave P assios  asks why ther e is such a sizable increase in tech support . Casey 
Chisum  states this has created a quicker response time and communication 
inter nally and externally.
Dave  Passio asks if the  connection to  the  cloud  is functioning  properly. Casey 
Chisholm will investigate  this,  but she doesn ’t reca ll seeing any service requests.
Dave Passios q uestions if there is a way to link the YouTube  videos of m eetings 
to the minutes. Casey Chisholm will  do some research and  see if there is a better
process for  upload ing .
Evan W atters  asks if the tech support position is currently a benefit ed  position. 
Casey Chisholm confirms it is not benefited.  The position is currently 16 hours 
but IT i s requesting an increase to 32 hours. There is  the question if it makes 
more sense to  have a second part time position that would be less overheard but 
still  accrue the same number of hours per week.
Evan Watters asks what percent of the town assets need to be replaced. Casey 
Chisholm says it ’s  typically 10%.
Evan Watters asked how long the current internet contract is for and the answer 
is 3 years.
b. Police FY25 Budget Presentation
===PAGE 3===
Chief Thomas Gammel presented the budget.
Despite the increase in the town ’s  population there is still a challenge with 
recruiting and retaining officers. Currently Lunenburg has  20 officers : 1 chief, 1 
lieutenant, 4 sergeants, 11 patrol officers, 1 detective , 1 school resources officer , 
and 1  recruit officer.
Chief Gammel provided an o rganizational chart in the presentation . This  include d  
a 10-year  plan showing where the current vacancies .
In 2023 there were  23,000 calls for service  resulting in 322 arrests .
Last year there were  259 motor vehicle accidents, 3,059 motor vehicle stops, and
25 OUI arrests.
In 2023 , the police  responded to 122 domestic violence related incidents.
Chris M enard  asks if there is a reason why these numbers are high and if 
anything can be done. Chief Gammel says this is a tough question and not 
predictable. Some potential reasons include  social issues, alcohol/drugs, and 
mental health issues.
Chris Menard questions if overtime can be decreased . Chief Gammel stated  we 
are  obligated to cover shifts.
Below is the breakdown of the budget:
 Personnel is 83% or $2,375,310 of the budget.
o Salaries  are 73% or $1,723,937 .
o Incentives are 10% or $250,078 .
o Overtime is 13% or $301,680. This i ncludes community policing, court 
time and investigative field services.
o Training is 4% or $ 9 9, 614 . Training is completed on a yearly basis and 
includes 40  hours of mandated training, 16 hours  of firearm training, 
and 4 hours of less than lethal training.
o Purchase of service is 1% or $ 21,950 Includes printing, postage, 
equipment maintenance and motorcycle lease.
 R egional dispatch is 7%  or $ 212,921 of the budget .
o NVRDD 
 Purchase of services is 1% or $ 21,950 .
 Supplies are  1% or  $ 32,650 .
 Other expenses total  1% or $ 34,700 .
 Animal Control  services total  2% or $ 46,125.
 Lockup is 1% or $ 20,600 .
 Radio Watch 2% or $ 56,502 .
 Vehicle Maintenance is 2% or $ 67,000 .
Potential Reductions
===PAGE 4===
Eliminate desk coverage to promote Lieutenant. The Lieutenant  would be 
responsible for answering the phones and dealing with lobby  complaints in 
addition to regular duties.  This would eliminate the 3 to 7 shift  front desk 
coverage.  R eduction in lockup  budget as someone will  always in the building .
Chris Menard  asks what shift is the busiest . The answer is 3PM to 11PM .
Evan Watters asks who  sits at the front desk currently. Chief Gammel states  
there is a full-time  person from 7 AM -3PM. Typically the 3 AM -7 PM  shift is bid out 
to reserve officers first  then it goes to the clerical union within the building, after 
that  it  gets  put out to patrol .
An unfunded request for FY 25 is to participate in the comfort dog program . The 
Town M anager s  budget recommends $ 19,095 .09  The FY 25 rate for  1 k9 hander  
and or a comfort dog handler is $19,572.47.
Currently, Officer McNamara offers  comfort dog  Hank as a volunteer. Hank is 
approaching retirement,  and the department will be unable to fund the program.
Chris Menard  asks if the plan is to have another comfort dog. Chief Gammel  
confirms. Once that point comes and there is funding Officer McNamara  has 
connections with the breeder of Hank a nd they will  works with us on the cost of 
the dog  and training .
Evan Watters asks if there are any grant opportunities for a comfort dog. Chief 
Gammel  states there are no comfort dog grant. There are patrol dog grants,  but 
they are a 1-time  grant.
Chris Menard  asks if payroll continues for a dog that retires. Chief Gammel states
they are off the payroll at that point.
The Capital plan for FY 25 includes  replacing the k9 cruiser, replacing a traffic 
vehicle, MILO training system.
Evan W atters asks if there are grants available for MILO  training system . C hief  
Gammel states  there are and there competitive and sometimes departments ou r
size just don ’t compete. 
Dave  Passios questions if there are any vehicles still left in the fleet that are not 
hybrid . Chief Gammel stated there are still some gas-powered vehicles.
Evan  Watters asked  are their  other towns and departments  that could share  the 
MILO training  platform. Chief Gammel states there will be opportunities.
The upcoming goals for the police department include :
- Increasing staffing levels
- Maintain and evaluate  co-response team.
- MPTC training  to remain in compliance.
- Citizens police academy
===PAGE 5===
- RAD/RAD  Kids Program
- Employee evaluation
Evan W atters  states the request budget versus preliminary budget has a $20,000
difference . Ultimately , there is the question  of whether  the preliminary budget 
mee ts  the needs of the department . Chief Gammel states no as that $20,000 
would be valuable to put towards a comfort dog.  Aside from the comfort dog th e 
answer would be yes.
c. FY21-FY23 Revenue and Expenditures Recap Discussion
Chis M enard spoke with  the Finance Director,  Ezequiel Ayala, and  
discuss ed if it would be possible to start collecting totals to  show trends. 
The suggestion is for this to be done in the off season. This will be added 
to future agendas at a topic.
7. Public Comment on FY25 Budget Presentations
There were  no comments from the public.
8. Old Business
a. Town Grant Writer Letter – Vote
Evan Watters has not ha d a chance to read through  the new changes. The
letter edited by Tiffaney Tavares, Dave Passios, and Jay Simeone was 
read aloud.  There were minor edits.
There was a motion to approve the letter to be sent to the Select Board by 
Chris Menard, seconded by Jean R ussell.
Roll call vote. Jean Russel l aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, J ay 
Simeone  aye, Chris  Menard  aye, Evan  Watters  aye. Unanimous  vote.
b. FY25 Budget Update/Discussion
i. Override Warrant Article Update
Dave Passios shares that he  will not be voting for an override.
There was a vote by the school dept  to support an override. Below are the 
4 options that the S chool C ommittee provided as possible options.
 Town M anagers budget  was  2.94% of the budget .
 Superintendent  budget  was 5.42% of the budget.
 L evel service  budget  pl u s increased line expenses , 
personnel  expense, c ost of living expense  and  considering 
the loss of E sser funds was 8.73%  of the budget.
 Level service  budget  with all positions and no position loses 
was 11.46%  of the budget.
Chris Menard  has continued to request the T own  C ouncil  give advice to 
the  Committee about an override and possible approaches . This still hasn ’t
===PAGE 6===
happened,  and t he executive bran ch  needs to come forward  with 
recommendations. 
The C ommittee is requesting the T own C ouncil attend upcoming 
meetings. The options need to be explains relative to prop 2 ½ and the 
override. 
Tom G ray agrees with the fact that a warrant article would provide  a voice  
for residents and an opportunity to vote. He d oesn ’t want people to feel 
like there wasn ’t a chance to hear each voice. It will help people accept 
whatever comes down. 
Chris Menard  states the most critical aspect that hasn ’t been provided is 
the school ’s  recommended budget. We don ’t have that yet  but is
Interested to see what select board comes up with that their next meeting.
Chris M enard  states  there has  been allegations that there have  been 
health issues for the staff at TC Passios. He doesn ’t understand why that 
building hasn ’t been demolished. 
An additional  discussion  relating to a warrant article  will be added to the 
agenda for the meeting on the 6 th .
9. Minutes
There are n o minutes to review.
10. Committee Reports
Jay Simeone  observed the S ewer C ommission meeting last week. There was a  
significant ly costly overnight project that recently started. After starting the work,  it
was apparent there needed to be additional work and money to complete the 
project. 
Tom G ray watched the Board of Assessors meeting and there was discussion 
about a letter related to the evaluations on the assessor ’s website. It was 
important  to note that evaluations were entered after the abatement changes 
were made for lake front properties.
Dave Passios attended the Green Communities and there is now a full 5-seat  
board . There is a Fac ebook  page now posted for G reen C ommunities.
11. Topics for Future Meetings
Evan Watters took notes throughout the meeting  on  future topics.
12. Upcoming FY25 Budget Meetings
a. Mar 5th – Select Board  Meeting
b. Mar 6 – S chool Committee Meeting
===PAGE 7===
c . Mar 7th – DPW & Facilities (FinCom)
d . Mar 14th – Fire & Lunenburg Public Schools  (FinCom)
e . Mar 20th – Monty Tech & Administration, Unclassified, & Debt Services 
(FinCom)
e. Mar 21st – Public Access Committee, Sewer, & Other Monied Articles – 
Lunenburg Public Schools  Update (FinCom)
13. Important Dates
a. Jan 9th-Mar 18th – Town Meeting Warrant Open
b. Mar 14th – FinCom Public Hearing
c. Mar 28th – FinCom Public Hearing
d. Apr 2nd – FinCom Report for Warrant
e. May 4th – Annual Town Meeting
f. May 18th – Annual Town Election
14. Public Comment
There were no public comments.
15. Adjourn
There was a motion to adjourn by Chris Menard , seconded by  Dave Passios .
Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, J ay Simeone aye, Chris 
Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. Unanimous  vote.
The meeting closed at 10:35PM .