===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
June 27, 2024 
 
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Board Member Tom Gray, Board Member Dave 
Passios, Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Members: Vice Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tiffaney Tavares 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:04 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
  Jay Simeone read in The Sentinel and Enterprise that there were 2 bills related to the   
 MBTA Communities Act to be voted on. The 1st bill was a waiver for towns and cities 
 that had met their 40B criteria threshold. The 2nd bill was related to mobile homes 
 being added to the 40B count. Our Representative Scarsdale and Representative 
 Connolly voted against both.  
Jay Simeone states there is a 25-million-dollar federal grant funding, titled the RAISE 
program, to rebuild American infrastructure with sustainability and equity. This 
would be done with investments in surface transportation infrastructure that has a 
significant impact on local and regional impact. Gardner is getting 1.25 million of 
this funding. 
Dave Passios reached out to Senator Cronin’s office about whether the Senator may 
be on board to sponsor or add to an existing bill that allows cities and towns in the 
State of Massachusetts to assess a local income tax. This is a 2–3-year process.  
Dave Passios hasn’t heard back from the Senators’ office. 
5. Finance Director Report 
  There were no reports from the Finance Director. 
6. New Business 
  a. Review Budget Process/Suggestions for Improvement 
   Dave Passios states that he is unsure If we have been able to get priorities    
  right because this process has always been rushed.  Dave Passios suggests  
  the Town Manager submit their proposed budget earlier in order to have  
===PAGE 2===
  individual department heads review and discuss with the Town Manager to  
  advocate for their needs.  
Evan Watters questions if anyone knows the number of communities that 
complete their budgets on a spreadsheet versus a municipal budgeting 
software.  
Below is the current budget schedule for FY 25 
▪ September 11: Capital improvement forms are issued to the     
    department members. 
▪ December 4:   Capital Planning Committee reviews all requests and  
    starts prioritizing. 
▪ January 2: The finalized recommendations are sent to the Town  
  Manager for approval. 
▪ January 4:   Department budget requests are due to the Town  
  Manager. 
▪ January 18: The 5-year financial forecast is received from the Town  
  Manager. 
▪ February 5: The Town Manager budget summary is sent to the  
  Lunenburg Ledger to be published. 
▪ February 13: The Town Manager provides their recommendation  
  presentation. 
▪ March 18:  Public hearing 
▪ April 5: Finance report is due. 
Members will reach out to other towns to review their schedule. 
b. Consolidation of Services/Departments 
   Evan Watters suggests presenting the consolidation of services/departments 
 to the new Town Manager. 
Dave Passios believes consolidation is not going to save money and it will 
probably cost us money, but the problem is that we have held back on growth 
and the ability to grow. 
There is agreement that this should be part of the budgeting task force along 
with getting software and hiring issues.  
Evan Watters will be pushing for a consolidation study. 
7. Old Business 
 a. Town Manager Search Committee Representative 
===PAGE 3===
Dave Passios states he had a good discussion with Tim Murphy and was 
provided packets of information from his past rounds as a moderator. All 
meetings for this committee are public and will be posted on the town 
website on the calendar and zoom. Additionally, the meetings will allow 
public comments. 
b. Budget Task Force Discussion 
  The Select Board voted to create a Budget Task Force. Renee Emkey will be  
 the Select Board Representative, Anthony Sculimbrene will be the School 
 Committee Representative with Laura Brzozoski as an alternate.  
The Budget Task Force Charge provided by Renee Emkey includes: 
1. General section: includes recommended scenarios for a 3-to-5-year 
sustainable fiscal plan for the Town of Lunenburg.  
2. Tasks and responsibilities: collect data on revenue and expenditures 
historical trends and project future estimates based on trends and 
various assumptions. Benchmarking municipal and school 
performance programs, expenditures and revenues with comparable 
municipalities, examine potential revenue sources, overrides and 
exclusions under prop 2 ½ as well as non-tax and non-override 
revenue sources in compliance with the town financial policy, 
evaluate strategies to properly staff municipal and school operations 
while managing growth and personal costs, capital project funding 
needs and impacts, assess any increase taxes and fees, 
3. Membership and meetings: 5-member task force committee. 
 c. Meeting with Rep Scarsdale. 1st Middlesex District, and DESE to Discuss School 
 Budget Issues 
Evan Watters will be unavailable to attend but he did reached out to Mr. 
Leighton and Mr. Nazolo about sending a preliminary letter to Representative 
Scarsdale with a discussion list.   
Representative Scarsdale is trying to start a coalition in the rural portion of 
the State, specifically in her first Middlesex District. She will start meeting 
with School Board members, School Committee members, School 
Department members, a Finance Committee member, a Select Board 
member, administrative members, and several members of the public. The 
coalition will work to determine and identify what’s not working or what 
needs to be changed to address the lack of funding in more rural towns. 
There will be a larger meeting across the 220 Districts in the State that 
received minimum aid. 
===PAGE 4===
Below is the list completed by the School Committee of what they would like 
 to address: 
▪ Bus bidding process 
▪ State funding specifically an inflation rider to Chapter 70  
▪ Revenue from the millionaire’s tax 
▪ Need for increased local funding and overrides 
▪ Smart growth 
▪ Loss of funding 
▪ UNF funded mandates 
Vice Present of the PTO in Town, Mandy Gilman, offered to help write a letter 
to Representative Scarsdale. Her opinion was to focus on 2 main topics 
during the meeting. Mandy Gilman suggests focusing on the cherry sheet as 
those are areas that a Legislator can influence the budget.  If Representative 
Scarsdale seems interested in the bus transportation and bidding process, 
we could ask her to meet with us and DOT together. If Representative 
Scarsdale is on board, we could put together a letter and ask other 
Legislators to sign on. Mandy Gilman provided additional possible options.  
Dave Passios agrees with the main topics but also wants the Representative 
to be aware that the people in the middle are also suffering.  
Evan Watters is worried because the Student Opportunity Act is in year 4 out 
of 6 and what effect that might have. 
8. Minutes 
  June 13, 2024 
   There was a motion to approve the minutes of June 13th as presented by Dave  
    Passios, seconded by Jean Russell. All in favor. Unanimous Vote (5-0) 
9. Committee Reports 
  Dave Passios states that Green Communities hasn’t met but they anticipate putting 
 in an application in the fall for that grant round 
Evan Watters reached out to DPW Director, Bill Bernard, to discuss Chapter 90 
funding and Bill Bernard was invited to an upcoming meeting. Also invited is the 
Cemetery Commission for potentially a meeting in August or September. 
10. Topics for Future Meetings 
  Jay Simeone requests the Facility Director provide reports on a regular basis to the     
 Committee. 
Dave Passios requests an updated snapshot of the accounts invested list. 
===PAGE 5===
11. Important Dates: 
  a. 7/19/24 9:00AM   - Meeting with Rep Scarsdale, 1st Middlesex District, and DESE       
 to Discuss School Budget Issues (Groton Town Hall) 
12. Upcoming Meetings 
  a. 7/11/24 
  b. 7/25/24 
13. Public Comment  
  Dave Passios states at a prior Select Board meeting there was discussion about 
 outstanding unappropriated ARPA funding. Dave Passios pulled the 10-year capital 
 list from Capital Planning and requested the Board to review several of the small 
 projects. There were a couple projects that could be completed to possibly help 
 move forward some infrastructure projects. 
Dave Passios shares information he obtained from Senator Cronin’s office. Senator 
Cronin wants to implement a local income tax by reducing the percentage that we 
increase our budget by under Prop 2 ½ by a given amount to then flip it over to a 
percentage of local income tax. This would include no changes to Prop 2 ½. This will 
shift the burden of the towns revenues needs away from the fixed income seniors 
and the young families trying to move into town and survive on a lower salary.  
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Dave Passios. All in  
 favor.  
The meeting closed at 9:23 PM. 