===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
May 23 , 2024
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Board Member Tom 
Gray, Board Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean Russell, Board Member Jay 
Simeone
Absent Member: Clerk Tiffaney Tavarez
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7 PM .
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
 There were no announcements.
4. Public Comment
 There was no public comment.
5. Town Manager Report
Heather Lemieux states she has applied  for a C ommunity  C ompact G rant and 
DLS is putting together financial policies . These policies are anticipated to be 
presented in June or July.
Heather Lemieux  has been working with  Ezequel Ayala  on a long-term  financial 
forecas t document for the town and the school. Heather Lemieux  is going to be 
meeting with the finance director in 2 weeks to review,  and a presentation is 
anticipated prior to September.
A Community Compact Grant was applied for and received for the long-term 
culvert plan.  The work has already started and is expected to be completed by 
August.
The Stormwater Task Force applied for and received an Asset Management 
Inventory Grant. Another grant will be needed to complete this grant  and the 
DPW is working on the application. The Stormwater Task Force is working on an 
outreach program to provide information about adding a utility fee.
Heather Lemieux  added  the DPW directors ’ presentation to the Select Board 
relating to Chapter 90 to the SharePoint  drive.
6. Finance Director Report
===PAGE 2===
Ezequel Ayala  sent over the stabilization fund balances that were requested at 
the last meeting. T he balances provided were  what was presented  prior to the 
town meeting. 
The s pecial purpose Stabilization fund  has a  balance of  $ 2, 874,556 .
The z oning stabilization fund has  a balance of  $ 2,216,  955 .
T he OP E B  Trust Fund has a balance of  $ 1, 324, 308 .
The h ealth insurance stabilization  fund has a balance of $ 114,621 .
The o pioid  Settlement stabilization fund has a balance of $ 183,2 90 .
There was a question  at a prior  meeting  inquiring if the i nterest gained on these 
funds stays in the account and the Finance Director, Ezequel Ayala , confirmed 
that is the case .
D ave Passios questions what is coming in to those accounts for interest on a 
quarterly basis. Da v e Passios states i f we are looking for funding down the road it
may be beneficial  to investigate  what revenues  those accounts are earning on a 
quarterly basis.  An option would be to  go to  town meeting and ask to appropriate 
the interest which is done with many other accounts to be transferred to  cover 
some other expenses  in town.  Specifically  for things we desperately need.
Chris Menard is requesting all funds be posted on a quarterly basis.
7. New Business
a. Town Meeting Review
Dave Passios states there were no real surprises during the meeting,  but 
emotions and tempers were high. Dave Passios was d isappointed with the
way it went but states we will  have to move  forward from her e . Going 
forward there needs to be better security on the voting system at town  
meeting . Town C lerk and moderator  are both  aware  of what ’s  going on.
Tom Gray expressed  that he was hap p y with the amount of people that 
appeared for the Town  M eeting and states there were roughly  430 people.
The Town still ha s issues with long-term  stability. Tom Gray w ants to 
inquire with the Town Clerk to see if the data from voting is collected or 
recorded.
Chris Menard states the meeting went like he thought it would. The 
infusion of almost a million dollars into the overarching  budget will help us 
holistically. 
b. Town Ballot Review
C hris  Menard confirms  the election s  happened and a lot of unopposed 
people were voted in.  Chris Menard did have a question about the 
===PAGE 3===
cate gory where the outcome was failure to elect. Dave Passios is also 
unclear how that works as there is no minimum vote count.
The Committee states they have not seen the final results  yet.
c. Override Update
D ave Passios states  the S chool C ommittee is go in g to have a discussion 
in the near future  regarding the override .
Evan Watters  confirms there was a vote before the T own M eeting that if 
the override passed then the ARPA funding would be returned. Evan 
Watters states there was an error in the presentation  the School 
Committee provided  and t here does not need to be a special town meeting
to appropriate the funds.
d. Summer Planning
i. Review Policies & Procedures
This task was not  completed last year,  and it is overdue for a 
review.
C hris Menard states that if it ’s a state polic y  then it should be
written down.
D ave  Passios believes the review of the borrowing policy  is way 
overdue  and he w ill recommend this to the budget task force.
Chris Menard heard Renee Emkey from the Select Board state the 
only difference between  the F inance C ommittee and the B udget 
T ask F orce  is just the people who are sitting in i t. It would 
encompass people from different departments  in town.
ii. Consolidation of Services/Departments
Evan Watters believes there is a large pushbac k from the school 
side and the municipal side  regarding consolidation. Additionally, he
is willing to pull together a meeting with facilities  direct or  and the 
DPW director and see where it goes. Dave Passios agrees with 
Evan about getting all the parties together to get input.
Chris Menard wants plans to  be  put  in place like pavement 
management plan, sewer,  and stormwater management pla n . This 
should be  backed with data and  a list of  what it will take to become 
operational . Additionally, the plans must be  sustainable for 10-15 
years.
This is a high priority among the lists .
iii. MIAA Health Insurance presentation to FinCom
===PAGE 4===
Evan Watters is unsure about what can be changed to save money.
Dave Passios states the bulk is tied up in collective bargaining and 
thinks this is a low priority.
Chris Menard believes the insurance plan is good but  doesn ’t know 
specifics and a presentation would be helpful.
Evan Watters  will revisit and request someone from MIAA to come
and give a presentation.
iv. TM Discussion of Deb t Exclusion Projects
E van  Watters  believes this topic may be an area for the Municipal  
B uilding D esign C ommittee or the S chool Committee.  The 
Committee agrees to  request the Municipal Building Design 
Committee  come and talk about what ’s going on.
Chris Menard beli eves  the historical  society  needs to be proactive 
and be a part  of these discussions .
This is low on the priority list.
v. Chapter 90 Briefing from DPW
Chris Menard  says a briefing was put together regarding Chapter 
90 and the Committee is inquiring about getting a copy. 
Dave  Passios asks Heather Lemieux  if Chapter  90 has any impact 
on the Town short-term  borrowing and the ability to accomplish  
projects that are reimbursable that need to be completed prior to 
receiving reimbursement. Heather Lemieux  states it d epends on the
type of project,  but we can deficit spend on certain accounts.
vi. CemCom  Discussion on Sales of Cemetery Lots
Chris Menard  would like to understand what the  Cemetery 
Commission  envisions  for operations  relating to  financial impacts  
and discuss some of their  capital items.
vii. Review Budget Process/Suggestions for Improvement
D ave  Passios  believes  the timeline needs to be moved up because 
we are never ready for the Town Meeting.
Evan  Watters states the  DLS  provided their  cherry sheet  estimate s  
for FY 25 . There is a $ 29,000  difference between what the 
G overnor put forward in February or M arch and what the S enate put
forward in the last few weeks. 
===PAGE 5===
Chris Menard  suggests budgeting  software could be beneficial that 
the school and the T own can  both utilize . Theoretically r unning a 
30-million-dollar  school budget off an excel spreadsheet  is not 
ideal. Chris Menard suggests creating a policy relating to inflation . 
Inflation in the last 15 years has generally been under 2 ½% on 
aggregate.  Evan  Watters wants to know what the mode and 
deviation from the average was for those low inflation rates.  Tom 
Gray also agrees that if there is a low inflation period then we need 
to figure  out what to do with that  extra money and not just spend it.
D ave  Passios questions if there is a m echanism to  create a reserve
account specifically for the school department. Based on last year ’s  
financial seasons we learned that there were  breakdowns  and 
repairs  that were anticipated but there wasn ’t a way to fix them.  
E van Watters states  it ’s  difficult to budget when you are already 
under funding other portions of departments.  Dave Pa s sios states 
the budget is lopsided in a direction that is not sustainable for a 
good operation  from a financial po int  of view. Evan  Watters testifies  
they are a public municipal entity, and their mission is not to make 
money it ’s  to educate.
This topic is of the highest priority level.
viii. Earmarked/Cherry Sheet Money Distribution
Evan  Watters states  if an earmark is for a s pecific use,  then that 
needs to be distributed for that specific use and  not be put into the 
general town fund.  If a department  is getting additional state or 
federal funding that comes in and is unexpected and wasn ’t 
included in their original budget it shouldn ’t go into a general fund.
This was at medium priority level.
ix. Re-organization for 1 st  Meeting Each August
Chris  Menard states some of the reappointment years are incorrect
but Heather Lemieux will be looking into that.
The Committee agrees to have r eorganization at the first meeting in
A ugust.
There was a m otion to set the first meeting in A ugust of each  year 
as the reorganization meeting by Dave  Passios , seconded by Chris  
Menard . All in favor.
Chris Menard suggests with the reorganization it may be beneficial 
to have a committee member on the Stormwater Task Force since 
there may be financial impact. The Committee also agrees there 
===PAGE 6===
should be a committee member on the Board of Assessors and the 
Cemetery Commission.
8. Old Business
There was no discussion relating to old business.
9. Minutes
Evan  Watters reviewed the minutes on the town website for 2024.  There are 
minutes for every meeting from the 11 th  of January through the 25 th  of April.
Chris  Menard suggests using software like Microsoft 365 that has workflow tools 
available.  When a n  agenda is established for a meeting,  it should start a workflow
tool and the  minutes automatically get  posted  to the website. Chris Menard does 
not  like the idea of emailing the minutes to the C lerk to then have them posted.  
Heather  Lemieux suggests having a meeting with Chris Menard, the Town Clerk 
and IT,  to discuss this suggestion. 
After review, Evan Watters states  there are 11 sets of minutes in the SharePoint
review folder to approve.
There was a motion to approve the  minutes as submitted from January 11, 
February  20, February 21, February 22, February 29, M arch 7, M arch 14, M arch 
28, April 4, April 11, April 25  all from  2024 by Dave Passios, seconded by Chris 
Menard. All in favor with 1 abstention.
Evan Watters will be looking into meeting minutes from 2023 and 2022.
Chris M enard states there are agendas that have been posted but the meetings 
never happened. Chris Menard questions if  something needs  to be posted stating
the  meeting was canceled or did not happen.  Additionally, Chris Menard says 
there are a bunch of missing minutes dating back to 2016. Heather Lemieux  
confirms that the official minutes must  be a permanent record with the Town 
Clerk.
10. Committee Reports
Dave  Passios confirms that G reen C ommunities  pulled the application for the 
sewer project at the last minute.  The savings numbers were provided a couple of  
days before the deadline,  and  it  turns out the project did not improve efficiency  
enough to show savings  to justify going into the process right now. The 
Committee will be meeting on the first Monday of next month to restart the 
process.
Chris  Menard heard a comment at the last meeting about a new plan for Marshall
Park. Chris Menard states there  is not a new plan. Recently there was a 
community project at the town beach building completed by volunteers.
===PAGE 7===
Chris Menard is on the Committee for Capital Planning and reiterates that 
meetings will restart in June, and they intend to have a plan in place for fiscal 
health over the next 10 years.
Evan  Watters confirms that the Master Plan Steering Committee workshopped 
the 4 th  survey which is currently live . There is going to be another meeting next 
Thursday at 6  PM  at Smokestack  for more workshopping. The Council on A ging 
reached out to invite  the C ommittee to see their  presentation on either a 
Wednesday at 9 or Tuesday/Thursday at noon. 
11. Topics for Future Meetings
Topics include:
 Grant writing services priorities .
 Revisit and have a conversation about percentages of population.
 Dave Passios requests a conversation about local income tax.
12. Upcoming Meetings:
a. 6/13/2024
b. 6/27/2024
13. Important Dates
There were no additional important dates.
14. Public Comment
Dave Rogers  commented that from a historical perspective  the C ommittee had 
tried to combine departments when he was the Chair of the Finance Committee 
but was unable because it wasn ’t workable. He suggests that every  few years the
Committee should look at the personnel situation we have in town and the 
potential for reorganization.  After reviewing the school superintendent ’s  
spreadsheet  regarding  the override,  he states th e last 2 years of the 
superintendent ’s  contract s  were not filed. Lastly, Dave Rogers thanks the 
Committee for all they are doing.
Evan  Watt er s  confirmed that the override  passed. Evan  Watters  thanks the 
S chool C ommittee, the SOS action group that form ed, and the students 
advocating. Evan Watters wants to ensure that we don ’t forget about the low and 
fixed-income  residents in town  and the effect this will create. Additionally, he 
wants  to go after tax incentive programs or other ways to save money for low 
income or fixed income seniors . Lastly, he thanks the Committee for their hard 
work throughout the budget season. 
15. Adjourn
There was a motion to adjourn by  Chris Menard , seconded by  Dave Passios . All 
in favor. 
===PAGE 8===
The meeting closed at 9:35PM.