===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
March 28, 2024
Present Members: Chair Evan Watters, Vice Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tiffaney 
Tavares, Board Member Tom Gray, Board  Member Dave Passios, Board Member Jean 
Russell (Zoom), Board Member Jay Simeone .
1.   Call to Order
 The meeting opened at 7:00 PM .
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
 There were no announcements.
4. Public Comment
 Rhonda Liscio questions if there will be public  comments during the article    
discussion s . Evan Watters says yes.
Evan  Watters states J ean Russell is joining the meeting remotely  thus all votes 
taken will be roll call votes.
5. New Business
a. 7:05pm – Public Hearing on Warrant  Articles
There was a motion to open public meeting by Chris Menard , seconded by D ave 
P assios. Roll call vote.  Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay 
Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye .
Annual T own M eeting A rticles
Article A: To see if the town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular  written 
reports of the T own O fficers and C ommittees.
There were n o C ommittee or public questions/comments.
Article B: A nnual article to vote on the spendings threshold every year for the 
rest of the revolving  fund .
There were n o C ommittee or public questions/comments.
Article C:  T he C onservation C ommission  chair recently reviewed  this bylaw 
and saw reference to a revolving fund. This is a creation referring to  the 
===PAGE 2===
revolving fun d  that ’s  already in the existing law.  The total amount generated 
from the bylaw is $ 50,000 .
There were n o C ommittee or public questions/comments.
Article D: A rticle to see if the town will vote to raise, appropriate  or transfer  
funds from a sum of money  for payment of prior years ’ expenses .  
 This is a reoccurring article that currently has  no prior year expenses.
Article E: A rticle to transfer from available funds all sums of money necessary 
to amend  the amounts voted for the towns FY 24 budget. 
 Currently Heather Lemieux d oesn ’t have the  numbers  for this article. 
Article F: A rticle to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate , borrow , or 
transfer from available funds a sum of money for the FY 25 C apital P lan .
There were n o C ommittee or public questions/comments.
Article G: A rticle to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate , borrow , or
transfer from available funds a sum of money to defray  the charges and 
expenses  of the Town and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected 
officials  of the town. 
TJ Laughlin, 207 Rolling Acres Road, questions if the recommended  
budget conclusion slide includes the schools . Heather Lemieux confirms 
the slide  includes the schoo ls.
Article H: A rticle to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate $ 948,000 
to supplement the Lunenburg P ublic S chools operating budget for FY 25 
contingent  upon the passage of prop  2  ½ ballot question. 
 This is the gap between the needs-based  budget up to the level service 
budget minus E sser  funds.
 R honda L iscio , 181 R eservoir  R oad , appreciate  the increasing efficiencies 
between the town and the school and that the C ommittee has been doing  
everything th ey  can to share the resources  between the 2 . The extra 
money added to the school budget came  from the town ’s  side. Every group
in town has lost service to  give to the school group.  Rhonda Liscio w ants to 
see the dollar amount of the impact on taxpayers based on the values of 
homes.  Evan  Watters states  that information  will be put  into the F inance  
C ommittee report that shows the  breakdown across a wide range of 
property values.  
 TJ Laughlin  believes what the C ommittee decides, includes  and 
recommends i s  important and it should be  aligned with other departments , 
the Town Manager , and S elect B oard goes a long way to the viability  of 
the override
===PAGE 3===
Chris M enard  says he can see both views. The question  is what the right 
recommendation for the financial health of the town is . It ’s  a school and town 
problem going forward  and is i n support of the override .
Evan  Watters is also i n support of the override and thinks is necessary and
not something that should be pushed  off.
Tiffaney  Tavares  believes this is the time to start looking at how we are 
operating as a town,  including the schools.
Laura B rzozoski,  21 Francis Ave., states if anyone has strong feelings 
about the school funding they should contact the state legislators . 
Evan  Watters requested and was sent  historical data starting back in 
2009.  There are 2  expense lines that take up the most expenses:  
transportation and health insurance. The other expense lines don ’t show 
much change. For the p ersonnel side,  aside from a few positions there 
hasn ’t been a substantial increase in high school teachers ’ education pay 
in the last 8 years. General education teachers are the main driver on the 
personnel side. Over 15 years , the increases have been  about the same 
with a few  exceptions. In the last 15 years, Health I nsurance has 
increased 90% , transportation has increased 62%, general education has 
increased about 50%, special education has increased by 91%, 
paraprofessionals  pay has increased 74%. The schools have been 
increasing  incrementally  as expected .
Chris Menard  disagrees and says that the burden  of the salaries  should be
reflected  in the budget that hires them  to see the full cost.
Tom Alonzo is questioning how the ARPA funding  is being used  in the 
school budget.
Carol Archambault  states the schools are try ing to close the gap  in th e 
budget and ARPA funds were used . Next year the budget is starting at 
4.3%, it ’s  not starting at 5.4%.
Evan  Watters wants to know how much of the $948,000 includes the 
money that was given  the ARPA. Carol Archambault states it was 
$ 221,000. A S elect B oard member said if you ’re  going to do an override 
then we must  make sure that ’s enough.
Tom G ray  believes there n eeds to be a well thought out plan for what 
needs to be done  in town.
===PAGE 4===
Article I: Article to a mend  the  S alary A dministration P lan (SAP)  Classification and
Salary Schedule
 Susan Andrews, 81 Horizon Island R oad, stated that 2 years ago the 
goals were set to determine if the  job descriptions for the entire 
SAP organization were up to date . Consultants were hired to write
job  descriptions and assess the grid .  A Survey of  8  comparable  
towns were used to  determine  that the 2.2%  was not enough . O n 
top  of the 2.5% being requested  there is a request to start the pay 
scale at $1,550. This is roughly an  $ 89,000 change.
Evan Watters asks if this is just changing the grid and doesn ’t have 
anything to do with money. Susan Andrews confirms that is the case.
Article J: Article t o transfer a sum of money from available funds to fund the wage
increase for FY 24 and transfer a sum of money from available funds to fund the 
wage increases for FY 25 for Salary Administration Plan employees
 Susan Andrews states the anticipated cost to the retro 24  is  $ 101,4 6 8.69. 
The additional requested increase would make an impact on the budget of 
$89,761.69.  This article will fund the additional sums of money which 
would be 3% on top of the 2.5%.
Heather  Lemieux  states that for FY 24 the cost will come out of the surplus 
revenues. There is about $ 76,000 in the salary reserve account for FY 24. 
The FY 24 adjustment article  make s  the necessary transfer for the full 
amount into the salary reserve account. The fiscal 25  amount will be out of
the salary reserve account. 
Article  K: Article  for the Town to v ote to amend the Chapter  70 entitled  S alary 
A dministration  P lan S ection 20
Susan Andrews wants the added factor that  if an employee becomes a 
parent with or without giving birth . F or example,  if the employee ’s  spouse 
gives birth to a baby or the employee adopts a child the employee may 
access up to 8 weeks or 40 days of sick leave however all other available 
accrued time vacation and personnel  must first  be exhausted.
Chris Menard believes the language needs to be changed . This article just
says once you  have a child at any time forever  you can take up  to 40 days 
of sick leave. It doesn ’t say in any way  it ’s the first 8 weeks.
Susan Andrews confirms they are getting a recommendation from the 
Select Board about wording.
Tiffaney  Tavares questions  if a person adopts or fosters a 16-year-old  
does that fall under th e same  category too?  Susan Andrews states  yes if 
they choose to. Generally,  people  plan  when they have these events and 
===PAGE 5===
may save sick or vacation time. Adopting at 16 can be just  as  traumatic  for
a family as a brand-new  baby.
Chris Menard asks if this would cover fostering and Susan Andrews says 
yes.
Article  L: Article to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money to the stabilization fund  totaling $ 100,000 .
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article M: Article to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money to the stabilization fund. 
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article N:  Article to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money into the OPEB Trust Fund  totaling $ 187,000 . 
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article O: Article  to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 25 
totaling $ 1,712,419.87 .
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article P: Article  to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, $ 35,000 into the sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization  Fund.
 There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article Q: Article to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal 
Program Enterprise Fund for FY 25.
Dave Passios asks if there are any other options for lowered recycling 
costs. Heather Lemieux states the bid was put out 3 years ago and only received 
1  bid. The costs are high due to the market, not the contractors .
Article R: Article  to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer 
from available  funds, a sum of money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for 
FY 25 totaling $ 45,000 .
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article S:  Article to  see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate a sum of 
money to fund the FY 25  Public Educational Government (PEG) Access 
Enterprise operating and capital budget totaling  $ 1,843.03
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
===PAGE 6===
Article T: Article t o see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate the sum of 
$ 10,000 from the sale of cemetery lots  from the sale of ceme te ry lot accounts to 
be used for the care , improvement , embellishment of the town cemeteries. 
 Jay  Simeone wants the cemetery commission and DPW to discuss if that ’s
the correct number.
 Evan Watters will request the C emetery  C ommission  to come to a meeting
to discuss the sale of the cemetery  lots and account .
Article U: Article  to see if the town will vote to accept M.G.L. Chapter 59 Section 
5C1/2 which provides for an additional real estate exemption for taxpayers who are 
granted  personal exemptions on their domiciles under M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, 
including certain blind persons, veter an s , surviving s p ouses , and seniors. Th e  
additional exemption s hall be up to 50 percent of the personal exemption.
 Chris Menard questioned why the Select Board didn ’t make a 
recommendation on this article. Heather Lemieux clarifies that there
is a question that the assessors are still looking into.
Article V:  Article to see if the town will vote to amend the vote decrease the 
exemption age from 70 to 65 and further to amend the reimbursement amount up
to 100 percent of the exemption
There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
Article W: Article  to see if the town will vote to re-adopt and accep t the previous 
provisions of S ection 20 C hapter 32B , as amended by Section 15 of Chapter 218 
of the Acts of 2016, establishing an Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) 
Liability trust Fund; to authorize the Select Board and Treasurer to execute a 
declaration of trust creating an expendable trust for the purpose of holding 
monies appropriated to such funds to designate the treasurer  as the trustee of 
said such trust to authorize of any and all monies currently being held for the 
purpose  of paying all retiree health and life benefits to such trust  and to authorize  
the trustee to invest and reinvest the monies in such funds in accordance with the
prudent investor rule.
 Heather Lemieux says the  town voted to create a OPEB fund in 2010. The 
law changed in 2016 and that law requires towns to report  the provisions of the
law otherwise  it just continues  from their other adoptions. There is no 
financial impact .
Article X: Article  to  see if the town will vote to amend the code of Lunenburg 
C hapter 12 entitled B oards, C ommissions, and C ommittees by adding  a new 
article 4 thus codifying the affirmed votes of the M ay 1979 annual town meeting 
articles  21 and 22 and the May 08 annual town meeting article 18.
 Dave Passios states there is no financial impact  in this article.
===PAGE 7===
Article Y: Article to see if the town will vote to amend the code of Lunenburg to 
modify a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitles ‘Use Table ”, by inserting a new use 
entitled “Battery Energy Storage System ”
Richard Harris states the town was approached by a company that 
wants to put a battery storage  system in town .  The At torney G eneral ha s 
ruled that battery engine storage systems are allowed  under an  exemption
for solar .  Chris Menard questions what happens if a battery ruptures or 
there ’s  a failure in the mechanisms that go into a storage system. 
Additionally, he asks if the town would need to have any special 
hazardous gear or special trucks. Richard  Harris says  no . The systems 
are monitored  24/7 at an offsite location that can detect if there ’s  a 
surge.
Article Z:  W ater S upply P rotection D istrict . The Water Supply Protection District is
an overlay district superimposed on the zoning districts 
 There were no Committee or public questions/comments.
b.  Vote on Recommendations
A. There was a motion that  there  is no direct financial impact  on Article A  
by Chris Menard, seconded by Tiffaney Tavares. Roll Call vote. Jean 
Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote 
was u nanimous .
B. There was a motion to recommend approval of Article B by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Tiffaney Tavares. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell 
aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney 
Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was 
unanimous.
C. There was a motion to recommend approval of Article C  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye.  The vote was unanimous.
D. There was  motion  to  recommend  deferring  A rticle D  by Chris Menard , 
seconded by Tom Gray. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios
aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris 
Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote to defer was unanimous.
E. There was a motion to defer A rticle E  by Chris Menard, seconded by 
Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, 
Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard 
aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote to defer was unanimous.
===PAGE 8===
F. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle F  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Tiffaney Tavares. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell 
aye, Dave Passios no, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney 
Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was 6 -1 
to recommend approval. 
G. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle G  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios no, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
abstains , Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was 5-1-1 to 
recommend approval.
H. There was a motion to defer A rticle H  by Chris Menard, seconded by 
Tiffaney Tavares. 
Chris Menard and Tiffaney Tavares want to hear the opinion of the 
Select Board  before making a recommendation.  Evan Watters 
disagrees  and thinkings post poning the vote  is going to do damage to 
the override potential. There was a r oll call vote to defer the vote on the
override.  Jean Russell no , Dave Passios aye , Tom Gray aye, Jay 
Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares abstains , Chris Menard aye, Evan 
Watters no . The vote was 4-2-1  to defer the override vote . 
I. There was a motion that  there  is no direct financial impact  on A rticle I 
by Chris Menard, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell 
aye, Dave Passios abstain, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney 
Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was 6-0-1
to find there is no direct financial impact .
J. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle J by  Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
K. There was a motion that  there  is no direct financial impact  on A rticle K  
by Chris Menard, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell 
aye, Dave Passios abstain, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney 
Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was 6-0-1
to find there is no direct financial impact .
L. There was a motion to  recommend  approv al  of A rticle L  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
===PAGE 9===
M. There was a motion to recommend approv al  of A rticle M  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
N.  There was a motion to recommend approv al  of A rticle N  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
O. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle O  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell . Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
P. There was a motion to recommend approv al  of A rticle P  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
Q. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle Q  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
R. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle R by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
S. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle S  by Chris 
Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye .  The vote was unanimous.
T. There was a motion to recommend approval of A rticle T  by Dave 
Passios, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares 
aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote was unanimous.
U. There was motion to recommend deferring A rticle U , seconded by 
Tiffaney Tavares. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, 
Tom Gray aye, Jay  Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard 
===PAGE 10===
aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote to defer was unanimous. 
V. There was motion to recommend deferring A rticle V , seconded Tiffaney
Tavares. Roll c all vote. Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray
aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan 
Watters aye. The vote to defer was unanimous.
W. There was a motion that there is no direct financial impact  on A rticle W 
by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean 
Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote 
was unanimous.
X. There was a motion that there is no direct financial impact  on A rticle X  
by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean 
Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote 
was unanimous.
Y. There was a motion that there  is no direct financial impact  on A rticle Y 
by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean 
Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote 
was unanimous.
Z. There was a motion that were is no direct financial impact  on A rticle Z  
by Chris Menard, seconded by Dave Passios. Roll c all vote. Jean 
Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
Tiffaney Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The vote 
was unanimous.
a. **Public Hearing Close**
There was a motion to close the public meeting by C hris M enard, 
seconded by D ave P assios. Roll call vote. Jean Russell aye, Dave 
Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney Tavares aye, 
Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye. The public hearing closed at 10:55 
PM.
6. Old Business
a. FinCom Report for Warrant Discussion
b. FY21-FY23 Revenue and Expenditures Recap  Discussion
===PAGE 11===
c. FY25 Budget Update/Discussion
 Heather Lemieux shares the FY 25 recommendations. The 
recommended budget  reflected a needs based LPS budget and level 
service town department budget with some  exceptions.
$ 100,000 of free cash was moved  into the FY 25 Reserve Fund account. 
$ 105,000 from the  health insurance stabilization account was used  to 
offset insurance costs.
 The local receipts increased by $ 41,360 more than the recommendation 
presented in February.
Below are the updated  FY 25 projected revenues :
- Property tax : $ 32,823,309
- State aid : $ 10,682,086
- Local receipts : $ 3,307,851
- Other available funds : $ 2,541,625
Totaling : $ 49,354,871
Prop er ty tax revenue
- Prior year level limit : $ 29,375,035.67
- 2  ½ increase to levy : $ 734,375.89
- Estimated  new growth : $ 400,000
- Deb t exclusions : $ 2,313,898.33
Totaling : $ 32,823,309.89
Enterprise Budgets for FY 25
- PACC Enterprise: $208,773
- Sewer Enterprise: $ 2,114,689
- Water Enterprise: $45,000
- Solid Waste Enterprise: $500,000 for PAYT program
The Governor provided $ 10,682,186 as the estimated number for state aid
for FY 25. This is a 1.04% decrease from FY 24.
Evan W atters  questions why  the investment income was so high last year.  
Heather Lemieux states it was due to the market .
Changes from the Preliminary Budget to the Recommended Budget for FY
25 :
- Solid waste & recycling line increased $ 100,000
- Reserve Fund Account increased $ 100,000
- Salary R eserve line increased $ 55,000
- Funding for an additional Police Officer was cut .
- Additional  hours for IT Administrative Assistant, COA Meal Site 
Manager, Recreational Director, Teen Libraries  were cut .
===PAGE 12===
- Data C ollection line was cut  $ 5,000
- IT Hardware line was cut  $ 18,000
- Active Health Insurance was cut  $ 77,000
Highlights for non-discretionary budget: 
       - R etirement assessment increased 10.94% 
       -  Health insurance reflects a 5.7% increase for active employees 
and  a 6% increase  for  retire d
       -  Solid waste and recycling increased 33 %
       - Debt services decreased 16.39%
       - C herry sheet offset charges decreased 6%
FY 25 Capital Plan Town Managers – These projects are all being funded by free 
cash and unexpected  capital .
1. Public S afety R adio S ystem, P hase 2 : $ 315,263
2. Townwide Keying, C ard A ccess  and A larm S ystem U pgrades : $ 185.000
3. Northfield Culvert Construction : $ 200,000
4. Turkey  Hill Elementary School, ADA Study for Reservations and 
Assessment and Schematic Design : $ 275,000
5. Marked Replacement K9 Cruiser : $ 92,211
6. Library Security Cameras , Phase 1 : $ 36,000
7. Marked Replacement for Traffic Cruiser : $ 73,627
8. Turkey  Hill Elementary School Installation of 3M Wind o w Safety Film : 
$ 33,569
9. Security Camera Upgrades at Town Buildings : $ 36,450
10. Wallis Park Basketball and Tennis Courts : $ 70,000
i. Previous FY25 Presentations
 There were no additional discussions.
7. Town Manager Report
 There were no additional reports from the Town Manager.
8. Finance Director Report
 There w ere  no report s  from the Finance Director.
9. Minutes
 There were n o minutes to review .
10. Committee Reports
 Dave Passios states that the Green Communities will be  meeting next Monday .
11. Topics for Future Meetings
 Evan Watters took note to invite the C emetery C ommission to an upcoming 
meeting to clarify some  questions.
12. Upcoming FY25 Budget Meetings
===PAGE 13===
a. Apr 4th – Meeting for ATM Report &  Warrant Article Recommendations
13. Important Dates
a. Apr 5th – FinCom Report for Warrant
b. May 4th – Annual Town Meeting
c. May 18th – Annual Town Election
14. Public Comment
John Bowen thanks the Committee for their work. John Bowen clarifies that an 
amendment can be raised at Town Meeting regarding the numbers specifically in 
Article J.  Additionally, he is not satisfied that there is an increase in wage of the 
DPW Directors salary relating to Article I and thinks it ’s  a mistake in structuring. 
John Bowen states the Cemetery and town is only responsible for graves over 
100  years old and he believes the money from taxes should be used towards 
that.
15. Adjourn
Motion to adjourn by Chris Menard , seconded by T iffaney T avares. Roll c all vote. 
Jean Russell aye, Dave Passios aye, Tom Gray aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tiffaney 
Tavares aye, Chris Menard aye, Evan Watters aye .
The meeting closed at 11:39  PM.