===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
School Committee Meeting Minutes 
Meeting of the Tri-Board, July 8, 2025 
Eagle House, 25 Memorial Drive 
 
Note: References to the Tri-Board in the context of this meeting refer to Finance Committee, 
School Committee and Select Board 
 
Select Board Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk Renee Emkey, Member Brian 
Lehtinen, Member Glenn McLeod (Absent- Vice Chair Amada Moore) 
 
School Committee Members Present: Chairperson Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice 
Chairperson Laura Brzozoski, Secretary Mandy Gilman, Member Emily Young, Member 
George Yapp 
 
Finance Committee Members Present: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, 
Member Jay Simeone, Member Tanya Dall, Member Ana Lockwood (Absent- Clerk Tom 
Gray and Member Mike Rupp) 
 
Tri-Board Moderator: Tim Murphy, Town Moderator 
 
Also Present: Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Superintendent Dr. Jodi Fortuna, 
Finance Director Ezequiel Ayala 
 
TRI-BOARD CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:00 PM by Tim Murphy, who served as Moderator. He 
asked everyone to stand and address the flag for the Pledge of Allegiance. 
 
After the Pledge, Mr. Murphy invited each Chair to officially open their respective meetings 
and introduce their members. Caesar Nuzzolo, chair of the Select Board, called their meeting 
to order at 7:01 PM and introduced Renee Emkey, Glenn McLeod and Brian Lehtinen. 
School Committee Chair Anthony Sculimbrene introduced Laura Brzozoski, Mandy Gilman, 
Emily Young, and George Yapp.  Chris Menard, Chair of the Finance Committee, introduced 
members Ana Lockwood, Jean Russell, Tanya Dall, and Jay Simeone. 
 
Mr. Murphy introduced himself as the facilitator for the meeting, mentioning that he had been 
asked by some members and the Town Manager to help moderate the discussion. He asked if 
anyone objected to his role, and no objections were raised. 
 
I. NEW BUSINESS  
 
Tri-Board Ground Rules Adoption  
Mr. Murphy referred to the ground rules that had been sent out via email, noting that he 
preferred to call them "guiding principles". He mentioned that the Select Board had already 
voted to approve these rules. When asked if anyone wanted to discuss the guiding principles, 
no questions, comments, or concerns were raised. Mr. Murphy highlighted that one 
particularly important rule was the "hard stop" at 10 o'clock, which was agreed upon by all. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Discussions on Departmental Growth: Presentation on Fourth Shift by Fire Chief Patrick 
Sullivan 
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan gave a presentation on a proposal to add a fourth shift in the Fire 
Department. Chief Sullivan provided a historical overview of the Department's staffing, 
noting the transition over the decades from an on-call system to the current career staffing 
model. He explained the increasing call volume, particularly in medical calls, and the 
challenges faced in staffing, especially on Sundays.  He explained the proposal of moving to 
a 4-shift cycle, changing the work week from 48 hours to 42 hours. This would add a fourth 
shift of 3 Firefighters, providing full-time coverage 7 days a week. He estimated the cost at 
$464,369.26, which included the salaries for three new Firefighter/Paramedics, expected 
increases in overtime and holiday pay, and the creation of one new officer position for the 
new shift.  Members asked clarifying questions relative to call volume, forced shifts, and 
overtime. 
 
Discussions on consolidations, efficiencies, and timeline  
Members engaged in a free-form, broad discussion on potential consolidations and 
efficiencies across Departments. Several ideas were proposed and discussed: 
 Facilities Department: There was discussion about potentially combining the town 
and school facilities departments. While some saw potential for better efficiency and 
cost savings others expressed concerns about the different needs of schools versus 
town buildings.  Members acknowledged that this proposal may not save in the 
operating budget, it may save in the long run for the town properties.  Particular 
concerns were raised about prioritizing snow removal and the need to open safely 
open the schools during the winter months.  Mr. Sculimbrene explained that extending 
the school year due to winter closure beyond a certain date can be particularly costly 
to the district.  Members showed support for consolidating facilities-related vendors 
for service contracts.  Ms. Lockwood commented on the utility of having shared 
equipment so that there is not double the service and maintenance costs.  Dr. Fortuna 
commented on the importance of having a nimble facilities team. 
 Legal Services: Mr. Sculimbrene suggested hiring an in-house lawyer, stating he 
believed it would yield savings.  Ms. Warren-Dyment explained the fee structure for 
Town Counsel and explained the services provided by Counsel.  Mr. Sculimbrene 
explained the ways in which the schools used their law firm.   
 IT Services: The group briefly discussed the possibility of combining IT services, 
though some members expressed reservations based on past experiences. The idea of 
leveraging combined purchasing power for both the town and schools was discussed, 
particularly for items like software licenses and equipment. 
 Trash Enterprise: The group discussed how the trash and the recycling program 
operate, with half of the program being supported by taxation and the other half being 
supported by the bag fees.  The Town Manager explained that shifting the entire 
program into an enterprise makes the program self-sustaining but is just a cost shifting 
to the residents. 
 Human Resources: There was interest in exploring the consolidation of certain HR 
functions between the town and schools.  There are certain consolidations already in 
place, such as benefits administration. 
 Health Insurance:  Health Insurance was briefly discussed, but it was stated the topic 
is on the agenda for the next meeting. 
 Procurement: Mr. Ayala recommended exploring a joint procurement/purchasing 
department and shared finance staff, such as grant and contract manager.   
===PAGE 3===
The group agreed to continue exploring these ideas in future meetings, with Jennifer Warren-
Dyment, the Town Manager, noting that some of these consolidations might not be feasible 
until future fiscal years due to the complexities involved. 
 
Discussions on Departmental Growth: 
The discussion on departmental growth primarily focused on the school department's needs. 
Mr. Sculimbrene highlighted the importance of expanding the number of Board Certified 
Behavior Analysts (BCBAs) to help keep special education students in-district, which is both 
beneficial for all students and more cost-effective for the town. 
 
Dr. Jodi Fortuna, the new superintendent, mentioned the potential impact of losing certain 
federal grants (Title 2A, Title 4A, and Title 3) on the school budget. She also noted that 
hiring a competent business manager was a priority for improving fiscal management in the 
school department. 
 
For other departments, there was mention of potentially making the Parks and Recreation 
director position full-time. The Fire Department's proposed fourth shift was also noted as a 
growth area. 
 
Specific Requests from Tri-Board  
Members discussed future meeting locations and whether there would be public comment at 
meetings.  There was general consensus that once the Tri-Board is further along in the 
process, they would consider listening tours or feedback sessions and that public comment 
could be given during the meetings of the individual member boards. 
 
Financial Management / Best Practices  
Ms. Lockwood raised concerns about financial management practices, particularly regarding 
revolving accounts and budget presentations. She emphasized the need for all revolving 
accounts to have a budget, even if they are not town meeting revolving accounts, to prevent 
negative balances from going unnoticed. 
 
The group discussed the need for standardized budget presentations across departments and 
the implementation of best financial practices. Ms. Warren-Dyment mentioned that the town 
had received grant funding to complete an update of financial best practices, which was 
currently in draft form. 
 
Members agreed to work on prioritizing and implementing these best practices, with Ms. 
Lockwood and Ezequiel Ayala, the Finance Director, taking the lead on identifying high-
priority practices to deploy urgently. 
 
 
The group discussed the need for more transparent and comprehensive budget presentations, 
particularly from the school department. There were requests for: 
 A more digestible budget format 
 Inclusion of grant money in budget presentations 
 Clear explanations for significant year-to-year changes in budget items 
 A 3-5 year projection of staffing and budget needs for each department 
 
Mr. Lehtinen emphasized the need for better communication between the Finance Committee 
and the superintendent in preparation for school budget presentations. 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
IMPORTANT DATES & UPCOMING MEETINGS  
The dates for future meetings will be recirculated and having future meetings at Town Hall to 
allow for live broadcasting and increased transparency. 
 
ADJOURN  
At 9:32 PM, the chairs of each board moved to adjourn their respective meetings. 
 
Motion to adjourn the Select Board meeting.   Moved by: Clerk Emkey.   Seconded by: 
Member Lehtinen. The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Motion to adjourn the School Committee meeting.   Moved by: Chair Sculimbrene. Seconded 
by: Secretary Gilman.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Motion to adjourn the Finance Committee meeting.   Moved by: Member Lockwood. 
Seconded by: Member Dall.  The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Minute Approval 
Minutes approved at the meeting of August 26, 2025 
 
Select Board Motion to approve the meeting minutes of July 8, 2025.   Moved by: Seconded 
by: The motion passed unanimously. 
 
School Committee Motion to approve the meeting minutes of July 8, 2025.   Moved by: 
Seconded by: The motion passed unanimously. 
 
Finance Committee Motion to approve the meeting minutes of July 8, 2025.   Moved by: 
Seconded by: The motion passed unanimously. 
 
 