===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Tri-Board Meeting 
Chris Menard, Chair 
Jean Russell, Vice-Chair 
Tom Gray, Clerk 
Jay Simeone 
Tanya Dall 
Ana Lockwood 
Mike Rupp 
 Tuesday, July 8, 2025 7:00 PM 
Eagle House 
25 Memorial Dr, Lunenburg, MA 
Town of Lunenburg 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
978.582.4148 
 
Agenda 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and may be broadcast over the 
Lunenburg Public Access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-
Cable-157427270975305) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel after the meeting.  
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting.  
This agenda lists all topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes may be taken because of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent allowed by Open 
Meeting Law.  This meeting is being conducted as three concurrent committee meetings of the Lunenburg Finance Committee, School Committee 
and Select Board.   
 
1. Tri-Board Call to Order 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. New Business 
a. Tri-Board Ground Rules Adoption 
b. Discussions on consolidations, efficiencies, and timeline 
c. Discussions on Departmental Growth 
d. Specific Requests from Tri-Board 
e. Financial Management / Best Practices 
4. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
a. Tri-Board Meetings - August 26, September 30, October 14, November 12, December 9, January 13 
b. Finance Committee – July 10 
5. Adjourn 
 
 
Note:  
a) References to the Tri-Board and Tri-Chair in the context of this meeting refer to Finance Committee, School Committee and 
Select Board 
b) Material discussed in the Tri-Board Meetings may be further deliberated in future, individual Committee meetings 
c) The agenda has a lot of material so Public Comment periods have not been included.  Please feel free to reach out with 
comments to members of Finance Committee or make Public Comments at future Finance Committee Meetings.  Email 
addresses for Finance Committee members may be found at the following link:  https://lunenburgma.gov/252/Finance-
Committee 
 
