===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
August 14, 2025
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray,
Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee
Member Mike Rupp (Loom), Committee Member Jay Simeone (Zoom), Town
Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment
1. Call to Order
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM.
2. Pledge of Allegiance
3. Announcements
There were no announcements.
4. Public Comment
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street, heard through the grapevine that there was
$200,000 found in the school budget and inquired if that was true. Dave Rogers
states that the School Department has hired a business manager and believes it's
unfortunate that individual doesn't get introduced to the Finance Committee or the
town employees.
Ana Lockwood responds, saying she is hoping the unspent money is from previous
budget years, Additionally, she is looking for clarity to see where funds have gone.
Chris Menard will reach out to the School Committee.
There was a group discussion about who hires for the Schools Business Manager
position. Jennifer Warren-Dyment states she is not involved in the hiring of this
individual and everything was completed within the School Department. For
previous candidates interviewed Jennifer Warren-Dyment and Ezequiel Ayala were
invited to participate in interviews but not for this candidate. Ultimately the decision
is up to the Superintendent and the School Committee.
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states that an additional $500,000 was received through
Chapter 90 funds. There was an additional $230,000 received through state aid.
Jennifer Warren-Dyment is still in the process of hiring an Executive Assistant.
===PAGE 2===
6. Current Business
a. Town Finance Policies review and discussion
Ezequiel Ayala and Ana Lockwood came up with a 3-page document with the
best practices and procedures. Jennifer Warren-Dyment suggests merging
their document with the town finance policy document created by DLS.
There were discussions and suggestions after reviewing a portion of the
document.
The Finance Committee will make their edits and then submit them to the
Select Board for review.
Ana Lockwood suggests submitting the final document to the School's
Superintendent and their Business Manager to review and consider possibly
adopting.
b. Upcoming Tri Board Topics
i. Human Services
This covers the Board of Health, Veterans Services and the Council on
Aging.
ii. Culture and Recreation
This includes the library, band, and historical but does not include
recreation.
Jennifer Warren-Dyment confirms that the Recreation Director,
Council on Aging Director, Library Director, and the Teen Center
Director have been meeting and working together to co-promote
events.
ill. Health Services
iv. Health Insurance
Jennifer Warren-Dyment will bring a copy of the full benefit package
offered to town employees.
Tanya Dall suggests presenting 3 options for available health
insurance.
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states that all active school employees are
covered under the school budget. School retirees, workers'
compensation, and life insurance for the schools fall under the town
===PAGE 3===
budget. Additionally, their budget is not controlled by the Town
Manager.
c. Upcoming Tri Board Topics
i. Human Services
ii. Culture and Recreation
iii. Health Services
iv. Health Insurance
7. Old Business
a. Budget Request Forms
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states they have switched over to Cleargov.
b. Tri-Board Meetings
c. Analysis of historical school budget data
Once the schools close out at the end of August Ana Lockwood will provide
additional data regarding the school budget.
8. Minutes
There was a motion to approve the minutes from July 10, 2025, and July 24, 2025, by
Tom Gray, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll call vote. Jay Simeone aye, Mike Rupp aye,
Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard
aye.
9. Committee Reports
Re-organization of Committee liaisons will be discussed at the next meeting.
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings
Chris Menard received a document from the Master Plan Steering Committee with a
list of questions to be filled out. The document is saved in the Sharepoint file under
the Master Planning Committee folder.
Tanya Dall suggests having a meeting with Parks and Recreation as she has
questions.
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings
a. Tri-Board Meetings -Aug 26, Sept 30, Oct 14, Nov 12, Dec 9, Jan 13
o. Finance Committee - Sept 11
12. Public Comment
There were no comments from the public.
13. Adjourn
There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call
===PAGE 4===
vote. Jay Simeone aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom Gray
aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye.
The meeting closed at 9:40 PM.
