===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
March 20, 2025 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell (Zoom), Clerk Tom Gray 
(Zoom), Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member 
Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Committee Member Tanya Dall 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 6:02 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director.  
6. Scheduled Meetings 
  a. School Committee Approved Budget 
   Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham provided the approved budget. 
   The School Committee increased the legal expense line. 
   There was some funding restored for band transportation. The middle 
    school received an additional $1,000 and the high school received  
   $3,000. 
At the school committee meeting on March 12th there was a vote to 
implement a bus transportation fee at 1 dollar per day. The fee for 1 
child is $180 and the family cap is $270 for the year. The students 
eligible for free lunch will have that fee waived. Any student eligible for 
a reduced lunch will pay a reduced fee of $50. The implementation of 
transportation fee reduced the student transportation line by $11,000. 
The athletic transportation line was reduced to $102,555. 
The School Committee approved to have the athletics department run 
summer camps to generate revenue. 
===PAGE 2===
Chris Menard ﬁrmly disagrees with running summer camps that will 
compete with the recreation department.  Dr. Kate Burnham states 
the programs run by the recreation department should not conﬂict 
with the athletics summer camps. Chris Menard is requesting all the 
details associated with the summer camps, revenue projections, and 
comparisons to the recreation department.  
Ana Lockwood inquires about the hours of the camp. Dr. Kate 
Burnham states majority are from 9-3. 
Ana Lockwood suggests creating tutoring programs to provide extra 
support and also create revenue. 
Due to the restructuring the business oƯice salaries have changed to 
$90,000. 
The School Committee voted to eliminate 1 of the specialist coach 
positions that was previously grant funded. That grant money will be 
applied to an intervention teacher at the elementary school. 
Ana Lockwood states that the DESI website states there were 110 full 
time teachers back in 2019. After the proposed cuts in FY26 according 
to the presentation there will be 111 full-time teachers.  
Chris Menard made an executive decision to not allow public 
comment due to the Capital Planning Committee meeting that was 
scheduled to start in 3 minutes. 
7. New Business 
  There was no new business to discuss. 
8. Old Business 
  a. FY26 Budget Discussions* 
b. FY26 Warrant Articles 
c. Budget Task Force Recommendations 
9. Minutes 
  There were no minutes to approve. 
10. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports.  
11. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There are no additional actions or topics to add to future meetings. 
===PAGE 3===
12. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Thursday 3/27/2025 
b. Thursday 4/3/2025 
13. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call 
 vote. Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Jay 
 Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 7:29 PM. 