===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
October 9, 2025 
Present Members:   Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member 
 Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, 
 Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Chair Chris Menard 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:02 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
  There was no public comment.  
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Neither the Town Manager nor Finance Director were in attendance. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant 
   The Committee received the warrants a couple hours prior to this meeting. 
Ana Lockwood has reviewed the warrants and noted there were 2 articles 
that stood out. One of the articles of interest involved the Personnel 
Committee. Ana Lockwood believes there needs to be more public input in 
this article as well as a change in language.  This article has not been 
deliberated enough to make it to Town Meeting. The other article addresses 
the elimination of the APDC and moving their functions to the Historical 
Commission. There is concern because its bylaw took over 2 years to be 
drafted. 
Tanya Dall reiterates that there doesn’t need to be a vote tonight on what 
articles to push forward with.  Tom Gray states voting on the articles will have 
to take place at the next Committee meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Jay Simeone believes any articles with signiﬁcant substance should be 
presented at the Annual Town Meeting  
b. Upcoming Tri Board Topics 
  i. School Budget Presentation 
  ii. General Government 
  iii. Unclassiﬁed 
  iv. Debt Service 
This meeting is scheduled to be held in late November. Mike Rupp requests 
obtaining all presentations prior to the meeting to review.  
7. Old Business 
  a. Prior Tri-Board Meetings 
  b. Analysis of historical and current school budget data 
   Ana Lockwood has conﬁrmed that the actuals for FY25 to FY26 show an 8%  
  increase in school budget. In FY25 there was an override and a 4% increase.   
   Ana Lockwood is still awaiting some answers. 
  c. Town Finance Policies review and discussion 
   Ana Lockwood states that the last charter review was in 2017 or 2018. During 
  that review, there was a request to make the Town Accountant report to the  
  Town Manager. The Town Accountant is to oversee records and transactions  
  while the Finance Director runs the day-to-day operations. Over the years  
  those 2 positions were merged. Ana Lockwood believes that this should be a  
  conﬂict. 
8. Minutes – July 8 (TriBoard) 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from July 8, 2025, by Tom Gray, 
 seconded by Ana Lockwood. All in favor. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Mike Rupp states that the Master Plan Steering Committee has been meeting. They 
 have created a questionnaire and sent them to all Boards and Committees looking 
 for feedback. The Committee states they have not received a ﬁlled-out 
 questionnaire from the Finance Committee. Mike Rupp will inquirer with the Master 
 Plan Steering Committee. 
Tom Gray conﬁrms that the Building Design Committee and the Superintendent 
 met. There was discussion about the location of the central oƯices for the schools. 
 The Superintendent will discuss further with the School Committee.  
===PAGE 3===
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Tom Gray suggests reaching out to the new ﬁnance personnel for the Town and the 
 school to receive their feedback and any recommendations. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings –Oct 14, Nov 12, Dec 9, Jan 13 
  b. Finance Committee – Oct 23, Nov 13 
  c. Special Town Meeting – Nov 18 
12. Public Comment 
 There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor.  
The meeting closed at 7:55 PM. 
  