===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
February 13, 2025 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Committee Member Tanya 
Dall, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Clerk Tom Gray 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard states there are 4 candidates who are interested in being on the 
 Finance Committee.  The 2 open seats are anticipated to be ﬁled at the Finance 
 Appointing Committee meeting on February 18th.  
Additionally, Chris Menard conﬁrms its budget season.  All 8 budget hearings are 
scheduled, and the agendas are posted online. 
4. Public Comment 
  There are no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director. 
6. Scheduled Meetings 
a. Reserve Account Transfer Request by School Department for 911 Cabling Costs 
Susan Gilson, Director of Administration and Finance, was present to 
 discuss the 911 cabling costs. This is a requirement to have the school 
 system in compliance with state and federal regulations. The total cost for 
 the system is $65,574. 
Dr. Kate Burnham conﬁrmed this system was budgeted for. When the 
 technicians came to start the project, they were intending to use the cabling 
 to the PA boxes in each of the classrooms but upon further inspection it was 
  determined that the  existing cabling was not adequate. The entire building 
 needs to be re-cabled to have a drop line in every single classroom for the 
 connection. The additional cost of  $60,000 was not in the original budget.  
Jay Simeone asks if the job was re-quoted after learning there would need to 
 be additional work. Dr. Kate Burham states the original quote from the 
===PAGE 2===
 company was $106,000. After receiving that quote, they reviewed the state 
 bid list and received an additional quote that came in at $65,000.  
Additionally, Dr Burnham investigated ARPA funds but that wasn’t an option. 
 The work was completed early in the budget year when there were extra 
  funds. Those  funds have since been expended due to unexpected 
 unbudgeted costs throughout the year.  
There was a memo from the Interim Town Manager, Carter Terenzini, with his 
 approval and support for this request.  
Ezequiel Ayala conﬁrmed there is currently $200,000 in the reserve fund. 
 $15,000 was expended on the town manager search and  $65,000 was 
 for the cabling compliance. This leaves $120,000 in the reserve fund for the 
 rest of the year.  
There was a motion to transfer $58,320 from the reserve fund to the school 
 department contracted services and $7,254.65 from the reserve fund to the 
 school department computers purchase and lease line items by Tanya Dall, 
 seconded by  Jay Simeone. Roll call vote. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, 
 Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
b. Preliminary Budget  
  Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager, was present and states she has 
 been on board for a little over a week. At this time, she will not be presenting 
 a budget. She can conﬁrm that work has been ongoing since early fall. Prior 
 to the Interim Town Managers’ departure there was communication with all 
 department heads, committees, commissions and boards of what the 
 ﬁnancial situation was at that time. 
In order to prepare a budget, there needs to be a review of the revenue 
 estimates. There was a mathematical error and the allowed prop 2 ½ total 
 was not applied to the full levy from last year. Additionally, the calculation of  
 local receipts was calculated based on an average.  The Town Manager would 
 like to do a deeper dive into the local receipts.   
Jennifer Warren-Dyment anticipates presenting the full budget at the next 
 Finance Committee meeting on February 27th.  
c. FY26 Capital 
   This agenda topic will be discussed at the February 27th meeting. 
d. Information Technology Department 
   The presentation was provided by the Director of IT, Casey Chisholm 
===PAGE 3===
Completed FY 25 initiatives include: 
  -Public safety phone upgrade 
  - Computer upgrades 
  - Increased roles and responsibilities for the admin assistant  
Ongoing FY 25 projects include: 
   - Townwide cell phone replacement 
   - Library camera upgrade 
Initiatives for FY26 include: 
   - Software maintenance 
   - Hardware maintenance 
   - Town Clerk software system  
   - Internet speed for DPW. In order to increase their megabyte   
  connection, it would cost an additional $1,000 per year. 
Jay Simeone questions how often the IT staƯ are on site.  Casey Chisholm 
states that Mason is on site every day and the other employees’ schedules 
vary if they are part time. 
Jay Simeone asks what the fees are from Comcast versus a ﬁber network. 
Casey Chisholm conﬁrms there are grant funding options that could be 
investigated, and more cost analysis would be needed. 
Chris Menard inquiries if all the MUNIS issues have subsided. Casey 
Chisholm conﬁrms they are getting better and anticipates signiﬁcant 
reduction in issues after the next jump in the cloud. Ezequiel Ayala is 
currently testing the SAS cloud, and the environment has been built. The 
testing will continue through March and anticipate going live the second 
week of April.  The company who owns MUNIS has been very responsive and 
helpful.  
Chris Menard asks if there is municipal software available for tasks such as 
scheduling rooms for zoom, workﬂow management, and taking minutes. 
Casey Chisholm states there are some features in OƯice 365 for scheduling 
rooms but there will need to be more collaborations and discussions for 
anything additional. 
Chris Menard suggests the schools and the town be in the same system. This 
has been a prior ﬁscal year budget request. 
7. New Business 
  There is no new business.  
===PAGE 4===
8. Old Business 
  a. FY26 Budget Discussions 
b. FY26 Warrant Articles 
c. Budget Task Force Recommendations 
9. Minutes 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes from January 9th by Jay Simeone, 
 seconded by  Tanya Dall. Roll call vote. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay 
 Simeone aye, Chris Menard  aye. 
10. Committee Reports 
  Chris Menard states that currently there is no representative from the Finance 
 Committee on the Master Plan Steering Committee.  
11. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There are no additional topics or actions for future meetings.  
12. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings  
  a. Thursday 2/20/2025– Presentation by the Council on Aging, Public Access, Library  
b. Tuesday 2/25/2025- Presentations by the Police, Fire, Land Use Department  
c. Thursday 2/27/2025– Presentations by the DPW, Facilities and Sewer   
d. Thursday 3/6/2025- Presentations by the Schools and Monty Tech 
e. Thursday 3/13/2025 (Public Hearing) 
f. Thursday 3/20/2025  
g. Thursday 3/27/2025 
13. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tanya Dall. Roll call 
 vote. Jean Russell aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 7:50 PM. 
 