===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
October 23, 2025 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Ana 
Lockwood, Committee Member Jay Simeone (Zoom) 
Absent Members: Vice Chair Jean Russell, Committee Member Tanya Dall, 
Committee Member Mike Rupp 
1.  Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:14 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Public hearing and initial votes on recommendations for articles will be discussed at 
 the meeting on November 13th.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Jennifer Warren-Dyment reports that Ezekiel Ayala's last day was Monday, and Katie 
 McKenna started as Finance Director the same day. 
The payroll and benefits coordinator, Nancy O’Rourke, is retiring October 21st. The 
 town has appointed a temporary staff member who began several weeks ago to fill 
 the position while it remains vacant. 
An offer has been made for the Assistant Accountant Position. In the meantime, 
 retired Finance Director Steve Barrett will assist the town until the role is filled.  
The town has a contract with CPA, Eric Kinsherf, who will be providing transitional 
 services to the town for the finance direction transition. He will be tasked with 
 assisting year end close out and prep for free cash certification by DLS.  
The tax classification hearing is scheduled for November 25th. The Select Board will 
 vote to determine if there is a shift between the different classes of property. This 
 hearing does not increase or reduce the tax levy but will determine how the levy will 
 be apportioned.  
===PAGE 2===
6. Current Business 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant  
ARTICLE 1 
    This article allows Town Meeting to hear and act upon reports  
  delivered to the Town Meeting body by Boards, Committees,   
  Commissions, and Town Officers. There will be oral reports from the 
  Stormwater Task Force, Lunenburg Municipal Building Design   
  Committee, Master Plan Steering Committee. 
ARTICLE 2 
   This article is established for the special meeting to make necessary  
  adjustments to the annual operating budget.  
   Ana Lockwood asks  what specific amount is proposed for raising and  
  appropriation.  Jennifer Warren-Dyment will get an exact   
  number to the Committee. 
  ARTICLE 3 
  This article requests authorization to pay expenses from a prior fiscal  
  year. At the time of printing there is a bill from FY25 from Heywood  
  Hospital in the amount of $266.00. 
  ARTICLE 4 
   This article requests authorization to fund special projects. There is a  
   request for $42,900 for stormwater consulting. There is a motion  
   under this article to transfer funds from prior fiscal years unexpended  
   capital articles.  
   ARTICLE 5 
    This articles request that the town vote to transfer the sum of $35,271  
   from retained grants of the PEB Access and Cable related Enterprise  
   Fund to fund the FY26 PEG Access and Cable related Enterprise  
   operation and capital budget. 
Ana Lockwood asks about their total budget. Jennifer Warren-Dyment 
 will check but notes their operation relies on retained earnings. 
   ARTICLE 6   
    This articles requests that the town vote to transfer the sum of   
   $10,000 from the Cemetery Sale of Lots Funds to the Cemetery  
   Capital Article Fund.  
Chris Menard questions if this is for north, south or both cemeteries.  
===PAGE 3===
   ARTICLE 7 
    This article requests that the town vote to raise and appropriate, or  
   transfer from available funds, the sum of $50,000 for the engagement  
   of one  or more consultant(s) to assist with capital estimations and 
    relative action thereto.  
Chris Menard inquires if this includes Monty Tech. Jennifer Warren 
  Dyment is unsure but will inquire. 
   ARTICLE 8 
     This articles request that the town establish a Special Education  
   Reserve Fund to be utilized in the upcoming fiscal years, to pay,  
   without further appropriation, for unanticipated or unbudgeted costs  
   of special education and recovery high school programs, out-of-  
   district tuition or transportation; or take any other action relative  
   thereto. 
Tom Gray asks if there is a new state law that establishes this fund.  
ARTICLE 9:  
   This article states that eligible seniors may apply for a deferral of  
  property tax payments. The  article requests raising the gross receipts  
  limit for the circuit breaker. 
Ana Lockwood inquires if any deferrals would be reduced from the 
 levy amount. Jennifer Warren- Dyment states the overlay would need 
 to increase to cover funding. 
   ARTICLE 10 
    This article authorizes the Select Board to obtain a permanent   
   easement at 21 Main Street to provide access to Town Hall. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states there is no financial impact.  
===PAGE 4===
 
   ARTICLE 11 
    This article requests the town transfer the care, custody, and control  
   of Kids Kingdom and the land from the School Committee to the  
   Select Board. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states there is no financial impact. 
Chris Menard questions if there will be a map that shows lines of what 
the School Committee owns versus what the Select Board owns. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states there will be a map and confirms most 
of the land has already been transferred. 
ARTICLE 12 
  This amendment would allow notice of a Town Meeting, be provided 
 via letter or postcard as opposed to mailing warrant booklets to every 
 household.  
Chris Menard questions how much it costs to print and mail the 
booklets. Jennifer Warren-Dyment estimates it to be around $7,000 to 
$8,000 but will get the exact number. 
   ARTICLE 13 
    This article addresses the new requirements of the Massachusetts  
   Zoning Act for MBTA Communities. New law mandates a zoning  
   ordinance or bylaw that provides for at least one district of reasonable 
   size in which multi-family housing is permitted as of right, is suitable  
   for families and children, and has a minimum gross density of 15 units 
   per acre. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment states that if communities fail to comply with 
 the new law, they will lose state funding from a variety of grant 
 programs and other initiatives.  The article will be submitted in 
 advance to the Attorney General to get pre-review to check to make 
 sure it’s acceptable as written.  
 ARTICLE 14 
    This article removes the requirement that common driveways be  
  paved with concrete, providing the Planning Board flexibility to   
  approve common drives constructed from appropriate alternate  
  materials. 
===PAGE 5===
Town Manager states there is no financial impact. 
   ARTICLE 15 
     This article changes the title of Land Use Director to Director of  
   Planning and  Economic Development. Additionally, these articles  
   create the temporary position of Special Assistant to the Assessor. 
Jay Simeone asks if Director of Planning and Economic Development 
 are separate roles and suggests that having a position between 
 Building Commissioner and Town Manager is atypical. 
   ARTICLE 16 
    The Select Board and Town Manager are reviewing SAP amendments  
   to update bylaws and improve employee recruitment and retention,  
   excluding the Personnel Committee. 
   ARTICLE 17 
    The Town is discontinuing the use of “Personnel Boards/Committees”  
   and consolidating human resources authority under professional  
   management and dedicated human resource staff. 
    Ana Lockwood notes that if things are working now, there is no   
   urgency. She believes this change would distance government from  
   citizens. 
b. FY26 First Quarter Actuals vs Budget 
  Chris Menard noted that the FY26 first quarter reports require improvement. 
 The Committee plans to collaborate with Katie McKenna, once she is fully 
 oriented, to bring the reports up to the desired standard. 
c. Upcoming Tri Board Topics 
   i. School Budget Presentation 
   ii. General Government 
   iii. Unclassified 
   iv. Debt Service 
  The Town Manager will poll Committee members regarding their availability to 
 schedule the next Tri Board meeting.  
Chris Menard suggests creating a budget calendar with the Town Manager. 
7. Old Business 
  a. Prior Tri-Board Meetings 
===PAGE 6===
8. Minutes – July 8 (Tri-Board) 
  There was a motion to approve minutes from September 25, 2025, and October 9, 
 2025 by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray.  Roll call vote. Jay Simeone aye, Ana 
 Lockwood aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
9. Committee Reports 
  There was a conversation noting that some Boards/Committees have not held 
 meetings lately. Chris Menards proposed reorganizing and assigning committees at 
 an upcoming  meeting. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  No further actions or topics were identified for inclusion on upcoming agendas. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings –TBD 
  b. Finance Committee – Nov 13 (Public Hearing) 
  c. Special Town Meeting – Nov 18 
12. Public Comment 
  There was no comment from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call 
 vote. Jay Simeone aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 9:03 PM. 
 
 
 
 