===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
April 24, 2025 
Present Members:  Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Tanya Dall, 
Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, 
Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member:  Vice Chair Jean Russell 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard conﬁrms this is the last Finance Committee meeting before the town 
  meeting.  
The Teen Center has asked if the Committee would ﬁeld a team to compete at Are 
 You Smarter than a 6th Grader.  The team currently consists of Jean Russell and Tom 
 Gray. 1 additional member is needed.   
Tom Gray states there was supposed to be a Municipal Building Design Committee 
 meeting yesterday but there was no quorum. The meeting will now take place on 
 Monday at 5:30 or 6 via Zoom.  
4. Public Comment 
  Jennifer DuƯy, 684 Flat Hill Road, inquired about the town band warrant article. 
 Chris Menard suggests reaching out to Mrs. Archambault. The Committee will 
 investigate this further.  
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, is concerned about the town taking money from 
 free cash and from Chapter 70 to maintain roads. Dave Rodgers is looking for the 
 town to provide some guidance about the school department budget situation. 
 Tanya Dall conﬁrms that they have hired a ﬁnance person for the schools. Ana 
 Lockwood conﬁrms there is no misappropriation  of funds but feels the budget  
 practices are very unclear and not transparent. Mike Rupp agrees and feels the town 
 and school ﬁnances need to be looked into further.   
John Bowen,162 Highland Street, states that the Cemetery Commission had a 
 meeting this morning. John Bowen feels that the Cemetery Commission has no idea 
===PAGE 2===
 about any costs related to the cemeteries. He feels the Committee should be able 
 to explain and show the needs of cemeteries, but they are unable. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Chris Menard states that booklets have been mailed to residents for the upcoming 
 town meeting. There are several hundred extras that will be available at the meeting. 
The School Department will be selling a limited number of pre-bagged lunches at 
the town meeting.  
6. New Business 
  a. Final Annual Town Meeting Discussions 
   Chris Menard was provided with the consent calendar from the Town   
  Manager.  
 There was a motion to approve the consent calendar by Ana   
 Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray.  Jay Simeone aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana 
  Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
 
 Chris Menard created an interchangeable document with projections that 
 has been saved on the SharePoint. 
 There was discussion about Article 8 and Article 9 on the capital plan. 
 Article 8 was the originally presented article. 
  Article 9 is from the schools withdrawing the original capital plan and adding 
 the primary school heat pump system with the remainder of money to come 
 from other sources.  The Committee previously voted on the article, but Chris 
 Menard requested the Town Manager change the Finance Committees vote 
 to deferred. 
b. 2026 Budget Task Force Recommendations  
   The Select Board is looking to recharge the Budget Task Force over the  
  summer to restart some work.  
Ana Lockwood reviewed Budget Task Forces in other towns. They were very 
public, eƯective, and transparent. 
There was discussion about having employees assigned to the Budget Task 
 Force as well as the pros and cons. Tom Gray volunteers to be a liaison if 
 nobody else is available. 
c. Committee Assignments 
   The Chair of the Master Plan Steering Committee inquired about having a  
===PAGE 3===
  liaison with the Finance Committee. Mike Rupp has expressed    
  interest and will reach out to the Chair, Tim Willsmer. 
Tom Gray will continue to be the liaison with the Municipal Design 
 Committee and Chris Menard will continue to be the liaison with the Capital 
 Planning Committee.  
7. Old Business 
  a. FY26 Budget Discussions* 
   There was no discussion about this topic. 
b. 2025 Budget Task Force Recommendations 
   The recommendations are in the SharePoint ﬁle. Some of the    
  recommendations have already been completed. Chris Menard wants the  
  Committee to review for discussion at upcoming meetings. 
8. Minutes 
 There was a motion to approve the minutes of February 25, 2025, February 27. 2025, 
 March 6, 2025, March 13, 2025, and March 20, 2025, by Tom Gray, seconded by Mike 
 Rupp. Roll call vote. Jay Simeone aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall 
 no, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
Tanya Dall feels the minutes are not adequate and are missing information. The 
 Committee is in agreement that they don’t want a transcript of the meeting. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Ana Lockwood has reached out to the school committee inquiring about obtaining 
 speciﬁc information. After 10 days she didn’t receive a response but later received a 
 memo via email from Brian Lehtinen with none of the requested information. Ana 
 Lockwood has again requested the data but feels as though the School Committee 
 is not meeting their obligations under the charter as to their budget. Chris Menard 
 agrees there should be full transparency associated with the funding source not just 
 raised and appropriated to the Finance Committee. Tanya Dall wants to use a  
  budget tool or a template for all departments to use for standardization.     
Under Mass General Law the Committee is entitled to ask for and obtain 
 information from departments.   
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Chris Menard suggests that members brainstorm possible actions or topics to 
 tackle  over the summer. 
===PAGE 4===
The Committee anticipates completing a full year budget cycle going forward where 
 budget requests are received much earlier.  
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Town Meeting, May 3, 2025 
  b. Fincom Meeting, May 8 
12. Public Comment 
  Dave Passios, JeƯerson NH, a former resident in Lunenburg, commented about the 
 annual audit and the need to sort out some of the questionable practices. He  
 disagrees with the annual audit that is required by statue that costs $60,000. In the 
  past it previously hasn’t been eƯective in ﬁnding issues. 
There were no comments from the Committee.   
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call 
 vote. Jay Simeone aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Tom Gray 
 aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 9:09 PM.  