===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
November 13, 2025 
Present Members:   Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member 
Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Chair Chris Menard, Committee Member Tanya Dall 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from Town Manager or the Finance Director. 
6. Public Hearing (Open/Close) 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant 
There was a motion to move into public meeting by Tom Gray, seconded by 
 Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
Article 1: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Tom Gray,   
  seconded by Ana Lockwood. All in favor. 
    There will only be reports from the Stormwater Task Force and  
   the Master Plan Steering Committee. Tom Gray is on the  
   Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee and conﬁrms they  
   were unable to present a report but states it would have no  
   ﬁnancial impact. 
Article 2: There was a motion to defer by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana   
  Lockwood. All in favor. 
Article 3: There was a motion to defer by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana   
  Lockwood. All in favor. 
===PAGE 2===
Article 4: There was a motion to defer by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom  
  Gray. All in favor. 
Ana Lockwood is not in favor of adding a new tax as proposed 
by the Stormwater Task Force. She agrees that the town needs 
to be in compliance but doesn’t believe it needs to be an 
additional tax. Ana Lockwood suggests a study be completed 
to determine the cost to be caught up with maintenance. She 
is looking for additional options to be explored 
Jay Simeone questions what happens if the town doesn’t use a 
consultant. 
Article 5: There was a motion to approve by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom  
  Gray. All in favor. 
Article 6: There was a motion to approve by Jay Simeone, seconded by Tom  
  Gray. All in favor. 
Article 7: There was a motion to approve by Tom Gray, Seconded by Ana  
  Lockwood. The vote was 4-0-1 to approve. 
Mike Rupp questions who approves expenditures and how they 
are divided up.  
Tom Gray believes that unexpended funds would be kept for a 
calendar year. Additionally, he suggests further funding should 
be done through the budget. 
The Committee inquiries into why unexpended capital projects 
funds aren’t used ﬁrst. 
Article 8: There was a motion to defer by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana   
  Lockwood. All in favor. 
   Ana Lockwood questions why this fund is being created now.  
   The current issues with the school budget don’t include this  
   topic. She believes the department needs to show good   
   ﬁnancial management before creating any new funds. 
Mike Rupp feels the article is too broad. 
Rhonda Liscio, 181 Reservoir Road, doesn’t agree with creating 
such a fund at this time due to economic circumstances.  
===PAGE 3===
Article 9: There was a motion to defer by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana   
  Lockwood. All in favor. 
    Rhonda Liscio, 181 Reservoir Road, wants to know what the  
   dollar impact would be on taxpayers. 
  The Finance Committee has additional questions before  
   approving or denying. 
Article 10: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Ana Lockwood, 
 seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. 
Article 11: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Ana Lockwood,  
  seconded by Tom Gray. All in favor. 
Article 12: There was a motion to deny by Tom Gray Article 12 was not   
  recommended and the vote was 3-0-2. 
Ana Lockwood states these booklets are the only paperwork 
that gets mailed to every household. It provides 
communication with every resident. With the 49-million-dollar 
town budget she doesn’t see this having a large ﬁnancial 
impact. 
Mike Rupp suggests sending out a quick summary as opposed 
 to the large booklet. 
Article 13: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Tom Gray,  
  seconded by Ana Lockwood. All in favor. 
Article 14: There was a motion to ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact by Tom Gray,  
  seconded by Jay Simeone. All in favor. 
Article 15: There was a motion to defer by Jay Simeone, seconded by Jean  
  Russell. All in favor. 
    Ana Lockwood expressed concern that there were no ﬁnancial  
   numbers provided. 
Article 16: There was a motion to defer by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana   
  Lockwood. All in favor. 
   The Committee agrees there is a ﬁnancial impact but   
   there were no numbers provided. 
Article 17: There was a motion to approve by Tom Gray, seconded by Jean  
  Russell. The vote was 1-2-1. 
===PAGE 4===
    Ana Lockwood wants to inquire with residents to get their  
   feedback. She emphasized that this should still be a citizen  
   body.  
There was a motion to approve recommendations of the consent agents of articles 
5,6,14 by Tom Gray, seconded by Ana Lockwood. All in favor. 
There was a motion to close public hearing by Tom Gray, seconded by Jean Russell. 
 All in favor. 
7. Current Business 
  a. Special Town Meeting Warrant 
   Recommendations will take place at the next meeting. 
8. Old Business 
  a. Upcoming Tri Board Topics 
   i. School Budget Presentation 
   ii. General Government  
   iii. Unclassiﬁed 
   iv. Debt Service 
  b. Prior Tri-Board Meetings 
9. Minutes 
  There were no minutes to review. 
10. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports. 
11. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There are no additional actions or topics to add to future agendas. 
12. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings – Nov 24 (Tentative) 
  b. Finance Committee – Dec 11 
  c. Special Town Meeting – Nov 18 
13. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
14. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Tom Gray, seconded by Jean Russell. All in favor. 
The meeting closed at 9:10 PM. 