===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Zoom Meeting 
April 6, 2026  
 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, 
Committee Member Jay Simeone, Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana 
Lockwood 
Absent Member: Committee Member Mike Rupp 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting started at 7:04 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
 There were no reports from the Town Manager or Finance Director. 
6. Current Business 
a. Votes on Articles 
  There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Articles 
 B, C, D, E, F , J, K, M, N, O, P , Q, Y , Z, ZZ by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean 
 Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom 
 Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye.  The Finance Committee 
 recommends approval 6-0. 
There was a motion that the Finance Committee ﬁnd no ﬁnancial impact on Articles 
A, HH, V by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood 
aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard 
aye. The Finance Committee found no ﬁnancial impact and the vote was 6-0. 
Article L. FY 2027 Omnibus Budget 
  Ana Lockwood questions why the Fire Department is adding an additional employee 
 per shift. Similar towns such as Groton only have 2 ﬁreﬁghters per shift.  
 Additionally, Ana Lockwood disagrees with adding the Assistant Town Manager 
 position and believes there needs to be a job description.  
 
===PAGE 2===
  There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article 
 L by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, 
 Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone abstain, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard 
 aye. The Finance Committee recommends approval 4-1-1. 
Article M. FY 2027 Proposition 2 ½ Override Budgets 
  Ana Lockwood believes the Committee should have been oƯered an option to vote 
 for a level budget. 
  Tier 1 vote 
    There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of  
  the Tier 1 override totaling 2.4 million by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean  
  Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone nay,  
  Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. The Finance Committee  
  recommends approval 4-2. 
Tier 2 vote 
   There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of  
  the Tier 2 override totaling 3.3 million by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean  
  Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone nay,  
  Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. The Finance Committee  
  recommends approval 4-2. 
Article X. PEG Enterprise Fund 
   There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article 
 X by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood aye, 
 Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye.  
 The Finance Committee recommends approval 6-0. 
Article EE. Amendment to Salary Administrative Plan 
  Ana Lockwood states it’s irresponsible that there is no outline for the 2 proposed 
 positions. 
There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article EE 
by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, 
Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone nay, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The Finance Committee recommends approval 4-2. 
Article GG. Notice of Town Meeting 
  There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article 
 GG by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, 
===PAGE 3===
 Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone nay, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
 The Finance Committee recommends approval 4-2. 
Article Q. General Purpose Stabilization Fund Transfer 
  There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article 
 Q by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood aye, 
 Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone nay, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
 The Finance Committee recommends approval 5-1. 
Article QQ. Special Purpose Stabilization Fund Transfer 
  There was a motion that the Finance Committee recommends approval of Article 
 QQ by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood nay, 
 Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
 The Finance Committee recommends approval 5-1. 
b. Finance Committee Report 
  Chris Menard followed the same structure implemented last year with the exception 
  of additional details. 
Tom Gray recommends including a statement in the booklet advising readers to 
consult the Finance Committee report concerning Article M and the balanced 
budget. 
There was a motion to approve the Lunenburg Finance Committee Annual Report for 
FY27 by Chris Menard, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll Call Vote: Ana Lockwood aye, 
Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
7. Old Business 
  a. FY27 Prop 2 ½ Override Discussions 
  b. TriBoard discussions (Prior and Upcoming) 
  c. Any other budgetary item related to Town Meeting 
8. Minutes 
  There were no minutes to review. 
9. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports.  
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Ana Lockwood requests quarterly updates from Karen Barrett and Chris McNamara.  
 Tom Gray wants to track updates on the Stormwater Task Force Utility. 
===PAGE 4===
Jean Russell recommends initiating budget discussions with department heads at 
 the beginning of the fall season. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Finance Committee – April 6 (if necessary –Zoom only) 
  b. Finance Committee – April 23 
  c. Town Meeting – May 2 
12. Public Comment  
  Chris Menard thanks the Committee for their hard work during budget season.  
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jean Russell, seconded by Tom Gray.  Roll Call 
 Vote: Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Jean 
 Russell aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 8:41 PM. 
 
 