===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
May 28, 2026 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Ana 
Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jean Russell 
Absent Members: Committee Member Jay Simeone, Committee Member Tanya Dall 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  a. FY26 Quarterly Report 
   Karen Barrett has been out sick and was unable to ﬁnalize the quarterly  
  report. 
Ana Lockwood requested revenue reports, comparisons to projections, 
 spending-to-actuals data, and updates on capital projects. 
 Jay Simeone requested general updates from the Finance Department. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Discussion on Town Meeting and Town Election results – recommendations on 
 path forward 
   Ana Lockwood sent an email to the Select Board and School Committee  
  regarding the troubled balance budget. Additionally, Ana Lockwood is aware  
  that the State Senate has increased revenue aid in various lines by $465,000.  
  Ana Lockwood suggests the School Committee request more appropriation 
  for their budget in light of the increased revenue aid.  
Chris Menard stated that the Finance Committee account was funded at 
$180,000 and ﬁnancial policies at $50,000. Chris Menard conﬁrms that the 
town will reconcile any additional state revenue at Special Town Meeting, but 
the report won’t be completed until July. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Jay Simeone watched the Select Board meeting and there was discussion 
about next steps now that the override failed.  
Jean Russell suggests any member who has an alternative budget that they 
present to the Finance Committee and the Tri-Board and do not wait until 
Town Meeting. 
Chris Menard thanked everyone who contributed over the last year, 
 present at meetings, and gave their opinions.  
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street, expressed concern about the town’s 
ﬁnancial issues. He said these problems need to be addressed and that the 
town needs a clearer understanding of its income, along with more complete 
information from all sources. 
b. Local Receipts Trends 
   Ana Lockwood states for the last 10 years the town has not collected less  
  than 4 million dollars in local receipts. This year’s estimate is 3.535 million.  
  Ana Lockwood suggests not being so conservative based on the data. 
Chris Menard suggests having an analyst review all of the town’s policies on 
 free cash and estimates. 
c. Discuss FY27 Budget process and improvement ideas 
   Ana Lockwood states the balanced budget needs to be the preliminary  
  budget. Going forward, all documents regarding town ﬁnances need to be  
  available to the public and published on the town website.  
  Majority of the Committee supports continuing the Tri-Board    
  Committee. 
   Jay Simeone suggests reviewing the free cash policy.  
  Mike Rupp requests the department heads provide their presentation in an  
  excel format.  
7. Old Business 
               No old business was discussed. 
8. Minutes – 3/26, 4/2, 4/6 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes of March 26, 2026, April 2, 2026, and 
 April 6, 2026, by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Jean Russell. Roll call vote: Jean 
 Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
===PAGE 3===
 Chris Menard will follow up with the Tri-Board meeting minutes. 
9. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  - Financial Policy Review 
  Ana Lockwood requested returning to a consistent meeting schedule.    
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Finance Committee – June 11 (tentatively scheduled) 
12. Public Comment 
  Tom Gray stated that the water district elections will take place on June 3rd. 
  Chris Menard shared that the Town Fair is scheduled for May 31st. 
   Chris Menard thanked Jean Russell for her time on the Finance Committee. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call 
 vote: Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 7:52 PM. 
 