===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
February 12, 2026 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Committee Member 
Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Mike Rupp, 
Committee Member Jay Simeone 
Absent Member: Clerk Tom Gray 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements. 
4. Public Comment 
  Ana Lockwood shared the data she collected regarding the overall school budget. 
 The documents were also uploaded to the Sharepoint ﬁle. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Preliminary Budget 
   Jennifer Warren-Dyment stated there are 3 active bargaining’s ongoing  
  including Fire, DPW and the clerical union. 
The town received the actual health insurance number totaling 8.85%. A 
 cause for the unexpected reduction was the elimination of GLP-1 drug.  There 
 will be a more detailed presentation soon. 
 
There have been additional changes in the schedule for budget 
presentations. Ana Lockwood requested the preliminary budget 
presentations be provided to the Committee in advance. Jennifer Warren-
Dyment has requested the department heads provide a level sever budget 
and provide an explanation for any line item above the level service request. 
Chris Menard requested an above level service and a restorative service 
budget. 
b. Discussions on potential FY27 Prop 2 ½ Override 
   The Committee questioned if separate overrides would be needed depending 
  on the departments. 
===PAGE 2===
Chris Menard indicates that even if a level service budget override is 
 implemented this year, an additional level service override may be required 
 the following year. 
Chris Menard has indicated that he may not be able to include the full 
ﬁnance committee report with the mailed warrants. In such circumstances, 
a QR code will be provided to direct residents to a concise summary of the 
report. 
c. TriBoard discussions (Prior and Upcoming) 
   There were no comments, questions or concerns raised. 
7. Old Business 
  There was no old business to discuss. 
8. Minutes 
  There was a motion to approve the minutes of January 8, 2026, by Ana Lockwood, 
  seconded by Chris Menard. Roll call vote. Jean Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana 
 Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
9. Committee Reports 
  There were no Committee reports. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  There were no additional actions or topics suggested to add to future meetings. 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Finance Committee – February 19, 26 
 b. Tri-Board - TBA 
12. Public Comment 
  Ana Lockwood shared that she watched the Capital Planning Committee meeting 
 and stated there was discussion about replacing the turf ﬁeld. This was not a ranked 
 project and not part of the school request. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tanya Dall. Roll call 
 vote. Jean Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay 
 Simeone aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 7:43 PM.  