===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee 
Thursday, June 11, 2026 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
 
Present Members: Clerk Tom Gray, Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member 
Ana Lockwood, Committee Member Jay Simeone, Committee Member Mike Rupp 
Absent Member: Chair Chris Menard 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:01 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  There were no announcements.  
4. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
Ana Lockwood referenced two prior requests that were approved by the Select 
Board but not by the Finance Committee. She suggested that, in similar situations 
going forward, boards and commissions be included before decisions are made. 
She also expressed support for the proposed recreation department pilot program. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  There were no reports from the Town Manager or the Finance Director. 
6. Current Business 
  a. Year End Transfers 
   The documents needed on this topic were not provided but should be   
  available for the next meeting. 
b. Prioritization of Fiscal Policies to be reviewed in future meetings 
   Chris Menard provided the list below prior to the meeting: 
    - Policies on free cash 
    - Revenue projections and policies 
   - Stabilization accounts 
   - Role of Capital Committee 
    - OPEB contributions 
===PAGE 2===
Tom gray suggests reviewing policies as a group to then make 
recommendations to present to the Select Board and/or the Tri-Board 
Committee. 
Tanya Dall recommended placing greater emphasis on community 
 engagement. 
7. Old Business 
  No old business was presented for review. 
8. Minutes 
  There were no minutes to review. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Tom Gray states the Municipal Building Design Committee met and had discussions 
 about the needs of the town for town oƯices.  
Ana Lockwood asked whether the former car dealership had been considered for 
oƯice space. The option has been discussed, but concerns remain that Town Hall 
and the Ritter Building would be left unused and begin to deteriorate. The primary 
goal is to improve conditions for residents using town services and for town 
employees. 
Tom Gray also watched the Select Board and School Committee meetings and 
believes there may be interest in continuing the Tri-Board Committee. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  - Year-end transfers 
  - Tri-Board 
  - Policies 
  - Election and re-organization (if needed) 
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Finance Committee – July 9 
12. Public Comment 
  There were no comments from the public. 
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Jay Simeone. All in 
 favor. 
The meeting closed at 7:34 PM. 