===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room 
Lunenburg Town Hall 
January 8, 2026 
Present Members: Chair Chris Menard, Vice Chair Jean Russell, Clerk Tom Gray, 
 Committee Member Tanya Dall, Committee Member Ana Lockwood, Committee 
 Member Mike Rupp, Committee Member Jay Simeone 
1. Call to Order 
  The meeting opened at 7:00 PM. 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
3. Announcements 
  Chris Menard states the ﬁnal 2 Tri-Board meetings are scheduled for January 12, 
 2026 and January 26, 2026. 
4. Public Comment 
   Stephanie (LAST NAME) participated in the meeting as a newly appointed  
 representative who began her role on October 1, 2025. 
5. Town Manager & Finance Director Reports 
  Jennifer Warren-Dyment shared several updates regarding staƯing. 
Katherine McKenna was hired as the Finance Director. She felt this wasn’t a good 
 ﬁt and gave her 60-day notice. Her last day of service was December 31, 2025. 
  Retired Finance Director, Karen Brochu, has come forward to work part time as the 
 Interim Finance Director/Town Accountant. Her ﬁrst priority is to close out FY 2025 
Nancy O’Rourke has retired as the Manager of Payroll and Beneﬁts. Currently, there 
is a temp in place from Robert Half. There have been numerous interviews, and an 
oƯer was extended to a candidate today.  
Town Manager has signed an agreement with Complete StaƯing to recruit and ﬁll the 
Finance Director position. There have been numerous interviews for this position. 
Ana Lockwood shared her concern about the title of Finance Director and Town 
Accountant. There is concern about who this person should report to. Jennifer 
Warren-Dyment conﬁrms that larger towns with larger budgets are able to split the 
position. The town accountant would be the primary duty for this position. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Town Manager has sent notiﬁcation to the 11 customers in town who received a 
water bill from the town. Their regular quarterly bills were not sent to them in a 
timely manner, and they will be issued a catch-up bill to cover January 2025 through 
November 2025. 
6. Current Business 
  a. FY27 Budget Calendar 
   Chris Menard is requesting that Monty Tech provide their presentation earlier  
  than usual. Chris Menard believes there may need to be cutbacks similar to  
  what the public schools have had to do. The Committee wants to have a 
  conversation  prior to them presenting their budget. The Committee agrees  
  that Monty Techs assessment should be aligned with the Lunenberg Public 
   Schools. 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment has heard that the schools want to present a true 
ask of the Town Manager for their budget that is unrelated to available 
revenue. The Town Manager and the Finance Committee request they 
present their budget earlier than usual.  
b. Town Meeting discussions 
   Ana Lockwood was uncomfortable with the last town meeting and felt not  
  enough information was provided. She suggests having items added to the  
  operational budget but Town Manager states there is no capacity to add to  
  the operational budget.  
c. Summary of Capital Planning Committee 
   Ana Lockwood shared her concern about ongoing conversations that are  
  pertinent to the Finance Committee but haven’t been brought in front of the  
  Committee. Jennifer Warren-Dyment states that the Capital Planning   
  Committee is currently focusing on getting through FY27 requests and then  
  will be focusing on the out years. Furthermore, the Capital Planning   
  Committee has initiated a request to implement a standardized template or  
  format for use by all department heads. 
d. Discussions on potential FY27 Prop 2 ½ Override 
   Chris Menard indicates that there may be a Proposition 2 ½ override   
  proposed by the schools, the consideration of a fourth shift for the Fire  
  Department, and additional measures to address the needs of the town. 
Ana Lockwood states there needs to be a solution found as opposed to an 
override. Some areas to focus on included recycling, TCP building, and 
===PAGE 3===
ambulance receipts. She will create a spreadsheet and disperse to the 
Committee.  
The Town Manager conﬁrmed that there would need to be service cuts and 
realignments to have a balanced budget without an override. Jennifer 
Warren-Dyment has spoken to department heads to update their budget as 
well as include a budget with a 5% reduction. 
Chris Menard suggests holding additional Tri-Board meetings to iron things  
 out. 
e. Tri-Board Discussions (Previous and Upcoming) 
   Chris Menard requested information from the Committee and Town Manager  
  about whether the Stormwater Task Force would present a proposal for an  
  enterprise fund. Town Manager states she would be surprised if they were  
  ready for the town meeting in May.  
7. Old Business 
  No additional discussion on this topic took place. 
8. Minutes (10/23/25, 11/13/2025) 
  There was a motion to approve minutes of October 23, 2025, and November 13, 
 2025 as amended by Ana Lockwood, seconded by Tom Gray. Roll call vote.  Jean 
 Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay Simeone aye, 
 Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
9. Committee Reports 
  Several members have not been assigned to Committees. This topic will be added 
 to the upcoming agenda. 
10. Actions and Topics for Future Meetings 
  Committee Assignments  
  Monty Tech Presentation  
11. Important Dates & Upcoming Meetings 
  a. Tri-Board Meetings – January 12 & 26 
  b. Finance Committee – February 5- Monty Tech Presentation. 
   This meeting was originally scheduled for January 29. 
12. Public Comment 
 There were no comments from the public. 
===PAGE 4===
13. Adjourn 
  There was a motion to adjourn by Jay Simeone, seconded by Ana Lockwood. Roll 
 call vote. Jean Russell aye, Mike Rupp aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Tanya Dall aye, Jay 
 Simeone aye, Tom Gray aye, Chris Menard aye. 
The meeting closed at 9:08 PM. 