===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Vacancy  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Jasmin Farinacci – Land Use Director 
Logan O’Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-06-23 
 
   
 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE 
Chair M. Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M. The pledge of allegiance was led by M. Allison. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Per Chair M. Brenner: L. O’Connell is leaving the Town to work for OpenGov. The two public information 
sessions for MBTA Zoning Compliance options were successful. The Board does have the ability to manually 
adjust quorum. 
(Out of order): J. Farinacci report. 
APPOINTMENTS 
Board Reorganization 
The only outstanding role is Chair. 
M. Brenner nominated as Chair. 
APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) PLANS 
558 / 560 Goodrich St – ANR-25-8 
C. Anderson presented on behalf of applicants Easterbrook Nominee Trust & ER Realty Trust 2022. Noted 
comment from Board of Health about requiring Title V inspection, replied there is ample space to replace a 
septic system if this one fails. 
Lot 1A is an existing garage / barn on the property at 560 Goodrich St. It’s utilized by owners of 558 
Goodrich St. 
J. Farinacci found no issues with the application. 
MEETING POSTED: Yes 
ADDRESS: Town Hall – 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 6:00 P.M. 
PRESENT:  
ABSENT:  
===PAGE 2===
2 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-05-12  
 
   
 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to endorse the ANR for 558 and 560 Goodrich St as per plan of record. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
60 Cross Rd – ANR-25-9 
C. Anderson presented on behalf of applicant Timothy Gendron. Designating Lot 12A as a new additional 
lot. Has over 100 ft of frontage. Lot 12B is the existing house, just under 3 acres. Has applicable front & 
side-yard setbacks. 
J. Farinacci found no issues with the application. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to endorse the ANR for 60 Cross Rd as per the plan of record. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
DECISIONS 
(Out of order): 443 West Townsend Rd 8:08 P.M. 
Decision not available – wasn't sent and Jasmin doesn’t have computer. Delayed to next meeting. 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
100 Townsend-Harbor Rd – Stormwater Management Permit (PBSW-25-2) 
Mikael Lassila (Tauper Land Survey) presented for applicant DCJS, LLC. 
M. Brenner invited public comment. 
Carl Strathmeyer question. M. Brenner response. 
J. Farinacci weighed in. If major deviations from the approved decision are found and documented (i.e. 
massive increases in contamination) you could bring that to file an enforcement order. In this case the 
runoff exists as-is. The construction of this isn’t going to add significant amounts of water. 
M. Lassila read his reply to Carl Strathmeyer. 
Motion:  MEMBER_NAME, to close the public hearing for 100 Townsend-Harbor Rd. 
Second: SECOND_NAME. 
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
T. Willsmer is dissatisfied with the current Stormwater Bylaw (§ 204 of the Town Code). M. Brenner 
discussed the history of the Stormwater Bylaw, noting it’s stricter than the state’s requirements and is 
more involved to update. 
J. Farinacci discussed motion language with the Board. The possibility of conditioning applicant 
responsibility to remedy condition contaminant-based remedies since there’s no established baseline for 
the watershed. T. Willsmer sees merit of  
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to approve the Stormwater Management Permit for 100 Townsend-Harbor Rd  
 with all standard conditions. 
Second: A. Reid. 
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-05-12  
 
   
 
J. Farinacci will send draft decision to applicants. 
260 Falulah Rd – Special Permit, Stormwater Management Permit (PMOD-25-2) 
C. Anderson presented for applicant Fitchburg Land Redevelopment Authority. 
Motion: T. Willsmer, to continue the public hearings for 1083 Northfield Rd Special Permit &   
Stormwater Management Permits to 2025-06-09 at 6:05 P.M. 
Second: A. Reid 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
The Board discussed and would like to have peer review given the changes to the Stormwater system.  
C. Anderson noted the City of Fitchburg. 
Board moved to require peer review not to exceed $2,000. 
M. Brenner invited public comment. 
Dave Rogers (82 Highland St) asked about the “unsuitable” substance being left on-site. Wanted to know 
what the substance is, who put it there, and what responsibilities would be tied in perpetuity to the 
property. Per C. Anderson the materials were discovered during the geo-technical review. Upon discovery, 
the project stopped and a Licensed Site Professional was hired. DEP was notified and is involved in cleanup. 
The Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority is retaining control of the unsuitable portion of the property, while 
Fitchburg Landowners (?) Inc controls the rest. The current understanding is that as long as the material 
doesn’t get touched it will not spread. J. Farinacci confirmed the Planning Board didn’t have a role in the 
contamination aspect—that is overseen by DEP. 
Insert M. Brenner explanation 7:25 
Long discussion about contamination and inter-board coordination. 
D. Roger – I was a water commissioner for 40 years. During that time some dumping happened on 
Townsend Harbor Rd. I was one of three that negotiated the removal & remediation of the dumped 
materials. In addition, we negotiated a condition for the paper companies to go in and extend the mains so 
that the water servicing that area of Town would be potable. 
I think it’s important for someone in the Town of Lunenburg to be the point-person for concerns about the 
site in total, so that the adjacent property is not confused and everybody knows what the situation is. 
M. Brenner – the Board can do virtually nothing about what you’ve discussed. However, I’m happy to 
personally ask around to get some answers to those questions and report back at our next meeting. 
D. Rogers – How is the site accessed? 
C. Anderson – There are two paved driveways. 7:40 answer. 
D. Rogers – Pushed for deed restriction on the Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority portion of the parcel 
due to the contaminants. 
Motion:  T. Willsmer, to continue the public hearing for 260 Falulah Rd Modification to Site Plan 
Approval and Stormwater Management Permit to 2025-07-14 at 6:05 P.M. 
Second: A. Reid. 
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
===PAGE 4===
4 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-05-12  
 
   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
MBTA Communities Act – Choosing Option for Consultant’s Work 
Chair M. Brenner outlined the results of the public info session: Attendants were heavily in favor of paper 
compliance (using the existing 40R District at 37 Youngs Rd, a.k.a “Tri-Town”). 
The Board briefly discussed & then agreed this was most practical. 
D. Rogers – I attended the public info session. Thank you for hosting that. There are provisions in the 
legislation that Lunenburg could use to be in compliance with. Notwithstanding the political aspects, I agree 
with this option. 
T. Willsmer moved to instruct Community Scale to draft the bylaw implementing Option B. A. Reid 
seconded. Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
Master Plan Steering Committee – Adjusting Quorum 
M. Brenner read email from Town Manager. 8:03 P.M. 
For an advisory committee, the Planning Board can directly define quorum. 
M. Brenner  
T. Willsmer moved to amend the charter of the master plan steering committee to set the quorum to 5 
individuals. 
A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer –  
Open Space Committee 
Per G. McLeod –  
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Per M. Allison –  
Capital Planning Committee 
Per Chair M. Brenner –  
Economic Development Committee 
Per G. McLeod –  
Storm Water Task Force 
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer –  
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Per Clerk A. Reid –  
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Per Clerk A. Reid –  
MINUTES APPROVAL 
===PAGE 5===
5 of 5 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-05-12  
 
   
 
Lorem Ipsum Foo 
Motion:  M_Name, to M_Content 
Second:  S_Name 
Vote: Passed 0-0 
MEETING SCHEDULE 
Upcoming meetings are MTG_ONE and MTG_TWO at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS 
ADJOURNMENT 
Motion: M_NAME, to adjourn. 
Second: SECOND_NAME 
Vote: Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned 8:29 P.M. 
Minutes by Logan O’Connell, Admin Asst. 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED 
TLS Reply to Carl Strathmeyer Comments 
 