===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Brenner Chair
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair
Amanda Reid Clerk
Matthew Allison Member
Adam Burney Member
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Jasmin Farinacci – Land Use Director
Logan O’Connell – Admin Asst.
MINUTES
2025-07-28
Meeting posted: Yes
Address: Town Hall –17 Main St. Lunenburg, MA 01462
Time: 6:00 PM
Present: T. Willsmer, A. Reid, A.   Brenner
Absent: 
CALL     TO ORDER / PLEDGE  
Chair M.Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M. The pledge of allegiance was deferred.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None at this time. No public parties in person or in online waiting room.
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Per  Mr. WIllsmer (Out of order): J. Farinacci report not available interim director not in attendance report 
not submitted.
APPOINTMENTS
None
DECISIONS
443 West Townsend Rd will be forwarded to office. 
260 Falulah Road 
T.Wilsmer stated was supposed to be signed at previous hearing but did not have any of the docs. Chair 
asks J. Faranacci to forward decisions after hearing for review and signatures.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
1083 Northfield Road – Conmon driveway /Stormwater Management Permit    PBSW 25-1  )  
Ryan Proctor, Dillis and Roy appearing to summarize to application for Common driveway for addition of 5th driveway  
instead of 4 as well as Stormwater Permit for same. and where it stands with  prior board meetings to this date. Mr. 
Proctor states that they received the Peer review from Graves Engineering just prior to the hearing in regards to 
===PAGE 2===
2 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-28-07
comments that were drainage related (labeling elevations related to drainage structure),tends to address comments 
with a formal letter, asks Board if there are questions resulting from the new report. 
Mr. Burney expresses concern of the additon of the 5th driveway.  Asks distance from Main driveway.  Mr Proctor states 
about 300ft. From main driveway.  Mr. Burney expresses concern on length and geometry for emergency vehicles to 
navigate. Mr. Burney asks if FD had any issues relating to the Opengov application. Mr. Proctor states FD did not 
comment or object. Mr. Burney worried about approval of 5th setting precident. 
Mr. Burney asks if Con. Comm permits have been filed.  Mr. Proctor states those are in process under peer review by 
request of Con Comm. 
Mr. Brenner asks for questions or concerns from Board.
Mr. Wilmer asks if roadway or driveway has been addressed due to the 5th driveway.  Mr Burney states origninal 
language for common driveway is 2, but can be between 2-6, with double the amount being fair. Mr. Proctor states that 
18 feet of pavement was requested by Zoning Board.  Discussion by Mr. Burney regarding the addition of the 5th 
driveway and a sub division. 
Mr. Brenner states they will need to come back due to the submission review. Mr. Burney states that they will need to 
have majority vote. Mr Burney advises may have to w/d and due to quorum issues. 
Chair Brenner notes Tanner Cole has question. 
Tanner Cole commenting Mr. Allison was at meeting, FD reviewed, Building Commissioner Gingras advised the project 
should seek variance and FD reviewed plans as currently sit. Mr Cole doesn’t believe that approval of this plan would set 
precident as this plan due to topography and wetlands is very difficult. FD reviewed all of the access prior to ZBA 
approval. 
Motion:  M.Brenner moved, to continue the public hearings for 1083 Northfield Road Common 
Driveway/ Stormwater Management Permits to 2025-08-25 at 6:05 P.M.
Second: A.Reid
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -abstained, passed.
260 Falulah Rd – Special Permit, Stormwater Management Permit (  PMOD-25-2  )  
Bill Hannigan, Hannigan engineering appearing for 260 Falulah.  Application viewed for land characteristics 
rendered larger area unstable.  Project plans were adjusted to smaller footprint, 183,500 sq ft from 
367,000. Area of construction shifted to southside of property,  same intent, same configuration. Land split 
majority in Fitchburg some in Lunenburg. Stormwater management, parking and everything with smaller 
footprint has been scaled back.  Peer review done by Graves Engineering. Discussion regarding the absence 
of Board Member Allison. 
Mr Brenner reviewed peer review was ordered due to slope, and felt was addressed, ammended plan on 
Opengov. 
Mr. Brenner asks for public comment noone in chambers or online
Mr Brenner asks for Jasmine to comment as Director. Jasmine states if snow removal was addressed.  Mr 
Hannigan reviews conditions of snow removal added to the maintenance. 
Mr.  Hannigan advised snow removal was an issue , snow storage will be addressedd with wind row 
plowing to the parking lot edges and creation of snow piles aslong the exterior during typical storm events. 
Should these storage areas become overburdned, snow removal will be required. Snow removal opertions 
===PAGE 3===
3 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-28-07
will be required to dispose snow in acordance with appropriate regulations. Specifically no dumping in 
detention basins.
Jasmine Farnacci wants either signs posted for no dumping of snow in catch basins or listed in operations 
plans.
Hailey Palazola with GFI partners stated included in property management plan and the company that 
mangages portfolio. Would be open to having condition of a sign. 
Jasmine satisfied that it is listed within the operations and maintenance plan.
Mr Brenner asks for any conditons. Jasmine states as long as in existing O&M
Motion:  M.Brenner asks for motion to close the public hearings for 260 Falulah Rd Modification to 
site plan approval and Stormwater Management Permits. 
T. Willsmer so moved.
Second: A.Reid
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, M.Brenner -Aye, A. Burney -abstained
Deliberation: led by M. Brenner 
Graves is all set. Jasmine is set with O &M plan.
Motion:  M.Brenner asks to have a motion such as to approve the Modification to Site Plan Approval & 
Storm Water Management Permit for 260 Falula Road and I would carry forward the conditions from the 
original permit , and that the office receive a clean peer review from Graves to complete file. 
     Moved. T. Willsmer
Second: A.Reid
Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, M.Brenner – Aye, A. Burney -abstained
BOARD DISCUSSIONS
Community  Abutter Notices- will be included in SharePoint unless immediate notification necessary to 
board.
Master Plan Steering Committee
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer – T. Willmer noted having new quorum requirements makes it easier.  Kim Duffy 
has taken on role of organizing the group.  Reviewed everything been given by over /under and happy to 
submit back and obtain first draft completed.
Open Space Committee
Per T. Willsmer – last meeting was canceled
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee
Per T.Willsmer – no one in attendance
Capital Planning Committee
Per T. Willsmer no one in attendance
===PAGE 4===
4 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-28-07
Economic Development Committee
Per T. Willsmer no one in attendance
Storm Water Task Force
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer – meeting and met w/ independent contractor, had questions answered.  
Continue to review and finalize docs.
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
Per Clerk A. Reid – last minute meeting to approve out of district travel
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee
Per Clerk A. Reid – no last meeting.  skipped this month
MINUTES APPROVAL
Second: Burney seconded
 Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Burney -Aye 
Approved minutes
MEETING SCHEDULE
The upcoming meeting is 07-28-2025 at 6:00 P.M.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None at this time.
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS
ADJOURNMENT
Motion: A. Burney, to adjourn.
Second: A. Reid seconded
Vote:            Voice vote, passed unanimously.
Meeting adjourned.
Minutes by Jennifer Daigle, Admin Asst.
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED