===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner Chair 
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid  Clerk 
Matthew Allison Member 
Glenn McLeod  Member 
 
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Christopher Reilly – Land Use Director 
Logan O'Connell – Admin Asst. 
 
MINUTES 
2025-02-24 
 
   
 
CALL TO ORDER / PLEDGE 
Matthew Brenner called the meeting to order at 6:06 P.M after slight delays. The pledge of allegiance was 
led by Matthew Allison. 
C. Reilly could not attend. 
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Skipped due to C. Reilly’s absence. 
ANRs (Approval Not Required) 
589 Flat Hill Rdi 
The Board reviewed the plan, which C. Reilly recommended endorsing in his staff report. 
G. McLeod moved to endorse the ANR for 589 Flat Hill Rd. 
T. Willsmer seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
ZONING WORKSHOP 
Accessory Dwelling Units 
Skipped due to C. Reilly’s absence. 
Floodplain Map Updates 
Skipped due to C. Reilly’s absence. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
MEETING POSTED: Yes 
ADDRESS: Town Hall – 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
TIME: 6:06 P.M. 
PRESENT: Matthew Brenner (Chair), Timothy Willsmer (Vice Chair), Amanda Reid (Clerk), 
Matthew Allison, Glenn McLeod  
ABSENT: Christopher Reilly (Land Use Director) 
===PAGE 2===
  
 
   
 
494 Electric Ave – Site Plan Approval (SPA), Stormwater Management Permit (SMP)ii 
(cont. from 2025-02-10) 
Following discussions are re-ordered for clarity. Bill Hannigan (Hannigan Engineering) presented on behalf 
of applicant D&A Lunenburg, LLC. 
Ownership status of Pierce Ave: Complete title abstract package including backing documentation sent to 
C. Reilly, who forwarded to Town Counsel (per Atty. Jeff Avini). Board is awaiting a cost estimate to verify 
applicant’s title abstract from Town Counsel, would be at applicant’s expense.  
M. Allison opined application shouldn’t be before the board without legal resolution of Pierce Ave. 
Applicants clarified position: the road is a Public Way. Adopting a Public Way involves (1) the acceptance of 
the way, which Lunenburg completed, and (2) the conveyance of the fee within the road, which Lunenburg 
did not complete. This generally results in the way becoming a “paper street” (i.e. right to pass & repass 
over the way is limited to residents living on & around the road). Applicants noted legal review was 
anticipated but then delayed well beyond expectations. 
The validity of the application was discussed. Per M. Allison, the Land Use Director & Zoning Officer agree 
application is invalid if Pierce Ave is a Public Way. The board cannot waive parking requirements, which are 
only met if the applicant is correct about owning the road’s fee / the lots it splits being merged. Applicants 
opined it was their choice to proceed despite possible invalidity, acknowledged use of other parties’ time 
(Board, abutters) as an indicator of their confidence about Pierce Ave. M. Allison recommended 
withdrawing application without prejudice until Pierce Ave resolution, applicant declined. 
M. Allison opined the project qualified as a “Shopping Center” under bylaw1 , which Board hadn’t received 
an application for. Applicants disagreed – definition is more than 5,000 sqft (applies) as well as more than 3 
uses (doesn’t apply). Emphasized any later application adding more uses would trigger that bylaw / come 
before the Board anyway, but that was out-of-scope for this application. 
B. Hannigan asked for plan-specific feedback (traffic, crosswalk, etc) to make the Board comfortable, 
assuming applicant does own Pierce Ave.  
A. Reid preferred moving the entrance off Pierce Ave & using a deceleration lane. B. Hannigan explained 
the proposed entrance location provides sight-distance for drivers. Opined a deceleration lane would be 
dangerous here due to traffic speed, i.e. no slowing down to wait for next driver’s right-hand turn. Noted 
typical deceleration lanes much longer than the one at Lunenburg CVS. G. McLeod agreed entrance should 
be moved but acknowledged impact of permitting delays on businesses.  
B. Hannigan provided sketchesiii of crosswalk location options to the Board, noting the importance of 
planning around realistic pedestrian behavior. 
M. Allison agreed entrance could be moved to Electric Ave, suggested combining with a curb cut for the 
new building. Asked about possibility of future development on Pierce Ave increasing traffic (i.e. residential 
lots being used for MBTA Communities Act zoning). B. Hannigan declined to comment beyond the 
application’s scope but suggested conditioning the location of Pierce Ave based on its subsequent traffic 
volume. 
 
1 See § 250-4.1K(19) 
===PAGE 3===
  
 
   
 
 
J. Avini asked if the Board could permit the inter-building canopy portion of the plan only. Per M. Brenner 
they can’t, suggested submitting a de minimis change to the original plan that the Building Commissioner 
relies on for Building Permits. 
M. Brenner sought public comment. 
Dave MacDonald (155 Island Rd) advocated helping businesses through the permitting process, suggested 
using conditions like B. Hannigan described. 
Bob Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) suggested more non-binding straw-polling of Board members’ opinions to 
help applicants adjust and reach approval. Opined previously mentioned concerns beyond scope of 
application (Shopping Center status, MBTA Communities) was opposite of working with businesses. 
T. Willsmer moved to continue the hearing for 494 Electric Ave SPA and SMP to 2025-03-10 at 6:05 P.M. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
801 Northfield Rd – SPAiv 
A. Reid read the Public Hearing Notice. Hearing opened 7:14 P.M. 
Greg Roy (Dillis & Roy) presented for applicant Lunenburg Conservation Commission. Project creates 
parking area for Rayno Conservation Area, using a grant for construction & improvement of conservation 
land access. Designed to avoid Conservation jurisdiction / wetlands buffer zone, requires SPA through 
Planning Board and a Driveway Permit through Department of Public Works. 
Utilizes existing access to property currently being used for a logging operation leading into proposed 10-
car gravel parking surface with access to land. No trigger for local Stormwater Permit but Stormwater 
Management mechanisms were included for MA Department of Environmental Protection (MassDEP). 
M. Brenner sought public comment. 
Bob Pease (11 Wintergreen Ct) explained the area is currently being logged: the loggers will leave selected 
skid-trails, clear the area of the parking lot. Area contains two substantial loop trails & connectivity to other 
conservation land. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the public hearing for 801 Northfield Rd SPA. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Hearing closed 7:20 P.M. 
T. Willsmer moved to grant Site Plan Approval for 801 Northfield Rd as-presented, with Standard 
Conditions. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
994 Northfield Rd – SPAv 
A. Reid read the Public Hearing Notice. Hearing opened 7:23 P.M. 
G. Roy presented for applicant Lunenburg Conservation Commission. Project creates 10-car parking area 
for Table Rock Conservation Area using grant mentioned above. Site (north of Northfield Rd) is within 
===PAGE 4===
  
 
   
 
Conservation jurisdiction / subject to Wetlands Protection Act. Stormwater Management Plan required for 
MassDEP, but local SMP bylaw not triggered. Goal is to establish a distinct access point, reducing reliance 
on Stage Coach Rd. Project also being reviewed by Conservation Commission. 
Board members discussed Scenic Road impacts & tree preservation. G. Roy clarified no trees or stone walls 
would be removed at the access point / no trigger for Scenic Road bylaw. 
M. Brenner sought public comment. 
Michelle Matthew (914 Northfield Rd) expressed concerns about potential increased parking near her 
property. G. Roy marked the plan to clarify the parking’s location & distance from the lot line. 
Laura Caron-Gustus (19 Burke St) & Tanya Eberlin own & manage abutting golf course, Settler’s Crossing. 
Raised concerns about golf ball hazards, unauthorized course access, & general security of parking lot, as 
well as potential Stormwater impacts on course. T. Eberlin noted past issues with illicit activities in their 
own parking lot & questioned whether the new lot would be patrolled. B. Pease (previous Conservation 
Commission member) addressed these concerns: 
• Misuse: Lot is designed to be visible from Northfield Rd to deter misuse.  
• Golf Balls: He and G. Roy saw no evidence of golf balls on-site.  
• Stormwater: G. Roy explained project must meet strict Stormwater regulations of Conservation 
Commission & MassDEP, preventing impact. 
• Unauthorized access: Conservation Commission has placards for delineating approximate boundaries of 
its land, could help prevent accidental wandering onto golf course. 
Applicant seeking continuance pending Conservation Commission’s review of the project. 
T. Willsmer moved to continue the Public Hearing for 994 Northfield Rd SPA to 2025-03-10 at 6:05 P.M. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
110 Pleasant St – SPAvi 
G. Roy presented for applicant Peritus Contractors. Project proposes construction of addition to existing 
garage & office building. Building increase is > 25%, triggering Site Plan Approval. Site zoned Commercial, 
historically used by another contractor. Footprint of addition contains an existing storage trailer & shed, 
both to be removed. Use will be a shop area / garage door bays.  
No local Stormwater Permit required, but memo outlining Stormwater metrics was included. Area of 
addition is currently impervious with existing structures or hard-packed gravel, so no runoff impact. 
Acknowledged Board of Health comment requesting Title V inspection—no objection from applicant, would 
be needed prior to a Building Permit. 
T. Willsmer moved to close the public hearing for 110 Pleasant St SPA. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Hearing closed 8:01 P.M. 
 
===PAGE 5===
  
 
   
 
T. Willsmer moved to grant Site Plan Approval for 110 Pleasant St with Standard Conditions. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
MRPC GIS Contribution to Conservation Commission (Trail Mapping) 
The Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) contributes 8 hours of GIS work to the Planning 
Board as a membership perk. The Board regularly “donates” these to the Conservation Commission, having 
no current mapping needs. B. Pease outlined Conservation’s plans to update maps, including the Large 
Town Forest, Table Rock Conservation Area, Small Town Forest, and Hunting Hill. 
A. Reid moved to authorize the Land Use Director to assign the Board’s MRPC GIS contribution to the 
Conservation Commission for trail mapping. 
T. Willsmer seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
Citizens’ Caucus Overlap (March 10th 7PM) 
The Citizens’ Caucus is part of electing officials to Boards / Committees, which members seeking re-election 
generally attend. This overlaps with the upcoming 2025-03-10 meeting. The Board discussed and opted to 
proceed with the meeting as-scheduled, since their terms are staggered and one members’ absence 
wouldn’t impact quorum for the scheduled applications. 
Review of Standard Operating Procedures 
(Out of order): Skipped due to C. Reilly’s absence. 
DECISIONS 
The Board reviewed decisions for 560 Goodrich St (Special Permitvii, Stormwater Management Permitviii) 
and 255 Sunny Hill Rd (Stormwater Management Permitix), deferred from the previous meeting pending 
revisions including a provision for SMP maintenance requirements to be recorded on the deed. 
The Board discussed and clarified that deed-recorded maintenance requirements are a practical tool to 
prevent unintentional lapses of maintenance (which would violate the permit) between property owners. 
They found no revised provision for deed-recorded maintenance requirements in the Stormwater 
Management Permits. 
The Board signed the Special Permit decision for 560 Goodrich St, and deferred the Stormwater 
Management Permit decisions for 560 Goodrich St and 255 Sunny Hill Rd pending revisions. 
ABUTTING COMMUNITY NOTICES 
Notice from Lancaster Planning Board and Zoning Board of Appeals for Public Hearings on 2,000 sqft. 
addition for truck repair at 71-75 Main St. No concerns from Board. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
===PAGE 6===
  
 
   
 
Per T. Willsmer – have enough people for quorum at upcoming meeting (2025-03-03). Would like to 
eliminate two remaining positions which were vacant from beginning. Board discussed, opted to have 
MPSC choose at their upcoming meeting. 
Open Space Committee 
Per G. McLeod – still working on 100 Townsend Harbor Rd Right of First Refusal. Had quorum but not full 
committee, still waiting for a full board to formally discuss. Good topic to review in Planning Board 
Standard Operating Procedures in the future—OSC was notified by a citizen forwarding the statutory 
notification letter, rather than the Planning Board doing it as the parent group. 
M. Brenner noted the Board’s historical procedure was notifying the OSC through the Land Use Director, 
and added 100 Townsend Harbor Rd’s Right of First Refusal to the March 10th Agenda. 
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Per M. Allison – meeting cut short due to technical issue with zoom. Representative from school committee 
presented public feedback about costs & timing with school budget issues. Group is preparing presentation 
to Town Meeting. 
Capital Planning Committee 
Per M. Brenner – has not met since last meeting. 
Economic Development Committee 
Per G. McLeod – has not met since last meeting. 
Storm Water Task Force 
Per T. Willsmer – received initial breakdown of fee schedules & implementation from consultant 
Comprehensive Environmental Inc. Planning a 5-minute introduction at upcoming Town Meeting to remind 
public. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Per A. Reid – has not met since last meeting. Special meeting scheduled for 2025-02-26 to approve travel 
for MRPC members. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Per A. Reid – met a couple weeks ago. Lunenburg has an upcoming traffic and safety review for Mass Ave 
from Electric Ave to Chase Rd. 
MINUTES APPROVAL 
The Board reviewed the minutes for 2025-02-10. 
T. Willsmer moved to approve the minutes for 2025-02-10. 
A. Reid seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. 
MEETING SCHEDULE 
Upcoming meetings are 03-10 and 03-24 at 6:00 P.M. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None at this time. 
===PAGE 7===
  
 
   
 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS 
On Accessory Dwelling Unit bylaw updates, M. Brenner noted mild concern from Town Counsel about 
remaining “within the four corners” of the preliminary Warrant Article language while meeting the state’s 
new requirements. 
G. McLeod noted a recent email from the Land Use Director indicating that employees are discouraged 
from sending emails outside of work hours and wanted to know more, opining it was somewhat limiting. 
M. Allison agreed and opined that if an employee was willing and able to do this they shouldn’t be 
prevented. T. Willsmer noted that as a volunteer, most of the time he’s able to dedicate to this work is 
outside of working hours. 
M. Allison noted concerns about 494 Electric Ave: the Board can request that Town Counsel attend a 
meeting (common when crafting bylaw). Opined the Pierce Ave legal questions involved were far beyond 
Board purview. Explained that previous questions the applicant considered out-of-scope were efforts to 
fulfill responsibility of position—residents on Pierce Ave have stopped coming to Board meetings due to 
the extensive delays and it isn’t fair to them or the Board. M. Brenner acknowledged the frustrations of the 
legal delays. 
ADJOURNMENT 
A. Reid moved to adjourn. T. Willsmer seconded. 
Voice vote, passed unanimously. Adjourned 8:54 P.M. 
Minutes by Logan O'Connell, Admin Asst. 
  
===PAGE 8===
  
 
   
 
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED 
 
i 2024-11-24 Plan of Land 579 & 589 Flat Hill Road in Lunenburg, PFS Land Surveying 
ii 2024-01-09 Site Development Plan Commercial Development & Parking Lot - Electric Avenue in Lunenburg, Massachusetts, 
Hannigan Engineering. See PBSA-24-4 and PBSW-24-1 on OpenGov. 
iii 2025-02-24 Alternate Crosswalk Plan in Lunenburg, Massachusetts, Hannigan Engineering Inc 
iv 2025-01-16 Proposed Site Plan 801 Northfield Road, Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, Inc. See PBSA-25-3 on OpenGov. 
v 2024-12-16 Notice of Intent Site Plan, Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, Inc. See PBSA-25-2 in OpenGov. 
vi 2025-01-10 Layout & Grading Plan 110 Pleasant St, Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group. See PBSA-25-4 in OpenGov. 
vii 2025-01-27 560 Goodrich St Special Permit (Common Driveway) Decision, Town of Lunenburg. See PBSP-24-2 in OpenGov. 
viii 2025-01-27 560 Goodrich St Stormwater Management Permit Decision, Town of Lunenburg. See PBSW-24-6 in OpenGov. 
ix 2025-01-27 255 Sunny Hill Rd Stormwater Management Permit Decision, Town of Lunenburg. See PBSW-24-8 in OpenGov. 