===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Member 
 
 
 
       Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
06/22/26 Minutes 
Roll Call: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer (via Zoom), A. Reid, A. Burney, A. Nicastro 
 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
• M. Brenner @ 6:00pm 
2. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
• M. Brenner announced voting will be Roll Call as T. Willsmer is attending via Zoom. 
• S. Wallace stated the four major bylaws; Senior Housing, Inclusionary, Cluster Housing, 
and Site Plan Review drafts have been sent and now is time to schedule a public working 
session. The working session should not be more than an hour and a half.  He confirmed 
that 5pm was acceptable for everyone. He gave a list of dates to choose from, 7/20, 7/21, 
and 7/22. After discussion, the public Bylaw Working Session will be on 7/20/26 at 5pm 
in the Bilotta meeting room. 
3. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• Continued from 11/24/25: 30 Summer St., Stormwater Permit (PBSW-25-6); Site 
Plan Review (PBSA-25-8); Special Permit (PBSP 25-9) 
M. Brenner explained that each permit type has a required majority of board members. 
Can be a simple majority or a major majority. A Special Permit requires a major 
majority which is 4 out of 5 members; when this Hearing was opened Mr. Nicastro was 
not on the board and is not eligible to vote, so a 4 out of 4 will be required from the rest 
of the board.  
Ryan Proctor (Dillis and Roy) represented the applicant. He reminded the Board that 
the project is a 26,000 square foot, 4 floors, 820-unit, storage facility. He addressed 
questions that were asked by the board previously. Regarding the TSS and phosphorus 
removal; they are adding multiple stormwater storage areas around the perimeter of the 
site. He stated that the bylaw requires roughly 2,400 square feet, and they are exceeding 
by being at 10,000 square feet. As for erosion controls at the rear of the site, the 
topography of the site is at a slant. They do have erosion controls on all other 

===PAGE 2===
parameters. In response to access ramp and trash truck turn around; updated stand-
alone plans were uploaded to the portal. Clarified that there is no intention of any living 
spaces/ apartments, vehicle rentals, or ability to drive vehicles into the building. There 
will be a loading bay that a vehicle can backup to for unloading. There will be one 
employee on the premises at a time, office hours 9am to 6pm and keypad access from 
6am to 10pm. They are happy to work with the Police Dept setting up and the security 
system and to have that as an order of conditions. M. Brenner confirmed that the Special 
Permit is because the property is located on the flood plain. R. Proctor stated that 
Conservation and DEP have approved the project. Conservation issues an Order of 
Conditions about a month ago.  There were no public comments. 
A. Burney moved to close all three hearings. A. Reid, Second.   
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; M. Brenner, AYE. 
(4/0) 
A. Burney moved to approve Stormwater Permit PBSW-25-6 with standard conditions. 
A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; T. Wilsmer, AYE; M. Brenner, AYE 
(4/0) 
A. Burney moved to approve Site Plan PBSA-25-8 with standard and the additional 
conditions, no truck rentals are allowed on the property, if the applicant wants to have 
truck rentals in the future, a Modification will be required, will work with the Police 
Department on the installation of a security system, operating hours are to be 6am to 
10pm Monday through Sunday, and construction hours are 7am to 5pm Monday 
through Friday and 8am to 2pm on Saturday. A. Reid, Second.  
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; M. Brenner, AYE 
(4/0) 
A. Burney moved to approve Special Permit for Flood Plain PBSP-25-9 with standard 
conditions. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE, M. Brenner, AYE 
(4/0) 
• Continued from 5/11/26: 10 Parmenter Rd., Stormwater Permits, (PBSW-26-12 & 
PBSW-26-13); and Special Permits (PBSP-26-3 & PBSP-26-4) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis and Roy) represented the applicant. He started with stating that 
they have responded to Graves Engineering’s concerns and have sent them and 
uploaded to the portal the response letter and updated plans. The Owner and Maintence 
Manuel has been updated to include an owner signature page, statement that logs will 
be provided to the Planning Board Yearly, and they have defined a major storm event 
(2yr storm). They have completed soil testing at all sites, and the tested data is either on 
the detail sheet or on the updated plan itself. They reviewed the option of a grassed turn 
around area and have decided paving the entire area is more appropriate for 
maintenance and longevity and have added a turning diagram. Stated that the applicant 
does not want to phase the construction; they are not proposing clearing the entire hill 
at once but also do not want to keep bringing the trucks in and out. A. Burney stated they 
will want to see the Homeowner Association language prior for approval as it will be 
part of the decision. R. Proctor said he is not sure if it will be a HOA or a Maintenance 
Agreement. S. Wallace stated that if there are 5 lots on one stormwater system, it is an 
HOA, and we want to present it to town counsel for review. A. Burney stated we need a 
detailed phasing plan and if the applicant does not want to comply then there will be no 
===PAGE 3===
Occupancy Permits issued until all lots are built and all greenery has been established. 
S. Wallace stated that tree removal is construction and cannot begin until after the pre-
construction meeting is held with Applicant, S. Wallace, the Perr Review Engineer, and 
the Building Commissioner.  Ali Dougan, Benjamin Builders via Zoom stated they 
typically clear the lots at once and pour first foundation and when the framing starts, 
they start laying the foundation at the next lot and so on, so wants to clear the whole 
phase at once. M. Brenner confirmed A. Burney was stating, we don’t want to burden the 
applicant with bringing the trucks in multiple times however the phasing is important for 
the amount of soil being disturbed and to ensure each lot can make it to market in a 
timely manner. A. Burney told the applicant to work with their engineer to create a 
phasing plan for the board to review. Judy Viviano, 13 Ruth St., thanked the board for 
the concerns around clear cutting. She stated she lives downward from the site, the last 
house before the lake, and clear cutting the entire hill would create a lot of water for her 
and thinks the phases will help. S. Wallace explained that concern is why there is a pre-
construction meeting with the engineer, to make sure proper erosion controls are in 
place. A. Burney asked if there are temporary stormwater controls proposed or 
confident the basins will work? R. Proctor stated that the basins will be more than 
efficient. M. Brenner confirmed that we are waiting for Graves Engineering to review 
the response and updated plans. S. Wallace confirmed that is correct. A. Burney moved 
to continue all permits to July 13, 2026, at 6:05pm. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; M. Brenner, AYE 
(4/0) 
• Continued from 3/16/26: 860 New West Townsend Rd., Site Plan Review (PBSA-26-
1); Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-1) Special Permit (PBSP-26-1) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis and Roy) represented the applicant, reminded the board this 
project consists of 4 lots each containing townhomes with 5 units each, using a common 
driveway. He said ZBA approved the duplex and Conservation has continued. S. Wallace 
stated that Graves Engineering has submitted their response with concerns. R. Proctor 
said they have addressed the concerns from Graves and resubmitted the plans. He also 
stated they looked into a looped turnaround, but it will not work with the slope of the 
driveway. A. Burney asked what method of fire prevention is planned. R. Proctor stated 
there will be wells on each lot. Is there a provision for cisterns or something. He said 
yes, 30,000-gallon cistern. A. Nicastro asked how many wells. R. Proctor stated 4, one 
on each lot. A. Nicastro mentioned fire prevention was a ZBA concern too. M. Brenner 
stated that the common driveway was never conceived to service twenty units. He asked 
what is being done other than bare minimum requirements to make this driveway 
appropriate for 20 units? R. Proctor stated this came up at ZBA also. ZBA requested 
that the width be increased to 20feet. S. Wallace asked if there were shoulders and if 2 
cars could pass each other? R. Proctor replied, yes, there are 2feet grass shoulders on 
each side. M. Brenner stated seems a lot of people would be driving on it, is it being 
built differently. R. Proctor stated they are meeting the bylaw requirements. A. Burney 
said the 3” is an older road spec. and most towns are 2 ½ - 1 ½". But it is a special 
permit so we can add conditions. We can also have Graves Engineering review. M. 
Brenner thinks an engineer's perspective is a good idea. He doesn’t want future 
homeowners to be unaware. A. Reid asked if maintenance and care can be added to their 
HOA? A. Burney commented it will wear out sooner than anyone thinks it should and 
will need some type of HOA, and the documents will have to be provided to the board. 
===PAGE 4===
M. Brenner confirmed that we are waiting for Graves' second review. A. Burney stated 
with the length of the driveway; he would like a fire prevention review. A. Nicastro asked 
how many fire hydrants there would be. R. Proctor stated none. A. Nicastro asked what 
the length was from the cistern to the farthest lot. R. Proctor replied, 400 feet.  There 
were no public comments. A. Burney moved to continue all permits to 7/13/26 at 
6:05pm. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; M. Brenner, AYE 
(4/0) 
• Continued from 6/8/26: 934 Mass Ave., Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-14) 
Prior to the meeting, the applicant requested a continuance to 7/13/26 via email. A. 
Burney moved to continue to 7/13/26, at 6:05pm. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0) 
• 1325 Massachusetts Ave., Site Plan Review (PBSA-26-5) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis and Roy) represented the applicant GCLT Realty Trust. R. Proctor 
stated the site had been before the board before and was previously permitted, so not a 
new project. In the previous permits, a portion was sectioned off as a standalone 
commercial building, and that is the project tonight. There are three minor amendments 
to the previous permitted plan. The original permit had the building at 5400 Square 
Feet, now it is 6000 square feet. Previous Parking spaces were required 20, increase to 
24 which also includes 2 handicap spaces at the front of the building. Last they required 
24 feet pavement width between spaces, adding 26 feet. They are also adding access to 
the westerly side of the site and a patio behind.  To address Graves’ concerns about 
lighting, he stated they are non-longer proposing light poles in the parking lot. Instead, 
they are going with security lighting. A. Burney asked S. Wallace why there is no 
modification for the stormwater permit.  S. Wallace stated they will pitch that as a 
deminimis change. A. Burney commented that they are changing the size of the 
impervious ground. Asked what the entire increase in square footage. R. Proctor stated 
roughly 2000 square feet and that Graves did not have any concerns. Dan Proctor 1525 
Mass Ave. stated that he is a neighbor and is in favor of the project and is happy to have 
Dillis and Roy there. A. Burney moved to close the hearing. A. Reid, Second.   
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0)  
A. Burney moved to find the 1800 square foot changes to Stormwater 1294 approved 
2/27/2023 to be De Minimis based on the nature of the impervious and confirmation 
from Graves that the proposed will handle the additional runoff. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0)  
A. Burney moved to approve the De minimis changes to stormwater permit 1294. A. 
Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0)  
A. Burney moved to approve the Site Plan with standard conditions and construction 
hours 7am –5pm Monday through Friday, 8am –12pm Saturdays. No work to be done 
on Sundays and Holidays. A. Reid, Second 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0) 
===PAGE 5===
4. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
• 189 Electric Ave – Performance Guarantee Bond 
S. Wallace read the email from Graves Engineering that stated the bond estimate 
prepared by Haley-Ward. The estimate of $3500 with a 30% contingency totaling 
$4550.00 will be sufficient to complete the work to the rain gardens. A. Burney stated 
there is an old access driveway on the property that either needs to be removed, or a 
permit obtained, or enforcement needs to happen. The driveway was never permitted 
and created a lot of stormwater runoff and erosion. Masoud Razin, applicant stated the 
driveway is not on his property, it is on 213 & 195 which are still owned by the previous 
owner Red Bird Construction and those lots are under litigation by original owners. 
Former owner had permission to use the access driveway; it was put in to be able to get 
to 181 & 189. Dan Sheehan (Haley-Ward) was unaware of any unpermitted work prior 
to his involvement.  Confirmed this is a runoff issue and a potential conveyance. After 
discussions of what recourses, the board has, it was decided that a request for a “Stop 
Work Order” is to be placed with the building commissioner for the remaining 3 lots 
listed on the original Stormwater permit PBSW-24-9 issued 12-9-2024 for 181, 189, 
195, 213, & 221 Electric Ave. The remaining lots are 195, 213, & 221. The request does 
not bring monetary recourse but ensures the problem will be resolved prior to any 
further work being done. A. Burney moved to accept the $4550.00 Bond for 189 
Electric Ave. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE, A. Burney, AYE, A. Nicastro, AYE, T. Willsmer, AYE, 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0) 
• 485 Leominster Shirley Rd – Decommission Bond 
Ryan McGlothlin (Silo Electric) was present via zoom. S. Wallace explained that this is 
a $250,000 decommissioning bond for a solar battery energy project approved by the 
board last year (PBSA-25-1). The applicant and Town Counsel have worked together on 
acceptable bond language. A. Burney asked if they are providing the bond or using a 
Bonding Company. S. Wallace stated they are using an insurance company. He also 
asked if approving language for the bond. S. Wallace stated that we are approving the 
language. A. Burney confirmed that the town council was working with the bonding 
company.  A. Burney moved to accept the bond language and bond of $250,000. A. 
Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney; AYE, T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE; 
M. Brenner, AYE (5/0) 
• Master Plan – Discuss/Approve 
M. Brenner stated has not sent it out yet 
5. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
Not meeting currently 
• Open Space Committee 
Missed last meeting 
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Received most of the feedback from town departments regarding their needs. Still waiting 
for some departments to respond. S. Wallace stated that if we have an approved ADA 
plan, there is money to be obtained from the state for ADA upgrades on municipal 
buildings. 
• Capital Planning Committee 
===PAGE 6===
Has not met 
• Economic Development Committee 
Has not met 
• Storm Water Task Force 
Will be meeting Wednesday 6/24/26 
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Meet a few weeks ago, couldn’t attend, no meetings in July 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Unable to attend 
6. MINUTES APPROVAL 
• 6/8/26 
Minutes were not available 
7. MEETING SCHEDULE 
• 7/13, 7/27, 8/10, and 8/24/26 
8. BOARD COMMENT 
9. ADJOURNMENT 
• A. Burney moved to Adjourn. A. Reid, Second. 
Roll Call Vote: A. Reid, AYE; A. Burney, AYE; T. Willsmer, AYE; A. Nicastro, AYE, 
& M. Brenner, AYE (5/0) 
@ 8:10pm 
 