===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Vacant, Member 
 
  
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 
5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
04/13/26 Minutes 
PRESENT: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer, A. Reid, A. Burney 
1. CALL TO ORDER  
• M. Brenner @ 6:01pm 
2. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
• S. Wallace reported he is still gathering examples of by-laws from other communities 
that are like Lunenburg. He hopes to have a written draft by mid-May out to the board 
for review. He will be requiring feedback and wants to get a draft out to the other 
boards and committees in town, by mid-summer. The goal is to have it ready to be 
presented at next year's annual town meeting. 
3. APPROVAL NOT REQUIRED (ANR) PLANS 
• Continued from 2/23/26 (Applicant Request): 0 Reservoir Rd. (ANR-26-2) 
J. Leclair (McCarty Engineering) requested a continuance to the next meeting. He will 
submit in writing 
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• 222 West Townsend Rd. Stormwater Permits (PBSW-26-2, PBSW-26-3, PBSW-26-4, & 
PBSW-26-5) 
Chris Stoddard (Stoddard Engineering) on behalf of the client Kenneth Chaplin, stated 
projects are 4-bedroom, single family homes. Each property has its own septic, which 
has already been approved. He received Graves results and submitted a written 
response on 4/12/26. A. Burney asked about the plant gardens as they seem sparse, and 
stated details need to list all plants and species. Also asked if all lots are going to be 
opened at one time. C. Stoddard said they will not open all four at once. They will open 
lots 1 and 2, then once complete, will open lots 3 and 4. L. Winchester and K. Roberts of 
172 West Townsend Rd stated their well is on the property line, south of the rain gardens 
and wants to know where the extra water is going to go? A. Burney asked if they had any 
specific concerns, and they stated they didn’t really know. C. Stoddard explained how 
wells work, pulling from below bedrock vs. rainwater/stormwater that does not absorb 
into or go below the bedrock. M. Brenner explained the purpose of the stormwater 

===PAGE 2===
conditions is to ensure the water is stopped and abutting properties are protected. S. 
Wallace stated Lunenburg does more in stormwater protection than any other town he 
has seen.  
A. Burney moved to continue until 4/27/26 @ 6:35pm. A. Reid, Second 
 Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 12/15/25: 0 Reservoir Rd. Storm Water Permit, (PBSW-25-5(Peer 
Review)) 
J. Leclair and Wes Flis (McCarty Engineering) on behalf of applicant, stated the plan 
has changed by eliminating the common driveway and adding an individual driveway 
per lot. Graves Engineering did review new plans, and the only comments were 
regarding the stone depressions. S. Wallace confirmed that a new drainage report has 
been submitted. Graves recommends pushing the depressions back onto the properties. 
M. Brenner mentioned concerns with the maintenance of the depressions, would like to 
see some type of maintenance association. J. Leclair stated they plan to put an easement 
in each deed. A. Burney mentioned concerns with future maintenance and future 
purchasers may not be aware of the easement. W. Flis asked if they could tie each 
depression to a specific lot. S. Wallace stated to give clear guidance. M. Brenner asked 
S. Wallace to summarize the boards' concerns, so all on the same page. S. Wallace 
summarized, depressions are on each property and can back-up in a large storm 
because they are interconnecting. A. Burney stated he is not ready to move forward until 
he sees the language for the easements. M. Brenner agreed. S. Wallace asked if he 
should have town council review; A. Burney said yes.  
A. Burney moved to continue to 4/27/26 @ 6:35pm. T. Willsmer, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Continued from 2/9/26: 0 Reservoir Rd., Special Permit, (PBSP-25-10) 
Discussed and voted on in conjunction with Stormwater Permit. J. Leclair (McCarty 
Engineering) intent is to withdraw application if Stormwater is approved.  
• Continued from 3/16/26: 860 New West Townsend Rd., Site Plan Review, (PBSA-26-
1); Stormwater Permit, (PBSW-26-1); Special Permit, (PBSP-26-1) 
Prior to the meeting R. Proctor (Dillis and Roy) submitted email request to continue 
until the next meeting 4/27/26 
5. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
• 181 Electric Ave., (PBSW-24-9) Bond for Stormwater work extension 
S. Wallace stated there is still stormwater work to be done. The immediate work is 
complete. The engineer from Graves has been out twice. The Building Commissioner 
was out today. The belief is $21,260 (including the 30% escalator) should be enough to 
cover costs of remaining work. A. Burney said there should be no release of the bond 
before the end of the year. A. Burney moved to accept bond $21,260 via cashier's 
check. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
6. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
• Fee Schedule 
A. Burney asked if it was compared to other towns. S. Wallace stated he did compare to 
other communities. He also stated he wants to change the Stormwater by-law by 
removing the fee and adding it to the fee schedule which will allow the board to review 
and adjust appropriately. A. Burney moved to accept and adopt the new fee schedule as 
presented. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• 35 Leominster Rd – ROFR 
===PAGE 3===
T. Willsmer stated the Open Space committee discussed it but did not come to a decision 
and will rediscuss at next meeting. M. Brenner mentioned receiving an email stating that 
the decision needs to be made before their next meeting. A. Burney mentioned it would 
be a good location for the town; however, it is not the correct time. M. Brenner agreed. 
A. Burney made a motion to inform the Select Board that we do not feel it is 
appropriate to pursue in the current financial environment regardless of the potential 
planning purposes. A. Reid, Second. 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
• Revised Stormwater Permit Standard Conditions 
A. Burney stated he thinks language should be run by town council just to confirm there 
are no issues; he doesn’t think there will be. But it's better to be sure. S. Wallace stated 
he is meeting with the town council tomorrow and will ask him to review. A. Burney 
made a motion to accept the new Stormwater Permit Standard Conditions as presented. 
A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
7. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
M. Brenner has received the “final” copy from Over and Under and will forward it to S. 
Wallace to send it out to the Board. Will put on the agenda for our next meeting to 
discuss and hopefully approve 
• Open Space Committee 
Moving along with becoming an independent committee 
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
Has not met since our last meeting 
• Capital Planning Committee 
Has not met since our last meeting 
• Economic Development Committee 
Next meeting is tomorrow 4/14/26 
• Storm Water Task Force 
Possibly meeting Thursday 4/16/26 
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
Meeting was held, but not attended 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
Meeting was held, but not attended 
8. MINUTES APPROVAL 
3/23/26 
T. Willsmer moved to approve as written. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
9. MEETING SCHEDULE 
       (6:00 P.M. at Town Hall or stated otherwise) 
4/27/26, 5/11/26, 6/8/26, & 6/22/26 
• M. Brenner asks, with summer coming, that if any board members know ahead of time, 
that they cannot be at a meeting to let everyone know as soon as possible, so we know if 
we will have quorum or not and can plan accordingly. A. Burney stated he is looking 
positive for May 11 but ultimately will not know until closer to the day. 
10. BOARD COMMENT 
• A. Reid stated she has come across Nashoba Health Equity Partnership, and they are 
meeting and will plan to attend but does not want to interfere if someone from another 
board is already attending. S. Wallace stated he would speak with the health agent. 
===PAGE 4===
11. ADJOURNMENT 
• A. Burney moved to Adjourn. A. Reid, Second 
Verbal Vote: AYE (4/0) 
Adjourned @ 7:45pm 
 
 