===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposition 2½ Ballot Questions 
Requirements and Procedures 
August 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting a Commonwealth of Communities  
www.mass.gov/DLS P.O. Box 9569 Boston, MA 02114-9569 (617) 626-2300 

===PAGE 2===
i  
Division of Local Services Municipal Finance Law Bureau 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
PROPOSITION 2½ BALLOT QUESTIONS 
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION Page 1 
II. TYPES OF BALLOT QUESTIONS 1 
A. Overrides 1 
B. Exclusions 1 
1. Debt Exclusions 2 
2. Capital Expenditure Exclusions 2 
C. Underrides 2 
III. ELECTION PROCEDURE 2 
A. Placing Questions Before Voters 2 
1. Overrides and Underrides 3 
2. Exclusions 3 
B. Election Procedure 3 
C. Form of Questions 3 
1. Statement of Purpose 3 
a. Specificity of Purpose 4 
b. Definition of Purpose 4 
2. Other Information 5 
D. Approval of Questions 5 
E. Approval of Multiple Questions on Same Ballot 5 
1. Overrides 5 
a. Pyramid or Tier Overrides 5 
b. Menu Overrides 6 
c. Multi-year Overrides 6 
2. Exclusions 6 
F. Voter Information 6 
G. Campaign Activities 7 
H. Revocation of Questions 7 
IV. RELATIONSHIP TO APPROPRIATIONS 7 
A. Use of Additional Taxing Authority (Earmarking) 7 
1. Overrides 8 
a. General Overrides 8 
b. Stabilization Fund Overrides 8 
===PAGE 3===
ii  
Division of Local Services Municipal Finance Law Bureau 
 
 
2. Debt Exclusions 8 
a. Total Exclusion 8 
b. Annual Exclusion 9 
3. Capital Expenditure Exclusions 9 
B. Appropriation – Election Sequence 10 
C. Contingent Appropriations 10 
1. Statutory Requirements 10 
2. Appropriation Types 11 
V. ROLE OF DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 11 
APPENDICES  
A Proposition 2½ Ballot Question Forms 12 
B Levy Limit Override Purposes 13 
C Levy Limit Override Approaches 15 
D Sequencing Options 20 
E Sample Contingent Appropriation Motions 21 
F Additional Resources and Contact Information 25 
===PAGE 4===
1  
PROPOSITION 2½ BALLOT QUESTIONS 
REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES 
 
General Laws Chapter 59, § 21C 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Proposition 2½ limits the amount of revenue a city or town may raise from local property 
taxes each year to fund municipal operations. This amount is known as the annual levy 
limit. However, the law allows a city or town to increase tax revenues above that limit 
with approval of voters at an election. It also requires a city or town to reduce its levy 
limit as specified by the voters. 
 
This summary explains the election procedure established by Proposition 2½ and the 
different types of questions communities may ask voters to approve. 
 
 
II. TYPES OF BALLOT QUESTIONS 
 
Proposition 2½ establishes two types of voter approved increases in taxing authority. It 
also allows voters to mandate a reduction in taxing authority. 
 
A. OVERRIDES 
 
A levy limit override increases the amount of property tax revenue a community may 
raise in the year specified in the override question and in future years. It increases the 
community's levy limit and becomes part of the base for calculating future years' levy 
limits. The result is a permanent increase in taxing authority. G.L. c. 59 § 21C(g)
. 
 
The purpose of the override is to provide funding for municipal expenses likely to recur 
or continue into the future, such as annual operating and fixed costs, although it may be 
used for any municipal spending purpose. 
 
The only limitation on the amount of the override is that the new levy limit, including the 
override, cannot exceed the overall Proposition 2½ levy ceiling of 2½ percent of the 
community’s full and fair cash value. 
 
B. EXCLUSIONS 
 
An exclusion increases the amount of property tax revenue a community may raise for a 
limited or temporary period of time in order to fund specific projects. The amount of an 
exclusion may be raised in addition to the community's levy limit. It does not increase the 
community's levy limit nor become part of the base for calculating future years' levy 
limits. 
 
The exclusion may be used to raise additional funds only for a capital purpose, which is 
any purpose for which a city or town is authorized to borrow. See generally G.L. c. 44, §§ 
7 and 8. This includes most public building and public works projects, as well as land and 
equipment acquisitions. 
===PAGE 5===
2  
An exclusion may be used by a community to fund its own capital spending, or its 
assessed share of capital spending by a regional school district or other regional 
governmental unit of which it is a member, whether the spending is financed by 
borrowing (debt exclusion) or within the annual budget (capital expenditure exclusion). 
 
There is no limitation on the number or dollar amount of exclusions. 
 
1. Debt Exclusions 
 
If a capital project is being funded by debt, approval of a debt exclusion permits 
the community to raise the amount of the annual debt service payment for that 
project each year until the debt is retired. A debt exclusion may be presented to 
the voters to exclude the debt service on the community’s borrowings, or the 
community’s share of the debt service on a borrowing of a regional governmental 
unit of which it is a member. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(k)
. See Section IV-A-2 below. 
 
Debt exclusion questions may be presented to and approved by the voters before 
or after the related debt is authorized or issued. An exclusion approved after 
repayment of the debt had begun applies prospectively, i.e., to the remaining debt 
service payments owed on the obligation. A separate question may be presented 
for each borrowing or multiple borrowings may be included within a single 
question. 
 
2. Capital Expenditure Exclusions 
 
If the capital project is being funded by an appropriation, voter approval of a 
capital expenditure exclusion question permits the community to raise the amount 
of the project costs up to the amount stated in the question. This additional taxing 
authority is available for just the one fiscal year specified in the question. G.L. c.
 
59, § 21C(i½). A separate question may be presented for each budgeted project or 
multiple projects may be included within a single question. 
 
C. UNDERRIDES 
 
A levy limit underride decreases the amount of property tax revenue a community may 
raise in the year specified in the underride question and in future years. It decreases the 
community's levy limit and becomes part of the base for calculating future years' levy 
limits. The result is a permanent decrease in taxing authority. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(h). 
 
 
III. ELECTION PROCEDURE 
 
A. PLACING QUESTIONS BEFORE VOTERS 
 
Proposition 2½ questions are placed on an election ballot by vote of the "local 
appropriating body," which is defined in towns as the selectboard, not town meeting. In 
towns without selectboards, a vote of the town council is required to present a question to 
the electorate. In cities, a vote of the city council, with the mayor's approval where 
required by law, is needed. 
G.L. c. 59, § 21C(a). 
===PAGE 6===
3  
This is the only way an override or exclusion question may be placed on the ballot. They 
may not be placed on the ballot by a town meeting vote or any local initiative procedure 
authorized by law. A local initiative procedure, however, may be used as an alternative 
method of placing an underride question on the ballot. 
 
The board or council must vote the question exactly as it will appear on the ballot. 
 
1. Overrides and Underrides 
 
A majority vote of the board or council is needed to place an override or 
underride question on the ballot. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(g) and (h). 
 
2. Exclusions 
 
A 2/3 vote of the board or council is needed to place an exclusion question on the 
ballot. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(i½), (j) and (k). 
 
B. ELECTION PROCEDURE 
 
Proposition 2½ questions may be placed on a regular or special municipal election ballot. 
Questions may also be placed on the state biennial election ballot. However, those 
questions must be submitted to the Secretary of State for certification by the first 
Wednesday in August preceding the election. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(i)
. 
 
The usual laws and procedures relating to municipal elections apply. The municipal clerk 
must receive written notice of the question being placed on the ballot at least 35 days 
before the date of the election. G.L. c. 54, § 42C. The vote to place a question on the 
ballot must take place in sufficient time to meet this advance notice requirement. 
 
A city or town may present Proposition 2½ questions to the voters as many times during 
the year as it chooses. The only constraint on the interval between these elections is the 
time needed to call and hold each election. 
 
The Office of the Secretary of State 
is responsible for administering and enforcing 
election laws. Specific questions about the application of these laws to Proposition 2½ 
elections should be directed to the Elections Division of that office at 617-727-2828. 
 
C. FORM OF QUESTIONS 
 
Proposition 2½ specifies the form of each type of ballot question. This exact language 
must be used to properly place a question before the voters. The question forms are found 
in Appendix A. 
 
1. Statement of Purpose 
 
All override and exclusion questions require a statement of the purpose or 
purposes for which the monies from the tax "assessment" or debt "issue" will be 
used. 
===PAGE 7===
4  
a. Specificity of Purpose 
 
The purpose must be described in a manner that enables voters to 
determine the appropriation(s) or debt obligation(s) covered by the 
question. The degree of specificity required to do this will depend on the 
type of question. 
 
(1) Overrides 
 
Override questions are designed to increase the amount of revenue 
generally available for appropriation. As a result, the spending 
purpose in an override question may be broad in scope such as 
general or departmental operating purposes. More specific 
spending purposes may also be stated such as where a service will 
be reduced or eliminated without the override. Examples of 
acceptable spending purposes are found in Appendix B. 
 
(2) Exclusions 
 
Exclusion questions are designed to fund specific capital projects. 
Therefore, the borrowing or spending purpose in an exclusion 
question must describe the particular project(s) being funded by 
the question. 
 
b. Definition of Purpose 
 
The purpose used in an override or exclusion question must be a spending 
or borrowing purpose. This means a purpose for which a community's 
appropriating body could vote to appropriate money or authorize debt. The 
purpose cannot be used to provide voters with information on the impact 
of an unsuccessful vote on the question or the underlying events or 
circumstances that may cause budget difficulties. Nor may it be used to 
promote or advocate for the override or exclusion. 
 
For example, language that does not meet the definition of spending 
purpose would be questions with the stated purpose of "restoring monies 
lost due to local aid reductions" or "increasing free cash." These questions 
do not state a spending purpose because communities do not appropriate 
funds for these purposes. 
 
In addition, language that explains the impact of voter action on the 
question and is intended to promote the override or exclusion does not 
meet the definition of spending purpose. For example, "preventing 
substantial reductions in town services, programs and personnel and 
further deferral of vital capital projects," "preventing a reduction in the 
police department budget," "preventing the layoff of 4 police officers," 
"maintaining current municipal and educational services" or "restoring 
school athletic programs" would be inappropriate. The question must 
simply specify the personnel, services or programs for which the 
additional funds will be used. Thus, appropriate purposes for the examples 
above would be "funding the town's operating and capital expenses," 
===PAGE 8===
5  
"funding the police department operating budget," "funding the salaries of 
4 police officers," "funding municipal and educational services," or 
funding school athletic programs." 
 
Finally, the spending purposes should not be characterized in a manner 
intended to promote the question by including financial information 
usually provided during the budget process. Examples would be "funding 
uncontrollable increases in employee health insurance costs" or "funding a 
28% increase in the town's regional school district assessment." The 
question should just state the spending purpose: "funding employee health 
insurance costs" or "funding the town's regional school district 
assessment." 
 
2. Other Information 
 
Override and capital expenditure exclusion questions must also include the total 
amount of additional taxing authority being requested and the fiscal year in which 
it will be used. This information is not included in debt exclusion questions. 
 
Any additional information about the requested amount, the services and 
programs to be funded by the requested amount, and the impact the vote will have 
on those services cannot be included in the question or on the ballot. That type of 
information should be provided in the course of a balanced, comprehensive, 
public information effort. Public information efforts undertaken by local officials 
must be consistent with election and campaign finance laws. See Sections III-F 
and G below. 
 
D. APPROVAL OF QUESTIONS 
 
A question is approved if a majority of the people voting on that question vote "yes." 
 
E. APPROVAL OF MULTIPLE QUESTIONS ON SAME BALLOT 
 
A community may place as many questions on a regular or special municipal election 
ballot as it chooses. However, if the community decides to place questions on the state 
biennial election ballot, it is limited to three questions. G.L. c. 59, § 21C(i)
. 
 
1. Overrides 
 
a. Pyramid or Tier Overrides 
 
A community may present a "pyramid" or “tier” override to the voters. A 
pyramid override asks voters to determine which, if any, of two or more 
funding levels they are willing to approve. A separate override question is 
placed on the ballot for each funding level, with each question stating the 
same purpose purposes. Tiered means that the purposes of a higher 
funding level include purposes in addition to the purposes of all lower 
funding levels. Any question is approved if a majority of the persons 
voting on that question voted "yes." If more than one question is approved, 
the question specifying the highest dollar amount governs. This rule also 
applies where the questions are presented as alternative proposals to the 
voters. 
===PAGE 9===
6  
The Elections Division of the Secretary of State's Office advises 
communities presenting pyramid or tier overrides to include voting 
instructions on the ballot. The following language is recommended: 
 
Questions 1a, 1b and 1c are separate questions. You may vote for or 
against each question independently. Each question requires a 
majority of those voting on that question to pass. If more than one 
question passes, the question with the highest dollar amount will 
prevail. 
 
b. "Menu" Overrides 
 
A community may place several override questions each of which will 
fund different services or programs on the same ballot. If voters approve 
more than one override question stating different purposes, the 
community's levy limit may be increased by the total of the amounts 
specified in all approved questions. 
 
c. Multi-year Overrides 
 
A community may seek voter approval of an override for more than one 
year. To do so, a separate question must be placed on the ballot for each 
fiscal year in which the additional levy capacity being requested will be 
used. The amounts and purposes in the question may be the same or 
different. 
 
Appendix C provides examples of single, multi-year, pyramid, tier and menu 
override approaches. 
 
2. Exclusions 
 
A community may place several exclusion questions for different capital projects 
or groups of capital projects on the same ballot. The community may raise the 
additional amounts excluded by each question approved by the voters. 
 
F. VOTER INFORMATION 
 
Local officials may not publish and provide voter information materials at public 
expense, including a summary of the impact a “yes” or “no” vote will have on local 
services, unless specifically authorized by statute. See 
G.L. c. 53, § 18B (local acceptance 
required) and the following special acts that authorize certain officials to prepare and 
distribute voter information on municipal elections: St. 1987, c. 274 (Newton Election 
Commission), St. 1989, c. 630 (Cambridge Election Commission), St. 1996, c. 180 
(Sudbury Selectboard), St, 1998, c. 89 (Burlington Selectboard), St. 2002, c. 238 
(Dedham Selectboard), St. 2004, c. 149, §§ 285-288 (Lancaster Selectboard), St. 2006, c. 
404 (Yarmouth Selectboard) and St. 2006, c. 427 (Shrewsbury Selectboard). 
 
Questions about voter information or ballot content should be directed to the Elections 
Division of the Office of the Secretary of State at 617-727-2828. 
===PAGE 10===
7  
G. CAMPAIGN ACTIVITIES 
 
General Laws Chapter 55 governs the raising and spending of money for ballot questions 
as well as political candidates. The law also regulates the conduct of public officials and 
employees undertaking campaign finance activities. 
 
In general, the law regulates conduct not speech. Thus, while local officials can take a 
position on an override or exclusion question and speak in favor of or in opposition to it, 
they cannot spend public funds or use public resources, such as personnel, supplies and 
facilities, to promote or oppose the question. Anderson v. City of Boston, 376 Mass. 178
 
(1978). Public employees may work on an override or exclusion campaign on a volunteer 
basis, on their own time, in any capacity other than fundraising. They may also make 
personal contributions to political committees established for the purpose of promoting or 
opposing the ballot question. 
 
The Office of Campaign and Political Finance (OCPF) is responsible for administering 
and enforcing campaign finance laws. Its website includes materials that provide 
guidance about the application of these laws to the conduct of local officials and 
employees in Proposition 2½ elections. See, for example, Interpretative Bulletins 
91-01, 
The Use of Governmental Resources for Political Purposes, and 92-02, Activities of 
Public Officials in Support of or Opposition to Ballot Questions. Specific questions 
should be directed to OCPF at 617-727-8352. 
 
H. REVOCATION OF QUESTIONS 
 
Proposition 2½ does not provide for the revocation or rescission of an approved question. 
An override can be negated, however, by voter approval of an underride. An exclusion 
can be negated by not funding the related borrowing or appropriation. 
 
 
IV. RELATIONSHIP TO APPROPRIATIONS 
 
Proposition 2½ establishes a limit on the annual property tax levy and approval of an 
override or exclusion question only increases the amount a community may raise in taxes. 
It does not authorize or require spending for the purpose of the question. 
 
Similarly, an underride only decreases the amount a community may raise in taxes. The 
legal power to make spending decisions is still vested in the community’s appropriating 
body (town meeting/town council/city council). 
 
A. USE OF ADDITIONAL TAXING AUTHORITY (EARMARKING) 
 
Approval of an override or exclusion question establishes the maximum amount of 
additional taxing authority available to the community. The spending decisions made by 
the community's appropriating body determine if any or all of this additional taxing 
authority is actually used. Thus, while the additional dollars are still part of the 
community's general unrestricted revenues (levy) and are not a separate financing source 
for the purpose of making appropriations, those dollars are considered "earmarked" 
because they cannot be raised in the tax levy unless the community appropriates them for 
the purpose stated in the question. 
===PAGE 11===
8  
1. Overrides 
 
a. General Overrides 
 
A community's levy limit is increased by the amount stated in an override 
for any purpose except for a stabilization fund so long as all appropriations 
made for the stated spending purpose and fiscal year equal or exceed that 
amount, i.e., the first dollars appropriated for that spending purpose are 
deemed to come from the override. If total appropriations for the year are 
less than the stated amount, then the community may only increase its levy 
limit by the amount actually appropriated. 
 
The additional funds raised by the override are "earmarked" for the stated 
spending purpose only in the first fiscal year. 
 
b. Stabilization Fund Overrides 
 
The additional funds raised by an override to fund a stabilization fund are 
earmarked for that purpose in the first fiscal year and in subsequent fiscal 
years upon appropriation. Any change in the purpose for which the 
additional levy capacity may be used in future years must be approved by 
a majority of voters at an election. See Informational Guideline Release
 
(IGR) No. 17-20, Stabilization Funds (July). 
 
In the first year, town meeting, town council or city council makes an 
appropriation into the fund of any amount up to the amount stated in the 
override. The community’s levy limit is increased by the amount stated, or 
amount appropriated if less. 
 
In subsequent years, the community’s levy limit is increased only where 
the additional levy capacity is "appropriated" by a 2/3 vote of the 
selectmen, town council or city council, with the mayor's approval if 
required by law, for the same stabilization fund purpose. If “appropriated,” 
the assessors raise the amount in the tax rate. 
 
2. Debt Exclusions 
 
a. Total Exclusion 
 
A debt exclusion covers debt service on the amount of borrowing 
authorized or contemplated for the stated purpose at the time of the 
election. Debt service includes payments of principal on permanent debt 
and interest on permanent and temporary debt. 
 
The debt service on any additional borrowing above the amount fixed at 
the time of election is not covered unless (1) it is a modest amount 
attributable to inflation, new regulatory requirements or minor project 
changes, or (2) another debt exclusion is approved by the voters. See 
Section I of 
IGR No. 02-101, Proposition 2½ Debt Exclusions (March). 
===PAGE 12===
9  
Any premiums received on the debt issue must be offset against the stated 
interest cost when calculating the debt exclusion so that it reflects the true 
interest cost incurred to finance the project. G.L. c. 44, § 20. The manner 
in which a premium adjustment is made depends on when the bonds or 
notes were sold. See Section I of IGR No. 17-22, Premiums and Surplus 
Proceeds for Proposition 2½ Excluded Debt (August) for an explanation 
of when and how a premium adjustment is made. 
 
If the project has been completed, abandoned or discontinued, there may 
be unspent surplus debt excluded proceeds. G.L. c. 44, § 20
. If there are 
unspent surplus proceeds when the project is completed, abandoned or 
discontinued, the debt exclusion for that project must be reduced 
proportionately unless the surplus proceeds are appropriated for another 
debt excluded project. See Section II of 
IGR No. 17-22, for an explanation 
of when and how this reduction is made. 
 
b. Annual Exclusion 
 
The additional taxing authority available to a community each fiscal year 
until the debt covered by the exclusion is retired is the total principal and 
interest payment due net of any reimbursement received from the state or 
federal government for the project. This amount represents the 
community’s share of the project’s debt service for that year. If user fees, 
betterments or other local revenues are being used to fund all or part of the 
debt service, a community may exclude the principal and interest net of 
the local revenue, but it is not required to do so. 
 
If an additional borrowing for the project is not covered by the exclusion, 
the additional taxing authority for each year is calculated by applying the 
percentage the borrowing amount fixed at the time of the election bears to 
the total debt issued for the project. 
 
The annual exclusion amount may be adjusted from year to year in order 
to moderate the impact on taxpayers, provided that (1) in any year in 
which the exclusion raised is more than the actual local share of the debt 
service due for that year, the accounting officer reserves the excess for 
appropriation to pay debt service costs for future years, and (2) the total 
amount excluded during the adjusted schedule does not exceed the amount 
that would be excluded otherwise. See Section II of IGR No. 02-101.
 
 
3. Capital Expenditure Exclusions 
 
A community may use all of the additional taxing authority provided by an 
approved capital expenditure exclusion question so long as the amount 
appropriated for the specified capital project for the fiscal year, net of any 
reimbursement received from the state or federal government for the project, 
equals or exceeds the amount stated in the question. This amount represents the 
community’s share of the project cost for that year. If the community’s share is 
less than the amount stated in the question, then the community may only increase 
its taxing authority by its share. If user fees, betterments or other local revenues 
are being used to fund all or part of the project, a community may net out the local 
revenue, but it is not required to do so. 
===PAGE 13===
10  
B. APPROPRIATION - ELECTION SEQUENCE 
 
A community should adopt a budget process that will result in a balanced budget by July 
1, but in any event it must have a balanced budget within the limits of Proposition 2½ by 
the time it sets a tax rate for the year. It may establish its expenditure and revenue 
budgets in any order it chooses. It could first seek voter approval of an override or 
exclusion question and then make appropriations for the year within a fixed revenue 
estimate. Alternatively, the community could choose to first adopt its expenditure budget 
and if that budget requires additional revenue to fully fund it, then seek voter approval of 
an override or exclusion question. If the question is successful, the budget will be 
balanced and a tax rate may be set without further action. If the question is not successful, 
then the community will have to reduce appropriations and/or increase non-tax revenues 
in order to establish a balanced budget and set a tax rate. The chart in Appendix D 
summarizes the sequencing options explained in this section and Section IV-C below. 
 
C. CONTINGENT APPROPRIATIONS 
 
A third budgeting approach available only to towns with town meetings is to adopt a 
balanced budget and then appropriate additional amounts to supplement that budget 
expressly contingent on the subsequent approval of an override or exclusion question. 
G.L. c. 59, § 21C(m). 
 
A contingent appropriation vote does not place a question on the ballot. The decision 
whether or not to present any Proposition 2½ question to the voters is still made by the 
selectboard. See Section III-A above. It may choose not to present a question for any or 
all contingent appropriations made by town meeting. It may also place a question on the 
ballot for less than the contingent appropriation, which if approved, makes the 
appropriation effective to the extent of the amount stated in the question. 
 
1. Statutory Requirements 
 
Contingent appropriations may be made from the tax levy, available funds or 
borrowing and are subject to the following statutory requirements: 
 
• A contingent appropriation is not effective until the override or exclusion 
question is approved. This means that until the question is approved, a town 
cannot spend from the contingent appropriation. 
 
• The statement of spending purpose in the override or exclusion question must 
be substantially the same purpose as the contingent appropriation. This means 
the question need not be worded in exactly the same way as the appropriation. 
However, it must describe the purpose in a sufficiently similar manner that the 
voters can identify the particular appropriation the question is intended to 
fund. In the case of operating appropriations, this may mean the selectboard 
does not have as much flexibility in describing the specific positions, 
programs or services the question is intended to fund. See Section III-C-1-a 
above. In addition, each contingent appropriation need not be the subject of a 
separate question. The selectboard retains the power to decide the content of 
all questions and may include several contingent appropriations within a 
single override or exclusion question. In that case, the question must state the 
purpose of each appropriation it is intended to fund. 
===PAGE 14===
11  
• The deadline for obtaining voter approval of override or exclusion questions 
for contingent appropriations made at an annual town meeting is September 
15. More than one election may be held, but the contingent appropriation is 
null and void if the related question is not approved by September 15. 
 
• The deadline for obtaining voter approval of override or exclusion questions 
for contingent appropriations made at any other town meeting is 90 days after 
the close of the town meeting at which the contingent appropriation vote was 
taken. More than one election may be held, but the contingent appropriation is 
null and void if the related question is not approved by the end of the 90 day 
period. 
 
• If the contingent appropriation was made from the tax levy, the tax rate cannot 
be submitted to the Department of Revenue for approval until the override or 
exclusion question has been voted upon, or the applicable deadline for holding 
an election has passed, whichever occurs first. 
 
2. Appropriation Types 
 
Town meeting may make any appropriation contingent on a Proposition 2½ ballot 
question even if “contingency” language was not included in the warrant article 
under which the vote was taken. Any language in the vote that indicates the 
appropriation is subject to the approval of a Proposition 2½ question is sufficient. 
 
Contingent appropriations may be used for appropriations for operating budgets, 
capital projects and regional school assessments. Towns often approve a regional 
school debt issue contingent on passage of a debt exclusion, but no appropriation 
is being voted at that time as required by G.L. c. 59, §21C(m)
. While most 
regional school committees treat contingent debt approvals coupled with an 
unsuccessful election within 60 days of the date the committee authorized the debt 
as a disapproval for purposes of 
G.L. c. 71, § 16(d), bond counsel should be 
consulted regarding these votes. 
 
Appendix E provides examples of articles and motions that may be used for 
contingent appropriations for operating budgets, capital projects and regional 
school assessments. 
 
 
V. ROLE OF DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
 
The Division of Local Services (DLS) in the Department of Revenue has general 
supervisory authority over local property tax administration and financial practices. It 
issues guidelines to assist local financial officials in the performance of their duties, 
renders legal opinions on local tax and finance issues, conducts training programs and 
approves revaluations and tax rates. DLS is also responsible under Proposition 2½ for 
calculating a community's levy limit and for ensuring that a community does not set a tax 
rate that results in a tax levy exceeding the amount allowed by the law. G.L. c. 59, § 21D
. 
 
Appendix F contains additional DLS resources about Proposition 2½ and DLS contact 
information (address, telephone number and website). 
===PAGE 15===
12  
Appendix A 
 
PROPOSITION 2½ BALLOT QUESTION FORMS 
 
The form of each type of Proposition 2½ question is prescribed by G.L. c. 59, § 21C. To properly 
present a question to the voters, the following statutory language must be used: 
 
 
Levy Limit Override (G.L. c. 59, § 21C(g)): 
 
Shall the (city/town) of  be allowed to assess an additional $    
in real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of (state the purpose(s) for which the 
monies from this assessment will be used) for the fiscal year beginning July first  ? 
 
Yes   No    
 
 
Levy Limit Underride (G.L. c. 59, § 21C(h)): 
 
Shall the (city/town) of  be required to reduce the amount of real estate and 
personal property taxes to be assessed for the fiscal year beginning July first  by an amount 
equal to $  ? 
 
Yes   No    
 
 
Capital Expenditure Exclusion (G.L. c. 59, § 21C(i½)): 
 
Shall the (city/town) of  be allowed to assess an additional $    
in real estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of (state the purpose(s) for which the 
monies from this assessment will be used) for the fiscal year beginning July first  ? 
 
Yes   No    
 
 
Debt Exclusion (G.L. c. 59, § 21C(k)): 
 
Shall the (city/town) of  be allowed to exempt from the provisions of 
proposition two and one-half, so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond issued in order 
to (state the purpose or purposes for which the monies from the local issue will be used)? 
 
Yes   No    
===PAGE 16===
13  
Appendix B 
 
LEVY LIMIT OVERRIDE PURPOSES 
 
Voter approval of a levy limit override under G.L. c. 59, § 21C(g) increases the amount of 
revenue a community may raise from the property tax on a permanent basis. An override is 
designed to provide a community with the ability to generate sufficient revenues to fund costs that 
are likely to continue into the future, such as annual operating and fixed expenses, although it 
may be used to provide funds for any valid municipal spending purpose. 
 
All override questions require a statement of the purpose or purposes for which the additional 
monies will be used. The purpose used in the question must be a spending purpose. This means a 
purpose for which a community's appropriating body could vote to appropriate money. The 
spending purpose may be broad in scope, such as general or departmental operating purposes, or 
may be stated as a specific program or service. 
 
If the override is to fund personnel costs and other expenses normally appropriated as part of 
departmental operating budgets, the spending purpose may be broadly stated as in the following 
examples: 
 
• Funding the Town's operating budget. 
 
• Funding operating expenses and capital expenditures. 
 
• Providing for the general administrative cost of operating the schools, police department, 
fire department and other town departments. 
 
• Funding the operating budget of the Public Schools and the Municipal Government. 
 
• Defraying school operating expenses. 
 
• Funding the Town's Regional School District assessment. 
 
Specific positions, programs and services ordinarily funded within an appropriation for a 
municipal department or regional governmental unit may be the subject of an override question 
when the additional funds will be used to prevent the reduction or elimination of those services or 
to permit their commencement or expansion. For example, if two firefighter positions within the 
fire department operating budget were being eliminated, an override for the purpose of "funding 
two firefighter positions" would be acceptable. 
 
A more specific spending purpose may also be used if the override is to fund a particular purpose 
or program that is the subject of a separate line item or special article appropriation as in the 
following examples: 
 
• Defraying the costs of retirement contributions and health, life and unemployment insurance 
premiums. 
===PAGE 17===
14  
• Funding the contractual costs of trash collection and disposal. 
 
• Funding the Stabilization Fund. 
 
While local officials have flexibility in describing the purposes of an override generally, less 
flexibility exists in describing the purposes of an override where it is being presented to fund one 
or more contingent appropriations because the spending purpose in the question must state 
substantially the same spending purpose(s) as the appropriation(s). Therefore, if, for example, an 
additional appropriation is made for the municipal school department operating budget or regional 
school district annual assessment contingent on an override, local officials would be limited to 
using "funding school operating expenses," "funding the Yourtown regional school district 
assessment” or similar language to describe the purpose of the override. They could not be as 
specific about the positions, programs or services that the school committee intends to eliminate 
from the budget if the override is unsuccessful as they might be if a contingent appropriation had 
not been used. 
 
Moreover, local officials cannot use the question to provide voters with information on the 
underlying events or circumstances that are causing budget difficulties or to promote or otherwise 
advocate for the question. For example, "preventing the layoff of 4 firefighters" would be 
inappropriate because it explains the impact of voter action on the question and is intended to 
advocate for the override. The question should simply state the personnel, services or programs 
the additional amounts will be used to fund, which in this case would be "funding 4 firefighter 
positions." 
 
Other examples of purposes in override questions that include advocacy language or would 
otherwise be inappropriate because they do not state spending purposes are the following: 
 
• Restoring monies lost due to local aid reductions. 
 
• Funding uncontrollable increases in employee health insurance costs. 
 
• Preventing substantial reductions in public safety, education and other municipal services. 
 
• Maintaining an adequate level of municipal services. 
 
• Funding current positions. 
 
• Restoring school athletic programs. 
===PAGE 18===
15  
Appendix C 
 
LEVY LIMIT OVERRIDE APPROACHES 
 
I. SINGLE QUESTION OVERRIDE 
 
Presents voters with a single choice of additional funding for general or specific spending 
purposes. The following are examples of single question overrides: 
 
Example 1. General Purposes 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $2,000,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the operating budgets of the Town 
and the Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
Example 2. General Categories 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $2,000,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding local and regional school, public 
safety, library, highway, parks and recreation and general government expenses for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
Example 3. Multiple Departmental Purposes with Allocation 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $2,000,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the following departmental 
expenses: School Department ($750,000), Police Department ($250,000), Fire Department 
($250,000), Public Works Department ($250,000), Public Library ($250,000), Parks and 
Recreation Department ($150,000), Council on Aging ($25,000) and Financial Offices, 
including Assessors, Collector-Treasurer, Accountant, ($75,000) for the fiscal year 
beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
Example 4. Single Departmental Budget 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $200,000 in real estate and 
personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the Fire Department  for the fiscal year 
beginning July 1, ? 
 
 
Example 5. Specific Positions/Programs/Services 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $200,000 in real estate and 
personal property taxes for the purposes of funding four full-time firefighter positions for 
the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
===PAGE 19===
16  
II. MULTIPLE QUESTION OVERRIDES 
 
Presents voters with multiple choices of additional funding for general or specific spending 
purposes. There are three multiple question approaches: "menu, “multi-year" and 
"pyramid" or “tier” overrides. 
 
A. "MENU" OVERRIDE 
 
The "menu" approach presents two or more questions each of which will fund different 
services or programs. Each question stands on its own merits. Therefore, if the voters 
approve more than one question, the community's levy limit is increased by the total of the 
amounts specified in all approved questions. 
 
The following is an example of a "menu" override: 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $1,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the Yourtown Public 
and Yourtown Valley Regional High Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 
  ? 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $250,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the Fire Department for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $250,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the Police Department for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $100,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the Public Library for the 
fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
B. MULTI-YEAR OVERRIDE 
 
The multi-year approach present two or more questions each of which applies to a different 
fiscal year. The amounts and purposes need not be the same. Each question stands on its 
own merits. Therefore, if the voters approve more than one question, the community's levy 
limit will be increased in the fiscal year specified in each approved question by the amount 
in the question. 
 
The following is an example of a "multi-year" override 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $1,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Municipal 
Government and Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 0001? 
 
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $500,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Municipal Government 
and Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 0002? 
===PAGE 20===
17  
C. "PYRAMID" OR “TIER” OVERRIDE 
 
The "pyramid" or “tier” approach provides voters with a choice of two or more different 
funding levels for general spending purposes or for specific services or programs. A 
separate question is presented for each funding level. The funding levels are presented as 
alternative, not independent, proposals, which means a higher funding level proposed in a 
question also includes all lower ones. Therefore, if the voters approve more than one 
question, the approved question stating the highest dollar amount prevails and the 
community's levy limit is increased by that amount. 
 
The following are examples of "pyramid" or “tier” overrides: 
 
Example 1. General Purpose 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $1,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Municipal 
Government and Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $500,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Municipal Government 
and Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $250,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Municipal Government 
and Public Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
Example 2. Multiple Purposes with Allocation 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $1,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the school ($500,000), 
police ($250,000) and fire ($250,000) departments for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 
  ? 
 
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $500,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the school ($250,000), police 
($125,000) and fire ($125,000) departments for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $250,000 in real estate 
and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding the school ($125,000), police 
($62,500) and fire ($62,500) departments for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
Example 3. Multiple "Pyramids" 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $500,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
===PAGE 21===
18  
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $250,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $125,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
2A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $300,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Police 
Department for the fiscal year beginning July 1, _  ? 
 
2B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $200,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Police 
Department for the fiscal year beginning July 1, _  ? 
 
2C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $100,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Police 
Department for the fiscal year beginning July 1, _  ? 
 
 
Example 4. Specific Positions/Programs 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $400,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding 8 firefighter positions 
for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $200,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding 4 firefighter positions 
for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $100,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of funding 2 firefighter positions 
for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
 
 Example 5. “Tiered" Pyramid 
 
1A Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $2,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools and to fund instructional staff (8 positions), textbooks, technology support 
(including 1 position) and equipment for Yourtown High School and to fund 
instructional staff (14 positions), textbooks and technology support and equipment for 
the other schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
 
1B Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $1,000,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools and to fund instructional staff (8 positions), textbooks, technology support 
(including 1 position) and equipment for Yourtown High School for the fiscal year 
beginning July 1,  ? 
===PAGE 22===
19  
1C Shall the Town of Yourtown be allowed to assess an additional $500,000 in real 
estate and personal property taxes for the purposes of operating the Yourtown Public 
Schools for the fiscal year beginning July 1,  ? 
===PAGE 23===
20  
Appendix D 
 
SEQUENCING OPTIONS 
 
Number 1 
Election - Appropriation 
Number 2 
Appropriation - Election 
Number 3 
Contingent Appropriation - Election 
Towns Only 
Election held 
• Annual or special municipal 
• State biennial 
Appropriation made by town meeting or city/town 
council 
• Annual or special 
Appropriation made by town meeting 
• Annual or special 
Appropriation made by town meeting or city/town 
council 
• Annual or special 
Election held 
• Annual or special municipal 
• State biennial 
Election held 
• Annual or special municipal, state biennial 
• Election deadline: 
• September 15 for appropriations made at annual 
town meeting 
• 90 days after special town meeting dissolves for 
appropriations made at that meeting 
If question passes and appropriation fails 
• Question is valid 
• If override/capital exclusion, have until tax rate 
set to appropriate for same purpose 
• If debt exclusion, have reasonable time to 
authorize debt for same project 
If question passes and appropriation fails 
• Question is valid 
• If override/capital exclusion, have until tax rate 
set to appropriate for same purpose 
• If debt exclusion, have reasonable time to 
authorize debt for same project 
If question passes 
• No further action required - appropriation validated 
and tax increase approved to cover expenditure 
If appropriation passes and question fails 
• Appropriation is valid 
• Budget must be adjusted within levy limit by 
time tax rate set (to balance budget, town 
meeting or city/town council may cut any budget 
item, not just question purpose, and/or 
community may raise non-tax revenues) 
• Question may be presented again 
If appropriation passes and question fails 
• Appropriation is valid 
• Budget must be adjusted within levy limit by 
time tax rate set (to balance budget, town 
meeting or city/town council may cut any budget 
item, not just question purpose, and/or 
community may raise non-tax revenues) 
• Question may be presented again 
If question fails 
• No further action required - appropriation null and 
void 
• Question may be presented at other elections, but must 
be approved by: 
• September 15 for appropriations made at annual 
town meeting 
• 90 days after special town meeting dissolves for 
appropriations made at that meeting 
If question and appropriation both pass or both 
fail 
• No further action required 
If question and appropriation both pass or both 
fail 
• No further action required 
If election not held by deadline 
• Appropriation null and void 
===PAGE 24===
21  
Appendix E 
 
EXAMPLES 
CONTINGENT APPROPRIATION ARTICLES AND MOTIONS 
 
OMNIBUS BUDGET ARTICLES 
 
APPROACH 1: SINGLE MOTION FOR CONTINGENT AND NON-CONTINGENT AMOUNTS 
 
ARTICLE : TO ACT ON THE REPORT OF THE FINANCE COMMITTEE ON THE FISCAL YEAR 
  BUDGET AND TO RAISE AND APPROPRIATE OR TRANSFER FROM AVAILABLE FUNDS 
MONEY FOR THE OPERATION OF THE TOWN'S DEPARTMENTS AND THE PAYMENT OF DEBT 
SERVICE AND ALL OTHER NECESSARY AND PROPER EXPENSES FOR THE YEAR, OR TAKE ANY 
OTHER ACTION RELATIVE THERETO. 
 
MOTION: I move that the town vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds the amounts 
recommended by the Finance Committee for departmental operating purposes, debt service and other town 
expenses in fiscal year  , with each item to be considered a separate appropriation and the amounts shown 
in the column captioned “Contingent Appropriations" to be appropriated contingent upon passage of a 
Proposition 2½ ballot question under General Laws Chapter 59, § 21C. 
 
PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR  BUDGET 
 
THE FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THAT THE AMOUNTS SHOWN IN THE COLUMN 
CAPTIONED “NON-CONTINGENT APPROPRIATIONS" BE APPROPRIATED FROM THE TAX LEVY, 
UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, FOR FISCAL YEAR  DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING 
PURPOSES, DEBT SERVICE AND OTHER TOWN EXPENSES, AND THAT THE AMOUNTS SHOWN 
IN THE COLUMN CAPTIONED "CONTINGENT APPROPRIATIONS" BE APPROPRIATED FROM THE 
TAX LEVY CONTINGENT UPON THE PASSAGE OF A PROPOSITION 2½ BALLOT QUESTION 
UNDER GENERAL LAWS CHAPTER 59, § 21C. 
 
 
PURPOSE 
NON-CONTINGENT 
APPROPRIATIONS 
CONTINGENT 
APPROPRIATIONS 
Selectmen’s Office   
Salaries $ 45,000 $ 6,000 
Expenses 18,000 4,000 
School Department 2,800,000 300,000 
Town Planner   
Salary 0 35,000 
Expenses 0 12,000 
Cemetery Commission   
Salaries 8,000  
Expenses 10,000 
(Includes $8,000 transfer 
from Sale of Lots Fund) 
 
… … … 
TOTAL $ 8,000,000 $ 890,000 
===PAGE 25===
22  
APPROACH 2: SEPARATE MOTIONS FOR CONTINGENT AND NON- CONTINGENT 
AMOUNTS 
 
MOTION: I move that the town vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds the amounts 
recommended by the Finance Committee for departmental operating purposes, debt service and other town 
expenses in fiscal year , with each item to be considered a separate appropriation. 
 
PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR  BUDGET 
 
THE FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THAT THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS BE 
APPROPRIATED FROM THE TAX LEVY, UNLESS OTHERWISE SPECIFIED, FOR FISCAL YEAR 
  DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING PURPOSES, DEBT SERVICE AND OTHER TOWN EXPENSES: 
 
PURPOSE RECOMMENDED 
 
Selectboard’s Office 
 
Salaries $ 45,000 
Expenses 18,000 
School Department 2,800,000 
Town Planner  
Salary 0 
Expenses 0 
Cemetery Commission  
Salaries 8,000 
Expenses 10,000 
(Includes $8,000 transfer 
from Sale of Lots Fund) 
… … 
TOTAL $ 8,000,000 
 
 
MOTION: I move that the town vote to raise and appropriate any additional amounts recommended by the 
Finance Committee for the departmental operating purposes and other town expenses in fiscal year  , 
contingent upon passage of a Proposition 2½ ballot question under General Laws Chapter 59, § 21C. 
 
PROPOSED FISCAL YEAR  CONTINGENT BUDGET 
 
THE FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS THAT THE FOLLOWING AMOUNTS BE 
APPROPRIATED FROM THE TAX LEVY FOR FISCAL YEAR  DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING 
PURPOSES AND OTHER TOWN EXPENSES CONTINGENT UPON PASSAGE OF A PROPOSITION 2½ 
BALLOT QUESTION UNDER GENERAL LAWS CHAPTER 59, § 21C. 
===PAGE 26===
23  
PURPOSE RECOMMENDED 
 
Selectboard’s Office 
 
Salaries $ 6,000 
Expenses 4,000 
School Department 300,000 
Town Planner  
Salary 35,000 
Expenses 12,000 
… … 
TOTAL CONTINGENT 
APPROPRIATIONS 
$ 890,000 
 
 
 
BALLOT QUESTIONS 
 
Under either approach, the town has the choice whether to bundle all the contingent appropriations for 
operating expenditures for the fiscal year into a single override question for the $890,000 in this 
example, or to put separate questions on the ballot for different departments or groups of departments: 
for instance, one question for $300,000 for school department operating expenses and another 
question for $590,000 for operating expenses of all other town departments. The choice of how to 
structure the ballot questions is within the discretion of the selectboard. If the selectboard decides to 
include more than one contingent appropriation in a question, the purpose of each appropriation the 
question is intended to fund would have to be stated in the question. 
 
 
OTHER APPROPRIATION ARTICLES 
 
REGIONAL SCHOOL BUDGET ARTICLE - (Levy Limit Override) 
 
ARTICLE     :  TO SEE IF THE TOWN WILL APPROVE THE  REGIONAL SCHOOL 
DISTRICT BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR  AND RAISE AND APPROPRIATE OR TRANSFER 
FROM AVAILABLE FUNDS $(FULL ASSESSMENT) TO PAY ITS ASSESSED SHARE OF THAT 
BUDGET, OR TO TAKE ANY OTHER ACTION RELATIVE THERETO. 
 
MOTION: I move that the town raise and appropriate $(non-contingent portion) to pay its assessed share of 
the  Regional School District Budget for fiscal year  and that it raise and appropriate the 
additional $(contingent portion) required to fully fund the assessment and thereby approve the district's budget 
for the year, provided that this additional appropriation be contingent on the approval of a Proposition 2½ levy 
limit override under General Laws Chapter 59, § 21C(g). 
===PAGE 27===
24  
REGIONAL SCHOOL BUDGET ARTICLE - (Capital Outlay Expenditure Exclusion) 
 
ARTICLE     :  TO SEE IF THE TOWN WILL APPROVE THE  REGIONAL SCHOOL 
DISTRICT BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR  AND RAISE AND APPROPRIATE OR TRANSFER 
FROM AVAILABLE FUNDS $(FULL ASSESSMENT) TO PAY ITS ASSESSED SHARE OF THAT 
BUDGET, OR TO TAKE ANY OTHER ACTION RELATIVE THERETO. 
 
MOTION:  I move that the town raise and appropriate $(non-contingent portion) to pay its assessed share of 
the  Regional School District Budget for fiscal year  and that it raise and appropriate the 
additional $(contingent portion) attributable to its share of the budget for capital spending not funded by debt 
so as to fully fund the assessment and thereby approve the district's budget for the year, provided that this 
additional appropriation be contingent on the approval of a Proposition 2½ capital outlay expenditure exclusion 
under General Laws Chapter 59, § 21C(i½). 
 
 
SEPARATE DEPARTMENTAL "CONTINGENT BUDGET" ARTICLE 
 
ARTICLE : TO SEE IF THE TOWN WILL RAISE AND APPROPRIATE OR TRANSFER FROM 
AVAILABLE FUNDS A SUM TO SUPPLEMENT THE FIRE DEPARTMENT'S OPERATING BUDGET 
FOR FISCAL YEAR  CONTINGENT UPON THE PASSAGE OF A PROPOSITION 2½ BALLOT 
QUESTION, OR TAKE ANY OTHER ACTION RELATIVE THERETO. 
 
MOTION:  I move that the town raise and appropriate an additional $   for the Fire Department's 
fiscal year  operating budget to be allocated as follows: $  for salaries and $                             
for expenses, provided that such additional appropriations be contingent on the passage of a Proposition 2½ 
ballot question. 
 
 
BORROWING ARTICLE 
 
ARTICLE : TO SEE IF THE TOWN WILL APPROPRIATE A SUM OF MONEY BY BORROWING TO 
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCT A SENIOR CENTER AND TO AUTHORIZE THE TREASURER, WITH 
THE APPROVAL OF THE SELECTMEN, TO ISSUE ANY BONDS OR NOTES THAT MAY BE 
NECESSARY FOR THAT PURPOSE, AND TO APPLY THE PREMIUM RECEIVED BY THE TOWN 
UPON THE SALE OF ANY BONDS OR NOTES THEREUNDER, LESS ANY SUCH PREMIUM 
APPLIED TO THE PAYMENT OF THE COSTS OF ISSUANCE OF SUCH BOND OR NOTES, TO PAY 
PROJECT COSTS AND REDUCE THE AMOUNT AUTHORIZED TO BE BORROWED BY THE 
AMOUNT OF THE PREMIUM SO APPLIED, OR TAKE ANY OTHER ACTION RELATIVE THERETO. 
 
MOTION: I move that the town appropriate and borrow $5,000,000 for the design and construction of a 
senior center and authorize the treasurer with the approval of the selectboard, to issue any bonds or notes that 
may be necessary for that purpose, as authorized by General Laws Chapter 44, § 7(1), or any other general or 
special law, for a period not to exceed 10 years, provided, however, that this appropriation and debt 
authorization be contingent upon passage of a Proposition 2½ debt exclusion question General Laws Chapter 
59, § 21C(k). Any premium received by the town from the sale of any bonds or notes authorized by this vote, 
less the costs of issuance of the bonds or notes paid from the premium, and any accrued interest may be 
applied to pay project costs in accordance with General Laws Chapter 44, Section 20 and the amount 
authorized to be borrowed to pay those costs shall be reduced by the same amount applied. 
===PAGE 28===
25  
Appendix F 
 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES AND CONTACT INFORMATION 
 
 
Division of Local Services (DLS), MA Department of Revenue 
Website: www.mass.gov/dls 
 
MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 9569, Boston, MA 02114-9569 
MAIN LOCATION: 100 Cambridge Street, Boston, MA 02114 
MAIN TELEPHONE: (617) 626-2300 
MAIN FAX: (617) 626-2330 
 
 
DLS publications and Proposition 2½ data are published on the DLS website. 
 
For our on-line tutorial and additional information on Proposition 2½, please 
visit the Municipal Finance Training and Resource Center on the DLS website. 
 
 
For questions about Proposition 2½ election or other data: 
 
• Contact the Municipal Data Bank staff at databank@dor.state.ma.us or 
(617) 626-2384. 
 
 
For questions about a community's levy limit calculation: 
 
• Local officials should contact the Bureau of Accounts Representative 
assigned to their community. 
• Others must contact the DLS Director of Policy and Administration at 
(617) 626-2377. 
 
 
For questions about Proposition 2½ ballot questions, or municipal tax or 
finance law generally: 
 
• Local officials may contact the DLS legal staff at (617) 626-2400. 
• Others must contact the DLS Director of Policy and Administration at 
(617) 626-2377. 