===PAGE 1===
  
   Lunenburg  Public  Library   Trustees  of  Lunenburg  Public  Library,  Meeting  Minutes  May  15,  2025   Attending:   Harry  Kubetz,  Dick  Mailloux  (remote),  Donna  Saiia,  Laura  Boussom,  Maia  Wentrup,  Jana-Lee  Balish,  
David
 
Niose,
 
Muir
 
Haman
  The  LPLBT  meeting  was  called  to  order  at  6:54  p.m.  by  Chairperson  Harry  Kubetz.   Reception  for  Dick  &  Donna  who  are  departing  the  Board  of  Trustees  after  the  May  election  ●  Postponed  until  next  month  because  Dick  needed  to  attend  the  meeting  remotely.   Public  Comment  ●  No  public  comment.   Agenda  Items  ●  Approval  of  Minutes  of  April  17,  2025  ○  Maia  made  a  motion  to  accept  the  minutes  of  April  17,  2025,  as  amended,  seconded  by  Jana.  The  motion  
passed
 
by
 
roll
 
call
 
vote,
 
with
 
Dick
 
and
 
Donna
 
abstaining.
  ●  Director’s  Report  ○  FY2025  Budget  Update  The  fiscal  year  is  82%  completed.  Sewer  will  be  an  additional  $600  for  the  year.  The  bill  has  not  been  entered  yet.  Excess  funds  will  be  moved  to  Library  Materials  to  make  purchases  for  the  Library  of  Things,  books,  etc.,  and  
to
 
Office
 
Supplies.
 
 ○  FY2026  Budget  Update  Most  of  the  increase  in  the  FY2026  budget  is  in  salaries.    ○  Staff  Update    Muir  attended  the  Town  Meeting  on  May  3.   Muir  met  with  Deb  Bookis,  Director  of  Teaching  and  Learning  at  the  schools,  about  STEM  kits.  He  is  hoping  
to
 
continue
 
the
 
discussion
 
with
 
her
 
and
 
with
 
Tara,
 
6th
 
grade
 
science
 
teacher
 
and
 
STEM
 
Club
 
leader.
 
 Kaitee  is  working  on  developing  a  partnership  with  Pam  Vallee,  Librarian  at  Lunenburg  Middle-High  School.  Staff  has  started  to  collect  data  for  the  Staffing  Workflow  Study.  For  one  week,  all  staff  will  log  their  tasks  
throughout
 
the
 
day.
 
Lydia
 
and
 
Muir
 
will
 
compile
 
and
 
analyze
 
the
 
data.
 
This
 
will
 
be
 
repeated
 
another
 
week
 
during
 
the
 
summer.
 
The
 
goal
 
of
 
this
 
study
 
is
 
to
 
document
 
data
 
that
 
will
 
support
 
requests
 
for
 
additional
 
staff
 
positions
 
or
 
adjustments
 
to
 
our
 
current
 
organizational
 
hierarchy.
 
 Staff  are  working  on  their  individual  projects  according  to  our  staffing  plan.  Muir  will  complete  staff  evaluations  during  the  summer.  He  is  considering  creating  a  rolling  schedule  for  
evaluations
 
that
 
would
 
happen
 
around
 
hiring
 
anniversaries
 
to
 
spread
 
this
 
large
 
task
 
out
 
over
 
the
 
year,
 
instead
 
of
 
doing
 
it
 
all
 
in
 
the
 
summer,
 
the
 
busiest
 
time
 
of
 
year
 
for
 
the
 
library.
 Melanie  will  be  going  to  the  MLA  conference  on  the  Cape.  Muir  will  be  attending  a  Mental  Health  First  Aid  training  through  the  Nashoba  Board  of  Health  on  May  20.  
This
 
training
 
helps
 
you
 
to
 
recognize
 
when
 
someone
 
is
 
in
 
a
 
crisis
 
and
 
how
 
to
 
get
 
them
 
appropriate
 
resources.
 Muir  is  planning  on  meeting  with  library  directors  from  Leominster  and  Fitchburg  to  share  ideas.  Ongoing  
Zoom
 
calls
 
between
 
directors
 
on
 
the
 
topic
 
of
 
the
 
current
 
funding
 
situation
 
continue.
 Debbie  Lafond,  Children’s  Librarian,  will  be  retiring  in  September.   ○  Programs  Update  The  Summer  Reading  Program  is  finalized.  Hot  lunches  will  be  served  again  this  year,  Monday  through  Thursday,  from  June  23  to  July  31.  We  are  using  
the
 
same
 
vendor
 
as
 
last
 
year.
 
Muir
 
is
 
still
 
waiting
 
for
 
confirmation
 
from
 
Main
 
Street
 
Bank
 
that
 
they
 
will
 
fund
 

===PAGE 2===
 
this,  but  he  has  another  source  of  funds  in  case  they  can  not  support  this  program  this  year.  Maia  asked  
about
 
serving
 
lunch
 
in
 
August
 
too,
 
until
 
school
 
opens.
 
Muir
 
is
 
open
 
to
 
this
 
and
 
thinks
 
he
 
can
 
find
 
a
 
way
 
to
 
make
 
this
 
happen.
 Open  Mic  Poetry  Night  did  not  have  good  attendance.  Muir  and  Jana  have  been  discussing  how  to  plan  for  
poetry
 
programs
 
that
 
are
 
better
 
attended.
 
Jana
 
spoke
 
to
 
Jacie
 
at
 
Smokestack
 
Roasters
 
about
 
their
 
poetry/open
 
mic
 
nights.
 
They
 
make
 
it
 
about
 
more
 
than
 
just
 
poetry.
 Kate  Chadbourne’s  concert  was  a  success.  Kate  is  also  interested  in  volunteering  to  do  a  workshop  for  
students
 
who
 
are
 
preparing
 
their
 
college
 
essays.
 Jason  Graham’s  music  clinic  continues  to  draw  a  nice  crowd.  Craft  and  Chill  and  a  grief  support  group  were  both  well  attended.  Virtual  programming  has  low  engagement.  Children’s  programming  has  been  popular  this  month,  especially  during  school  vacation  week.   ○  Outreach  Staff  has  contacted  potential  partners  for  outreach  services,  including  Arrive  Lunenburg  and  Tri-Town  
apartments,
 
and
 
Smokestack
 
Coffee
 
Roasters.
 Staff  is  creating  a  Welcome  to  Lunenburg  and  the  Library  packet  of  resources.  Outreach  events  through  September  will  include  the  All  Vendor  Fair,  Lunenburg  Cruise  Night,  Lunenburg  
Artisan
 
Market,
 
and
 
the
 
Lunenburg
 
Farmers’
 
Market.
  ○  Technology  Update  Another  of  the  new  computers  broke  in  mid-April.  It  has  been  sent  to  the  manufacturer  for  repairs.  A  security  monitor  was  installed  in  Muir’s  office,  and  he  can  watch  the  feeds  from  the  new  security  cameras.   ○  Building  &  Maintenance  Update  Town  Meeting  approved  a  capital  plan  that  included  HVAC  design  for  the  library.  This  is  scheduled  for  the  
early
 
part
 
of
 
FY26.
 
Muir
 
asked
 
Chris
 
Ruth
 
to
 
attend
 
a
 
Trustee’s
 
meeting
 
to
 
discuss.
 
HVAC
 
replacement
 
is
 
expected
 
in
 
FY27.
   The  HVAC  system  needed  some  repair  in  early  May,  but  seems  to  be  operating  efficiently  again.    A  new  cleaning  crew  is  being  trained  and  is  improving.  We  are  still  waiting  for  Lakeview  Landscaping  to  have  time  to  get  the  Proctor  Memorial  Garden  water  feature  
running
 
again.
 Muir  and  Robin  Venezia  met  with  Bill  Bernard  to  discuss  the  latest  draft  of  the  design  for  the  rainwater  
garden.
  ●  Conroy  Memorial  Garden  discussion  ○  The  Friends  approved  money  for  the  Conroy  Memorial  Garden.  ○  Muir  met  with  Kevin  Boussom,  the  artist  who  will  be  creating  a  sculpture  for  the  garden.  ○  Robin  Venezia  is  planning  on  a  bed  prep  and  planting  day  on  May  24.   ●  Room  Use  Policy  Discussion  ○  We  should  differentiate  between  conference  rooms  and  private  study  rooms  in  the  policy.  ○  Policy  should  state  how  to  handle  tutors  who  reserve  rooms  on  a  regular  basis,  sometimes  preventing  others  
from
 
using
 
them.
 ○  Policy  should  state  how  to  notify  groups  that  have  reserved  rooms  at  a  time  the  library  needs  to  close  due  to  
weather
 
or
 
an
 
emergency.
 ○  Policy  should  have  a  section  about  groups  that  reserve  conference  rooms  outside  regular  library  hours.  ○  Muir  will  edit  the  policy  for  us  to  review.   ●  Library  Invested  Funds  update  ○  The  investments  have  a  value  of  approximately  $99K.     
 
===PAGE 3===
  
●  Friends  Update  ○  Discussed  the  Book  &  Bake  Sale  to  be  held  June  6  &  7.  ○  Discussed  the  Native  Plant  Sale  to  be  held  June  14.  ○  Discussed  ongoing  planning  for  the  20th  anniversary  of  the  library  building.  ○  Jane  Crook,  President  of  the  Friends,  met  with  the  North  Central  Mass  Friends’  Consortium.  She  learned  that  
Lunenburg
 
has
 
the
 
largest
 
number
 
of
 
members
 
in
 
the
 
area.
  ●  Board  Comments  ○  Dick  spoke  about  his  time  on  the  board,  and  the  accomplishments  and  changes  during  his  time  serving  as  a  
trustee.
 ○  Harry  thanked  Dick  and  Donna  for  the  time  they  have  given  to  the  library.  ○  Harry  suggested  that  we  have  the  reception  for  Dick  and  Donna  at  our  next  meeting.   ●  Other  ○  None   ●  Adjourn  ○  A  motion  to  adjourn  was  made  by  Donna,  seconded  by  Dick.  The  motion  passed  unanimously  by  roll  call  vote.   
The
 
meeting
 
was
 
adjourned
 
at
 
9:18
 
p.m.
  ●  Attached  Documents  ○  May  2025  Director’s  Report  ○  May  2025  Children’s  Services  Trustee  Report  ○  May  2025  Young  Adult  Services  Report  ○  May  2025  Adult  Services  Department  Report                    
===PAGE 4===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
   FY25 Budget Update 
 
   FY26 Budget Update  
Annual Town Meeting approved the previously proposed Library budget: 
 
   Staff Update 
  FY25 Budget Budget Expended % Expended Calendar Completion
LIBRARY DIRECTOR SALARY       90,726$                     78,212$                               86% 82%
ASST LIBRARY DIRECTOR SALARY  64,023$                     54,835$                               86%
LIBRARY STAFF SALARIES        242,984$                  214,535$                             88%
BLDG REPAIRS & MTC            -$                           -$                                      
SEWERAGE DISPOSAL             1,000$                       634$                                     63%
ELECTRICITY CHARGES           22,500$                     13,340$                               59%
HEATING CHARGES/NATURAL GAS   18,294$                     11,517$                               63%
WATER CHARGES                 1,200$                       1,125$                                  94%
NETWORK MAINTENANCE           500$                           200$                                     40%
BOOK SERVICE                  4,500$                       4,476$                                  99%
PROGRAMS 15,000$                     13,166$                               88%
CONTRACTED SERVICES           2,500$                       732$                                     29%
CWMARS NETWORK                22,630$                     22,630$                               100%
POSTAGE                       900$                           622$                                     69%
OFFICE SUPPLIES               7,000$                       4,087$                                  58%
CUSTODIAL SUPPLIES            300$                           237$                                     79%
LIBRARY MATERIAL              94,000$                     45,279$                               48%
MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT         4,000$                       1,299$                                  32%
TOTALS 592,057$                  466,924$                             79%

===PAGE 5===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Annual Town Meeting on May 3 was the big event in the last three weeks since we met. It was a long 
meeting, running until about %:30, but a positive one for the library (See preceeding Budget update), 
and approval of a capital plan that include HVAC design and planning for the library. The two large 
debt exclusions failed to achieve 2/3 majorities on the Town Meeting floor, but are on the ballot this 
Saturday, while the Citizen’s Petition Override of Prop 2 ½ to raise funds to give the schools $2.1M 
passed and is not on the ballot. 
The Friends approved money for the Conroy Memorial Garden, and I met with the artist I would like 
to work with to discuss the project. Kevin Boussom, son of Laura, is excited to work on the project 
and anticipates completing his work before the fall. Robin was able to source the remaining plants 
she needs from Central Mass Gardens, and we are likely to have a bed prep and planting day in the 
next few weeks (likely May 24). 
I met with Deb Bookis on 4/16 and hoping to meet with her and Tara (STEM club leader) to continue 
that conversation. Kaitee has returned from FMLA and is working on developing a partnership with 
Pam Vallee.  
Our SRP is finalized (save one day where we will have a program but have had one presenter unable 
to come through, leaving us scrambling). We will be serving meals again, M-Th at 12 noon from June 
23 to July 31. We will be working the same vendor as last year. 
We have started gathering data for our Staffing Workflow Study. This week all staff will log their 
tasks throughout the day and Lydia and I will compile and analyze afterward. Likely we will repeat 
the log during the SRP to deepen our data. Lydia and I have identified a few areas already that 
require some attention in our staff hierarchy to help clarify roles and assignments. The goal for this 
study is to document data that will support our requests for funding additional staff positions or 
adjustments to our current organizational hierarchy. All staff are working on their individual projects 
according to our staffing plan. I have put copies of the staff evaluation in our meeting folder for your 
review. I plan to complete individual evaluations and reviews during the summer for all staff. I am 
considering creating an rolling schedule for evaluations that would happen around hiring 
anniversaries to spread out the rather large task of reviews. 
Next week is the annual MLA conference on the Cape. Melanie and Joslyn are slated to go. I will 
attend a Mental Health First Aid training on May 20. I am also planning to get together with Library 
Directors from Leominster and Fitchburg to share ideas and progress. Ongoing Zoom calls between 
Directors on the topic of our current funding situations continue. 
   Programs 
Although our Open Mic Poetry Night did not bring crowds, Kate Chadbourne’s concert had excellent 
turn out and was an impressive performance as always. Kate is also interested in volunteering a 
workshop for students who are preparing the college essays. Jason Graham’s music clinic continues 
to draw a nice crown, which was up to 19 in March and 20 in April. 
Craft and Chill last in April had great turn out, too, with 27 signed up and 23 attendees. Monday’s 
grief support group was well attended and received positive feedback from the facilitator. She loved 
===PAGE 6===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
our library. This group was formerly meeting at LAAC. Tuesday night we hosted an Intro to 
Homeschooling program at the request of a local resident. 
Virtual Programming has offered a variety of topics, with low engagement. Most registrations seem 
to be people hoping to receive the recording to watch at a later date.  
Children’s Programming this month has been spectacular, especially for school vacation week. Art 
with Julie, and STEM programming with Chris Rodrigues, Japanese Folktales and Origami, Animal 
Adventures, the ongoing Tween cooking class. Excellent experiences for attendees. 
Coming up: Puzzle swap (5/17), Floral Design Workshop (5/13), Woman in Jazz (Virtual, 5/21), Creeque 
Alley returns for Monthly Music Series (5/29), and Captain America: Brave New World (5/30). 
   Outreach 
▪ Outreach 
We have been reaching out to potential partners for outreach services, including Arrive Lunenburg 
and Tri-Town Apartments, and Smokestack Coffee Roasters. We are assembling a Welcome to 
Lunenburg and the Library packet of resources. 
• All Vendor Fair at the T.C. Passios building - Saturday, May 10th, 11:00-6:00 
o Weather started rainy, and ended windy, but this was a positive event with solid 
attendance. Robin manned the booth with Melody from the Friends and were joined 
by Melanie and Joslyn from the staff. Chatted with about 15 people, about half were 
not regular library users.  
• Lunenburg Cruise Night at T.C Passios Wednesday May 21   
• Lunenburg Artisan Market at 186 Massachusetts Ave: 
o Sunday, June 8, 9:00-12:00 
o Sunday, July 20, 9:00-12:00 
o Sunday, August 31, 9:00-12:00 
• Lunenburg Farmers Market at T.C. Passios: 
o Friday, June 13, 4:00-7:00 
o Friday, July 11, 4:00-7:00 
o Friday, August 8, 4:00-7:00 
o Friday, September 12, 4:00-7:00 
▪ Building & Maintenance 
===PAGE 7===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Our HVAC system needed attention early in May. THE board that had been repaired two years ago, 
needed some tweaks to programming and an electrical repair. The system seems to be operating 
efficiently again.  
The new cleaning crew seems to have learned how to enter the building without setting off the 
alarm. They are tasked with cleaning everything. So, we expect them to do so. Most departments in 
town reported having repeated issues at our last department head meeting. 
Still waiting for Lakeview to have time in their schedule to get the Proctor Memorial Garden water 
feature running again. Test pits for the rainwater garden happened last month, and Robin and I met 
with the design firm and Bill Bernard to discuss specifics of the latest draft design. The test pit results 
dictate that the garden function more as filter than as an aid to infiltration, and we have tempered 
the maintenance needs of the plantings with a focal point, so that our volunteer labor can effectively 
help establish the native plants that will be going in. The landscaping crew will be able to mow 
around the filter beds without disturbing the native plants. 
▪ Technology 
Another of the new batch of Dell public access computers broke mid-April. It has been sent to the 
manufacturer for repairs. 
Mason helped to install a security monitor in the Director’s Office mid-April. Melanie and I have 
begun to gather data for our ongoing digital resource assessment. 
===PAGE 8===
   
 
MAY 2025 Children's Services Trustee Report  
APRIL STATS:  
               ACTIVITY                                                                              NUMBER / PARTICIPANTS 
LITTLE LISTENERS STORYTIME 3 97 
PRESCHOOL STORY TIME 4 96 
MAGIC TREE HOUSE BOOK CLUB KITS 1 6 
KIDS COMIC CLUB KITS 1 12 
DROP-IN CRAFT WITH MISS JOSLYN 1 55 
LEGOS AT THE LIBRARY  1 6 
HOMESCHOOLERS MEETING- ECOTARIUM VISIT 1         51 
S T E M WITH CHRIS- INTRO TO ROBOTICS 1 10 
ANIMAL ADVENTURES 1 64 
ART CLASS WITH MISS JULIE 1 22 
JAPANESE FOLKTALES AND ORIGAME 1 12 
STEM KITS STATISTICS: 
Top 3 Kits: 
• Ozobot 
• Flowers and Unicorns Coding 
• Three Little Pigs Problem Solving 
32 KITS 10 Ci 
 
MONTHLY BUDGET REPORT:  
https://tinyurl.com/2jbc9nuh 
 
 

===PAGE 9===
 
 
PATRON QUOTE FOR APRIL: 
PATRON CHECKING OUT BOOKS FROM ADULT COLLECTION: “I love your books that you put 
out.  I find it so easy to pick something new to read just by looking at the books on display!” 
HIGHLIGHTS FOR APRIL: 
 STORY TIME WITH LOCAL AUTHOR , JESSICA MCPHERSON 
Jessica came to story time today to share the story she wrote about the horses of 
Chincoteague Island entitled Where the Wild Ponies Swim.  The kids really enjoyed the story and 
made some adorable ponies inspired by the story! 
.  
ART CLASS WITH MISS JULIE- Another successful painting class with Miss Julie.  The subject  was “birds”. 
       
 

===PAGE 10===
Animal Adventures:  
An educational show from the Animal Adventures Family Zoo & Rescue Center - featuring live animals to pet!  
We got to see, up close and personal, Brazilian Three Banded Armadillo, Alligator, Snake, Chinchilla, Ferret, 
Hedgehog, Rats, Bunnies, Geckos, Bearded Dragons, Spiny Tailed Lizards, Blue Tongue Skink, and Turtles.
   
                    
 
DROP-IN CRAFT WITH MISS JOSLYN 
Fifty-five kids and families showed up today to make easter themed houses for their peeps!  
They had a blast! 
From Facebook post: 

===PAGE 11===
 
 
 
UPCOMING EVENTS FOR MAY: 
• May 1st - Magic Tree House Book Club and Kids Comic Club Kits available  
• May 3rd- Author Story Time visit 
• May 5th & 12th -Little Listeners Storytime for 0-3'sPreschool Story Time for 4’s & 5’s 
• May 7th & 14th -Preschool Story Time for 4’s & 5’s 
• May 1st - In-Betweeners Book Club and LPL Kids Book Club 
• May 5th– Homeschoolers Family Meet-Up 
• May 8th- Mother's Day Planting 
• May 12th – Drop-In Craft with Miss Joslyn 
• May 19th - Homeschoolers Craft Corner 
• May 20th - Legos at the Library 
 
Debbie Laffond, Children’s Services Librarian   
Joslyn Davis, Library Assistant, Children’s Area     
 

===PAGE 12===
Kaitlyn Himmelberger 
Young Adult Services 
May 2025 
Summary 
- Programs 
o Past programs:  
▪ Needle Felting for Teens 
▪ Art on the Wing – 3 participants 
▪ TAB meeting – cancelled due to illness 
▪ Video Game Night – cancelled due to no participation 
▪ Virtual Cooking Class – 7 participants 
o Upcoming teen programs:  
▪ TAB Meeting 
▪ Homeschool Craft Corner 
▪ Drippy Sky Painting 
▪ End of School Henna 
Other news/updates 
- Art on the Wing was a very successful program. One of the teens in the program is 
interested in animal rehabilitation like the program presenters and got the 
opportunity to discuss animal rehab with them as a career field.  
- Video Game Nights: We only have one video game night left for the school year. I am 
thinking that next year we will only have video game nights quarterly instead of 
monthly since this year’s attendance has been so low.  
- Virtual Cooking classes continue to be the most popular teen program. It's also a 
good family program as younger siblings and parents get involved as well. 
- TAB: Currently we have 4 regular TAB members. I would like to see a couple more 
and I am hoping that as some of the active library tweens age up this summer, they 
will join TAB. Since June of last year TAB has collectively volunteered 47hours 15min 
in the library. They are planning to volunteer in the children’s room this summer to 
assist Debbie and Joslyn with summer reading.  
- The Hot Pepper Garden has moved from the Teen Room to the garden outside. I 
created lots of signage to hopefully get people interested as they walk by. We had a 
patron give us a ton more pepper plants so now we have 12 varieties of peppers in 
the garden.  
===PAGE 13===
- The SHAPIRO group teens will be joining us again this summer with daily visits. I 
have a meeting scheduled with the director to work out how these visits will look.  
- Teen Summer Reading: 
o Doing a mix of crafting, take & makes, and D&D this summer. Last summer 
attendance was very low despite the high number of teen readers, so I didn’t 
want to book anybody beyond the Henna program.  
o I have high hopes for the Take & Makes series as they were popular over the 
winter. The gardening take & make also did really well.  
o Continuing the strategy of high value prizes for summer reading that I think 
won over a lot of teens last year. This year’s big ticket items include a record 
player and polaroid camera.  
o I am in touch with the High School librarian, Pam Valle, to see how we can 
promote summer reading before school lets out. She passed on all the info 
for the program to the 8th grade ELA teachers.  
===PAGE 14===
Trustee Report 
Adult Services Department 
May 2025 
Summary of Last Month’s Programs & Events 
➢ On Saturday April 5th we had 20 people join us for another session of the music clinic series. 
➢ Janet Winer, Abigal Perrine, and I have launched community information sessions about the 
upcoming 20th anniversary of the library building. We held one on April 8th that was not well attended 
but the morning session on April 28th had two volunteers attend. 
➢ Our craft & chill program for April was an LCC funded paint night on April 11th. We had 20 people join 
us for a fun family night out that was a huge hit! 
➢ Monthly Music Series: Irish Poetry & Song with Kate Chadbourne was on Sunday April 13th and drew 
35 attendees for another stellar performance by Kate! 
➢ A homeschooling advocacy group gave an introductory information session on Tuesday April 15th to 
14 people with varying interests in homeschooling.  
➢ On Wednesday April 16th we hosted Jay DiPrima for a return program with Henry David Thoreau. 
This time he read Thoreau’s work “Economy” in period costume to 16 people. 
➢ We had a return visit from Cathy Karp for another Visible Mending Workshop on Friday April 18th. 
There were 8 people at this workshop. 
➢ During the school vacation week, we had five teams with a total of 18 participants join us for another 
Puzzle Race on Wednesday April 23rd.  
➢ To cap off poetry month, we attempted to host an Open Mic Poetry Night on Wednesday April 30th for 
anyone to come and share their favorite poem with the community. However, only one brave local 
poet came to recite his favorite work. Instead of holding the program, he and I had an in-depth 
conversation on poetry for a few minutes during which he shared some insights to help us next time. 
  
This Month’s Programs & Events 
➢ On Saturday May 1st we had 12 people join us for the final session of the music clinic series. Due to 
their success, we will negotiate continuing the series in the fall of this year.  
➢  There was a Floral Design Workshop on Tuesday May 13th. 
➢ The annual Spring Puzzle Swap will take place on Saturday May 17th. 
➢ Wednesday May 21st we will host the first of our Monthly Music Series programs with jazz flutist 
Galen Abdur-Razzaq joining us on Zoom for a tribute to women in jazz performance. 
➢ On Friday May 23rd, we will host an opening reception for the new art exhibit: Lunenburg High School 
AP & Honors Art Thesis Show. There will be a live jazz performance by two students at the reception 
that Friday from 4-6 pm. The exhibit will run May 17th-31st 
➢ The library will be hosting author Varla Ventura for a unique talk on botanical folklore based on 
information from her book Enchanted Plants on Wednesday May 28th.  
➢ May will have two music concerts as part of the Monthly Music Series, with the second event booked 
for Thursday May 29th when the folk-rock duo Creeque Alley return to perform. One of our most 
popular, well received, and enthusiastic performers, we are very excited to welcome them back! 
Recurring Program Update 
➢ Book clubs are doing well with excellent discussions at our monthly meetings. 
===PAGE 15===
o The 100 Books Bucket List book club meets every first Tuesday morning. We average 9 
attendees at each meeting.  
o The Brighter Days book club meets every second Wednesday evening. There are now 10 
consistent members of that discussion group.  
➢ Stitchcraft knitting and crochet group attendance remains steady at 5-6 per week.  
➢ The monthly Board Game Brunch programs have been moderately successful. There were no 
participants in April, but 3 new people for May’s meeting. 
➢ Monthly Movie Nights have been hit or miss. The April program had 3 people in the audience, and 
one person left early dissatisfied with the selection, but we continue to learn and make better choices 
as the series goes on. There is more optimism for the next film on Friday May 30th. 
➢ After many conversations and interest surveys with our Weight Strengthening class participants, Niki 
Holtzman and I have decided to try a new format for the summer: Tuesday Tune-Up Sessions. These 
are bi-weekly mini exercise classes for former attendees and new patrons. This is a compromise 
between the weekly meetings we usually do for a six-week series in fall and winter, and the break we 
normally take in the busy summer months. We had 11 people at our first class on Tuesday May 6th. 
Virtual Program Update 
➢ These are events sponsored and managed by other libraries. By partnering with them we receive a 
dedicated link to track viewership and engagement from our patrons. There are no virtual programs 
booked in May or June, but there are several on deck for July and August that we will promote soon. 
o “Local Farms, MA - Produce, Meats, Dairy, Oh My!” was on April 7th. We had 4 people register and 
2 attend the event live. 
o “The Intersection of Climate Action and Romance Novels: A Panel Discussion” was on April 10th. 
We had 1 register but did not attend the program live. 
o “Tudor Queens and Ladies in Waiting: A Discussion with Authors Nicola Clark and Jade Scott” was 
on April 12th. We had 2 people register, and no one attended live. 
o “The Two Nerdy History Girls Ride Again!” on April 14th had no registrations. 
o “No More Curse! A History of the Red Sox with David Kruh” on April 28th also had no registrations. 
Programming Financial Report 
ADULT PROGRAMS AS OF 5/13/2025 
BUDGET LINE TOTAL % SPENT % ENCUMBERED % REMAINING 
TOWN $4,500 93% 4% 3% 
FRIENDS - PROGRAM $3,000 69% 27% 4% 
FRIENDS - SUPPLIES $500 90% 0% 10% 
MUSIC SERIES $6,600 70% 23% 7% 
GRAND TOTAL $14,600 81% 13% 6% 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lydia Paolilli 