===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
June 18, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:02 p.m. 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, John Mara, Mike Kelly, Len Smetana, Jeanne Raboin (acting chair) 
 
Absent: Amy Sadkin, Deb Chapdelaine 
 
There was no public comment. 
 
Secretary’s Report: Motion made and passed to accept minutes as amended. 
 
Director’s Report: Prior to her leaving on vacation. Amy sent the Director’s Report via email to the Trustees.  
 Motion made and passed to have Trustees read and then submit comments/questions about the Director’s 
June 2009 Report via email to Amy, who will address these when she returns.  
 
Board of Trustees Reorganization: 
 Motion made and passed to elect John Mara as chair. 
 Vice chair will be appointed by Chair as needed. 
 Motion made and passed to elect Jeanne Raboin as Secretary. 
 Committee Assignments 
1. Finance: Len, John and Amy 
2. Policy: Deb, Lisa, Noelle and Amy 
3. Personnel: Mike, Len and Jeanne 
4. Endowment: Motion made and passed to table this assignment to the next meeting so  that the new 
chair can appoint trustee member. 
 
Liaison Reports: 
 Friends:  
1. Jeanne reports that the Friends Executive Board has unanimously accepted the Endowment 
Resolution and Investment Policy. The board has also revised its charter/by -laws to reflect the 
needs of the Endowment policy. The changes have been posted publicly and then will be ratified at 
the Annual Meeting on July 17.  
2. Book & Bake Sale was a success, net of approximately $2,400.   
3. Friends Annual Meeting will be Friday, July 17 at 6 pm. It will be held at the library in the Wallace 
Room and is pot luck. Invitations will go out soon. 
4. Amy presented several library requests. The Friends allocated monies for carpet cleaning and 
upholstery; she is still waiting for bids on fencing for the children’s garden area. It was suggested 
that the Friends also approach the Town Trust Fund for support with this endeavor.  
 MLTA & MOFL 
1. Mike presented budgets from MA governor, House and Senate 
2. Lunenburg population is slightly under 10,000 so hours required to be open and materials 
expenditure may change. 
3. Next MFOL conference is November 14, 2009. All trustees encouraged to attend the program 
being hosted by the Worcester Public Library. 
 
Old Business: 
 Jeanne proposes inviting Loxi Jo Calmes, Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, to the September meeting, 
to discuss school groups and their impacts on the library. 
 Two revisions of the Meeting Room Policy are circulating; it appears that the one of the web site is the most 
recent; the one being handed out from desk is older version. Jeanne suggests Policy Committee check this 
discrepancy, John will mention to Amy. 
 John checked Trustees home and email addresses; will send out revised contact sheet. 
 John suggests an August meeting to prepare for proposed September meeting  with Loxi Jo and Amy’s 
evaluation. 
===PAGE 2===
 Amy’s evaluation: Mike will send evaluation template to Len and Jeanne for review.  
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m. 
Next meeting: TBD 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 
 
 