===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
October 15, 2009 
Meeting called to order at 7 p.m. 
 
Attending: Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana, Mike Kelly, Noelle Bodkin John Mara, Deb Chapdelaine, Lisa Krowitz, Jeanne 
Raboin 
 
Guest: John Londa 
 
1. No Public Comment. 
2. John Londa presented information about a grant opportunity to place solar panels on town building roofs, 
including the library. 
 Board of Selectman and CAFO asked John to move forward with this energy-saving opportunity; there 
are no up-front costs for the town or library. 
 Several steps will need to happen prior to this program happening: 
i. Request for applications by October 27, 2009 
ii. Site evaluations will be done to assess feasibility (structurally and % of sunlight) of placing 
panels on the library roof and other town buildings. 
iii. Company would own panels and incur the cost of installation; company would own panels and 
collect rebates from MA collective; they would also get federal tax credits and any 
federal/state tax incentives; town would have long-term lease of 10 years and then could add 
2 5-year periods (approx. 20 years); town would have the option to purchase panels at 10-
year point (at assessed value of system) 
iv. Rate to town would be sold back below Unitil’s rate. There is a possibility for 10 KW.  
v. John’s will check into who would be responsible for restoration of library roof if panels 
removed. 
vi. Third-party supplier for electric is Trans Canada. 
vii. John will send contract to John Mara for the Trustees to review. 
 
3. Minutes: Motion made and passed to accept September minutes as revised. 
4. Director’s Report: Amy presented October’s Director’s Report (Please see printed report for details)  
 Meeting room, computer and ILL usage is up. 
 CAFO will announce additional budget cuts at December 1 town meeting. 
 Sandy is retiring at the end of 2009; she sent Amy her resignation letter. 
 Library InSight: Amy and the staff have issued library cards for groups; this will make it easier for 
groups to book rooms and relieve the staff’s time being put into this. 
 Facilities: There have been problems with the window sash handles coming off and windows 
getting stuck in the open or closed positions. 
 Technology: Beth, Lunenburg’s Technical Support to the library, is working on the much needed 
updates and fixing of the library’s staff and patron pc’s. 
 Programming: Karen’s grant is complete. 
 The entire LPL collection is weeded. 
5. Friends October Book and Bake Sale: Made approximately $2, 430.00  
6. Job Description: Motion made and passed to accept Technology Services Librarian job description.  
7. Other 
 Budget Requests: Motion made and passed to appropriate $1,000.00 for staff development and 
professional organization memberships. 
 Friends of LPL 
i. Amy would like to present a gift to Sandy for her retirement; Friends, Trustees and Staff 
will all chip-in for the gift. Friends will arrange a small reception in her honor; Amy will let 
us know the day and time. 
ii. Friends have requested a joint-meeting of the Friends and Trustees to discuss how to 
inform the community about the Endowment. 
 
For Mike Kelly - Action Items: 
===PAGE 2===
 John Londa will get back to John Mara about the solar panels grant opportunity; John Mara will send solar 
panels contract to Trustees for review. 
 Jeanne Raboin will speak to the Friends about the joint Friends/Trustees meeting.  
 Amy Sadkin will arrange for Sandy’s gift and find out best day for a reception. 
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:32 p.m. 
Next meeting: November 19, 2009 at 7 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 