===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
November 19, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:06 p.m. 
 
Attending: Deb Chapdelaine, Amy Sadkin, John Mara, Len Smetana, Noelle Bodkin, Mike Kelly, Lisa Krowitz, Jeanne 
Raboin 
 
 
1. No public comment. 
2. Secretary’s Minutes: Motion made and passed to accept as amended. 
3. Director’s Report: For more details, please see Director’s Report 
a. Budget appears a bit off, but that is due to the three (3) pay periods. 
b. Circulation rates, meeting room usage are up; increased 13% over pa st 2 years. 
c. Amy submitted Capitol Planning projects to CAFO, see report. 
d. State aid is below $12,000 
e. Staff Update (see report): the way fine money is being handles by staff is changing; Library Insight 
library cards for groups are being distributed, this will make it easier for staff/librarians to book 
rooms. 
f. Facilities helped clean off graffiti from the one of the granite benches.  
g. Technology: there continue to be numerous pc and network issues. Amy continues to report these 
to the Technology director and will also report issues to CAFO. 
4. Policy Committee: Art Exhibit and Meeting Rooms Guidelines/Policy – Motion made and passed to accept all 
revisions to these policies. 
5. Children’s Wing: Motion made and passed to give Amy permission to close children’s wing whe n 
understaffed. 
6. Public Libraries Fund Grant Money: $517.00 is in this fund; motion made and passed to spend remaining 
Public Libraries grant funds. 
7. Town Meeting – December 1: Discussion 
a. Furloughs: State reports that if the library closes due to staff shortage, then state aid will be cut; we 
have 4 hours to work with. 
b. See MBLC policy on municipalities’ closing main library or ceasing library services and loss of state 
aid 
http://mblc.state.ma.us/grants/state_aid/policies/sa_closure_policy2010.php  
8. Technology/Reference Position: Hourly rate will be $15.97; Trustees recommend that Director wait until after 
Dec. 1 town meeting to post position; Amy will also request meeting with the town’s clerical union. 
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:25 pm 
Next meeting: Thursday, December 17, 2009 at 7 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 