===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
April 15, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:40 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Deb Chapdelaine, Lisa Krowitz, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana,  
 
1. There was no Public Comment. 
2. Minutes: Motion made and passed to accept March minutes as amended. 
3. Director’s Report (please see report for more details) 
 Circulation: Large increase appears to be leveling off; meeting room usage has picked up despite shortened 
hours 
 Library account balances were reviewed. 
 Municipal budget: appears over budget, in actuality will be short for payroll item 
 Utilities will be close; less than last year to date. 
 Staff update: Jen will be new CWMars rep; trying to hold staff meeting during the d ay; staff meeting 
discussed changes to ILL processing, accuracy in scanning items, procedures for circulating (the) Kindles, 
and upcoming furloughs and vacation schedules; Community Service volunteer came and did the table w 
/chairs in the Community Room and wiped down the shelves in the Teen Room; another Boy Scout volunteer 
will be coming for raking. 
 Facilities update: Amy contacted 3 security companies, waiting for quotes; gate around the swale was 
repaired on April 12; front doors still an issue, a diff. door problem – poles wouldn’t go down correctly, Jim B. 
fixed these. 
 Technology: higher speed Internet connected by C/W Mars; Jen assisted with this and also did computer 
updates and install Adobe Flash player on computers in Main Hall; Kindles are circulating. 
 Programs: Legos everywhere and the program was very successful; Kate had 7th grade students and is 
coordinating student book clubs; June’s necklace class was a success; Bob Cole for May; Tom Mulholland 
will be exhibiting work next and Doug Pulsifer will continue the Beginning Computer classes. 
 CMRLS Merger: cataloging and ILL questions will be handled at the state-level, LPL will lose net lender 
money, mini-grant money, fewer free staff development programs; LPL will be Central M Region area for the 
die-cuts; Amy will be on Executive Board for C/W Mars for 2 yr. term, Jen will continue attending the User 
Council meetings. 
 Unitil donated 6 scanners and provided kits to go out with the meters; these will circulate to the public for 1 
week with no renewals.  
 
4. Town Meeting: May 1, 2010 
===PAGE 2===
5. Strategic Plan: Motion made and passed unanimously to accept the strategic plan.  
6. Friends of LPL fundraising update:  
 The Friends are planning an endowment fundraiser for October 23, 2010. It will be an Oktoberfest 
featuring a beer and wine tasting with choices from Germany, Switzerland, etc. There will also be a 
silent auction featuring hand-painted trays by local artists paired with wine and/or beer and themed-
cookbooks. The Friends are working with Elena and Trudi’s Treats. We are also hoping to have local 
musicians.  
 Friends Book Sale is June 5, 2010 from 10 a.m. – 2 p.m. 
7. The Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library would like to thank Deb Chapdelaine for her many years of wonderful leadership, 
guidance, patience, grace, and good humor while serving as trustee. 
8. No old business. 
 
Motion made and passed to go out of monthly Trustee’s meeting. 
Motion made and passed to go back into regular meeting. 
Meeting adjourned at 8:06. 
Next meeting: May 19, 2010, 6:30 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 