===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
February 25, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:37 p.m. 
 
Attending: Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana, Noelle Bodkin, John Mara, Deb Chapdelaine, Lisa Krowitz, Jeanne Raboin 
 
Guests: Jennifer Mason, LPL Librarian 
             Alex Bogdan, Junior, Lunenburg High School 
 
1. Public Comment: Welcome to Jennifer (Jen) Mason, LPL’s new librarian. 
2. New Business: 
 Minutes from January 2010 meeting approved as amended. 
 Alex Bogdan – World Hunger Task Force 
o Would like to hold a video game tournament at the library 
o This is a public event and various high schools will attend 
o He has a team of volunteers to help him with the tournament, along with teacher supervisors and sponsors 
o The team will supply all equipment, refreshments, clean-up and chaperones. 
o Board gives permission to hold this event during hours that the library is opened; dates will be April 17 and 19 
 FY 11 Budget (see handout for more detail) 
o Director’s salary will increase by 5% 
o Departmental Meeting was held on February 22; Kerry will be level funding all Town departments, except 
School Department which will decrease 1%.  This will assure the library meeting State Aid requirements and 
we won’t need a waiver 
o $329, 791 is the minimum needed for State Aid; Kerry factored in a 5% decrease in State Aid 
o Kerry also spoke about retirement options for town employees; LPL has two staff at 5% longevity, 1 at 3.5% 
o Board discussed the FY 2011 Budgets at Level Service Request ($335,791), Minimum State Aid Request 
($329, 791) and 5% Less than State Aid Requirements ($313,303) 
o Motion made and passed to accept and submit the FY 2011 Minimum Sate Aid Request Budget ($329,791). 
 Director’s Report (see handout for details) 
o LPL survey: 97 responses; average age was 40-59 yrs. Amy will review with staff and then report findings and 
make recommendations to Board at a later date. 
o FY 10 Budget: Continuing to spend monies from Revolving Fund, All-Purpose Trust Funds and miscellaneous 
funds (LSTA grant) on library materials; should be closed by April. 
o Circulation rates continue to increase; study rooms decreased; People counter recorded 300 patrons on one 
Saturday. 
o Staff: New librarian Jen Mason has started; Robert Rand from Town Personnel Committee is 
reviewing/updating the Salary Admin Plan; LPL has 5 employees under this plan; titles will be changed to Sr. 
and Jr. Library Assistants; please see handout for recommended grade/step/salary changes. 
o Amy attended a CPR/First Aid course; when town offers again she will ask other staff to attend. 
o Community Service Club Volunteers have been shelving, inputting data and checking-in items; Sandy 
Mailloux has also been coming in to shelf read. 
o Facilities: Floors have been cleaned & waxed; Clean Carpets Inc., gave a free sport-cleaning to the rug in 
front of the circulation desk; LPL sign blew-off, Jim B. will be following up with Wass-Arthur about designing a 
more sturdy sign; Amy is waiting for information about the wrought-iron fence replacement. 
o Programming: There has been an increase in attendance; Amy would like to organize a fundraiser for next fall, 
looking for ideas, Jeanne will bring to the next Friends meeting. 
 Vita Waller Gift: Former Lunenburg resident left $5,000 to LPL. Motion made and passed to thankfully accept bequest 
and send letter to the estate’s lawyer informing the estate that the gift will be placed in the permanent endowment and to 
make the check to the Friends of Lunenburg Public Library. 
 Town Caucus: Monday, March 15 at 8 pm; there will be 3 open Trustee positions – Deb will be “retiring”, John will run 
again, and Mike Kelly’s position is yet to be filled.  
 Director’s Evaluation: No changes were made to the evaluation form; form due back by or on March 18, 2010 meeting; 
Len and Jeanne will compile and have the evaluation ready for the April meeting; Amy’s evaluation will be in May 2010. 
Amy will send job description to Trustees. 
 Annual Trustee’s Symposium is April 10, 2010 at the Fiske Public Library, Wrentham, MA. 
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:59 p.m. 
Next meeting March 18, 2010, 6:30 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary, Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 