===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library  
March 18, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:34 p.m. 
Attending: Deb Chapdelaine, John Mara, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana, Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Jeanne Raboin 
 
 
1. Public Comment: No public comment 
2. Minutes:  Ammend minutes to read: “Librarian director’s budget line reflects a 5% increase. Motion made and passed 
to accept minutes as amended. 
3. Staff Furloughs/Kerry/FY 10 Budget Reductions 
 Budget cut at special town meeting; Sandy’s retirement/sick leave buyout is applied to our budget and will go 
over budget at the end of the FY 10 year. 
 Library is now part of town furloughs (just clerical union; DPW and one person at police; Eagle House, Town 
Hall, Ritter Blding. voluntarily); staff would like to spread out over two weeks; two people out  school vacation 
week and two the following week; starting first week of April will be short one person every week (one person 
may be applying for unemployment due to the furlough); four (5) furlough days; union contract ratified by 
Kerry (will get 3 additional personal days next year, plus a floating holiday this year). 
 Early retirement: 2 staff NO; 1 NOT SURE; we may need to put a retirement line in our budget. Board will be 
sending a letter of discontent over the additional cuts to the budget to Kerry and Selectmen. $25-30,000 for 
each staff person will be tacked onto our budget when staff retires. 
 
4. Finance committee will be hearing LPL budget presentation April 1. 
5. FY10 budget: Includes $8,399 for furloughs; $2,424 for buyouts.(This needs to be checked.) 
6. Director’s Report (Please see handout for details) 
 Circulation – down for the first time, probably due to reduced hours; meeting room use dropped significantly 
as well, especially school groups; Saturdays still at 300, continues to increase; people counter numbers 
down. Five (5) staff are now working Saturdays. 
 Staff Update: Amy met with Joanne McQuaid/Green Committee about the 6 donated meters. Amy 
participated in the Community Reading Day at TC Passios; Career Day at LHS.  
 Facilities: Lunenburg Facilities began interviewing cleaning companies for next year; two days for each 
department, 2x/week; a boy scout has been here cleaning table/chairs, etc. for merit badge; emergency door 
leak during storm, Jim B. will take care of the threshold problem. Front doors are not working correctly, Jim 
B. is working to keep the doors operational. 
 Programs: Kate/Bea Adams, “Living in Hitler’s Backyard” Karen/Buggy Tic Tac Toe; Carol Shiel donated $50 
to the Friends from her sales. 
 Other: The six (6) regional library systems will merge into one on July 1, 2010. LPL will become a member of 
Massachusetts Library System (MLS) rather than CMRLS. CWMARS will not change. ILL will remain the 
same for the next year; databases will be statewide rather than regional; continuing ed classes will be less 
frequent. Summer reading will be part of the national summer reading program rather than statewide.  
7. Library Security and Visitors: 
 Two Shirley residents are on a no-trespassing order for LPL and other areas in town; Jeanne Proctor has 
been working on the water fountain again, still getting vandalized; Amy suggesting security cameras; would 
cost $6-7,000 for 8 cameras that go to a DVR, closed loop video system; possible areas for cameras would 
be: outside bathroom, front door, front desk, community wing, children’s room, either end of grea t hall, one 
by fountain/garden and trash area. Amy will speak with library staff and then obtain quotes from a security 
company, also get information about IP cameras; she will also bring the purchase of this to the Friends.  
8. Director’s evaluation: Len and Jeanne remind Trustees to submit their evaluations as soon as possible; they will 
compile evaluations/comments and present to Trustees at the April meeting. Also to be discussed at the April meeting 
is the five-year strategic plan. 
9. Ballot for election: Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray (Mike’s remaining term).  Amy will ask if Kathy would like to 
finish out Mike’s term, then we need to go to Selectmen for joint meeting to approve this. 
Next meeting: Thursday, April 15 (Deb’s last meeting) at 6:30 p.m. 
Meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m. 
===PAGE 2===
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 