===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
October 21, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:40 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana 
(Acting Chair) 
Absent: John Mara 
 
There was no public comment. 
1. Review of September 16, 2010 minutes tabled until October 21, 2010 meeting. 
2. Director’s Report (please see report for details): 
 Circulation: Circulation continues to increase; first three (3) months of 2010 saw a 3% increase over last 
year, an 8% increase over 2 years ago and a 14% increase in 3 years. 
 Budget (please see FY11 Library Expense Analysis for details): Rollstone Bank completed 5-year 
pledge; a donation of $100 was received from Mrs. Norman Cross in memory of Mary Emily Smith -
Peterson. 
Library expenditures from Revolving Fund to date: $1,680.47. 
 Staff Update: C/W Mar’s rates for next year are expected to be 6.5% less than this year due to the 
switchover to Evergreen; the new formula will be based on circulation and holdings rather than port f ees; net 
lender credit has been eliminated. 
Jen attended the NELA conference; Kate and Karen attended a state-wide Summer Reading program up-
date; MA will be the 49th state to offer this summer reading program. 
Kerry Speidel, Lunenburg Town Manager, notified Amy that the budget adopted at the Annual Town Meeting 
in May 2010 included a wage freeze for all non-union employees; therefore, the request to provide SalAdmin 
staff a yearly increase will not go through. 
 Facilities: Parking lot lights are being replaced; Lakeview aerated and reseeded the front lawn (paid for by 
the Friends); Community Room will be painted October 25-26, Study Rooms 28-29 by Peg Paints; library 
front doors continue to be an issue, Jim from facilities has called in a lock smith to dril l a deeper hole for the 
deadbolt – the problem seems to have been eliminated. 
Friends will pay for the service agreement for the new phone system. 
 Technology: Jen and David Lapointe installed the public fax, service started the first week in October.  
Installation of new server continues, with most of the work being done Friday’s; town has hired Jen and Lars 
to work with town technology on this installation. 
New staff pc’s installed; some of the old pc’s are being taken by the Town, LPL keeping others for ba ckups.  
 Programs: Halloween Costume Swap was very successful; Spooky Science and Book Times for Babies have 
high signups; Kate’s YA Book Clubs are progressing nicely, as are the sewing programs; she will also be 
hosting a New Moon movie and party for Halloween. 
===PAGE 2===
Louis Arnold’s Beginning Guitar Classes, Doug Pulsifer’s Computer Classes and the Knitting Group have 
been successful. 
 Other: CD spinner arrived and staff will be moving the CD collection to this and using the vacated space for 
DVD expansion; video collection was also weeded and the “classic” videos moved to the end of the unit, the 
free space will be used for the updated Scifi collection. 
 
3. Friend’s Update: Book and Bake Sale attendance and revenue were down; however, the bake sale brought 
in the most money!  
Oktoberfest: This Saturday, October 23, 2010, 7-9 pm in the Community wing (see September’s minutes for 
more information).  
4. Approval of Use of Building after Hours: Discussion of policy about use of building after hours.  
Motion made by Lisa Krowitz and seconded by Noelle Bodkin to approve use of the library for a Friends of 
Lunenburg Public Library “mini-golf” fundraiser. Passed, with one abstention.  
5. Calendar Dates: November 4, 7:30 at Town Hall – 5-year Financial Forecast 
              November 6 MAFTL Meeting: Lisa Krowitz and Beverly Guerin (president of Friends) will 
attend. 
              November 30, 7 pm, Special Town Meeting 
 
Motion made by Len Smetana and seconded by Dick Mailloux to adjourn meeting at 7:45 pm. Passed.  
 
Next meeting: November 18, 2010 at 6:30 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 