===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library Meeting 
October 20, 2011 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Richard Mai lloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy 
Sadkin, Len Smetana 
 
 
No public Comment. 
September Minutes: KM made motion for approval of m inutes, JM seconded; motion passed unanimously. 
New Business: 
1. 
 Director’s Report 
a.  Budget/Circulation 
i.  Computer use tracking to prior year is level; batte ries will need to be changed on 
people counter; Amy will add prior year to computer  usage and people counter 
stats. 
b.  Staff 
i.  ACEA/Achieve Teacher (LHS): Amy met with Laura Rudy ; discussed changes to 
students’ library café; Ms. Rudy will survey parent s to get  their input concerning 
changes in the program; she would like to tie-in mo re with LPL programming. 
ii.  Meetings: Evergreen software training; CWMARS Board  and User’s Council 
meetings; Amy will be serving on the MassLNC Commit tee. 
iii.  Jen attended an Evergreen “refresher” meeting; Debo rah will begin working 18 
hours/week the week of October 31, 2011, she is als o training for ILL and 
magazines. 
iv.  Amy will be posting the 8 hour position in November  2011. 
c.  Facilities: Two electrical cords replaced with 90 deg ree plugs under tables in the Main Hall. 
d.  Technology Update: 
i.  Amy met with Bruce Cramer, IKON and Nancy Strom, IT Director to discuss 
replacement copiers for the library (see Director’s  October 2011 Report for 
details). 
ii.  MassBroadBand visited the library and we are on the  list to receive fiber-optic 
cable Spring 2012. 
iii.  Freegal is up and running. 
e.  Programs: 
i.  Kate purchased a used Wii and several games from Ga me Stop (funded by 
Friends); new games are coming through CD vendor; se veral teen volunteers are 
overseeing games after school hours; first game day  was a huge success. 
ii.  Knitting Club and computer classes still going stro ng; Book clubs for all ages 
remain popular, Karen offering a First Read Book Clu b and working with TC 
Passios to offer the MA Book Award meetings. New ar tist-in-residence is Lynda 
Davis Jeha. 
f.  Other: 
===PAGE 2===
i.  Amy submitted FY13 Capital Plan to Planning committe e on September 30, 2011. 
LPL received $1000 worth of free products from Leap  Frog, LPL was chosen as 
one of 50 libraries to receive these. 
g.  Special Town Meeting, Monday, December 5 @7 pm. 
 
 
2. 
 Amy asked Trustees to consider having her attend the  National Conference for Public Librarians 
March 2012 in Philadelphia; 3-4 days, preregistrati on is in January 2012. Amy will put together a 
package with costs for Trustees to review at Novembe r meeting. 
 
3.  Friend’s Update: October Book & Bake Sale was best y et - $3,000! 
 
4.  Lending Policy: discussion of lending policy for ex tending privileges to Fitchburg Public Library. 
Should we wait until the next meeting to see what h appens re: the FPL deadline? Amy will be 
speaking soon to other library directors to see wha t they will be doing. Trustees will table this 
decision until November meeting. 
 
5. 
 Preliminary overview of budget for 2012-2013: Kerry  would like the budget to her November 30, 
2012. Trustees would need to vote at November meetin g. Director and Budget subcommittee will 
need to meet.  
 
 
6. 
 Other business:  Letter to Amanda Johnson concernin g use of Great Hall for wedding ceremony; 
John and Dick will get this letter out. 
 
Motion made by JM to go into Executive Session for LPL Director Evaluation, seconded by RM, roll call 
unanimous. Trustees will then go out of session to d iscuss personnel and vote on personnel action, and 
then to vote on adjournment. 
 
Motion made by JM to accept Director’s FY11 Evaluati on to be presented by 2 Trustees, seconded by LK. 
Unanimous 
JM makes a motion to give Ms. Sadkin a 3% increase for 2012 retroactive to July 1 2011,  LK seconded. 
Unanimous vote 
NB makes motion to adjourn, seconded by KM. Unanimo us vote. 
Next meeting November 17, 2011. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
===PAGE 3===
 