===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library Meeting 
November 17, 2011 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Richard Mai lloux, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len  Smetana 
 
Absent: JM 
 
No Public Comment 
New Business: 
1.  Secretary’s Minutes: Motion made by LS to approve s ecretary’s minutes as amended, seconded by LK; appr oved 
unanimously. 
2.  Director’s Report: 
a.  Budget is on track 
b.  Circulation: Amy added FY09 data since it was avail able. 
c.  Library Program Spreadsheet for November 2011 was p resented. This allows Trustees to see the programs,  
numbers per month and attendance per program, along  with forthcoming programs. 
d.  Library Account Balances 2011: gift account is not currently being added to; two more state aid checks  
coming; Public Libraries fund: given by state for g etting grants; all purpose trust funds – legacies, some 
100yrs.+. The three breakdowns underneath reflect t he All Purpose Trust Funds total, unrestricted fund s 
have been used for ALA for Amy and staff. Be aware that the town takes the interest on the other funds . 
State Aid has been used for software expenditures, Library Insight, CW Mars, etc.  
e.  Staff Update: Staff meeting to discuss Evergreen so ftware delayed to January 2012; other topics discus sed 
were lending policies, Freegal, Wii games, etc.  
 
Karen is researching an early literacy station (AWE ): stand-alone =computer station, about $1000. 
Jennifer is investigating different eReaders; Patty  attended a cataloging discussion and with the help  of other 
staff will be changing current catalog entries to g et ready for new system. Amy attended the MLS Annua l 
Meeting: topics included promoting libraries, how t o keep the current numbers/patrons once the economy  
recovers. CWMars upgraded their email server. 
f.  Facilities: The new clock for the Main Hall arrived . 
g.  Technology: Jen worked with Beth from Town’s IT dep artment and CWMars to install new computers – all i s 
working well. Jen is also working on ways to make t he login process the same system-wide in an effort to 
avoid patron confusion. 
h.  Other: Stan Barney would like to collaborate with L PL to provide a database of Lunenburg Cemetery 
gravestone photographs on one of the public compute rs. Amy to meet with Capital Planning Committee at 
the library on November 21, 2011. 
Special Town Meeting:  December 5 at 7 pm. 
3.  Discussion of preliminary FY 2013 budget is tabled until December’s meeting. 
4.  Friends: Motion made and passed to open Main Hall f or the Cultural Horizons event on Sunday, Feb. 12, 2012.  
5.  Motion made by KM, seconded by NB and passed unanim ously to change meeting times to 6:45 pm starting 
December 15, 2011. 
 
Old Business:  
1.  Director’s request: PLA Conference, March 2012: Mot ion made and passed unanimously to grant AS up to $ 1500 to 
attend the PLA Conference in Philadelphia PA, March  2012. 
2.  Lending Policy: no decision yet; discussion surroun ding the Fitchburg PL certification; at the moment Trustees of LPL 
will take no action. 
3.  Motion made by KM, seconded by LS and passed unanim ously to accept Executive Session minutes as amende d.  
===PAGE 2===
Motion made by KM, seconded by LS, and passed unani mously to adjourn at 7:57 pm. 
Next meeting December 15 at 6:45 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 