===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
June 16, 2011 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Maillo ux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetan a 
 
1.  There was no public comment. 
2.  New Business 
•  May 19, 2011 minutes approved unanimously. 
•  Director’s Report (please see report for more detai l) 
o CWMARS:  No discount this year due to switch to sta tewide service. 
o Circulation: a bit under from FY10 to FY11. 
o Staff Update: Deborah Sheilds returned to work, Ale x Lent will be leaving 1 
st /2 nd  week of August. 
Amy attended a tour of Cushing Academy “E-library”.  
o Facilities: Minor issues at the library with the cl eaning company. 
o Technology Update: 2 desktops will be exchanged for  1 laptop.  Jen attended website training 
for the new town website that will go live 7/1/11.  Jen is working on the library homepage design.  
As of this Trustee meeting, all changes to the webs ite must be approved at the town level by 
Kerry Speidel and/or Laura Williams.  Amy suggested  that for efficiency it may be more 
appropriate if department heads approve website cha nges specific to their respective 
departments.  This suggestion may be implemented af ter the 1 st  round of changes. 
o Programs: All summer programs in order.  The Friend s of the Library are sponsoring the 
Children and YA summer programs.  Nathan Diperri wi ll be having a book signing. 
o Friends/Endowment:   Endownment Committee meeting s cheduled for June 25, 2011.  Friends 
raised $2,500 at the June Bake/Book sale.  The end of the year Potluck supper scheduled for 
Friday July 22, 2011 at 6 pm to be followed by a mo nthly meeting.  
o FY12 Budget:  The office supply line item will be a pproximately $500 less since the library & 
barcodes were purchased in FY11. 
o Salary Admin Plan:  Under the new plan the grades/s teps and position names were adjusted.  In 
addition, salary increases were given to all Sr and  Jr library assistants.  
3.  Library Trustees Board Reorganization 
•  Chairman – Dick Mailloux elected unanimously. 
•  Secretary – Regina Raboin elected unanimously. 
•  Personnel Committee – Dick Mailloux, Regina Raboin,  Len Smetana elected unanimously. 
•  Budget Committee –Noelle Bodkin, John Mara, Kathy M urray elected unanimously. 
•  Endownment Representatives – Lisa Krowitz, Len Smet ana 
•  Policy Committee – Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m. 
Next meeting: September 15, 2011 at 6:30 p.m. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Lisa Krowitz for Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 