===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
January 19, 2012 
 
Attending: John Mara, Jeanne Raboin, Noelle Bodkin,  Lisa Krowitz, Len Smetana, Dick Mailloux, Kathy Mu rray, Amy 
Sadkin 
 
LPL Staff: Kate McCarron, Karen Kemp, Sherri Freeman , Pat Dupont 
 
Public Comment:  
Ms. Kemp: commented about dismissal of staff member  and its impact on library and community. 
 
Ms. Dupont: commented about library being short sta ffed during a very difficult day with kids/teens in  library; 
pressured and stressed; 3 staff people for a very d ifficult situation. 
 
Ms. McCarron: commented about activity level during  the day above; she was on vacation, but knows abou t the 
stress of an overwhelming day. Should be a workable  solution here; always feels supported in her job a nd asking for 
days-off; has felt privileged being part of a team.  Feels communications in library aren’t very good; r espects Amy’s 
position and wouldn’t want her job; would like more  say in day-to-day input. 
 
Ms. Freeman: asked for permission to address board d uring the fourth item on the agenda. Dick passed on  this as 
the Board doesn’t really know what the agenda issue  is. Ms. Freeman spoke about the part-time standings /issues of 
employment with Lunenburg Public Library;  if deleg ation of authority is given to Town Manager , Kerry Speidel, how 
can Ms. Speidel be fair towards her issues, request s the Board not send authority to town manager. 
 
Discussion by Trustees concerning the fourth agenda item and information about the staff issue. Mr. Mai lloux moved 
to table agenda item #4, so moved. 
 
1.  Approval of minutes as amended: motion made by Ms. Murray to accept as amended. Seconded by LK. 
Approved unanimously. 
 
2.  Letter from LPL Staff: Mr. Mailloux distributed con fidential letter from LPL Staff to Trustees chair (M r. 
Mailloux; sent Jan. 5, 2012); Mr. Mailloux sent ack nowledgement of receipt of letter to staff who sign ed; he 
had discussions with Director regarding the letter and issues. Not sure as a Board what the path is 
concerning these issues.   
 
Board discussed possible options 
 
•  First option: To request a meeting between Trustees,  undersigned and staff that didn’t sign letter. 
 
•  Second option: To address third paragraph from confi dential letter: should we bring in outside 
assistance to address key problems put forth by sta ff, conflict resolution, how to move forward with 
staff/director’s action items. 
 
•  Third option: resolve a personnel action 
 
 Discussion as to whether a future meeting with a p osted Executive session is necessary. 
 
Motion made by Ms. Raboin and seconded by Mr. Mara to accept confidential letter from staff (not all o f LPL 
staff signed) of 1/5/12 (received 1/12/12), with co ntents of said letter to be discussed at future tim e. Motion 
approved unanimously. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
3.  Director’s Report:  see report for more detailed in formation 
a.  Budget/Circulation: circulation continues to increa se; computer usage up; computer usage – log-ins 
don’t count number of catalog uses; doesn’t include  the public pc. 
 
b.  Staff update: 2 seniors participating in tax work-o ff program; posted 8hr/week job; AS attended 
MassLNC meetings and the CWMARS Executive Committee  meeting; CWMars would like to wait 
until everything’s in place and then give 1 month n otice, perhaps June 1 or July 1. Ms. Dupont 
taking webinars on Evergreen cataloging.  
 
Jan 16 staff meeting: budget, staff meetings, (see report); after school hours discussion, perhaps 
hiring an after-school teen consultant (Beth Gallow ay, library trainer and consultant; offers library 
behavior program) – Ms. Sadkin will get information  and bring back to Trustees.  
 
c.  Facilities update: Jim hired part-time assistant; re placing library parking light bulbs. HVAC issues 
continue. Ms. Sadkin submitted quote to Capital Pla nning Committee for painting and small repairs 
of building exterior.  150 linear sq. feet (immedia te entrance area) – $15,000; whole building 
(power washing, wood surfaces, caulking, two coats;  metal trim exterior paint) - $45,000. Second 
quote will be in the second phase, Jim will handle this. 
 
d.  Technology update: lost Internet for a few hours las t week. 
 
e.  Friends: Cultural Horizons program update given by M s. Raboin. 
 
4.  Delegation of authority to Town Manager: Ms. Sadkin gave letter to Board concerning personnel action of  
Dec. 20, 2011 incident. Trustees can take action on the matter or delegate authority to Town Manager. I f we 
don’t delegate to Town Manager, then a meeting will need to be arranged to address personnel action.  
Discussion about which path to take: abdicate to Tow n Manager or handle the matter internally, or to ha ndle 
internally then delegate to Town Manager.  
 
Personnel action has been ongoing since Dec. 20, so  it’s imperative that if Board handles this interna lly, it 
must be accomplished in a timely manner. Passing it  to Town Manager may be quicker than handling 
internally because of information she may have imme diate access to. 
 
Mr. Mara suggested Mr. Mailloux seek advice from Lu nenburg Town Counsel regarding information Board 
can request, clarify rules/procedures regarding exe cutive session, what are our obligations as Trustees .  
 
Motion made by Mr. Mara and seconded by Mr. Maillou x to table agenda item 4 to a week from tonight for  a 
meeting on Thursday, Jan. 27 at 6:45. Mr. Mailloux w ill post session and contact Town Counsel for 
Executive Session policies regarding personnel acti ons and who can attend an executive session. Motion  
passed unanimously. 
 
5.  Preliminary budget: Budget subcommittee met Tuesday , Jan. 17; prepared 3 budget scenarios. Ms. Sadkin 
reviewed these for Board; library materials can now  be 16% of budget because of reaching 10,000 in tow n 
population. For override, calculated in 4 more staf fing hours. 
 
Ms. Sadkin also read the budget memorandum sent to Town Manager. Preliminary budget will be sent to 
Town Manager on Friday, Jan. 20, 2012. 
 
Motion made by Mr. Mailloux and seconded Mr. Mara t o accept the Trustee approved FY13 budget with the 
three budgets. Motion passed unanimously. 
===PAGE 3===
6.  Subcommittee meetings: budget , yes (please see abo ve notes), policy no. 
 
 
Motion made by Mr. Mailloux to adjourn meeting at 8 :55 pm. 
 
Next meeting: Thursday, Feb. 16, 2007. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 