===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
June 7, 2012 
Meeting called to order at 6:30 pm 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Maillo ux, Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand, Teresa Hathaway (Interim Director) 
Absent: John Mara, Kathy Murray 
 
Public comment 
•  Lydia Henshaw, Treasurer for the Friends of the Lun enburg Library, indicated that since Noelle Bodkin left the Board a 
2
nd  Trustee would need to be appointed to the Friends Endownment Committee; however, there is currently a  quorum 
so they can wait until the next Trustee’s meeting f or the appointment.  
•  Kate McCarron indicated that there is an error on t he April 26, 2012 Trustee Minutes.  The Board will address this at 
the next meeting.  
Welcome Interim Director  
•  The Board welcomed the Interim Director, Teresa Hat haway.   
•  The Board signed a document that allows Teresa Hath away to approve payment of bills and the payroll. 
 
Possible Conflict of Interest Discussion  
•  Lars indicated to the Board that he had been in con tact with the State Ethics Commission concerning is  conflict since 
his daughter is an employee of the Lunenburg Librar y.  He was told that he can participate in all disc ussions related to 
the library including the budget, except if the dis cussions are directly related to the Director, Asst  Director, or his 
daughter.  This information is also discussed in th e State Ethics Commission Advisory 05-03.  
 
FY13 After Town Meeting Budget 
•  The Board discussed the new proposal, as developed by the Budget Subcommittee, for dealing with the FY 13 Budget 
based on the 10% cut since the over-ride was not ap proved at the May 18, 2012 Town Election.   Unfortu nately, the 
two members of the Budget Subcommittee were unable to attend this meeting to present their proposal.  
•  The first discussion was on the hours of operation for the library.  Several proposals were discussed,  which included 
separate hours for the library for the summer (July  and August) and the remainder of the year Sept 201 2 through June 
2013.  
•  Lisa Krowitz made a motion to reduce the current 44  hours of operation for the summer (July and August ) to 36 hours 
with the following schedule: Mon 10 am-8 pm, Tue no on to 8 pm, Wed 10 am to 6 pm, Thurs 10 am to 8 pm, closed 
Friday through Sunday.  Lars Widstrand seconded the  motion.  After discussion, Lisa tabled her motion.  Lars agreed to 
remove his second of the original motion.  
•  Robin Venezia made a motion to reduce the current 4 4 hours of operation for the summer hours (July and  August) to 
36 hours with the following schedule: Mon 10 am-8 p m, Tue 10 am to 4 pm, Wed 10 am to 4 pm, Thurs 10 am to 8 pm, 
Sat 10 am to 2 pm, closed Friday and Sunday.  Dick Mailloux seconded the motion, unanimous approval by  the 
Trustees present. 
•  Dick Mailloux made a motion to reduce the current 4 4 hours of operation for the Library from Sept 2012  through June 
2012 to 40 hours with the following schedule: Mon 1 0 am-8 pm, Tue 10 am to 8 pm, Wed 10 am to 4 pm, Thurs 10 am 
to 8 pm, Sat 10 am to 2 pm, closed Friday and Sunda y.  Lars Widstrand seconded the motion, unanimous a pproval by 
the Trustees present. 
•  The Trustees discussed the Budget as developed by t he Budget Subcommittee on June 1, 2012 during the B udget 
Subcommittee Meeting.  Lisa was concerned that the Library Materials line item was reduced approximate ly 13K below 
the amount required for State Aid and Accreditation  (approx. 50K).  This amount can be increased by us ing the 
Revolving Account and/or with assistance from the F riend’s of the Lunenburg Library.  
•  Dick Mailloux made a motion to accept the FY13 Budg et as developed by the Budget Subcommittee during t he June 1, 
2012 Budget Subcommittee meeting. Lars Widstrand se conded the motion, unanimous approval by the Truste es 
present. 
 
Trustees Re-organization 
•  Dick Mailloux made a motion to table the reorganiza tion of the Board until the next meeting since two Board members 
were absent for this meeting.  Robin Venezia second ed the motion, unanimous approval by the Trustees p resent. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Approval of May 10, 2012 Minutes 
•  Passed over this item since the minutes were approv ed during the May 17 th  meeting. 
 
Other 
•  Lars asked that the new Trustee contact information  be sent to Kerry so that she can update the Librar y’s website. 
Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Robin Venezia to adjourn at 8:15 pm; passed unanimously b y the Trustees 
present. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lisa Krowitz 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 