===PAGE 1===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 3 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 16, 2013. 
 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, Joanne McQuaid, Martha Moore, Jeanne Raboin, Robin Venezia, Lars 
Widstrand 
Bob Ebersole, Selectboard Representative 
Absent: Kathy Murray 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm, by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
o Bob Ebersole introduced himself as the new liaison for the Selectboard and was welcomed by the 
trustees. 
 
 Jeanne welcomed new trustee member Joanne McQuaid and congratulated Dick Mailloux on the renewed 
term.  The trustees concurred in the welcome/congratulations. 
 
 Board of Trustees Reorganization – after the election, the trustees reorganized. 
o Chair:  Dick nominated Jeanne for position of Chair; second by Joanne.  Approved by unanimous 
vote. 
o Vice chair:  Jeanne nominated Dick for position of Vice chair; second by Robin.  Approved by 
unanimous vote. 
o Secretary:  Lisa nominated Lars for position of Secretary; second by Dick.  Approved by 
unanimous vote. 
o Budget subcommittee:  Kathy, Robin and Joanne 
o Policy subcommittee:  Martha, Lisa, Robin and Lars 
o Personnel subcommittee:  Jeanne, Dick and Lisa 
o Endowment group:  The group meets once a year, with Friends of LPL.  Lydia Henshaw 
(treasurer of the Friends of LPL) will call the meeting before mid-July.  Martha, Dick and Jeanne 
will represent the Trustees. 
 
 Approval of minutes 
o Minutes for April 25, 2013: 
 Motion made by Jeanne to approve submitted minutes; second by Robin.  Approved by 
Jean, Lisa, Robin and Lars.  Dick (not present at that meeting) and Joanne (not a trustee 
at that meeting) abstained. 
 
 Director’s Report 
o Staff: 
 New Digital Service Librarian (Sandy Altucher) hired, all going well. 
 Martha wishes to hire new page in June to replace Alex for overlap and cross-training 
before September, when Alex goes off to college. 
o Library IT/Website update: 
 New tech consultant have begun work however slightly slower pace than anticipated – 
CWMars have been cumbersome. 
 Lunenburglibrary.org new domain for the library.  Some issues with a foreign user 
“hijacking” the name. 

===PAGE 2===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 3 
 Technology last week with town IT CWMars IT to get PCRes moved to our server and 
upgraded.  New printer up and working, on the server; new version of evergreen – much 
faster and more reliable, has allowed for higher productivity.   
o Financials: 
 as presented in separate spread sheet by the Director 
 Director looking forward to new Muni system to make handling of purchase orders and 
invoicing streamlined; tentative July date for implementation. 
o Library Maintenance, etc.: 
 Discussion about the painting of the library, concern about paint selection to match the 
underlying surface, to make sure it matches – need some information on the building’s 
external wall material before we go out to bid the paint job. 
 Power assist doors for front: need to make sure we get doors that work both manually as 
well as with power assist. 
 DPW will maintain our green surfaces (w. exception of the outside garden area – Jean 
Proctor to replace pump, plants, etc.) 
Lisa suggested National Honor Society students to do some work – to check with Mrs. 
Sabatini @ LHS for garden volunteers. 
o Programs: 
 Juried Art Exhibition in the fall, in October after fall book sale. 
 Not about the hike, program on June 19th – flyers available at front desk.  The program is 
set to run 7 – 8:30 p.m. in the Wallace room.  
 Poetry and Music in Lunenburg September 15th.  A Sunday afternoon concert in back 
garden with musicians from Quebec. 
o Other: 
 Discussion about standing orders and subscriptions.  Lisa mentioned Zunio for e-
subscriptions of books and magazines. 
 
 Policies Subcommittee:  
o Policies update: 
 Updates and revisions presented by Robin.  Four policies for final review and approval by 
Trustees. 
 Motion to accept policy for Library Bill of Rights by Jeanne, moved by Dick; second by 
Lisa.  Approved by unanimous vote. 
 Motion to accept policy for Reciprocal Borrowing by Jeanne, moved by Dick; second by 
Robin.  Approved by unanimous vote. 
 Motion to accept policy for Operational Safety Policy moved by Dick; second by Lisa.  
Approved by unanimous vote. 
 Motion to accept Closing Policy, by Jeanne; second by Dick.  Approved by unanimous 
vote. 
 Information from policy subcommittee: Several policies are under review, and will be 
gathered under one heading to cover advertising, art, and library card. 
 Next Policy Meeting to be called by Robin 
 
 Supporting the Lunenburg Schools by allowing access to rooms: 
o Martha discussed the use of the Wallace room for teacher training in August, which carries 
implications for summer programs at the Library. 
The same is true for use of library facilities during school trips when students are not participating 
in the school planned activities.  The Library can’t take full responsibility for executing the school’s 
programs – the library is for the entire town, and [school] use of the [Wallace] room must be 
weighed against town’s general interests. 
 
 Personnel Subcommittee: Director’s Evaluation 
Jeanne made a motion to move the evaluation to the end of meeting, second by Lars.  Approved 
by unanimous vote. 


===PAGE 3===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 3 of 3 
 Other: 
o Discussion about the open meeting law informational session with town counsel.  Dick in formed 
about the session held and provided hand-outs from the session. 
o List documents referenced or used in the meeting: director’s report, agenda, policies - at end of 
minutes. 
o Jeanne: information from Friends LPL, Tom Mason has monies given in the memory of Karen to be 
donated for the children’s section. 
o Hardy composite material (concrete composite wall material used on the building – will be 
confirmed.  Issue for painting as mentioned earlier in minutes). 
o Friends July 20th ~10 a.m. to noon, annual brunch meeting (pot luck, Wallace room) 
o June book and bake sale June 1st 8:30 a.m. until 2 p.m. – Friends need help with work during day, 
set-up, clean-up and through the day. 
o Cultural Horizons Program, January 2014, funded by [Saundra Lane], Scandinavian theme.  
 
 Next trustee meeting: June 20th due to end of Fiscal Year.  July and August meeting will not take place 
unless special needs arise – September will be first fall meeting. 
 
 Personnel subcommittee, Martha’s evaluation to be discussed. 
o Martha and Bob left at 8:30 p.m., whereafter the evaluation for Martha commenced.  
o New evaluation methods will be discussed – use of other types of instruments for future – the 
current evaluation form does not match Martha’s situation. 
o The evaluation summary based on the individual trustee’s input was subject to discussion; also the 
evaluation itself; future goals for the Library; as well as Director’s goals. 
o The revised evaluation summary will be presented to Martha by Jeanne.  
 
 Dick requested that the on the next agenda we review the OML (open meeting law) based on the 
presentation given by Town Counsel on May 14, 2013.  
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn the meeting by Jeanne; second by Robin. Approved by unanimous vote @ 9:30 
p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for May 16 
Library Director’s Report, including Financial Spreadsheet 
Submitted revised Library Policies 
OML presentation handout of May 14, 2013 