===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
November 20, 2014; Wallace Community Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jean Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz (via Skype, in China), Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand, 
Teresa Hathaway (Interim Director), Caroline Griffis (Finance Committee Representative), Bob Ebersole (Selectmen 
representative) 
Absent: Susan Visser, Martha Moore  
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:52 p.m. by Jean Raboin. 
 
 Public comment: None 
 
 Approval of minutes 
 
 Motion from Gare to add Sept 18 minutes, Second by Dick, voted all in favor: 
o September 18, 2014 motion to accept minutes as revised, by Dick, second by Gare. Voted all in favor. 
o October 16, 2014 motion to accept minutes as revised, by Gare, second by Dick. Voted all in favor. 
o October 27, 2014 motion to accept minutes as revised, by Dick, second by Gare. Voted all in favor. 
 
 Director’s report: presented by Teresa Hathaway  
o Budget FY14-15 
 Numbers show that water and electrical expenditures are on target for the year. 
o Personnel 
 Teresa to talk with other towns’ libraries about options/role of their Teen and Children Librarians 
regarding duties, pay range, etc. in anticipation of Kate’s retirement (targeted for end of March – 
possibly delayed depending on Martha’s recovery).    
o Programming 
 Trustees expressed positive opinions about the ongoing Small Art Exhibit. 
 Gare wants to get a “marketing blitz” in early December to remind people that most of the art IS for 
sale. 
 Jean discussed with Martha to have a December Saturday in the community room with cookies 
and drinks (to be specified later); compare to the Lunenburg Senior center fair on Dec. 6th.  
 Dec 3rd drumming workshop 
 Dec 8th, workshop “small critters” 
 Dec 16th Zentangle workshop with Terry  
 Jan-Feb 2015, Debra will arrange to hold a workshop in how to buy and sell on Ebay 
 Creat-Space workshop by Gare, date T.B.D. 
 March 2015 timeframe: Mr Polanski, will hold “Music Through the Decades” presentation (involves 
pictures and music) 
o Capital Planning 
 Plan is available on-line 
 Facility maintenance request: December 2nd at 4:30 p.m. @ Town Hall, to be presented 
by Jack Rodriquenz and Jim Breault. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
November 20, 2014; Wallace Community Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Discussion of what is covered in the plan – outdoor lights, indoor lights, 
carpeting? The carpeting was pushed out until later, but the situation on the 
lights update is uncertain. Also “firing gun” (igniter module) for the furnace 
system to be replaced.  Possibly a $15k item.   
o FY15-16 Budget Planning 
 Terry has started to collect data to put the plan together.  
 Friends of LPL updates: 
o Endowment group met with the new Edward Jones (financial) advisor.  Maturing CDs to be reinvested with 
Edward Jones. 
o New Friends of LPL president is Jane Crook. 
 Other: 
o “Future ideas for LPL” summary – ideas from many sources condensed by Gare and Lars. 
Gare gave overview of the summary. 
Different ideas were discussed about feasible projects and programs for the Library to take on. 
Next year is the 10-year anniversary for the LPL! 
Building Reuse Committee and Planning Board to be invited to our January meeting – to discuss the library 
neighborhood (Brooks House, driveway into elementary school – paid for by Friends) 
o Holiday closing hours, brought up by Terry 
 The LPL will be closed on Thanksgiving; Terry requested that the LPL will be closing on Christmas 
Eve and New Years Eve at 3 p.m. 
 Motion by Gare that the library closes at 3 pm on 12/24 and 12/31; second by Dick. Voted all in 
favor. 
o Jean suggested that “something should be done for the staff” for Christmas.  Terry to ask staff and Martha 
and bring to Friends for funding.    
 Next meeting: 
o December 18, at 6:45 p.m. in the Sudolnik room. 
 Adjourn 
o Jean moved to adjourn; Dick second, Voted all in favor @ 8:20 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for November 20, 2014 
 