===PAGE 1===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
April 17, 2014. 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Martha Moore, Lisa Krowitz, Kathy Murray, Lars Widstrand 
Absent: Joanne McQuaid, Robin Venezia, 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm by Chairman Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comments 
o No public comments 
 Approval of minutes: 
o Feb Jeanne entertained a motion to approve minutes as amended, moved by Dick second by Lisa, all 
approve – Kathy abstained not having been at that meeting. 
o March, Jeanne entertained, etc. moved by Dick, second by Kathy, all approve.  
 Agenda Items 
o Approval of minutes 
 Correct above entry and move here! 
o Director’s Report for March 20, 2014, director’s handout reviewed and discussed. 
 Staffing 
 Discussed per report. 
 Financials 
 On target salary wise 
 Per report 
 Collections 
 Discussed per report. 
 Highlight is new e-subscription to NewsBank for historical newspapers and 
genealogy bank. 
 Building/Facilities 
 Discussed per report. 
Re: Eagle Scout possible program for LPL back garden – question for Friends to 
sponsor a re-dedication ceremony of the LPL garden after completion of program. 
 Programs 
 Discussed per report. 
 Re: Special Program with the Astronomy Society – Kathy suggested contacting Mr. 
Hill @ Lunenburg High School for advice and possible participation in the program.  
Mr. Hill is described as having a burning interest for astronomy and someone who is 
really trying to engage the Lunenburg youth in “star gazing”. 
 Technology 
 Discussed per report. 
 (Technology, continued)  Re: Network assessment complete – all network cabling 
(CAT-5E, Ethernet) has been electrically categorized, cataloged and marked.  
Wrong markings or no markings have been corrected, the server room has been 
“cleaned up”, namely cables that ran across the floor are now properly routed over 
cable raceways and in the ceiling.  Patch panels, router(s) and switch(es) are 
properly marked.  Moving forward, it will be much easier (for anyone) to work with 
the network in the library. 
o Joanne resigning:  

===PAGE 2===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
 Joanne has sent in a letter of resignation, which the Trustees need to approve.  
Trustees needs to be at selectmen to present fill-in person for the remainder of her term. 
 Jeanne april 15 2014 Dick moved Kathy second Motion to accept with regret  Joanne’s letter of 
resignation.  Gare Thompson will fill the vacancy. 
 Motion to move to “Other” by Jeanne moved by Kathy, Dick second. 
o Move the meeting, in order for a smoother transition, Thursday, May 22 nd  
o Motion move 15th, to 22nd due to lateness in month town election second Dick, all in favor, to make the 
new trustees be on board. 
 Martha’s evaluation: 
o Subcommittee meeting of April 15 Dick and Jeanne for Martha’s evaluation.  
o Discussion on how to consolidate the external evaluations with the Trustees for a finalized version with 
external as appendices. 
o Ask Martha for her own goals for next year to be merged in with what the Trustees believe.  
o Discussion ensued… 
o May 15th completion of Director Evaluation, we will vote on the evaluation, following that there will be a 
1-on-1 with Martha  
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Lisa, second by Kathy at 8:30 p.m. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for April 17, 2014 
Lunenburg Public Library, Director’s Report of April 17, 2014. 