===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
October 16, 2014; Teen Room, Lunenburg Public Libra ry 
 
Attending: Jean Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz , Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Patricia 
Dupont 
Absent: Martha Moore, due to illness; Bob Ebersole,  other commitment; John Henshaw, FinCom meeting 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:49 p.m. by Jea n Raboin. 
 
•  Public comment: None 
 
•  Approval of minutes: 
o September 18 Minutes, motion to accept minutes as revised , by Gare, second by Harry. Voted all in favor. 
 
•  Administrative responsibilities during Director Mar tha Moore’s absence: 
o Jean made a motion to get the Trustees permission t o contact BiblioTemps to hire an Interim Director.  Dick 
second. Voted all in favor. Ideally, Teresa Hathawa y (previous Interim Director) could cover LPL durin g 
Martha’s absence. 
/square4 Discussion about compensation for Interim Director,  number of hours/ days per week, etc. ensued. 
o Gare made a motion to give Assistant Director Patri cia Dupont the authority to sign bill, payment vouc hers, 
P.O.’s, requisitions, etc. during Martha’s absence.   Dick second. Voted all in favor. Copy of Authoriz ation 
attached to Minutes. 
o Gare mades a motion to give Jean authority to sign payroll in Martha’s absence.  Dick second. Voted al l in 
favor. 
•  Director’s report: presented by Pat Dupont.  Notes and comments below are from ensuing discussions. 
o Staff updates: Joseph Rager, new page in LPL.  
o Painting study rooms: Paint/material is paid for wi th funds from the Library Endowment Fund. 
o Small Works (art) Exhibit to take place in the Wall ace Room.  Saturday, Oct 25th from 10-2 is first dr op-off 
date for artists to bring in their works.  Second d rop-off date is Monday 27 th .  Karen Kemp will organize in 
Martha’s absence.  
o Painting interior of library, interior lights, inte rior carpeting – all deferred to capital plan.  Bud get/Finance 
committee will work with Jim Breault on these items .  
/square4 Decided: Harry Kubetz and Susan Wisser will represe nt the Trustees 
o Pat called MBLC and got an extension on the library  “ARIS” report submittal; Pat will request another week 
extension to submit the ARIS report by the 27th. 
•  LPL vision – motion by Susan to postpone this discu ssion until November meeting. Second by Gare. Voted  all in favor. 
•  Friends of LPL update: Book and Bake sell went real ly well: >$3,000.00 of which was $ 700.00 was the bake sale.  
Children’s book sale was great. 
•  LPL Endowment: Lydia Henshaw wants to get the commi ttee together to discuss maturing CDs that need to be 
reinvested/renewed. 
•  Other: none 
•  Next meeting: 
o November 20, at 6:45 p.m. in the Sudolnik room. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
October 16, 2014; Teen Room, Lunenburg Public Libra ry 
 
Page 2 
 
•  Adjourn 
o Gare moved adjourn; Robin second, Voted all in favo r @ 7:50 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for October 16, 2014 
Scanned copy of Authorization for Patricia Dupont s igning purchase requisitions and vouchers for the D irector during her 
absence. 
 