===PAGE 1===
 
 Lunenburg Public Library 
 
1023  Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462  • (978) 582-4140  
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Personnel Subcommittee Meeting minutes 
February 6, 2014 
 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, Richard Mailloux, Jeanne Raboin 
Guest: Martha Moore, LPL Director 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:54 p.m. in the Wallace Community Room by Jeanne Raboin. 
 
•  Public Comment: none 
 
•  Martha Moore presented different aspects to 360 evaluations. Personnel subcommittee members 
discussed these with Martha. 
 
•  Discussion about how to incorporate the 360 evaluation into the Library Director’s 2013-2014 
evaluation.  
 
o Procedure:  
/square4 The current evaluation form and selected questions from documents about 
conducting 360 reviews will be used. (These will be given to the Trustees at the 
Feb. 20 meeting) 
/square4 The selected 360 questions (along with Director’s j ob description and LPL 
mission statement) will be sent to selected town hall staff, all LPL library staff 
and selected Friends of LPL for feedback. Responders will have the choice to 
review anonymously.  If this method is chosen, eval uations will then be sent to 
Trustees via Lunenburg Public Library in a sealed envelope (to be placed in the 
Trustees folder);  
/square4 Library Director will provide a self-evaluation; also Director will provide 
information for sections II and IV from the current evaluation form. 
/square4 If Trustees have a goal/s in mind for Director, these will be added to the 
evaluation form. 
/square4 All evaluation forms to be in April 1. 
 
•  Open Trustees positions: brief discussion on recruiting Lunenburg residents to run for LPL Board 
of Trustees. Trustee chair, Jeanne Raboin, will send a document looking for volunteers to the 
Lunenburg Access Cable Channel. LPL web site and Lu nenburg Ledger.  
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:50 pm 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, Chair 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Documents referenced: 
Lunenburg Public Library Director’s Performance Eva luation 2013 Instrument 
Lunenburg Public Library Director’s Job Description  
Lunenburg Public Library Mission Statement 