===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
June 19, 2014; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jean Raboin, Robin Venezia, Harry Kubetz , Susan Visser, Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Bob Ebersol (B.O.S.), 
Brian Laffond (Finance Committee), Lydia Henshaw, ( Friends of LPL) 
 
Absent: Dick Mailloux, Martha Moore 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Jea n Raboin. 
 
•  Public comment: 
o Brian Laffond is stepping down from a long service to the Lunenburg Finance Committee. 
 
•  Approval of minutes: 
o April 17 Minutes, motion to accept minutes as revis ed, by Lars, second by Jean, unanimous yes vote. 
o May 20 Minutes, motion to accept minutes by Gare, s econd by Harry, unanimous yes vote. 
o May 22 Minutes, motion to accept minutes by Susan, second by Gare, unanimous yes vote. 
 
•  Director’s report: - since Martha Moore did not att end the meeting these questions remain open: 
o Harry: first bullet on second page of report – why are the Friends of LPL paying for building maintena nce?  
Discussion:  Jean explained that in general, the town pays for upkeep, but in special urgent cases it may be 
paid for by friends.  Trustees expressed concern th at the town will not be aware of the full cost of 
maintenance if the library seeks and finds (in frie nds) alternative sources for funding.  In future, t he town 
should be made aware of the monies spent, and reque sts for the maintenance should be flagged in the 
budget.  Recommendation to make for upcoming budget  planning (in September) is to show real 
maintenance costs… 
o Susan: financial section – transferring funds to In gram, it is a timing issue with billing? 
o Evergreen 2.5 catalog software open? 
o ARIS reporting official annual report on monies spe nt to be sent to the state. 
o Jean: staffing, paragraph 3; Jean is happy with the  complete staff evaluation that Martha has done.  
Question: Can the evaluations be shared with the tr ustees, for information only?  Does it infringe on staff 
confidential information? 
o FY-16, maintenance added to budget, including non-c apital requests 
 
•  Board of Trustees Endowment Committee: 
o Jean and Susan are on representing the Library Trus tees 
 
•  Heating billing question from Brian: 
o Reduction in heating cost – what drove the reductio n in cost?  Jean will send informational email to F inance 
committee/Brian with the answer.  Speculation: HVAC  adjustments did gain us significant savings. 
 
•  Friends Information: 
o Book and bake sale was a rousing success – by far t he best we have had.  Final count >$3,600.00. 
 

===PAGE 2===
•  Meeting turned over by Jean to Lydia for informatio n about how the friends support the library and its ’ functions. 
o Friends of LPL was instituted on 7th December 1972;  initiated its’ bylaws.  Endowment set aside for sp ecial 
purposes, the use governed with bylaws.  $300,000.0 0 baseline funds resides in the endowment, but is NOT  
used; only investment gains are used (endowment exp enditure funds).  Examples of purchases made by the  
Friends: Security cameras; Telephone systems; ADA d oor-openers for the main entrance doors.  Operating  
funds for the Friends of LPL come from membership f ees, book-and-bake sale, ongoing book sale in the 
library.  (At this point a Friends of Library Treas ury report was presented).  Friends of LPL pays for  all library 
programs, printer ink/toner, paper, copier supplies ; also copier maintenance is paid for. 
o Cultural horizon program was paid for by earnings f rom the “Saundra Lane gift”. 
o ~800 Lunenburg families are members of the Friends.  
 
•  Other: 
o July 26 10:00 a.m. pot-luck meeting for Friends of LPL in the Wallace room. 
 
•  Brainstorming for FY15: 
o Gare: ways that we can involve the library, to beco me a community center – to ponder over the summer. 
o Ask Monty Tech to build items for LPL, e.g. setting  up a portable kitchen for cooking classes. 
o Bring list to September meeting.  Suggestion to sen d a list to Jean by August 1, of ideas. 
o Long-term plans for the library, 5-year plan – what  would we like to see (also by August 1) 
o Brian suggests to add the LPL to the Town Master pl an; approach the planning board director to get Lib rary 
input to it.  Suggestion by Bob Ebersole that we br ing in a consultant to help with the 5-year plan; p ossibly 
paid for by friends. 
 
•  Board comments: 
o Harry: for the selectmen to address: when email cam e from Kerry about committees Harry called and trie d to 
contact Kerry, but got no return call or any respon se. 
o Brian: prepare request for larger kitchen update fo r the Wallace room; if not now, then get it into th e long 
term plan or master plan. 
o No other board comments 
 
•  Upcoming meeting suggestions:  
o August brainstorming meeting 
o Library to be included in master plan 
o Define library plan for 5 years  
•  Other 
o Bob Ebersole mentioned that $1,000.00 was given by various people in his mother's name to the library 
when she passed away.  Martha procured a historical  book for small part of it. 
 
•  Motion to adjourn at 8:26 p.m., moved by Gare Thomp son, second by Susan, unanimous yes vote. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for June 19, 2014 
Lunenburg Public Library, Director’s Report of June  19, 2014. 