===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
December 18, 2014; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Robert 
Ebersole (Selectmen Representative), Kerry Speidel (Town Manager); Troy Daniels (Visitor) 
Absent: Martha Moore, Teresa Hathaway, Caroline Griffis (Finance Committee Representative) 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Jean Raboin. 
 
 Public comment: Jeanne Raboin notified the Trustees that she is changing careers; the change will not affect her work 
with the Lunenburg Public Library Trustees. 
 
 Kerry Speidel, Lunenburg Town Manager was invited for [budget] Q&A session. Ms. Speidel responded to questions 
regarding impact on the [library] budget due to pending increases in electricity costs, looming cuts in state aid, and 
possible extension of interim director’s contract. 
o Discussion ensued about budget, state aid and possible 1.5% cut of state aid to towns. 
o Utilities are approximately $7k over [library] budget. Ms. Speidel recommends [that the Trustees] send a 
memo to FinCom with concern about the utilities budget, with a heads up of the $7k deficit and request use 
of FinCom reserve fund to cover. 
o Possible extension of Teresa Hathaway’s contract due to extended rehab of Martha and the fiscal 
implications of this. The workman’s comp portion currently covers Ms. Hathaway’s pay. 
o Ms. Speidel reminded the Trustees that the budget request is due mid-January; target [Library] budget from 
Ms. Speidel is somewhat higher than the current [year] spending; current $353,206.00, projected 
$363,849.00.  
 
 Mr. Daniels asked about the [current] budget numbers presented by Ms. Hathaway (submitted report). What 
percentage of the annual budget the numbers represented? Since Ms. Hathaway was not present, the question was 
tabled.  
 
 Approval of LPL Trustee Meeting minutes 11-20-14, with revisions recommended by Robin.  Motion by Dick, second by 
Gare; voted all in favor with Susan abstaining (not present in November). 
 
 Director’s report: mailed in by Teresa Hathaway  
o Childrens young adults staffing (separate letter); budget numbers (spread sheet) 
 Personnel 
Discussion about future staffing levels, full-time vs. part time librarians (due to upcoming 
retirements) 
 Programming 
Karen said small works [art] exhibit and sales went very well. 
Harry asked how the [library] programs are initiated – do we solicit input from patrons?  Discussion 
followed revealing that no formal channel exists to obtain public input.  People do solicit their own 
presentations or programs to the library. 
 Technology 
People/visitor counter has been broken, needs to be repaired/replaced. 
 Building & Maintenance 
Oil-burner is giving continuous trouble, not reliably starting up. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
December 18, 2014; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Holiday Hours: December 24, 2014 
Request from Martha: to change from early closing to fully closed on 12-24. Motion was made by 
Gare, second by Dick, that the library is closed on 12-24.  No discussion; voted all in favor. 
o Capital Planning: Capital Committee, Village District By-law and January 2015 meeting. 
 Jeanne: were able to book Jamie Toale and Joanna Bilotta-Simone to participate in the January 
meeting to discuss the village district by-law. 
 12-22 planning board will have a televised discussion about the village by law 
 Robin: 12-2 capital planning meeting – painting of library was discussed.  No answer on indoor 
lighting, the Green Task Force takes care of that.  Indoor is handled by Jim Breault – but he is out 
sick. 
 Susan will contact Green Task Force to find out how much of the lights (in and/out) are covered by 
their plan; invite Green Task Force to January meeting. 
 Harry will talk to Jack Rodriquenz about repair of furnace – igniter replacement. Possibly also what 
Jim Breault has for information on lights. 
 
 Other: 
o None   
 Next meeting: 
o January 15 2015, at 6:45 p.m. in the Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room. 
 Adjourn 
o Jean moved to adjourn the meeting; moved by Dick, second by Sue; voted all in favor @ 7:59 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for December 18, 2014 
 