===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
September 18, 2014; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunen burg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jean Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz , Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore, John Henshaw (Finance Committee), Bob Eberso l (B.O.S.) 
Absent: 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:48 p.m. by Jea n Raboin. 
 
•  Public comment: 
o Welcome John Henshaw as the Finance Committee repre sentative; Bob Ebersol as the Board of Selectmen 
representative 
 
•  Approval of minutes: 
o June 19 Minutes, motion to accept minutes as revise d, by Gare, second by Harry, six votes in favor, Di ck 
abstained (not present at June meeting). 
 
•  Director’s report: as discussed in the report submi tted by Martha.  Notes and comments below are from ensuing 
discussions. 
o Budget 
/square4 Currently 20.8% into the FY. 
o Staff 
/square4 Kate McCarron plans to retire at end of March 2015;  Karen Kemp on July 3, 2015 
Discussion about succession and forward thinking ab out library functions and positions – what type 
of librarian do “we” want; what type of services wi ll we provide? 
Regarding retirement gifts – would the Friends of L PL contribute? 
o Collections 
/square4 Discussing new forms of e-book, to preserve materia l to be “Lunenburg only” lending, since 
CWMars material is used by all affiliated libraries , and can be “out for months” w/o Lunenburg 
patrons getting access to it.. 
/square4 LPL makes quarterly payments to Ingram (this was a question from last meeting); this interval 
makes paperwork more efficient and payments timely (processed through Town Hall).  Ingram is 
our “biggest book jobber”. 
o Technology 
/square4 LPL is now on Fiber optic connect (Mass Broadband).   The fiber is only used for CWMars, it is paid 
through that program.  The rest of all connections are still via Comcast.  If any non-CWMars 
computers (public) were to be attached to the fiber  network, it would mean additional cost; no 
apparent advantage to do so. 
o Programs 
/square4 Summer participation in library programs was disapp ointing – however, kudos from Jean to put 
these on. 
/square4 In October, a suicide prevention program is planned  to take place. 
/square4 Station in the LPL for health information – to prov ide help with understanding the ins and outs of 
the mandatory health care program and its’ options.  

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
September 18, 2014; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunen burg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
/square4 Saturday program to promote adoption of shelter pet s may be realized. 
o Building & Maintenance 
/square4 Carpet replacement is officially on the back burner  this year (after meeting with Jim Breault @ 
DPW), i.e. it will not happen this year. 
/square4 Exterior lights will be refitted with LED lights (g rant money to cover cost) – power consumption for 
one indoor upward facing lights is ~ 5x one of the outdoor parking lights.  Significant power savings 
to be gained if these bulbs are replaced. 
/square4 In July all grout was cleaned in the bathrooms, the  bathrooms look clean!  Sponsored by Friends. 
/square4 In August the LPL received a quote to paint the qui et study rooms, Friends will sponsor the cost. 
o ARIS Report – preliminary sample data discussed 
/square4 Usage: ~98k circulations (all inclusive); 30k adult ; 5,6k YA; 29k childrens’ 
/square4 Interlibrary loans: 400 more borrowed than lent; it ems per year: 11543 received 11085 provided. 
/square4 7473 (~6400 Lunenburg residents) registered LPL use rs. The town has ~10k residents,  
 
•  LPL Budget and Energy Costs: 
o Discussion about the upcoming increase in electrici ty rates and natural gas rates, as brought forward by 
John Londa.  Translates to roughly 65% increase.  J ohn Henshaw mentioned that the increase appears to 
look inflated.  He cautioned that we need more deta iled information before we get too excited about it . 
Hard choices to make – how to fund this drastic inc rease in energy cost.( ~ FY15, annual budgeted amou nt: 
$30k)… 
It will be added on October agenda for follow up.  Martha will check with other libraries how they are  
impacted by the cost increase. 
What is the cost of changing inside lights “now” to  LEDs before grant monies are available?  Cost/bene fit 
analysis needed. 
 
•  Children’s Safety Policy: 
o Discussion about changing the age of children to be  left without supervision, and the consequences for  the 
parents of children who are left at LPL as a form o f day care (which is not permitted – the LPL does n ot 
provide day care service!). 
Motion from Dick to revise the age on the Child Saf e Policy from currently 8 years old to 10 years old .  Gare 
second. Voted: 5 for, 1 against, 1 abstain. 
 
•  Capital Planning: 
o Interior items: 
/square4 Annual message from Jack Rodriquenz to produce a ca pital plan request.  Also, refer to indoor 
carpet item above. 
o Motion to move this agenda item and put it on Octob er’s agenda: Gare made the motion, Susan second. 
voted: all in favor. 
 
•  Other: 
o From June 19 minutes – question: 
About Evergreen: Evergreen is open source software 
Staff evaluations – to be shared?  Martha believes in infringes on personal/privileged information, Je an 
concurs; related: job descriptions have been filed with town. 
Reduction in heating cost: the numbers were develop ed from actual run-rate of the heating system. 
o Future ideas for the library, the submitted “brains torming documents” to be summarized into “broad 
headings”.  Gare and Lars volunteered to do the sum mary and distribute to trustees before October meet ing. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
September 18, 2014; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunen burg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
o Dick: discussed separate email address, small bio +  picture for the library website contact page. Furt her 
discussion about domain name addresses.  Dick will investigate options and report during October meeti ng  
•  Next meeting: 
o October 16, at 6:45 p.m. in the Sudolnik room. 
•  Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn at 9:01 p.m., motion by Gare, sec ond by Harry. Voted: unanimous yes. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for September 18, 2014 
Lunenburg Public Library, Director’s Report of Sept ember 18, 2014. 
 