===PAGE 1===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
March 20, 2014. 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Martha Moore, Joanne McQuaid, Kathy Murray, Robin Venezia, Lars 
Widstrand, Kerry Speidel (Town Manager) 
Absent: Lisa Krowitz 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:54 pm in the Children’s Story Room by Chairman Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comments 
o No public comments 
 Agenda Items 
o Kerry Speidel (Town Manager).  Ms. Speidel discussed the FY2015 town budget and the Lunenburg 
Public Library’s share of it.  For future budgets, the town will most likely be able to meet (LPL) minimum 
spending requirements.  However, due to upcoming Lunenburg school projects, there will not be much 
“wiggle room”. 
Robin asked if the library can help the town in any way shape or form (i.e. meeting space, seminars, 
etc.).  Kerry made a mental note, but saw no immediate need. 
Jeanne asked to get the Lunenburg Public Library Trustees listed on the town website under the tab 
Boards and Committees.   
Discussion followed on the possibility of future expansion of service hours at the Library, such as partial 
Friday hours or partial Sunday hours.  No recommendation or plan was drafted at th is time. 
o Approval of minutes 
 February 20 minutes were not available, will be reviewed next meeting. 
o Director’s Report for March 20, 2014, director’s handout reviewed and discussed. 
 Staffing 
 Discussed per report. 
 Financials 
 The budget is on track for FY-2014.  Martha discussed the numbers presented – at 
roughly ¾ into the current fiscal year some numbers are “high” (heating, etc.) while 
others are “low” (several renewals that have not been billed yet).  This is due to 
seasonal and renewal date variations and are not discrepancies but normal.. 
 Collections 
 Discussed per report. 
 Building/Facilities 
 Discussed per report. 
Re: Eagle Scout possible program for LPL back garden – question for Friends to 
sponsor a re-dedication ceremony of the LPL garden after completion of program. 
 Programs 
 Discussed per report. 
 Re: Special Program with the Astronomy Society – Kathy suggested contacting Mr. 
Hill @ Lunenburg High School for advice and possible participation in the program.  
Mr. Hill is described as having a burning interest for astronomy and someone who is 
really trying to engage the Lunenburg youth in “star gazing”. 
 Technology 
 Discussed per report. 
 (Technology, continued)  Re: Network assessment complete – all network cabling 
(CAT-5E, Ethernet) has been electrically categorized, cataloged and marked.  

===PAGE 2===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
Wrong markings or no markings have been corrected, the server room has been 
“cleaned up”, namely cables that ran across the floor are now properly routed over 
cable raceways and in the ceiling.  Patch panels, router(s) and switch(es) are 
properly marked.  Moving forward, it will be much easier (for anyone) to work with 
the network in the library. 
o Friends of LPL: Updates 
 Cultural Horizon’s and programs update – latest event in the library drew 
approximately 40 people, a good showing.  A question from a Lunenburg Schools’ 
music teacher to get information about the programs was raised.  Lars mentioned 
that he had mailed all schools (principals, admin, and music teachers) information 
about the upcoming Stämbandet concert on March 30. 
 Beverly Guerin, President of Friends is resigning, probably at annual meeting. 
o Town Caucus: 
 Dick reported on the Town Caucus: Two candidates (Harry Kubetz and Susan 
Visser) are on the ballot as caucus nominees for the two open positions on the 
Trustees.  Harry was present at the caucus and signed all necessary papers.  
Susan was contacted later by Martha, to inform her to visit the Town Clerk and sign 
the papers there. 
  
o Subcommittees: 
 Personnel Subcommittee: Director’s Evaluation 
 Two responses have been received by Jeanne so far. 
 Discussion about the content of the forms for the evaluation ensued. 
 Other 
o Joanne mentioned that she would like to step down from the Trustees due to work load and other 
engagements – if the Trustees can find a replacement.  She will not leave “a hole” on the board, but 
serve until a suitable candidate can take her place. 
o “Green” lighting (LED bulbs) for the library is coming – both exterior and interior, existing bulbs and 
some fixtures to be replaced. 
o New Trustees start in May 
o Next meeting in April 17th (Thursday) 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Joanne, second by Robin at 8:36 p.m. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for March 20, 2014 
Lunenburg Public Library, Director’s Report of March 20, 2014. 