===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes Green Community Committee 
February 05, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore, Teresa Hathaway 
Amanda Koeck – reporter, Lunenburg Ledger; Gary Burton – visitor 
 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:15 by Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment: 
Jeanne thanked all for coming to this extra meeting 
 
 Green initiative committee proposal; Martha walk-through 
Exterior lighting plan: “Green light to go” funding available, how do we [trustees] approach the control of the lights?  
Martha asked Kit how other municipal buildings are controlled: other buildings have sunrise/sunset routine.  It was 
discovered that the Library’s rear timer was not connected to any power source(!) 
Discussion: should we turn off lights at “midnight”? – Fear of vandalizing, rest of town is on sunset/sunrise schedule. 
Maybe we can selectively turn off lights – the question will be asked. 
Lights over public entrance (side door), will be treated as emergency lighting, “on at all times” and not turned off at midnight. 
Next step: if we agree, the writing will be given to Green committee; copy to John Londa. 
Motion made by Gare to accept the exterior lighting plan to Green Initiative Committee; copy John Londa. Voted all in favor. 
 
 Green Communities Task Force grant proposal (to be taken to the committee to migrate interior lights to LEDs); Martha 
walk-through 
The lights (one upward and one downward) will be installed for “viewing” (the “industrial” light type is presently in Lancast er 
library) 
Next step is to get the samples, by the 19th of Feb 
Teresa mentioned that the electrical cost increase is not quite 100%, but almost doubled… 
 
 Building management system: 
Harry reported that the burner repair is estimated at <$10k, thereby not considered capital expenditure; the building management 
system will run >$10k and will be a capital expenditure item.  Estimated at $12k by Harry’s report; it is for software and hardware 
for the management system.  The burner [repair/replacement] will go under the maintenance budget. 
Dick asks for bulleted numbers for the services/repairs that have been performed (dates etc.) so that we can present what has 
been done and support the position that further repairs are not desirable. 
Gare asked why the boiler + management are not in the same request – Teresa believes that we can bundle the two. 
Discussion… 
For Kit to ask the on boiler representative: Any [documented] savings data on the management system vis-à-vis an unmanaged 
system? 
Can we get this information for the 19th meeting to wrap up? 
 
  

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 05, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Action items: 
Clean up documents for the meeting of February 19. 
Ask Kit to obtain above mentioned information. 
Light demo on or before February 19. 
 
 
Motion to adjourn by Gare at 7:06 p.m., Susan second, voted all in favor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for February 05, 2015 