===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
November 19, 2015; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – Director, 
LPL, Bob Ebersole – BOS representative and Terri Burchfield, FinCom representative 
Absent: Gare Thompson 
 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
Moving friends of LPL, Jeanne Raboin info to beginning of meeting  about tenth anniversary to be held on December 5 th. 
Invitation, recreated / inspired by the inaugural event of the new library; open house for the community from 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. in 
the Wallace community room.  Invitation to be mailed to all past and present friends of the Library.  
Baked goods, sheet cake, coffee, tea, punch; entertainment: guitarist – Brian Weeks;  
Short speeches planned for by Dick, Martha and Jean Benson (others may join) 
Children 10-12 in the morning, large puppet program; small gift bags for the first 50 kids 
Display cases in entry way will have appropriate material showing the Lunenburg library history, etc.  
Teens and Children will create bookmarks as small gifts 
Cultural horizon event in 2016: From end of January to end of March / beginning of April, theme: Native Americans 
 
 Agenda items 
 Approval of Minutes of 10-15-15. 
o Motion by Harry, second by Dick to accept minutes; voted all in favor; Susan abstained (not present at 
October meeting) 
 Director’s Report – discussed as per handout 
o Budget – on track 
o Staff 
 Sandy Altucher handed in her resignation this week; her last day of work is November 28th. 
 Robin Morris and Sage Scorse are new pages at LPL 
o Technology — Web site demonstration 
o (Future) Programs 
 Fossil exhibit (Texas oilfields) January 9th 
 See LPL program calendar for more details 
o Building & Maintenance 
o Capital Planning 
o FY16-17 Draft Budget 
  

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
November 19, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Educational outreach project – outreach to all educational entities in town, not just public school systems  
 Map out the needs of these organizations to meet their future needs 
 Grant from North Central Community foundation to pay for consultant to execute the outreach 
 Policies 
o Solicitation — Lars – on December agenda 
o Skateboard ban – on December agenda; skateboarding “not OK” in front of the Library 
o Room use by for profit entities recreational 
 In room-use policy, no-profit OK, for profit not OK; Bob E suggest we check on insurance/liability 
when someone does tutoring (as an example), having children behind a closed door , etc. 
 Cable Advisory Committee questions 
o Determined that it does not affect Library 
 Discussion of re-establishing policy sub-committee 
o Martha – will be handing out updated versions of policies at the December meeting ; it was noted that it would 
not be necessary at this time to re-establish the sub-committees. 
Policies will be brought up as needed to trustees for review, discussion and decision 
 Planning for LPL Director evaluation 
o Next meeting the existing evaluation for Martha (checklist and comments) needs to have comments in for the 
personnel committee for January review. 
The Trustees will continue existing evaluation format. 
 Friends of LPL Update moved to the beginning of the meeting! 
 Board Comments 
o No comments from the Board 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings 
o Library Trust Funds--January 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology sub-committee – discuss in December 
o BOS Energy Policy – hold off until spring 2016 
o Policies will be discussed 
 Other 
o 7lbs 14 oz baby girl, grand-daughter to Debbie Laffond arrived tonight!  Congrats! 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn, so moved by Kiirja, second by Lars, all in favor at 8:43 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for November 19, 2015 
Director’s Report 