===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
November 17, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – 
Director, LPL 
Absent: Susan Visser, Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative, Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
o Gare mentioned “little libraries”, exchange boxes for “leave a book, take a book” – to get more people to 
read.  It will be a discussion point on the next meeting’s agenda. 
o Harry gave a brief update on the air-handler in the Sudolnik conference room, and rumbling sounds from the 
ventilation system.  The air-handler has been adjusted and is now quiet.  The rumbling stems from the burner 
itself, “the roar of the flame” reverberates through the system and is coupled into the Sudolnik room.  It will 
be investigated further. 
 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of October 20, 2016 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes as amended, Harry seconded; voted ‘aye’ unanimously. 
 Director’s Report, per distributed hand-out. 
o FY 2017 budget 
o Staff 
o Technology 
 Nothing to report 
o Programs 
o Building and maintenance 
o Capital planning 
o Young adult area report 
o Children’s area report 
 Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds 
o Discussion on spending earned interest – not the principal.  How much of the earned interest should be 
spent and how much should be reinvested or held.  Suggestion of 80/20, i.e. 80% held as cash or reinvested 
and 20% used.  It should be noted that the discussion emphasized that it should be UP TO 20%, not 
necessarily the entire available 20%. 
o Harry voiced that the monies should be used at the discretion of the Library director for library collections and 
programs that are not covered within the town budget.  Gare concurred with this. 
The expenditure in a fiscal year should not exceed 20% of total ACCRUED income. 
o The town’s report on the current balances of the total trust assets needs clarification: some earnings 
numbers are not clear from reading the report, for example the “Touchstone” fund data appear to be 
incomplete. 
o Martha will ask town accountant for clarification on the numbers. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
November 17, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Further discussion on this topic at the next meeting. 
 Library cards for out of state residents 
o Reviewed and discussed proposed policy, final review and decision at next meeting. 
 Friends of LPL update 
o The Fall Book and Bake Sale netted $3,117.50.  The Hannaford reusable bag sale netted $173.00. 
 Plans for Director’s evaluation 
o It will start beginning of February with evaluations due either by email or person by March meeting; decision 
with new salary numbers by April.  Submitted to town by May meeting. 
 Agenda items for upcoming meetings 
o Trust fund policy, finalize and approve. 
o Out of state Library cards policy, finalize and approve. 
o Donna’s research on child safety and policy for LPL. 
Review and discussion, if possible finalize and approve. 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn, so moved by Gare, seconded Harry; voted ‘aye’ unanimously @ 8:09 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for November 17, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 