===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
December 15, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – 
Director, LPL; John Londa – Lunenburg Public Facilities Director 
Absent: Harry Kubetz, Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative, Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:52 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 Update on LPL interior LED light project by John Londa, Lunenburg Public Facilities Director 
o 99% of exterior LED light bulb and fixture conversion has been completed, a few items remain that will be 
cleared up in the near future. 
o Interior LED light bulb and fixture conversion will commence on 12/30.  John estimates 3-4 days with of work, 
using four Fridays (when library is closed to the public). 
All existing 4-ft fluorescent fixtures will have their ballasts removed and rewired for 4-ft LED tubes.  In fixtures 
with emergency light function, the emergency ballast will be removed and replaced with a battery pack and 
LED light strips. 
 Susan asked about battery check schedule; how to know when battery needs to be replaced; 
eventual test button.  Will the emergency lights be tested routinely by DPW staff? 
 John responded that the emergency lights will have a test button, for periodic checking of the 
function. 
o 400W up-facing halide lights in the main hall will be replaced in main hall with 120W LED “kit”.  The halide 
ballasts will be removed and the fixtures will be rewired for the LED lights; the kits are whole assemblies with 
heat sinks, etc. Color temp of lights: 5000K.  70% light output remaining in 5years, warranted. 
o HID lights will also be replaced with LED (also ballast will be removed, fixtures rewired) 
o On recessed cans, DMH paid for replacement bulbs, some out by the foyer do not work. 
o Recessed fixtures will be replaced with “ILP” 2’x2 or 4’x2 depending on what is already in place. 
o Table light bulbs will also be replaced, as well as spotlights to LED bulbs 
o Occupancy sensors has been suggested by Green Committee; discussion about the implementation (study 
rooms, bath rooms, etc.) 
o New sources / contracts for electricity and natural gas will come into effect with substantial savings for the 
town’s energy bill.  By spring-time there will be a better idea of net-metering credits that will come into play to 
provide additional savings. 
 John was thanked for his presentation; John left the meeting. 
 Approval of Minutes of November 17, 2016 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes, Kiirja seconded; voted ‘aye’ unanimously. 
 Director’s Report, per distributed hand-out. 
o FY  2017 Budget 
o Budget Planning for FY ‘18 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
December 15, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Staff 
o Holiday Hours Dec. 2016/Jan. 2017 
o Technology 
o Programs 
o Building & Maintenance 
o Capital Planning Update 
o Young Adult Area Report – per report 
o Children’s Area Report – per report 
 
 Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds – continued to January meeting… 
o Discussion on spending earned interest – not the principal.  How much of the earned interest should be 
spent and how much should be reinvested or held.  Suggestion of 80/20, i.e. 80% held as cash or reinvested 
and 20% used.  It should be noted that the discussion emphasized that it should be UP TO 20%, not 
necessarily the entire available 20%. 
o Harry voiced that the monies should be used at the discretion of the Library director for library collections and 
programs that are not covered within the town budget.  Gare concurred with this. 
The expenditure in a fiscal year should not exceed 20% of total ACCRUED income. 
o The town’s report on the current balances of the total trust assets needs clarification: some earnings 
numbers are not clear from reading the report, for example the “Touchstone” fund data appear to be 
incomplete. 
o Martha will ask town accountant for clarification on the numbers. 
o Further discussion on this topic at the next meeting. 
o Gare moved to accept the “Policy for the Use of bequests, Trusts funds” as amended, Donna seconded, all 
voted ‘aye’.  January meeting will revisit amounts and possible uses. 
o  
 Library cards for out of state residents 
o Susan moved to accept the policy as amended, Kiirja seconded, voted all in favor 
 Child Safety policy 
o Donna had samples from Boston Public Library policy that can be adapted (verbiage) to our policy. 
Will be adapted – issue tabled until January 
 Meeting room policy 
o January review 
 Appropriate use policy review in January 
 Study room policy review in January 
 Friends of LPL update 
o Dick went to meeting, discussed “little library” 
o Suggestion that “Trust monies” to supplement Friends to pay for “speakers”, to get higher cost “performers” – 
uncertainty of the reception of the idea … 
 Plans for Director’s evaluation 
o Will look closer in January. It will start beginning of February with evaluations due either by email or person 
by March meeting; decision with new salary numbers by April.  Submitted to town by May meeting. 
 Agenda items for upcoming meetings 
o Other board comments: none 
o January meeting 19th, seems that many people are travelling... Susan out, Donna out, Gare out; discussion 
to move January meeting.  Gare moved to move the January meeting to the 26th, Lars seconded, voted ‘aye’ 
unanimously. 
  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
December 15, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn, so moved by Gare, seconded by Susan; voted ‘aye’ unanimously @ 8:25 p.m. 
 
Library Holiday Hours: 
Saturday, December 24: .............. CLOSED ALL DAY 
Monday, December 26 : ............... CLOSED ALL DAY 
Saturday, December 31: .............. OPEN 10:00am - 2:00pm 
Monday, January 2: ...................... CLOSED ALL DAY 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for December 15, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 