===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
October 20, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – 
Director, LPL Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
Absent: Susan Visser, Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of September 15, 2016 
o Harry moved to accept the minutes as amended, Donna seconded; voted ‘aye’ unanimously. 
 Director’s Report, per distributed hand-out. 
o FY 2016 budget end of year numbers 
 Expended 99.8% of the total budget! 
o FY 2017 budget 
o ARIS report 
 Separate handout 
o Staff 
 Fully staffed: new hire Heather is working out very well – “she hit the ground running” 
o Programs 
o Building and maintenance 
o Capital planning 
 Martha meeting with the Capital planning committee in December 
o Young adult area report 
o Children’s area report 
o Possible program line in budget/sources of funding 
 Currently the library depends solely on the Friends for paying for programs (people and “snacks”) 
 Cannot create a new budget line, but use the line “contracted services” for this purpose. 
 Desirable to have the library have access to “internal” (town) funds to pay program speakers – 
speakers’ fees are increasing yearly and it is harder to [pay for] speakers; coordinate with other 
libraries.  Kiirja asked if the library has asked the cultural council for grants; Martha confirmed that 
we have a request in with the council. 
 Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds 
o Martha mentioned that we have clarified that through Mr. and Mrs. Fleming’s research and documentation of 
what the individual funds are intended for. 
o Dick requested that we peruse the funds and their values at next month’s meeting to see if there is any 
possibility to use any of them e.g. “speakers’ fees” 
 Room use by for-profit entities (BPL Policies) 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
October 20, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Donna has a lot of questions - she is asking Martha for what existing policy is, so the new policy can be 
created succinctly.  Donna is looking for forms, etc. and other information. 
Donna will send out a “safe-child policy” from BPL for review. 
o BPL has form where the user needs to fill out pertinent information, organization type (non-profit, etc.) 
meeting type, responsibility (liability) for equipment and room. 
o Harry wants the record to show whether we can request CORI check on tutors using the library for tutoring.  
Harry would like for the library to really investigate whether this can be done, for the sake of possible liability 
questions. 
Gare suggests that the user (tutor) signs a form where they assume all responsibility, regardless if this holds 
up from a legal standpoint or not. 
 Library cards for out of state residents 
o Came up in conversation due to a person who lives in Brookline NH, whose husband works for the 
Lunenburg P.D. 
Martha surveyed the “border towns”; some have policies others have only practices.  Does someone in the 
family work in town, go to [public] schools in town or own property in [their] town?  The trustees think that this 
sounds reasonable.  Terri Burchfield asked whether they should be given rights to the interlibrary loans or 
not. 
 Friends of LPL update 
o No trustee member attended last friends’ meeting 
 Plans for Director’s evaluation 
o Gare believes that last year’s procedure worked really well, however we need to be cognizant of the time line 
for getting it done. 
 Agenda items for upcoming meetings 
o Policy for room use 
o Out of state Library cards 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn so moved by Lars, seconded Harry; voted ‘aye’ unanimously @ 8:13 p.m. 
 
NOTE: Susan will be not be present at the next meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for October 20, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 