===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
March 17, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – 
Director, LPL; Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
Absent: Donna Saiia, Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of February 18, 2016 
o Harry moved to accept the minutes as presented, Gare seconded; voted: all in favor 
 Director’s Report, as per handout 
o FY 2016 Budget 
 Overage in heating and probably electricity due to the very mild winter.   
o FY 2017 Budget/Finance Committee meeting update 
 Presented by Martha together with Dick at FinCom – went very well.  FinCom members expressed 
that they were happy with increase in library activities.  FinCom also had no objection to the library 
asking for the additional funding to cover for [primarily program] materials. 
o Staff 
 Digital Services Position (DSP): will be more focused on e-books and marketing of e-materials and 
less on IT and server maintenance. 
 The DSP designation does not affect the salary for the position. 
 Training classes have been documented and the information archived on library server for use and 
sharing with other staff. 
o Programs 
 New England Camera Club exhibit is now an annual event.  Beautiful exhibit to open in the Wallace 
community room. 
 Summer programs: YA and Children’s programs have to be planned for and booked by June – the 
librarians have put in a lot of effort to get this in order. 
o Educational outreach update 
 No update this month. 
o Building & Maintenance 
 Martha feels that the current bushes in the front of the library are in bad shape and collect a lot of 
trash [entangled in the braches].  Martha has looked at getting “blood-twigged dogwood bushes” to 
replace them at the front of the library. 
 Wireless network has been updated with remote management/login for resetting the network.  Not 
quite robust; needs some additional tweaking from the IT group. 
o Green Group Interior Lighting Approval 
 Grant proposal for $44,332.00 has been approved by the Green Committee. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
March 17, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Martha is investigating “the next step” to move this along, to get the ball rolling for the actual 
upgrade of interior lighting to LED. 
o Capital Planning 
 No news from DPW. 
 Martha is looking for additional estimates and details on the interior painting from vendors. 
 Update to security cameras both indoors and outdoors + camera at staff entrance is highly desired.  
This is a safety issue that should be prioritized. 
o Young Adult Area Report 
 As per handout. 
o Children’s Area Report 
 As per handout 
 Access and Use of Library Trust Funds 
o Total $62,000.00. 
o Funds that are designated for books may be available for use for e-books. 
o  Decision to be made and recorded by/for the trustees on how much – will be on the September meeting 
agenda. 
 Action regarding youth misbehavior 
o In general terms: a lot more tweens 6-7-8-9 graders visit daily, some stay until 8 at night.  Downside is 
behavior: getting worse as time goes on.  Rules and regulations to be implemented.  One way to stem the 
behavior is to institute a “temporary ban” on visits to the LPL by students that misbehave. 
o “Three strikes” warnings: after that, the misbehaving student is told to leave LPL.  There is a sign-in sheet in 
the teen section to better control who is at the LPL. 
o Display rules on a poster in designated area – nobody can claim “I didn’t know…” 
o Update at April meeting. 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o Dick attends their meetings.  Cultural Horizon takes up the majority of LPL Friends’ time now. 
o Thank you note to the Friends of LPL from the Board authored and read by Dick.  Met with general approval 
by the trustees; to be sent to the Friends. 
o Book and bake sale next larger event. 
 Caucus --- Results of caucus March 14 
o Three names put forth, Dick (3 year), Donna (3 year), Kiirja (2 year) terms.  All nominated w/o opposition. 
 Director Evaluation—Due March 17 (today!) 
o Not all submitted yet.  (4 out of 7) 
o Explanation on how the individual submitted evaluations will be combined into one (the comment sections) 
by the Personnel sub-committee (Harry, Kiirja, Gare and Dick) 
 Set personnel sub-committee meeting for Director Evaluation 
o March 24th meeting at the LPL. 
 Board Comments 
o Troy Daniels’ comment – policy and procedures should be “worded” in conjunction with town counsel. 
 NOTE: Troy was visiting the meeting and speaking only as a guest.  The board noted his comment. 
o Concerning hiring of new employee and whether it affects the salary [budget line] – Dick explained that there 
was no impact. 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings  
o Room Use by for-profit entities (BPL Policies), to be discussed in April. 
o Access and Use of Library Trust Funds; for the September meeting. 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology subcommittee – future discussion point. 
o BOS Energy Policy – how it affects the LPL. 
o Library of Things (i.e. lending of non-traditional material and items) 
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
March 17, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 Other 
o None 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn so moved by Gare, seconded by Kiirja voted all in favor at 7:59 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for March 17, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 
Events and programs calendar 