===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
September 15, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz (via Skype), Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars 
Widstrand 
Absent: Martha Moore – Director, LPL (on a well-deserved vacation); Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative; Bob Ebersole – 
Board of Selectmen representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
Dick remarked: Harry Kubetz present by remote participation, therefore any vote will be by made by roll-call. 
 
 Public Comment 
o Jeanne Raboin, President of Friends, Friends of the Lunenburg Public Library update:  
 Update of the financials with the endowment funds, rate of return, fee structures and future 
investment strategies for safe returns aiming to avoid market fluctuations as much as possible. 
 Book and bake sale – moved to October 22nd due to lack of books (now coincides with LHS home-
coming). 
 Fundraiser: Hannaford sent mail to the Friends: Friends have been chosen for October fundraiser 
“Hannaford Helps”. During the month of October, Hannaford sells reusable bags for $2.00 of which 
$1.00 will benefit the Friends. 
 Martha is putting together an Arts and Craft fair which may (or may not) be in conjunction with a 
beer and wine tasting (on November 6th). 
o Dick and trustees thanked Ms. Raboin for the detailed update. 
 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of June 16, 2016 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes as amended, Susan seconded; roll call voted: Dick Mailloux (aye), Harry 
Kubetz (aye, via Skype), Kiirja Paananen (aye), Donna Saiia (aye), Gare Thompson (aye), Susan Visser 
(aye), Lars Widstrand (aye) 
 Director’s Report, per distributed hand-out. 
o Dick suggested that we browse the hand-out and if any of the trustees have questions, to put them to Martha 
for discussion during October meeting. 
o Young Adult Area (Y.A.) Report – separate handout. 
o Children’s Area (C.A.) Report – separate handout to be shared later. 
o Gare and Dick commented on the Y.A. and C.A. reports and the intensity, depth and width of the programs 
the librarians come up with, also the marvelous participation from the patron children and YA.  Harry 
mentioned that the energy is palpable in the children’s and YA section. 
 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o See above, under public comment 
o Fall book and bake sale: request for volunteers on the 21st of October to help set up the Wallace room, 
arrange tables, books, etc. 
  

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
September 15, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Report of August 16, 2016 BOS Meeting: 
o Put talent bank form on-line and fillable on-line – has been done. 
o Lunenburg Cable TV to come in a record interviews with some of the trustees to describe what we are doing 
[on the board of trustees] for people to view in case they are interested to join the trustees. 
o Suggestion from Kiirja and Gare that Lunenburg cable TV come to the library and present the library in a 
mini-documentary to be aired on the local cable channel. 
 Library trustee terms: next year (2017) up for elections – Harry, Susan; Gare, Lars and Kiirja in 2018 
 
 Agenda items for upcoming meetings 
o Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds – October 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology sub-committee – May not need due to Heather (new librarian) 
o Library cards for out of state residents 
o Room use by for-profit entities (BPL policies) – October 
o Possible program line in budget/sources of funding 
o Martha asked for input of what type of statistics the trustees would like to see presented during the meeting 
o Martha will discuss how books are selected for purchasing for Y.A., Children and Adult sections 
o Five year strategy for digital collection? 
 
NOTE: Susan will be not be present for the next two meetings. 
 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn so moved by Gare, seconded by Lars by roll call voted: Dick Mailloux (aye), Harry Kubetz 
(aye, via Skype), Kiirja Paananen (aye), Donna Saiia (aye), Gare Thompson (aye), Susan Visser (aye), Lars 
Widstrand (aye) at 7:33 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for September 15, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 