===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
February 16, 2017; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand 
Martha Moore – Director, LPL; John Londa – Director of facilities 
Absent: Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative; Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 LED Migration Update – John Londa, Facilities Director, visiting to present status of project.  (The agenda item was 
moved up on agenda to accommodate John.) 
o 2/16: DMH completed 95% of 4ft fluorescent tube fixtures throughout building; some material shortage: as 
soon as material is here, the remaining emergency-lights will be complete. 
Troffers1 in Martha’s office were supposed to have 24 watt LED light source, however 35 watt LED light 
sources were installed.  Two options were suggested by John: dimming, but that will require a special type of 
dimmer (a low voltage control 0-10 V) or to replace the troffers with the model that was meant to be there. 
The children’s area office has 35 ft. cdl. troffers installed.  They are indeed specified to be 35 ft.cdl., but in 
this small space they are very bright. 
o Intense discussion ensued about how to remediate the situation in Martha’s office – dimmer vs. replacing 
fixtures.  The discussion also revolved around the selected color temperature of the troffers, which is making 
the feeling of the space “cold”. 
The board strongly suggested replacing the troffers with the correct ones. 
o It was also suggested that Martha visit offices at LHS to get a “feel” for the lights (specifically color 
temperature and intensity) installed there. 
o DMH (the contractor) retrofit three of the uprights in the main hall.  Lighting (output) reportedly looked great, 
but the fixtures have “pan fans” for the cooling of the LED source, which were deemed too loud for a library 
environment.  These fixtures were removed and replaced with lower wattage, fan-less fixtures. 
Martha mentioned that she had called Guardian:  they are willing to sell their light fixture solution that does 
not incorporate fans to DMH.  The Board asked John to investigate the Guardian option. 
  
                                                     
1 A troffer is a rectangular light fixture that fits into a modular dropped ceiling grid (i.e. 2' by 2' or 2' by 4').  Troffer fixtures have 
typically been designed to accommodate standard fluorescent lamps (T12, T8, or T5), but are now often designed with integral 
LED sources.  (source: Wikipedia) 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 16, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Corn bulb lights2 alternatively flat reflectors with metal-halide equivalent could be a further alternative for the 
main hall lights.  (Will this be investigated by DMH?) 
o Exterior lights (4 ea.) remains to be replaced, also emergency lights in children’s area. 
o 4 fixtures in storage room are not replaced yet, to be converted to 4 ft. u-bend tubes. 
 John was thanked for this update.  The meeting returned to the regular agenda order. 
 Approval of Minutes of January 26, 2016 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes as amended, Harry seconded; all voted “aye” 
 Director’s Report  
o FY 2017 Budget ~ 67% spent @ 68% into fiscal year, but large bills are coming up. 
o Budget Planning for FY ‘18 
 Discussion about total requested numbers and also looking closer at electrical line item 
 Susan moved to approve the FY18 budget as amended, Gare seconded, all voted “aye” 
 
o Staff update 
o Technology update 
 Martha mentioned that the Lunenburg Public Library website will migrate from Drupal to 
WordPress. 
o Programs update 
o Building & Maintenance update 
 Temperature monitoring in various places of building and times of day will take place. 
 LED upgrade update – was moved to the beginning of the meeting. 
o Young Adult Area Report 
 See hand out 
o Children’s Area Report 
 See hand out 
 
 Library Trust Funds usage 
o Spending of the interest, 20% 
 Need more clarification, especially on the Touchstone fund account – not clear on spending rules 
attached, etc. 
o Motion to accept policy as amended made by Harry, Donna seconded, all voted “aye”. 
 Policy on Library Weather Closing 
o Gare moved to accept the policy, Lars seconded.  Dick Mailloux, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare 
Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand voted aye, Harry Kubetz voted no. 
 Policy for Library Cards for Out of State Residents 
o Decided / accepted at December meeting 
 Room Use Policy 
o To be discussed at the March meeting. 
 Friends of LPL Update  
o Question about fund raising and fund raising events 
o Ideas for fundraising ideas that may be applicable, please inform Friends. 
o Friends raised funds that ended up under town control.  Funds were eventually placed in the Touchstone 
fund. 
 Martha is meeting with FinCom Thursday 02/23 at 7 p.m. to present the budget to the town (FinCom) 
                                                     
2  Corn bulb, so nick-named because of its likeness to a corn cob. 

===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 16, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings discussed 
 Caucus coming up looking for candidates 
o Susan’s term is up – not seeking re-election 
o Harry’s term is up – seeking re-election 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn by Gare, seconded by Harry, all voted “aye”; meeting closed at 8:10 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for February 16, 2017 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 