===PAGE 1===
 
 Lunenburg Public Library Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  November 15, 2018 Sudolnik Meeting Room, Lunenburg Public Library    Attending: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Kate McCarron, Martha Moore – Director LPL, Donna Saiia, Bob Conroy, Harry Kubetz (attending remotely via FaceTime)   The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux who reminded everybody that because Harry was attending remotely all votes would be done via role call.   Public Comment   • There was no Public Comment   Agenda Items  • Approval of Minutes o The amended September 20, 2018 minutes were not available and will be approved in our December 20, 2018 meeting. o The minutes for October 18, 2018 minutes were approved as amended.  Kate made the motion to approve.  Donna seconded.  Motion unanimously approved.  Lars abstained as he was not in attendance at the Oct. 18, 2018 meeting.   • Director’s Report (Presented by Martha)  o FY 2019 Budget - We are 37% spent and on-target. o FY 2020 Budget ??  o Staff Restructuring • Harrison Taylor was hired as the new page. • Patty continues to volunteer weekly (needed and appreciated!)  • A lot of staff has been sick and absent due to the flu. • An additional $7,200 for staffing was approved of at Special Town Meeting and will be allocated as needed.  o Trust Funds • Martha continues to meet with Karen Brochu and Myleen Malari regarding the proper expenditure of monies from library trust funds dating back to the 1800’s as well as the interest on the new Touchstone account.  • The trustees must vote on any expenditures from the trust funds. • Dick suggested closing out the “old money” accounts and then made a motion that the trustees authorize transferring $1,700 from the interest of the Touchstone account to be applied to the cost of the new projector in the Wallace Community Room. Kate seconded the motion.  Motion unanimously approved.    o Programs 

===PAGE 2===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes November 15, 2018; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 2  
§ New England Country Stores program was well-attended and got rave reviews from Dick. The Small Works reception drew a crowd of 60+ and sales began immediately  o LCC Grant Proposals for 2019  § Muir submitted a LCC grant for partial funding for a program featuring the author of Walking to Listen. There will also be a request made to the Saundra Lane Cultural Events Fund since the program is estimated to cost $1,575.  o Young Adult Report – see attached  o Children’s Area Report – see attached  o Special Town Meeting Report  § There was no discussion on warrant article 1.  The town approved that $7,200 be added to the library’s FY2019 salary line.  o New Charter Language Proposal  § Deferred to our December 20, 2018 meeting.  o THES Visits  § There have been a lot of changes to the planned scheduled due to rain, holidays, half-days, parent-teacher meetings, etc. § Further discussion deferred to our December 20, 2018 meeting.    • Friends of LPL Update  o $2,633 was raised by the Friends during the October Book & Bake Sale. The Friends will be calling all bakers for the upcoming Cookie Walk scheduled for December 18th. Maia suggested the callers mention nut allergies and request that bakers omit recipes using nuts.  • Agenda Items for upcoming meetings  o It was suggested that Martha distribute the new Trustee Training Pocket Guide for the board to discuss during the December meeting. o Harry spoke about meeting former US marine Craig Grossi, author of Craig & Fred, a true story about the dog Craig rescued from an Afghan battlefield. Harry will pursue an author visit.  Board Comments   • Bob and Kate attended a Trustee Training and were impressed by the presenters and number of statewide library events available to trustees.  Public Comments   • None Motion to adjourn by Lars. Motion seconded by Donna.. Motion unanimously approved.  Meeting closed at 7:27 p.m.   
===PAGE 3===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes November 15, 2018; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 3  
Respectfully submitted, Kate McCarron Acting Secretary & Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library  Referenced documents: LPLBOT Meeting Agenda for October 18, 2018 LPLBOT Draft Minutes for September 20, 2018 Directors Report of November 15, 2018 Children’s Area Report for the month of November 2018 Young Adult Report for the month of October 2018 Young Adult Report for the month of November 2018  