===PAGE 1===
  Lunenburg Public Library  
1023 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE • LUNENBURG, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140   
Lunenburg Public Library Board of Trustees Minutes Thursday February 21, 2019   Sudolnik Conference Room Lunenburg Public Library  Attending: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Bob Conroy, Lars Widstrand, Kate McCarron, Martha Moore, Muir Haman  The meeting was called to order at 6:45 PM by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.  Public Comment - none  Approval of minutes: January 17, 2018 minutes – Following a minor amendment by Maia, Lars made a motion to accept, seconded by Maia, and unanimously approved. February 7, 2018 special meeting minutes – Kate made a motion to accept, seconded by Lars, unanimously approved. February 14, 2018 special meeting minutes –Dick made a motion to accept, seconded by Kate, unanimously approved.  Town Manager – The board will invite the TM, Heather Lemieux, to attend a meeting at her convenience.  Director’s Report – see attached FY  2019 Budget – Martha explained a change in state funding calculations which will have a negative impact on LPL, decreasing the Municipal Appropriation Requirement by $12,000. FY  2020 Budget status –There will be no addition of a benefited position as requested. Two extra hours were approved of for a union employee to help with work load. Martha is streamlining job descriptions for versatility and cross training.  Trust Fund Update –NA  Staff- There are two positions to be filled: a replacement for Muir in Adult Services as he transitions to library director, and one for a library assistant to replace Deborah Shields, who has resigned.  Technology –NA  Programs – Successful vacation week highlighted by Spy Camp, Dungeons & Dragons, and increasing popularity for board games by all ages. ALFA has been partnering with a Sherlock Holmes program. Twenty-five people attended movie night.  Building & Maintenance – NA  THES Program Update – Due to uncertain funding, there are currently no plans to continue the 5th grade class visits.  Capital Planning Update –NA 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 Young Adult Area Report – see attached  Children’s Area Report –see attached  Trust Fund Expenditure Guidance/Process – Ongoing discussion regarding expending some funds as well as the possibility of moving or rolling over funds.  Choosing New Director Update –Dick expressed our appreciation for the contributions made to the process by staff members Heather and Nicole as well as the Friends Rep., Anne Gilman. Dick read aloud Martha’s formal letter of notification to retire. Maia made a motion to accept her resignation, seconded by Bob and unanimously approved. The board is confident that the transition will be smooth since the library and staff are in great shape!  Friends of LPL Update – NA  Agenda Items for upcoming meetings – All of the agenda items that were not covered tonight, a closer examination of the pros and cons of changing the director’s evaluation date, an opportunity to go over the updated Trustee Guide and a tour of the building.  Board Comments –Donna and Dick are both eager to remain on the board and, as of right now, will be running uncontested.   Town Caucus—Monday March 11, 7 P.M., THES Town Meeting—Saturday May 4 Town Election—Saturday May 18 – Since the trustees meet on May 16th prior to the election, re-organization of officers should take place during the June meeting.  Other - There will be an open house on March 30th to bid farewell to Martha. Jeanne Raboin will be hosting a “Friends” party for Martha in her home in April.  Public Comment – none  A motion to adjourn was made by Lars at 7:51 PM, seconded by Maia and unanimously approved.  Respectfully submitted, Kate McCarron, Trustee for Harry Kubetz, Secretary & Vice Chair  Referenced documents: Director’s Report Jan. 2019 Children Area Report for Jan/Feb 2019 YA Report for Jan/Feb 2019 Jan. 17 2019 Minutes Feb. 7 2019 Special Meeting Minutes Feb. 14 2019 Special Meeting Minutes Library Materials report for FinComm FY 2020 Budget Rationale\ Budget 2020 Presentation FY 2020 Library Budget Worksheet  