===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Special Meeting minutes  
March 14th, 2020, Community Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: In Person: Kate McCarron, Muir Haman – Director LPL, Bob Conroy, Harry Kubetz, 
Via Conference Call: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Donna Saiia, Lars Widstrand, Michael-Ray Jeffreys - BOS 
 
 
The LPLBT special meeting was called to order at 11:04 am. by Chairperson Harry Kubetz. 
 
  
Agenda Items 
• Discussion of Coronavirus Response 
o Harry: The purpose of our meeting is to hear Muir’s plans for the library in response to the coronavirus and 
discuss what types of services we should try to provide for our patrons during the closure period. 
o Muir: The town has closed all town buildings with the exception of the public safety building. 
o The library will be closed until Friday March 27th. Staff will still be reporting for regular hours. 
o A message from the town manager was posted on the town website. This message contains info about the 
virus. Public safety is the main reason for the closures. There are currently zero cases in Lunenburg.  
o The library has posted a notice on the library website and the front door.  This information will be updated and 
added to as needed. 
o Muir and Lydia have been making task lists for services that may be provided and plan on working on 
projects and tasks they might not normally have time for during normal business hours.  
o The main priority is the safety of the staff and community. 
o Some ideas for services include: utilizing Facebook for live streaming, digital and online services, newsletter 
lists, links to available activities, usage of Cereal Box apps. 
o The library can still service patrons’ inquiries by phone and email. 
o Harry asked about fine suspension. Muir said that CWMars may relax the rules for renewing materials so 
Lunenburg may be able to renew items from other libraries. People can also call to e xtend borrowing time 
and the library has some leeway in extending borrowing time. 
o Donna asked about books dropped off: Is there any risk to the staff? Muir said that they will quarantine 
returned books for a week unless we receive more specific info about the risks from surface contact. 
Quarantined books will not accrue fines. 
o Muir: There has been some discussion about cancelling ILL Interlibrary loan deliveries. No plans for this at 
the current time. 
o Harry polled the group for ideas and questions. Dick: The main priority should be ensuring the safety of the 
staff. We need a full shutdown now. May likely see many new cases and we don’t know the hotspots to 
avoid. Muir: We wish to err on the safe side. Kate: It’s good to be proactive with a two-week closure. We can 
brainstorm ideas for access to materials during the closure. 
o Maia: Can we possibly have some online activities for younger kids to help keep them occupied while 
schools are closed?  Muir: Debbie has posted a STEM activity on the library Fa cebook page after the kids 
programs were cancelled. Heather is queuing up some messages on activities that are planned.  
o Harry: Can we do webcasts? Story hour online? Muir: We may be able to do some of that on  the Facebook 
page. 
o Lars: The main objective is to keep the staff and patrons safe. We shouldn’t go overboard on providing 
services if it’s only a two-week break. Donna: We really have no idea right now how long it might be.  
o Maia: Will the library be professionally cleaned? Muir: There will be one addit ional cleaning per week for a 
total of three cleanings per week. Muir read a statement from the Town Manager on virus info. There is not 
clear or definitive info on the persistence of the virus on surfaces. 
o Michael-Ray: We are in uncharted territory. The response statewide has been a bit behind. It’s good that the 
town is being proactive. Agree with the two-week decision but we don’t know yet how long this will last. 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
o Maia: Are the library staff equipped to work from home? Muir: Some but not all tasks can be  done from 
home. 
o Harry asked about staff getting paid, we should make sure that they don’t have to worry about getting paid 
during the closure. 
o Donna: Should the staff take their temperature before they enter the building? Muir: We have no capability to 
do that currently. 
o Muir announced that Nicole Piermarini has accepted the position of Assistant Director at the Leominster 
Public Library and her last day will be 3/19. He is working on posting the job.  It has to be posted internally for 
7 days before being posted externally. 
 
• Adjourn 
o Meeting was adjourned at 11:57 am. 
 