===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes May 19, 2022 
  
Attending: Kate McCarron, Bob Conroy, Harry Kubetz, Dick Mailloux, Donna Saiia, 
Muir Haman – Director LPL, Laura Boussom, Maia Wentrup 
 
The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 7:03 p.m. by Chairperson Harry Kubetz.  
 
Public Comment 
• No public comment. 
 
Agenda Items 
• Approval of Minutes 
o Dick made a motion to accept the minutes of April 21, 2022 as amended.  Seconded by Kate. The motion 
passed unanimously.  
 
• Director’s Report 
o We are in the final month, 91% of the way through the fiscal year.  Utility costs are still ok. Some invoices will 
be coming in. The library materials budget line is still short but the funds will be expended before the end of 
the year. Harry asked what happens to any unspent money. Muir said it goes back to free cash for  next year. 
o We have a new Digital Services Librarian, Francesco Buccella. Muir is discussing some new IT upgrades. 
o Susan will be attending the MLA conference. 
o The FY23 budget is $492k and will include two new positions for Friday opening. The hours will be 2 to 6 
P.M. This will hopefully start on July 1st. Planning to do food trucks on Friday afternoons. 
o We need to hire two part-time employees. This should be done before the school year starts. Also 
interviewing for library pages this week. 
o The union employees will be getting retroactive pay for the past 11 months to match the new bargaining 
agreement. 
o The summer reading program has been planned and there will be an outdoor kick -off party. Harry asked Muir 
if he had reached out to Main Street Bank for some funding and Muir said he will be meeting with them. 
o Muir talked to Heidi about restarting the school/library cooperative program this fall.  
o Muir had a meeting on the LED project. It should take about five days to complete. Security camera domes 
have been cleaned. They were accumulating moisture. 
o Replacements for the front desk computers, Maribeth’s computer and the cataloging computer are in the 
works. 
o There was an incident with three teen girls regarding changing screen savers in the Children’s area to 
disturbing images. 
o The LSTA grant is waiting to be voted on but it looks good. 
• Trustee Handbook Discussion 
o Decided to skip chapter 10 – Building a Library, as it is not applicable. 
 
• Trust Fund Update 
o There was a question about whether these funds should be taxable. We thought not, but Michael-Ray will 
look into the tax status. 
o We had some discussion on appointing a Treasurer to manage this process. Dick suggested that the 
Treasurer role should be added to the new By-Laws document. 
o Dick made a motion, seconded by Harry, to agree to go forward with Edward Jones and meet with their rep. 
Motion passed unanimously. Maia asked who other libraries use. Muir said he would check.  
 
• By-Laws Review Discussion 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
o Discussed adding the Treasurer role under ‘Officers of the Board’. Sign-off / directives would require two 
board members: the Treasurer and the Chair. 
o Dick made a motion, seconded by Harry, to postpone the vote to accept the By-Laws until the June meeting. 
Motion passed unanimously. 
• Friends of LPL Update  
o The book sale will be held on Saturday June 4th. Setup will be Friday morning at 9 am. 
o There will be a members-only pre-sale on Friday night. 
o Robin gave an update on the plant sale and there was a treasurer’s update. 
 
• Board Comments 
o Harry went to a Craig Grossi presentation, author of ‘Craig and Fred: A marine, a stray dog, and how they 
rescued each other’. He recommended that we get him to give a presentation in Lunenburg, possibly in 
coordination with the schools. 
o Harry spoke to Michael-Ray. He will be becoming chair of the Select Board but he will continue as the library 
liaison. 
 
• Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn by Dick by seconded by Kate. Meeting was adjourned at 8:45 p.m. 
 
 
• Attached Documents 
o May 19, 2022 Agenda 
o May 2022 Director’s Report 
o May 2022 Teen Services Report 
===PAGE 3===
 
 

===PAGE 4===
 
 

===PAGE 5===
 
 

===PAGE 6===
 
 
 
 
 