===PAGE 1===
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
Timothy Willsmer  
Chair  Master Plan Steering Committee   
twillsmer@lunenburgma.gov   
 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
June 25th 2025– 6:00PM 
Eagle House 25 Memorial Drive 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded) and will be able to be 
found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
The following information is provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: 
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607?omn=85044693458 or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number 1 929 205 
6099 and enter Webinar ID: 766 316 7607 
 
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.  Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # 
when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” 
feature to request to speak.  This meeting/hearing will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are 
welcome to attend this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting/hearing will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless 
otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. 
virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
 
 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
II. CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
a. Discussion with OverUnder about current matrix 
b. Status of Community Advertising 
c. Official board reorganization 
i. Quorum options 
 
 
III. COMMITTEE COMMENT 
 
IV. MEETING MINUTES 
 
a. 4/9/25 
 
V. ADJORNMENT 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Master Plan Steering Committee 