===PAGE 1===
Master Plan Steering Committee Meeting Minutes 
Meeting Date and Time: Wednesday, July 23, 2025 - 6pm 
Meeting Location: Zoom Only 
 
Attendees (Members): 
• Tim Willsmer (Planning Board Representative) 
• Debbie Lincoln (Council on Aging Representative) 
• Kim Duffy (Chair, Member At Large) 
• Glenn McLeod (Select Board Representative) 
• Emily Young (School Committee Representative) – Joined virtually at 6:03PM, left at 6:08PM, 
rejoined 6:09PM, Left 8:41PM 
Attendees (Non-Members): 
● Matthew Brenner (Planning Board Chair) 
● Rami el Samahy (Over Under Consultant) 
● Tristan Searight (Over Under Consultant) 
 
1. Call to Order - 6:03 call to order 
2. Public Comment - no public comment 
3. Committee Comment - no committee comment 
4. Vacant Seats (Conservation Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, At Large) 
*Conservation will talk about this at next meeting 
* Zoning board of appeals - no response 
Matt Brenner will reach out 
* At Large 
Will advertise on social media 
5. Meeting Minutes Discussion and Approvals  
6/25/25 Minutes Changes: 
○ Date Time Location 
○ Members 
● 7/9/25 Minutes Changes 
○ Add date time location members non members 
○ Previous minutes that were approved list them 
6. OverUnder / Lunenburg Discussion Summary – 7/15/25 
● Over Under sent plans of other towns 
○ Deb asked for more plans like ours and types of documents 
○ Kim suggested briefly looking at design of them 
○ Plans and Ideas will be sent to all 
===PAGE 2===
7. OverUnder Feedback on Master Plan draft recommendations from July 9, 2025 meeting 
● Over Under looked at what we and it was discussed 
○ Assess Purchase of town Center - was discussed 
● Require a percentage of units in market rate developments to be deed-restricted 
affordable housing - was discussed 
○ Kim Shared map of Sewer Service Available 
■ https://lunenburgma.gov/DocumentCenter/View/832/Sewer-Servic 
e-Area-SSA-Map-PDF 
● Use town owned land to develop affordable housing 
● Establish affordable housing trust to help with housing projects 
○ State will fund this 
○ Convert to must have 
● Encourage land subdivision in areas with sewer and water 
○ Nice to Have 
● Create first time home buyer program 
○ Nice to have 
● Create Strategy for town owned farmland 
○ Must have 
● Encourage farm to table restaurants 
○ Combined with farmers market 
● Encourage Lunenburg residents to buy locally grown product 
○ Incorporated with others 
● Making town center more walkable 
○ Must Have 
● Hire Economic Director 
○ Reject Strategy 
● Organize Open Space in new developments to provide wildlife connectivity 
○ Reject Strategy 
● Improve farmers market 
○ Reject Strategy 
● Make pedestrian safety and across improvements to the lower town common to 
turn it into a town green 
○ Reject Strategy 
● Develop options for a green space at 30 School site (Old Primary School Site) 
○ Nice to Have 
● Partially Demolish and repurpose TC Passios as a community center 
○ Reject Strategy 
● Work with MasDOT and state add sidewalks 
○ Will rephrase and get back to us 
● Prioritize bike infrastructure to connect surrounding areas 
○ Will rephrase and get back to us 
===PAGE 3===
8. Next steps of Master Plan draft 
● Get feedback from committees 
○ Tristan shared a sheet to help get feedback from committees 
○ Over Under to provide new spreadsheet with feedback 
● How to divide to get feedback 
○ Kim and Tony will take it 
● Finalize timing was discussed 
● Send to town manager 
○ Town manager is on vacation this week; Matt will meet when she is back 
9. Adjournment 
● Kim Duffy made a Motion to Adjourn. Motion was seconded by Jerry. Roll Call Vote: 
○ Tim (Aye) 
○ Debbie (Aye) 
○ Glen (Aye) 
○ Jerry (Aye) 
○ Kim (Aye) 
○ Motion passes. Meeting adjourned at 8:59 PM. 