===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
       
Kim Duffy, Chair             David Niose (Library Trustee) 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair                          Glenn Mcleod (Select Board) 
Gerald Reid, Clerk       Emily Young (School Committee) 
Timothy Willsmer (Planning Board)      Sondria Harp (At Large) 
Deb Lincoln (Council on Aging) 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
Master Plan Steering Committee 
Wednesday, July 23, 2025, 6:00 PM 
Zoom (Remote) Meeting Only 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded 
and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the 
Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform 
utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion" to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent 
preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom 
application. You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting 
and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. This meeting will be remotely via the Zoom platform. Members of 
the public are welcome to attend this remote meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or 
participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if 
technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. The following information 
is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate 
Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81690819364?pwd=k8OPDdJbLs9OPZdVJndAWFtiA3THur.1  or from a telephone, dial 
the toll free number (877)-853-5257 and enter Webinar ID: 816 9081 9364. If you have not registered with Zoom 
you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. 
Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the 
“raise hand” feature to request to speak. The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and 
are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items 
listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Public Comment 
3. Committee Comment 
4. Vacant Seats (Conservation Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, At Large) 
5. Meeting Minutes Discussion and Approvals 
a. 6/25/25 
6. OverUnder / Lunenburg Discussion Summary – 7/15/25 
7. OverUnder Feedback on Master Plan draft recommendations from July 9, 2025 meeting 
8. Next steps of Master Plan drafting 
9. Adjournment 
