===PAGE 1===
TOWN MANAGER SEARCH COMMITTEE MINUTES 
TOWN HALL, BILOTTA MEETING ROOM 
SEPTEMBER 1, 2016 
 
Attendees:   Tim Murphy, Moderator, Jamie Toale, Se lectman, Mark Erickson, Finance 
Committee, Matt Allison, Planning Board, Heather Sroka, School Committee 
 
The meeting convened at the Joseph Bilotta Room at Town Hall at 6:00 p.m. 
The committee began by interviewing outgoing Town Manager Kerry Lafleur.     
Ms. Lafleur suggested the committee look for a generalist rather than anyone with too strong an 
emphasis in one area.  She particularly stated that with Karen Brochu’s position as Finance 
Director and her considered expertise, the Town should not over emphasize financial experience. 
Ms. Lafleur also felt strongly the new town manager needs governmental experience, preferably 
5 years.  She also outlined the difference between a Town Administrator and a Town Manager.  
Essentially she told the committee that a Town Manager acts with more autonomy and we should 
question candidates accordingly.  A background in the private sector does not translate easily.  
She also stressed presentation skills and the need for someone with economic development skills, 
especially with the Summer Street development.  Soft skills like flexibility, collaboration, and 
problem solving were addressed. 
Ms. Lafleur suggested we ask candidates to examine a defined problem, provide a short memo at 
the interview, along with an oral presentation on the subject.  She suggested that the needs for 
the town going forward include expanding police and fire, as well as economic development to 
expand the tax base.  The successful candidate should be certified as a chief procurement officer, 
or be willing to become certified quickly (process takes months). 
At 7:00 p.m., following Ms. Lafleur’s remarks, the committee heard from department heads in 
attendance.  All praised Ms. Lafleur’s management style, her conflict resolution skills, and that 
she let them manage without unnecessary interference.  A typed list of personality traits was 
shared. 
The committee then voted and convened in closed executive session to review resumes.   
At the conclusion of the closed executive session, the committee voted to schedule interviews on 
September 27 and 29 and to meet again on October 3 
rd  to select at least 3 candidates to send to 
the Selectboard.  Each committee member will bring 5 questions to our next meeting on 
September 15 th , along with ideas on a problem for candidates to address in writing and orally at 
the interview.  We will formulate our questioning from that list.   
The meeting concluded at 8:00 p.m.  