===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:  _____      _____     _____     _____     _____ 
 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
July 18, 2011 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building 
 
Present: Chairman George Emond, Dave Shea and Jack Rabbitt  
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED : 
 
511 Flat Hill Road 
110 Mulpus Road 
30 Eastern Avenue 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
127 Highland Street 
493 West Townsend Road, Lot 2 
653 Lancaster Avenue 
 
335 HIGHLAND STREET 
 
Dan Proctor met with the Board on the owner.  This matter was continued from June 20, 2011.  A 
plan for a five (5) bedroom systems was presented to the Board.  Given the site conditions, there 
isn’t an alternative and all wells are greater than 100 feet from the proposed system.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Rabbit, variances unanimously approved.  
 
LUNENBURG FARMERS MARKET 
 
Chairman Emond presented a draft copy of a Policy f or Farmers Markets and explained 
that it was at the request of the Town Manager that  a codification of the Farmers Market 
rules into a policy of the board would be helpful t o provide some governance of this 
activity.   Members Shea and Rabbitt asked why raw meats were not allowed in the draft.  
Mr. Emond explained that in his research he found t hat although the Massachusetts 
Department of Agricultural Resources listed Meat an d Poultry as acceptable, the Mass. 
Department of Public Health list did not and he fel t that this lack indicated that the DPH 
did not endorse the sale of meat.  Also, Mr. Emond  said that a Purdue University 
Extension Service “Food Safety Regulations for Farm ers’ Markets”  publication (EC-
740)  listed meats as “risky” and it was his feelin g that the Board would rather err on the 
side of caution rather than risk someone getting sick.  
 
A vigorous discussion ensued with Mr. Shea voicing his opinion that he felt that if the 
risk was great then other cities and towns also wou ld not allow the sale of meat, and 
===PAGE 2===
further felt that since others were selling meat, i n his opinion the risk was small.  Mr. 
Rabbit echoed his comments.  
 
Mr. Rabbit said that he felt that a Farmers Market should offer as much a variety of items 
as possible, and felt that meat should be sold.  
 
Comments were also heard from Mr. Matt Latanzi, a l ocal farmer who wishes to sell 
meat at the local Farmers Market.  
 
After further  discussion, Mr. Emond offered an amended copy of the draft for motion.  A 
motion was not forthcoming  and the policy was not adopted. 
 
Mr. Shea then offered  the following for consideration : 
 
“The intent of this policy is to insure that farm p roducts sold at any farmers market 
within the Town of Lunenburg are sold subject to th e conditions within these 
guidelines so as to insure the health of those who will purchase these items.  
Vendors of potentially hazardous foods (meat, chees e, tofu and fish) are responsible 
for complying with all requirements and licenses se t by the town of Lunenburg, the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the Federal Gover nment and need to provide 
a certificate of their local Board of Health permit with their applications. “ 
 
Mr. Rabbitt made a motion to accept the above as th e Lunenburg BOH Policy regarding 
Farmers’ Markets. 
 
Mr. Shea seconded.  Mr. Shea and Mr. Rabbitt voted for the policy, Mr. Emond voted 
against. The policy is adopted by a vote of 2 to 1.  
 
Mr. Lattanzi handed out copies of his qualifications to sell meat to the board members.  
 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
 
A representative of Habitat for Humanities asked the Board for permission to park up to 6 
Recreational Vehicles at Shady Point Campground fro m September 25, to October 9, 
which period is after the normal seasonal closing, while their group performed work in 
the area.  Permission was granted by unanimous vote  of the Board.  Mr. Emond said that 
the Board would need a letter from the Campground o wner or manager. Once the letter is 
received, a formal letter granting permission will be sent to Shady Point.  
 
Meeting adjourned 8:20 pm. 