===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved:  _____      _____     _____     _____     _____ 
 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
August 15, 2011 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Administration Building 
 
Present: Chairman George Emond, Dave Shea, Jack Rab bitt and Troy Daniels 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS REVIEWED : 
 
127 Highland Avenue – Conditional Pass 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
281 West Street – Later recinded 
 
338 SUNSET LANE - COLE 
 
Neil Gorman together with owner Alton Cole met with the Board to discuss the possibility of Mr. 
Cole’s vacant lot on Sunset Lane being developed.  The property before the board has been in Mr. 
Cole’s family for many years.  It is just under one acre in size so meeting zoning requirements.  
What is being proposed is a residential structure limited to two bedrooms. 
 
Although no testing has been completed, it is intended that a system be installed that meets all 
Title 5 requirements and regulations however, would not meet local regulation of 100 foot offset 
to wetlands.  (This regulation work s in tandem with Conservation Commission Regulations).  Mr. 
Gorman and Mr. Cole would have to meet with the Conservation Commission and get their 
approval on a reduction to wetland. 
 
Dave Shea indicated that he would be open to a reduction in offset to wetlands as is being 
proposed which is 100’ required, 57’ proposed.  Oth er board members are in agreement. 
 
Troy Daniels wanted to be sure that Mr. Gorman would not use the Board of Health discussion as 
leverage with the Conservation Commission. 
 
The Board would request a drilled well. 
 
281 WEST STREET – RIDDLE 
 
Steve Marsden met with the Board representing the owner of the property.  This is a failed 
system. This is a very small lot, slope, high water table and restrictions as to where a system 
could go because of the location of the house and pool. 
 
The system being proposed requires an easement from the adjoining property owner.  In addition, 
a strip of land along the rear of the property we be transferred from the adjoining property owner.  
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Marsden advised that an ANR Plan for the subdivision of land as well as the required 
easement had been submitted to the Planning Board. 
 
Due to the proximity of the septic system to the property line, Agent Jim Garreffi stated that 
abutters were required to be notified of this hearing.  Mr. Marsden did not send the required 
notification.  Mr. Marsden suggested that he could move the proposed septic system back 
marginally to meet the setback without requiring the notification. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Rabbitt and second by Shea, the Board approved the request 
conditioned on the ANR being approved, the easement being granted and recorded and the strip 
of property at the rear of the lot being conveyed.  All in favor. 
 
607 RESERVOIR ROAD – TITLE 5/WELL TESTING 
 
John and Virginia Glover, owners of the property, met with the Board with regard to the Title 5 
inspection performed on their property.  The report was submitted as a Conditional Pass due to 
the proximity of wells to the septic system.  At the time the report was completed, all of the well 
testing was not submitted.  Subsequently, well testing was completed for the three wells as 
described in Title 5 for fecal coliform, nitrates, nitrites and ammonia.  The results of the water test 
complied with Title 5 although the well for 609/611 had evidence of total coliform bacteria.  
Agent Garreffi called the owner of the property and advised not to drink the water until he 
chlorinated and retest his well. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi advised that he will send a letter to the owner of 609/611 Reservoir Road.  In 
accordance with Title 5, the Board can accept the Title 5 as a passing report. 
 
On motion by Rabbitt and second by Daniels, the Board voted to accept the Title Report as 
passing.  All in favor. 
 
NEW DPW STORAGE BUILDING 
 
The building permit for the construction of the new DPW storage building was submitted for 
signature.  After review, Chairman Emond signed same on behalf of the Board of Health 
conditioned on there being no toilets or sanitary facilities in the building. 
 
REORGANIZATION OF BOARD 
 
Chairman George Emond stepped down as the Chairman of the Board Health.  Nominations were 
held.  Jack Rabbitt nominated Troy Daniels, nomination was seconded by Dave Shea.  Mr. 
Daniels accepted in the nomination and was elected unanimously. 
 
Having no further business before the Board, the meeting was adjourned at 8:32 pm. 