===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
December 19, 2011 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Jack Rabbitt and Perry Jewel l 
 
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
None 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
445 Townsend Harbor Road 
53 Eastern Avenue 
1361 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
59 Spring Street 
146 Elmwood 
176 Elmwood 
328 Townsend Harbor Road 
828 Lancaster Avenue 
35 Meadow Road 
 
58 SPRING STREET EXTENSION  
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board of behalf of the  owner.  This system is in failure.  This is a smal l, 
lake front lot.  Variances for a reduction in groun dwater as well as a reduction in separation are bei ng 
requested.  Mr. MacKenzie did not have the required proof of notification to abutters. 
 
Chairman Emond told Mr. MacKenzie that lacking proo f of notification of the abutters, the Board could 
not vote on the plan, but would nonetheless examine  it. Examining the proposed plan, it was noted that  it 
utilized a Presby disposal system.    
 
Agent Jim Garreffi recommended in his notes to the Board that his recommendation is that the new 
system serving this property include pre-treatment such as offered by a FAST or Jet system type, due t o 
the proximity to the well and the location of the w ell downgrade of the system.  The Presby does not 
provide pre-treatment of effluent. If pre-treatment  is not provided, Mr. Garreffi is recommending a ti ght 
tank. All Board members present agreed with this as sessment.  Mr. MacKenzie withdrew the request for 
consideration of this plan.  
 
828 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board on behalf of the  owner.  This is an older home with the system in 
failure.   In attempt to avoid the wetland and main tain the required well offset, the new system was 
designed across the driveway in the front of the pr operty.  A reduction in groundwater offset as well a 
===PAGE 2===
reduction in separation is requested in order to lo wer the profile of the system and maintain the driv eway 
grade. 
 
After a presentation of the plan  a motion was made  by  Jewell and seconded by Rabbitt, the requested 
variances were approved by unanimous vote. 
 
436 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE  
 
Ruth Ann White met with the Board to discuss her de sire to open a Reiki practice at property she owns at 
436 Massachusetts Avenue.  The property is commercially zoned, presently housing a real estate business.  
The property was a former residence with a 3 bedroo m septic.   The current flow for the office is much  
less than it would be for a dwelling.  Ms. White’s business plan indicates 5-6 clients per week with a n 
average visit time of 30-60 minutes.  Also much less than a residential dwelling would require. 
 
Ms. White explained that Reiki is a Japanese techni que for stress reduction and relaxation that also 
promotes healing. It is administered by "laying on hands" and is based on the idea that an unseen "lif e 
force energy" flows through us and is what causes u s to be alive. If one's "life force energy" is low,  then 
we are more likely to get sick or feel stress, and if it is high, we are more capable of being happy a nd 
healthy. It is not ‘massage’therapy.   Since this p ractice is not regulated, and the septic system is adequate 
for the proposed use, the Board has no objection to this use.   
 
On motion by Rabbitt and second by Jewell, the requested was approved.  All in favor. 
 
11 SPRING STREET EXTENSION 
 
Potential purchaser, John Cote,  met with the board to discuss this property.  A con ditional pass Title 5 
Report was submitted.  This was due to the location of the well and its distance from the septic syste m.  A 
new well was proposed in the past but never install ed.  It would not be feasible to install the well a s 
permitted as the present owner cannot gain access to the rear of the property. 
 
Previous history of this property showed that there  had been a failed water test in the past during a 
previous Title V inspection.  However, two subseque nt water tests showed no failure and the need for a  
new well was apparently non-existent.   To clarify the matter again, the Board agreed that a new water test 
of the current well to include, but is not limited to, arsenic and nitrates will be required prior to the Board 
approving the conditional Title V. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the requirement for a water test was approved.  All in favor. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE 
 
Dan Proctor has been awarded the contract for the r emoval of the septic mound at the Eagle House Senio r 
Citizens Center.  Agent Jim Garreffi met with Mr. P roctor earlier in the day.  It was suggested that M r. 
Proctor account for all the material removed from t he mound and its ultimate destination as well as 
obtaining a destruction permit and soil sample. 
 
The Board was in agreement. 
 
===PAGE 3===
ARO ESTATES 
 
Mr. Kevin O’Brien, developer, together with Brian M ilisci of Whitman and Bingham met with the Board 
to inform them of their plans for the development o f the old Aro chicken farm on Howard Street and to 
get their comments on their proposal.  
 
The initial proposal is a 94 lot cluster developmen t with all the homes being a four bedroom design.  This 
proposal shows a layout that would require 5 separa te shared systems with residential buildings circli ng 
them. The areas over the systems would be used for recreational purposes.  The 5 systems would have a 
total capacity of about 40,000 gallons per day.  
 
Mr. O’Brian is considering using shared septic syst ems as part of the development of this property and  
came to the board to see if that would be possible.   
 
George Emond stated that the Town of Lunenburg, Board of Health, has a regulation that requires a septic 
system to be on the property that it serves.  This regulation would make it impossible for a shared sy stem.  
Further, Mr. Emond learned through a brief telephon e conversation with Robert Kimball of the Central 
Region DEP, that each lot would have to be proven to have the ability to support a fully compliant Title V 
system.  
 
Mr. O’Brien thanked the Board for its time and comm ents.  
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:00 pm.  
 
 
 