===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
August 18th, 2013 
 
 
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman Georg e Emond at the Ritter Memorial 
Building 
 
Present: George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell and  Jack Rabbit.   
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
None 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
649 Goodrich Street  
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
  
5 SPRING STREET 
 
Neil Gorman of Ross Associates as well as the homeowners met with the Board.  This was a one 
bedroom home lost to a fire.  The owners would like to replace the structure with a new one 
bedroom unit.  The current system is most likely in the water table.  Mr. Gorman is proposing a 
new well and new septic system.  The Zoning Board of Appeals has granted approval for the 
project.  The proposal has the house being moved back from the high water line to meet new 
guidelines.  Variance requested are as follows: 
 
Set back from well [310 CMR 15.405(l)(g)] [Lunenburg Well Regulations 4.1] 
 
On Motion by Shea and second by Jewell, the requested variances were granted.  All in favor. 
 
380 SUNSET LANE 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the Board on behalf the owner.  The owners of the property are 
asking to replace the existing house with a new house.  The new house will remain a three 
bedroom.  A permit for a replacement SDS was issued in 2010 to the previous owner but the 
system was not installed. The system now being proposed is in the same area, but is 10 feet 
further back from the 2010 plan.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that his only concern is with the abutter’s well at 376 Sunset Lane.  
Mr. Garreffi would like clarification on the type of water line to the abutter’s well, whether a 
pressure line or suction line.  If the line to the abutter’s well is a pressure line, he has no issues 
with the request.  Mr. MacKenzie stated that he will provide Mr. Garreffi with the requested 
information. 
 
Variances being requested are reduction in offset to well [310 MCR 15.450 (l)(g)] [Lunenburg 
Well Regulation 4.1] and reduction in offset from wetland [Lunenburg Board of Health 
Regulations Article IV Section 2] 
 
On Motion by Jewell and second by Shea, the board voted to approve the requests conditioned 
upon the line to abutter’s well being a pressure line.  Emond, Shea and Jewell in favor, Rabbit 
nay due to the fact that he felt the plan was not complete because the abutting wells and septic 
systems where not clearly noted.  
 
38 WINDWARD TERRACE 
 
Gary Shepherd of Ross Associates met with the Board, together with Dr. Asher, owner of the 
property.  The current system is in failure.  The lot is wet with a high perc rate.  There is a large 
pool on the site as well.  The original septic permit is for a 3 bedroom home.  In the late 1980’s a 
building permit was obtained from the Town of Lunenburg to increase the bedrooms to 4.  The 
site is served by town water.  The SDS being proposed is a Presby System with the variance 
request being a 2 foot offset to groundwater.   
 
On motion by Shea and second by Rabbitt, the requests were granted.  All in favor. 
 
94 HORIZON ISLAND ROAD 
 
Neil Gorman met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot is 
very small and contains wetlands.  The lot is served by public water.  The system as presented 
requires a groundwater offset from four feet to two feet [310 CMR 15.405(l)(j) and Lunenburg 
Board of Health Regulations Section 3(a).  The only other alternative for this site would be a 
tight tank. 
 
On motion by Shea and second by Rabbitt, the requests were approved.  All in favor. 
 
155 ARBOR STREET 
 
Owner John Raudonat met with the board.  He is having problems with his shallow well and it is 
starting to draw air.  The well driller is proposing to replace the existing well point with a new on 
===PAGE 3===
in the same location.  The well is less than fifty feet from the property line of a large 
undeveloped tract of land [Lunenburg Well Regulation 4.1].  There is no other location on this 
lot that would comply with regulations. 
 
On motion by Shea and second by Rabbit, the request was approved.  All in favor. 
 
Having no other business before the board, meeting adjourned at 8:40 pm. 
 