===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
September 16, 2013 
 
 
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman Georg e Emond at the Ritter Memorial 
Building 
 
Present: George Emond, David Shea, Perry Jewell, Ja ck Rabbitt and Dave Passios.  Also 
present, Bob Ebersole, Selectman 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
July 15, 2013 
August 19, 2013 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
644 Northfield Road 
811 Chase Road 
108 Sunnyhill Road 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
 
138 Beal Street 
340 NW Townsend Road 
305 Leominster Shirley Road 
811 Chase Road 
 
163 ISLAND ROAD  
 
Nick Pauling of GPR together with owner Joe Levine met with the board.  This system is in 
failure.  The intent is to tear down the existing structure and replace it with a new three (3) 
bedroom home.  This property has a high perc rate of 15 minutes per inch  and a small lot.  A JET 
I/A system is being proposed to reduce the groundwater offset for the leaching areas as well as a 
reduction in the leaching area size.  The secondary treatment component of the JET  unit takes the 
place of a conventional septic tank but provides a better effluent quality prior to discharge in the 
leaching area. 
 
Mr. Pauling is requesting a reduction in groundwater offset from four feet to two feet [310 CMR 
15.284 11.5(b) and Lunenburg Regulations Article IV, Section 4(a)], a reduction in the required  
twelve inch separation between the inlet and outlet tee [310 CMR 15.405(1(j) and an increase in 
the maximum allowable depth of a system component from thirty –six inches to seventy-two 
inches [310 CMR 15.284 11.5(b). 
===PAGE 2===
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he is not in favor of the reduction in cover (soils) over the tanks  
due to the fact that at the increased depth, the tanks would be sitting in groundwater.  Mr. Emond 
stated that over time, the groundwater could weaken the tank structure and decrease the life of 
the septic system.  Mr. Garreffi has requested that the tanks be moved to the rear of the current 
structure. 
 
Owner, Joe Levine, stated that he does not want the tanks moved from their current location due 
to the topography of the lot and aesthetics for the new home. 
 
It was suggested by Mr. Pauling that an injector pump be used which would allow the tanks to be 
raised.  Mr. Pauling also stated that Mr. Garreffi had not had an opportunity to see the revised 
plan that he currently was discussing with the board. 
 
After discussion, the board members indicated that they would be open to the use of an injector 
pump which would allow the tanks to remain in their current location, however, inasmuch as 
Agent Jim Garreffi has not had an opportunity to review the current plan, the board continued 
this matter until their next meeting on October 7 
th  at 7:00 pm. 
 
31 PARMENTER ROAD 
 
Roland Leger met with the board of behalf of his mother, the owner of the property.  The well 
serving this property ran dry.  An application was submitted to Agent Jim Garreffi with a sketch 
for the new well location.  Agent Garreffi met with the owner and well driller to verify the 
location for the new well.  Mr. Garreffi also reviewed plans for locations of abutting septic 
systems. 
 
In order to maintain the 100 foot distance from abutting septic systems, it was necessary to place 
the well ten feet from the property line and five feet from the road which is closer to the property 
line than is noted in  Lunenburg Well Regulation 4.1.  This well has been drilled due to the 
emergency nature.   
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Rabbitt, the variance for offset to 
property lines was approved.  All in favor. 
 
380 SUNSET LANE 
 
Anthony Cleaves met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Also present was Mr. Arthur 
Burke, owner of 376 Sunset Lane.  At his last meeting with the board a site for a new well was 
discussed and approved.  Since that time, a secondary well site has been located on the other side 
===PAGE 3===
of the property.  Mr. Burke stated that he has some concerns with the original well site and its 
proximity to his property line and his well. 
 
Due to the site conditions (narrow lot, wetlands and steep slope) both the original well location 
and the secondary well location are appropriate locations due to the location of the proposed new 
septic system on this lot as well as the surrounding lots [Lunenburg Well Regulation 4.1]. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Passios the two possible well locations 
were approved.  The final location being determined after Mr. Cleaves meets with the 
Conservation Commission.  All in favor. 
 
376 SUNSET LANE  
 
Anthony Cleaves, together with Arthur Burke met with the board to discuss the possibility of 
drilling a new well on Mr. Burke’s lot at the same time as the new well was being drilled on the 
abutting well at 380 Sunset Lane.  Mr. Burke has not made a final decision on whether or not he 
will be drilling a new well but wishes to be prepared if he decides to do so . 
 
What is being proposed is a new well in the same general location as the existing well.  What is 
being requested is a reduction in the  offset to property line from 50 feet to 6 feet running parallel 
to the 380 Sunset Lane property line and no further than 10 feet southeast from the present 
location of the well as shown on the plan presented to the board [Lunenburg Well Regulation 
4.1].   
 
After discussion and on Motion by Rabbit and second by Shea, the variance to property line was 
approved.  All in favor. 
 
Having no other business before the board, meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm. 
 