===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
July 27, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell and Paul Fortin  
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
June 2, 2015 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
190 Chase Road 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
40 Fire Road 12 
268 Pleasant Street 
82 Cove Road, Lot 1 
 
40 FIRE ROAD 12 
 
Chris MacKenzie and Bob Proctor met with the board.  This system is in failure.   
 
This is a very small lot, wetlands and the location  of the well make this site difficult.  Variances b eing 
requested are offsets to property lines, offset to groundwater, offsets to foundation, offset to well and only 
one test hole was dug.  The system, as designed, is the best possible for the lot.  There was a two be droom 
deed restriction previously placed on the property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variances were granted.  All in favor. 
 
338 SUNSET LANE  
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board.  The prospectiv e purchaser was also present as well as abutters Ca rl 
and Sally Luck .   This is a vacant lot on Lake Shi rley with a new home being proposed.  The lot has 
water on three sides.  Variances being requested ar e offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 54 feet as we ll as 
the reserve trenches to be within the trenches. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that is not in favor of supporting this request.  Our local variances are in place for 
a reason and variances to our local regulations are  entertained on replacement systems.  This being ne w 
construction, he would not vote to approve the request. 
 
This matter is before the Conservation Commission n ext week.  This discussion was continued until the 
next Board of Health meeting on Monday, August 17 
th  at 7:00 pm. 
 
268 PLEASANT STREET  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Brian McKewen met with the board on behalf of the o wner.  This system is in failure.  This lot has hig h 
ground water and a high perc rate.  The lot is small.  This lot is served by public water. 
 
The soil was to wet to perc so a sieve analysis is being requested as well as an offset to groundwater  from 
4 feet to 2 feet.  What is being proposed is the best system for the lot. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
With no further business before the board the meeting was adjourned at 8:20 pm. 