===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
May 18, 2015 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios, Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
108 Reservoir Road 
54 Chestnut Street 
580 Mulpus Road 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED : 
  
32 Arbor Street 
Elmwood Road, Lot 2 
Elmwood Road, Lot 3 
37 Goodrich Street 
 
1259 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE  
 
Jonathan Markey as well as Josh Brianas met with th e Board.  Mr. Markey advised that he has redesigned  
the plan and both the proposed building and existin g building will now be served by the well and publi c 
water will be disconnected from the existing struct ure.  Mr. Markey is requesting a well variance:  
distance from a property line from fifty (50) feet to (25) feet. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi advised that he does not see a p roblem with the granting of this variance with the 
following three conditions: 
 
1.  That the well does not negatively affect the abutter. 
2.  The Lunenburg Water District certifies that the cur rent connection to the District system has been 
disconnected from the existing building. 
3.  The engineer provides a revised septic plan showing  town water being disconnected from the 
existing building. 
 
Public sewer is available to the abutting property.   
 
Chairman Emond suggested that if, at any time, the abutter needs the use of the 25 feet, then an agreement 
must be reached or the well discontinued.  A releas e from the current property owner of the abutting 
property will eliminate this condition.  David Passios clarified that this is an either/or situation.  Either the 
owner of 1259 Massachusetts Avenue obtains a releas e from the current owner of the adjoining property 
if at any time in the future, that owner needs the use of the 25 feet lost because of this variance, u se of the 
well would be discontinued and a connection to the Water District would be made. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on Motion my Passios and secon d by Jewell, the variance was approved with the 
above condition.  All in favor. 
 
SHADY POINT BEACH PORTA POTTY REQUEST  
 
The Board reviewed and unanimously approved the ann ual request for the use of portable facilities at 
Sandy Point Campground. 
 
SEPTIC SYSTEM GRANT  
 
Chairman Emond discussed the history of this grant.   At this point in time there are two options for t he 
use of this money, either in the repair/ maintenance of a current system or in the re-loaning of the f unds to 
Lunenburg town residents.  In addition, management of the grant can be internal or through an outside 
agency. 
 
Dave Passios discussed the criteria for lending the money to residents, as follows: 
 
1.  Defining a needs area 
2.  Establishing income criteria 
3.  Whether the program would include utilizing the funds for tie into sewer. 
4.  Loan would be repaid on conveyance. 
5.  There must a Title 5 Inspection completed showing a  failed system and certified by the Board of 
Health. 
6.  If sewer connection where included in the loan program, betterment fees could not be included. 
 
After discussion, Chairman Emond appointed Dave Pas sios to do further investigation and report back to  
the board at their next scheduled meeting on June 1, 2015. 
 
Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm 
 
   