===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
September 21, 2015 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios a nd Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
August 24, 2015 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED : 
 
54 Woodland Avenue 
250 Lancaster Avenue 
750 Northfield Road 
227 Arbor Street 
143 Rolling Acres Road 
 
90 WEST TOWNSEND ROAD – PRELIMINARY VARIANCE DISCUS SION  
 
Ed McSweney, the owner of the property met with the  board.  Mr. Sweeney is subdividing the property 
into four lots and asking if the board will entertain a well variance of less than fifty feet on one o f the lots.  
A plan was shown.  The placement of the proposed lo t will not affect any of the adjoining lots.  The 
members of the board stated that they would not have a problem with the request when it was submitted.  
 
647-649 RESERVOIR ROAD – PRELIMINARY VARIANCE DISCU SSION 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the own ers, John and Robin Sodano who recently purchased 
these properties.  The Sodano’s own both properties .  647 is a larger lot with a fairly new septic sys tem.  
649 is a very small lot with a two bedroom cottage with an existing system 30 feet from the lake.  The  
larger property (647) is .61 acres and the smaller property (649) is .34 acres.  The larger property i s not 
big enough to deed the required property to the smaller lot.   
 
The well serving the system is most likely less tha n fifty feet from the existing system.  Mr. Proctor  is 
asking that the leach field for the smaller propert y be placed on the larger property with an easement  for 
same being granted. 
 
Perry Jewell asked if what was being proposed was a shared system.  Mr. Proctor stated that what is being 
proposed is not a shared system.  They are asking t hat the leach field be placed on the adjoining prop erty 
and an easement granted.  Dan Proctor stated that t he system on the smaller lot is mostly likely in fa ilure 
and Mr. and Mrs. Sodano are anticipating that the c ottage will be occupied.  The owners of the propert y 
would like to keep the two lots in separate ownersh ip.  Passios asked if the present owners were aware  of 
the problem when they purchased the property.  They responded with a yes. 
 
Chairman Emond stated that the board has a regulation that states that the septic system must be on the lot 
it serves.   
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion it was the consensus of the board that should this request would be denied if an offi cial 
request was made of the board. 
 
338 SUNSET LANE – PRELIMINARY VARIANCE DISCUSSION 
 
Jeff Viviano, the prospective owner of the property  met with the board.  Also present was the current 
owner, Alton Cole, as well as Carl Luck and Sally Luck. 
 
Mr. Cole gave a history of this lot.  His family ha s owned this lot in excess of sixty-five years.  It  was his 
family’s intention to build on this lot, but at thi s point in time there is no one in his family that is interest 
in building on this lot.  Mr. Cole advised that he had met with the board in 2011 to ask if the board would 
consider a reduction in the offset to wetlands.  At  that time board responded that yes, they would con sider 
a variance. 
 
Prospective buyer had come before the board in Augu st.  At that time, the concerns voiced over the 
improvement of this lot included protecting Lake Sh irley from increased nitrates that a location of le ss 
than 100 feet could cause.  Mr. Viviano stated that  he is proposing building a two bedroom.  Mr. Vivia no 
stated that he is also scheduled to meet with the C onservation Commission.  At a recent Conservation 
meeting, the plan for the location of the house was  approved after a shoreline mediation, contingent u pon 
a revised plan being submitted. 
 
Mr. Viviano did research to find a system that would more adequately protect the wetland.  Mr. Viviano is 
proposing a Microfast system which would further tr eat the effluent and he discussed the science of th is 
system with the board.  Mr. Viviano provided handouts describing the system and how it works.   
 
Perry Jewell agreed that this system vs. a conventional system would reduce nitrates.  
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that this would be the fi rst time this type of system is being proposed 
specifically to reduce nitrates.  The data shows th at nitrates will fluctuate and further, that this t ype of 
system does not perform equally well in colder weather.  
 
Sally Luck, abutter at 352 is not in favor of granted the requested variances.  Ms. Luck is concerned about 
her well.  Agent Jim Garreffi stated that Ms. Luck has a drilled well and should not be affected by th e 
system. 
 
Carl Luck also lives on Lake Shirley and is a membe r of the Conservation Commission.  Mr. Luck stated 
that the Conservation Commission has no comment on septic system matters.  Mr. Luck stated that the 
Board of Health has regulations for a reason and wo uld like to see them enforced with the understandin g 
that waivers are granted for repairs.  Chairman Emo nd stated that the variance request process allows the 
board and opportunity to review each plan on its own merit. 
 
After much discussion the board took a vote to see if the members would look favorably on variances fo r 
this system, namely a reduction in the offset to we tlands from 100 feet to 54 feet and trenches within  
trenches. 
 
George Emond voted no, all other board members were  in favor with the understanding that when a 
revised plan was submitted it would not deviate from what was discussed at the meeting. 
 
===PAGE 3===
136 SUNNY HILL ROAD  
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is a difficult site and the system is in failure.  
They are requesting a reduction in groundwater offs et from four feet to three feet as well as a sieve 
analysis. 
 
Agent Garreffi stated that he believes that this is a reasonable solution for the failed system. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Passios, the variances were requested.  All in 
favor. 
 
32 BOUCHER ROAD  
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owne r.  This system is in failure.  This is a very smal l lot 
that is wet.  Testing was completed in the open are a and it was not successful.  Testing was next done  in 
the wooded area of the lot in an area in excess of fifty feet from the wetland.  The current placement  of 
the proposed system is in the best possible place on this lot. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
129 ROLLING ACRES ROAD  
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the own er.  This is a small lot, the system is in failure.   A 
groundwater offset from four feet to three feet is being requested. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Jewell the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
140 FLYNN ROAD 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi discussed this property with the  board.  The owner of this property tried to deep t he 
well on this site.  In the process, the well collapsed.  A new well needs to be drilled on the other side.  It is 
the only place on the site that a rig can get in to  drill a well.  Placement of the new well requires the 
following offsets:  Property line offset from 50 to 15, offset to septic system, 85 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second  by Passios, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:05 pm. 
 