===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
January 8, 2018 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell and Paul Fortin 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
December 5, 2017 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
60 South Row Road 
401 Hollis Road 
28 Kimball Street 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
  
99 Boucher Road 
 
99 BOUCER ROAD 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system would be considered a failure due 
to the estimated high ground water.  The site has high ground water, is flat and the location of the 
structures on the site made designing a replacement system a challenge.  Variances requested are offset 
to groundwater from four feet to three feet and reducing in inlet and outlet tees. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
245 WEST STREET 
 
Gerald Lane met with the board.  There have been ongoing issues with an outdoor wood fired burner 
on the site.  The smoke from this device has been migrating into the neighbor’s yard and getting into 
their garage.  Unlike woodstoves these devices work on a thermostat and have a tendency to smolder 
between demand for either heat or hot water.  Once a call for heat, the fire reignite and the emission for 
the smoldering fire exit the unit until and normal burn is achieved. 
 
Agent Garreffi has viewed the site on a number of occasions and has not been able to document an 
issue with the opacity of the smoke but this unit meets the offset requirements in the regulations 
enacted in 2008. 
 
The affected owner’s complaint is based on 310CMR Section 7.00 – Air Pollution 
 
A cease and desist order was issued by Agent Garreffi after discussions with DEP.  Before the cease 
and desist could be lifted the unit would have to operate so as not to cause a condition of air pollution. 
===PAGE 2===
 
After discussion, the board agreed to lift the cease and desist under the condition that it would only be 
for a limited time to ascertain whether an attempt to solve the problem with air pollution had been 
achieved.  Should the burner be moved, stack raised or trees trimmed in an effort to remove the issue 
of air pollution, a request would be made to Agent Jim Garreffi for approval.  Once completed Agent 
Garreffi would be present when the burner was lit to determine if the change in situation eliminated the 
condition of air pollution. 
 
TC PASSIOS SCHOOL CAFITERIA 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi provided an update on the possible use of the TC Passios School Cafeteria as a 
community kitchen.  His response follows. 
 
Since your meeting on this matter I have spoken to the Town Administrator and a selectman.  I 
emphasized the need for more information on what is envisioned for the site. Once the Town had a 
plan for the site the Board could provide a more complete review of the proposed operation with 
regards to the regulatory requirements. 
Listed below are my previous comments to the Board. 
Bridgette and I visited with the Manager of the Worcester Food Hub (regional kitchen facility); they 
have a fully functional kitchen that can be used by the public as a commercial kitchen.  Here are some 
major points regarding their operation. 
1.) It is a managed facility, the Manager schedules individuals to use the kitchen and is present 
during all hours the facility is open (9-5, M-F). 
2.) Only one individual is allowed to work in the kitchen at a time. 
3.) The facility is licensed by the Board of Health and the individuals are licensed by the Board of 
Health. 
4.) Individuals go through an application process with the Food Hub prior to getting permitted by 
the Board of Health; the Board of Health does a preopening inspection before issuing 
individual licenses.  The facility sends a quarterly report of all permittees using the facility; he 
mentioned that they have had individuals who go through the permitting process, obtain a 
permit but never use the kitchen – they work out of their house (the kitchen has a nominal cost 
($25/hour)). 
5.) Any on-site food storage by individuals is in locked cages. 
 
Meeting adjourned 