===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
July 23, 2018 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Paul Fortin, David Passios and Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
June 4, 2018 
June 25, 2018 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
943 Reservoir Road 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
  
498 Howard Street 
2030 Mass Avenue 
331 Burrage Street 
 
11 PENINSULA DRIVE 
 
Kirk Fitzpatrick from Civil Solutions met with the Board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in 
failure due to high ground water.  The lot is small and irregular.  A variance for a reduction in offset to 
groundwater is being requested from 5 feet to 4 feet is being requested.  This will allow better grading 
on the site. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Pa ssios and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
1190 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Neil Gorman met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure due to high ground 
water.  This lot also has a steep slope.  A Presby system is p roposed.  DEP allows a groundwater 
reduction of up to 2 feet for replacement system.  Variances being requested are reduction in offset to 
groundwater from 4 feet to 2 feet and offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 69 feet.   
 
After much discussion and on motion by Mayhew and second by Jewell, the variances were approved.  
All in favor. 
 
157 TOWNSEND HARBOR ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is currently in failure due to the 
high ground water. 
 
===PAGE 2===
In addition to high ground  water this site has a steep slope.  The plan proposes a variance in reduction 
to offset to groundwater from four feet to 3 feet and less than 12 inches for inlet and outlet tees. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Mayhew the variance was granted.  All in 
favor. 
 
71 HIGHLAND STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  There were very few 
test holes on the lot that provided the required 4 feet of pervious soil.  The area where the proposed 
leaching area is located provides a consistent 2 feet of pervious soil, the minimum allowed by DEP.  In 
addition, due to the high ground water a reduction to less than 12 inches for inlet and outlet tees is 
being requested. 
 
After discussion and on motion b y Passios and second by Mayhew, the variances were approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
113 SANDY COVE ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system on this property is in failure.  This 
lot has high ground water and the existing sewer pipe exits the back of the house.  In addition, the 
adjoining lot has irrigation well. 
 
A variance for reduction in groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet is being requested, as well as a 
reduction in less than 12 inches for inlet and outlet tees. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Mayhew, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
LANNI ORCHARD 
 
The owners of Lanni Orchard , Jerry Lanni Sr., Tony Lanni, Mario Lanni and Attorney Cella were 
present at the meeting. 
 
Lanni Orchard has filed for an APR (Agricultural Preservation Restriction) on their property.  This 
would mean that the property located within the APR could only be used for agriculture and no other 
purpose.  The plan was prepared by MDAR .  There  was an article at Town Meeting a nd this was 
approved for funding.  The plan was submitted to the Planning Board who has view this as and ANR 
subdivision of land.  Based on that determination, it was questioned as to whether the remainder land 
or land left outside the APR designation was sufficient to support a repair of the septic system on the 
commercial building, also outside the APR designation.  There is also a utility easement running 
through the remainder land. 
 
After much discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Mayhew, th e board voted to allow the 
APR to proceed, however, if, in the future, DEP determines that this division of  land falls under 
subdivision r ules, Lanni Orchard would have to fully comply with all current reg ulations and are 
proceeding with the project at their own risk.   
 
Meeting adjourned 