===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
February 4, 2019 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, David Passios (remotely), Paul Fortin, Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
January 7, 2019 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
20 Eastern Avenue 
157 Whalom Road 
47 Beachview Road 
39 S. Row Road 
132 Robbs Hill Road 
56 White Street 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
 
120 Highland Street 
  
120 HIGHLAND STREET 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  There are no wells 
in the area and the property is served by public water. 
 
Although testing showed adequate pervious soil, the water table is high.  A Presby system is being 
proposed and allows for a gravity syst em.  This would further allow for the site to be graded in an 
manner to minimize potential runoff onto the abutting property. 
 
A groundwater variance from four feet to three feet is being requested. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, the board approved the variance.   
Roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
748 PAGE STREET 
 
Chris Knuth met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This matter was previously before the board.  
A Title 5 was completed in November of 2018.  Both the system and the well tested fine but the well 
was less than 50 feet from the septic system.  At that time, the well was tested and sanitized as part of 
the Title 5 inspection.  The board advised that e ither the well or the septic system would need to be 
replaced and the decision as to which was at the discretion of the owner. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Knuth is before the board with a design for a replacement septic system.  As part of the 
replacement, Mr. Knuth is asking th at the existing 1,500 gallon septic tank remain.  There is no 
information on file for a 1,500 gallon septic tank on the site although it appears to be fairly new.   
 
Mr. Knuth stated that it is reasonable to allow the tank to remain.  The existing tank is 42 feet from the 
exiting well. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Mayhew and second by Fortin, the board voted to allow the existing 
tank to remain on the following conditions: 
 
1- The installer of the replacement system certify that the existing tank is wate r tight and in good 
condition; 
2- The well be tested by Agent Jim Garreffi 
3- Well tested to ensure a sanitary seal by a certified well driller 
4- The property be deed restricted as a two (2) bedroom house. 
 
Roll call Vote:  Emond – yes, Jewell – yes, Passios – No, Fortin – yes, Mayhew – yes.  Variances 
approved. 
 
2020 BUDGET 
 
The 2020 Budget was available for review including an increase of 5% to the Nashoba Associated 
Boards of Health as well as in increase of 4 hours per week to the salary line item for the 
Administrative Assistant. 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Jewell, the budget was approved, as Amended.  Roll call vote, all 
in favor. 
 
SEPTIC LOAN 
 
Several months ago, Chairman George Emond drafted a letter to Town Counsel with regard to the 
expanded use of the existing Septic Loan Repair Program money. 
 
After discussion, it was determined that no further action was necessary on this matter at this time. 
 
PROPOSED CANNABIS REGUALTIONS 
 
The members of the board where provided with the proposed Cannabis Regulations as draft ed by the 
Planning Board.  Administrative Assistant advised that the Planning Board is interested in hearing all 
comments and opinions with regard to these regulation from all residents of the town. 
 
As far as the Board is concerned, The Board of Health does not take any position or offer any opinions 
regarding the discussions surrounding Marijuana. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm 