===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
January 7, 2019 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: George Emond, Perry Jewell, David Passios, Paul Fortin, Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
December 2, 2018 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
241 Pleasant Street 
1 Sequoia Drive 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
 
 
395 ELMWOOD ROAD 
 
Kim Kriesner, owner of the property met with the board.  Jack Maloney was also present.   
 
This is new construction. A septic system was designe d for this lot and the n the plan was amended, 
raising the system one foot.  The septic permit was issued in accordance with the revised plan. 
 
When the system was installed in was installed one foot lower than the approved design plan.  The 
approved septic permit was never picked up prior to the system being stalled.  The septic permit is still 
at the board of health office. 
 
Because this is new construction, the septic system must be fully compliant.  Chairman George Emond 
advised that board cannot give a variance to ground water offset on new construction.   
 
After a lengthy discussion, the board advised that this is an issue between the owner of the property 
and the installer of the septic system.  A variance cannot be given for the one foot difference in  
groundwater offset due to this being new construction.  The plan was designed and submitted in 
accordance with the rules and regulations. 
 
BAKER STREET 
 
Mrs. Paradis, owner, met with the Board.  She advised that the roof repairs had been completed.  She 
stated that the second floor, at present, was unoccupied.  The remainder of the interior work was in 
process and she and her husband were working with the insurance company. 
 
Mrs. Paradis requested an extension in time to complete the repairs. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Jewell, the board voted to give an extension 
until February 28th to complete the required repairs.  All in favor. 
 
SEPTIC LOAN PROGRAM 
 
Discussion continued until February 18th. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm 