===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, December 7, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and 
Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Pu blic Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30 A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remo tely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will fe ature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorde d and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry J ewell then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
72 MAPLE PARKWAY 
 
Doug Smith was present to represent the owner.  This syste m is in failure, the property is a smaller siz e at a ½ 
acre.  An alternative system is being proposed with a variance for groundwater offset from four feet to t wo feet. 
In addition, a variance is requested for less than 12” in the inlet and outlet tees to 6” and  2 ½ inches 
respectively.  A soil sample was taken as the soil was too wet.  
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the soils were tough and there is a high water table.  The plumbing in the house 
can’t be raised so the inlet and outlet tee variance is reasonable.  He had no issues with the requests. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the variances were unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
112 SOUTH ROW ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  It is a small lake lot with a 
pipe and gravel system being designed.  The house is on a slab and will require a poly barrier.  Variance being 
requested is offset to groundwater to 4 feet. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that it is a small lake lot with a high water table.  The installation of a poly barrier will 
keep the fill on the site.  They are connecting to public water and discontinuing the well.  The system as 
designed fits nicely on the lot. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the variances.  All in 
favor by roll call vote. 
 
1480 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
Brian Milisci from Whitman and Bingham  met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  
This system was upgraded in 2011.  The water use in the home exceeded th e system as was designed in 2011  
putting the system into failure.  All offsets have been met.  The system, as designed now, is a 6 bedroom system 
to meet the needs of this house.  The system as designed in 2011 was for a 4 bedroom. 
 
Variances being requested are offset to groundwater  for 4 feet to 3 feet, the use of a sieve analysis due to high 
ground water and a reduction in the 12 inch separation between inlet and outlet tees.  
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the increase in the size of the system was to meet the requirements of this house.  
As stated, the system in 2011 was for a 4 bedroom home.  This system was designed to match the house and 
would need to be deed restricted to a 4 bedroom home. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Jewell and second by Watters, these variances were  approved with the 
requirement of a deed restriction as follows by roll call vote: 
 
Perry Jewell – Yes 
Paul Fortin – Yes 
Evan Watters – Yes 
George Emond - abstain 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
On motion by Watters and second by Fortin all minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that there continues to be numerous changes and amendments to Covid guideline daily.  
Currently, Lunenburg  has moved from Phase III, Tier II back down to Phase III, Tier I, due to prevalence of 
Covid on our community.  This reduces the occupancy in businesses, closes businesses and restricts others.   
 
Jim Garreffi stated that our Tier changed because of being “red” for 3 weeks in a row due to the increases in 
November.  However, the numbers are coming down and hopefully that will continue.   
 
We continue to see transmission within families.  It is very important to not have gatherings outside of our 
family groups, wear masks and sanitize.  Quarantine information has been changed due to combined science and 
experience with patients in the spring.   
 
With regard to vaccine:  It is anticipated that Massachusetts will have 60,000 doses by year end.  Both vaccines 
require two shot s about 3 weeks apart.  The first to get vaccine will be hospital and health care workers in a 
group that they can track to receive the second dose, with Nursing Homes to follow.  Criteria has been set on the 
order in which vaccine will be distributed. 
 
===PAGE 3===
It is anticipated that vaccine will be available so metime in the late spring or early summer for the larger 
population.   
 
Chairman Emond, as well as other board members commented on what a great job member Even Watters is 
doing charting Covid numbers for the board. 
 
 
Having no further matters before the b oard and on Motion by Watters and seconded by Jewell, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:30 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 