===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
February 3, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Present: Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and Warren Mayhew 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
January 6, 2020 
 
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED: 
 
357 Burrage 
182 Mass Ave 
322 Flat Hill Road 
68 Fairview Road 
11 Esterbrook 
202 Chase 
77 Island 
37 Brookview 
44 Sunny Hill 
47 Autumn 
 
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED: 
 
50 Fire Road 24 
45 Howard Street 
Youngs Road Lot 1 
134 Youngs Road 
66 Gibson 
 
31 ROUND ROAD 
 
The existing well for this property is failing and does not produce enough water.  A new well was 
drilled under an emergency situation. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi reviewed the plans and new well location.  Well driller Mike Sullivan verified the 
location of abutting septic systems.  A location for the new well was found that was 100 feet from all 
septic systems but not the required 50 feet from all property lines.  The well is 39 feet from the 
property line of the adjourning property to the right.  Agent Garreffi spoke with Chairman Perry Jewell  
who allowed the installing to go forward, with the request for the offset variance to be heard at the next 
regularly scheduled meeting of the board. 
 
Variance requested is offset to property line from 50 feet to 38 feet. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Emond, the variance was approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
 
134 YOUNGS ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The existing system 
is pits in the groundwater.  The site is small, has high groundwater and is served by an on-site well. 
 
Variances requested are offset to well – 100 feet to 82 feet 
Offset to foundation – 10 feet to 8.5 feet 
 
The system, as designed, is a gravity system.  Abutter notification is required and green cards were 
submitted to the board. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
66 GIBSON 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The system is in failure.  The design for the 
original septic system is for a three (3) bedroom system.  The assessor records indicate that the current 
house has seven (7) bedrooms and a total of eleven (11) rooms.  In an effort to install a compliant 
system for the house, as it currently exists, a six (6) bedroom system is proposed. 
 
The system, as proposed, complies with all Title 5 Regulations as well as local regulations with the 
exception of allowing the reserve area as trenches within trenches.  Trenches within trenches is 
allowed by Title 5 Regulations.  Agent Jim Garreffi stated that maintaining the adequate spacing 
between the trenches for future use is challenging and is not “a fan” of granting this variance.   
 
The design for this system would be considered for increased flow and therefore should meet full 
compliance. 
 
The design contains a boulder slope wall with a very steep slope instead of the necessary fill for 
breakout.  The fill can’t be installed because of the location of the driveway.   
 
On motion by Mayhew and second by Fortin, the variance was approved for trenches between 
trenches.  Further, a boulder wall is allowed provided it is certified by an engineer.  All in favor. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:15 pm 