===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, August 17, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Chairman, George Emond:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Warren Mayhew and 
Evan Watters.   
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and  steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are bei ng 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access i s afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participatin g by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell  then covered the ground rules for ef fective business and to insure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
204-206 KILBURN STREET 
 
Dan Proctor and Doug Smith were present  to represent the owner of the pro perty.  This is a two family ho use.  
The septic system is located on one side of the property, while the well is on the other side.  The house is served 
by an artesian well, the owner would like to retain a second, dug well, for agricultural purposes. 
 
Chairman George Emond stated that he has spoken with Agent Jim Garreffi and Mr. Garreffi sees no issues with 
this second dug well being used for agricultural purposes.  Further, the second dug well is never to be used as a 
source of potable water. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Mayhew, the board vote d to allow this property to 
retain both wells and the dug well to be used for only agricultural purposes.  All in favor by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi was not present at the meeting but indicated to Chairman George Emond that there ha ve not 
been significant changes with regard to Covid 19 since the board last met on July 20, 2020. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell updated the board on his  meeting with Town Attorney Adam Costa, which agent 
Jim Garreffi also attended.  The meeting took place after the board of health meeting on July 20th. 
 
The reason for meeting with Town Counsel was to get guidance on when should the board escalate enforcement 
under Covid -19 guidelines and the steps necessary to do so. 
 
Vice-Chairman Jewell and Agent Garreffi  shared the document with regard to the above from the 
Commonwealth. 
 
Vice-Chairman Jewell stated that the Commonwealth wants education.  When there is a continued complaint the 
board has the ability to escalate compliance following certain steps as set ou t by the Commonwealth.  Attorney 
Costa agreed and advised that a special meeting could be called with 48  hours.  Attorney Costa stated that there 
is no need for the board to approve an approach as there is one already in place. 
 
Commonwealth guidelines as follows: 
 
- Complain is received 
- Agent visits and discusses the problem and asks that establishment complies (once) 
- Agent visits and if no change has been made, a written warning is sent (once) 
- If there is still no change and establishment is not compliant, can be fined up to $300 (3 times) 
- Representative of establishment is invited to come before the Board and again asked to comply 
- If still not compliant, a cease and desist is sent 
- Board takes them to court. 
 
Attorney Costa stated that although the court sys tem is bogged down at present, Covid 19 issues are considered 
a priority.  Both Attorney Costa as well as Perry Jewell and Jim Garreffi felt that the above was in accordance 
with the board view moving forward. 
 
Having no further matters before the board an d on Motion by Watters and seconded by Mayhew , the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:45 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 