===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 4, 2020 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Chairman, Perry Jewell :  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin David 
Passios, and Warren Mayhew Pre sent.  Also Present, Jim Garreffi, Board of Health Agent, Nashoba 
Associated Board of Health. 
 
Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of 
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting i s being recorded and broadcast over 
Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted remotely.  The 
Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Boar d of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Cert ain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted 
remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website COVID -19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet 
entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation 
unless such partici pation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this 
meeting the Board of Health  is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as 
posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings , please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell  then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.   
 
  
MINUTES APPROVED: 
 
February 20, 2020 minutes Motion made by Passios and second by Mayhew to approve.  Ro ll call 
vote: 
 
Fortin:  Yes 
Mayhew – yes 
Passios:  Yes 
Emond – Yes 
Jewell – Yes 
 
===PAGE 2===
73 HOLLIS ROAD 
 
Bob Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot is served by a well in 
the front of the property.  After extensiv ely testing the site, the required four (4) feet of pervious material does 
not exist anywhere on the site.  In addition, due to the high groundwater, a sieve analysis was performed.   
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that this was a tough site, lots of ledge and  the best soils, after testing, were found at 
the rear of the site.  The proposed Presby system allows for less than 4 feet of soil and the proposed system is 
the best alternative for the site. 
 
Variances requested are a reduction of the in the amount of s oil to less than 4 feet as allowed with a Presby 
System by adding 2 feet of soil and the use of a sieve analysis in lieu of testing. 
 
On motion by Emond and second by Passios, the board voted to approve the variances as follows by roll call 
vote: 
 
Fortin: Yes 
Mayhew:  Yes 
Passios:  Yes 
Emond:  Yes 
Jewell:  Yes 
 
The variances were approved. 
 
Upon Motion by Emond and second by Fortin, the Board voted to allow Administrative Assistant, Andrea 
Schnepf, to sign septic permits on their as well act on their behalf with the permission of the Board Chairman as 
follows: 
 
Mayhew:  Yes 
Fortin:  Yes 
Emond:  Yes 
Perry:  Yes 
Passios:  Abstain 
 
The motion was approved. 
 
COVID – 19 UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi was present at the meeting to give an update.  Mr. Garreffi stated that there have 
been many complaints that have been addressed inc luding the need for masks and gloves for 
employees, keeping an appropriate social distance, the number of customers allows in stores. Agent 
Garreffi stated that he has worked with both Walmart and Hannaford to address these concerns. 
 
Contract tracing is being done through Nashoba Associated Board of Health (Nashoba) originally with 
two of the nursing staff, which is now six doing contact tracing. 
 
There is a requirement for isolation for anyone testing positive for Covid-19 for a period of 14 days.  In 
addition, anyone feeling sick is to isolate at home for a period of 14 days. 
 
A listing of contacts that are with 6 feet for more 15 minutes is created through contact tracing and 
quarantine for a period of 14 days, with follow-up by Nashoba.  
 
===PAGE 3===
The Commonwealth currently has 1,000 individuals to help with contact tracing.  There is a box that 
can be checked on the Mavis site to request help from the Commonwealth with tracing. 
 
Chairman Perry Jewell stated that there are concerns with privacy with regard to rep orting.  Currently 
the Commonwealth decides what the regulations and guidelines are.   
 
Currently Walmart and Hannaford should require masks. 
 
Plexiglass is being installed for Cashiers 
 
The addresses are being provided to police and fire of possible or confirmed Covid-19 cases. 
 
WHITE STREET PROPERTY 
 
Leominster Housing Authority has requested an Order restricting visitors to the property.  A sample of 
the Order has been provided stating no visitors are allowed.  This sample has been provided to the 
board as well as Agent Garreffi 
 
Chairman Jewell stated that he feels that it should be a guideline rather than an Order.  We want to 
protect our elderly but not at the risk of locking them down.   
 
Mayhew feels that this comes too late but would like a strong advisory rather than an Order. 
 
Edmond feels that issuing an Order is outside the scope of this Board of Health.  Mayhew agrees. 
 
Passios doesn’t feel there is a strong reason to go beyond the State’s guidelines and that an advisory to 
the Housing Authority should be sent based on the State guidelines. 
 
Agent Garreffi will look at the wording and provide a document in accordance with board’s wishes and 
provide same to the Housing Authority. 
 
With regard to State reporting of Covid-19 cases.  Dave Passios stated that he feels the data is seriously 
flawed as it comes out of DPH notification system. 
 
RUBISH REGULATIONS 
 
Any further discussion of changing the rubbish regulations for Lunenburg are on hold until a later date. 
 
64 ARBOR STREET 
 
Passios asked about t he status of the permit for the installation of a new septic tank as agreed upon.  
This permit has not been applied for.  Mr. Woodrow has until January 2021 to install the tank. 
 
Next Board of Health Meeting will be June 1, 2020. 
 
On motion by Emond and second by Mayhew, meeting was adjourned at 8:30 pm. 
 
 
 