===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, January 4, 2021 
 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and 
Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Pub lic Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A , Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remot ely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will fea ture public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded  and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Je well then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
33 BOUTWELL 
 
Dan Proctor was present to represent the owner.  This syste m is in failure, the property is served by town water.  
A variance for groundwater offset to 4 feet is requested, soils tested at 2MPI. In addition, a variance is requested 
for distance to wetland from 100 feet to 68.5 feet.  There are no wells within 100 feet of the proposed system.   
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that this is a strange lot and is made up of the leftover portions of the adjoining lots.  
He stated that the variances make sense and he had no issues with the requests. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Fortin and second by Jewell, the variances were unanimously approved by 
roll call vote. 
 
31 SOUTH ROW ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure , but the owner is not selling .  
Variances being request are offset to groundwater to 4 feet, distance to wate r line from 20 feet to 5 feet and 
distance to foundation from 20 feet to 13 feet.   
 
===PAGE 2===
This lots fronts on the lake and is a small, tight lot.  The property is connected to public water.   
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that it is a small lake lot with a high water table.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Emond, the board voted to approve the variances.   All 
in favor by roll call vote. 
 
There is a well on the property , that was previously used as a potable source of water.  This property h as been 
connected to public water and  the owner would like to retain the use of  this well for irrigation purposes .  Dan 
Proctor stated that there are a lot of well still in service in this area. 
 
George Emond stated that typically wells are destroyed when  connected to public wat er to avoid cross 
contamination with the public water supply. 
 
Inasmuch the matter of retaining the well was not on the agenda for discussion, the owner would have to come 
back to the board to retain the agricultural well. 
 
In doing so, a request, by letter would need to be submitted to the board and the particulars as to location, depth, 
etc. would have to be provided so that the board would be able to make a decision. 
 
17 WEST STREET TERRACE 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  Testing showed 27 MPI soils.  
A Presby system with a pump chamber has been designed for this lot.  This site is connected to public water, has 
high groundwater and is a fairly small in size. 
 
Variances requested are offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 2 feet, less than 12” on inlet and outlet tees. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated the design of a Presby system allows the groundwater offset of 2 feet.  Because the level of 
the house is set, the inlet and out let tee variance  is necessary.  The system, as designed, is much better than the 
system that failed.  There are no wetland or wells and he had no issues. 
 
After discussion and on Motion by Fortin and second by Watters, these variances were unanimously approved 
by roll call vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters all minutes were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
BUDGET 
 
Perry Jew ell stated that the Board has had an ongoing request for additional office hours for Administrative 
Assistant Andrea Schnepf.  Mrs. Schnepf began with the board with  30 hours a week, but was reduced to 26 
hours a week some years ago due to town wide budget constraints .  In this last budget cycle, additional hours 
were included for Mrs. Schnepf but, due to Covid, were  not acted on at Annual Town meeting in May.  They 
were included in the November Special Town meeting.  This is an increase of 6 hours per week. 
 
Andrea Schnepf stated that in addition to the hours for herself, a 5% increase was included for Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health, both Nursing and Environmental.  Nashoba has not had their meeting to determine 
the actual amount and won’t until the end of January  The 5% increase is a “guesstamate”. 
 
In addition, line item amounts were moved, while keeping the overall budget at level funding of $1,750.00 
 
===PAGE 3===
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Jewell the budget was una nimously approved by roll 
call vote. 
 
RUBBISH PERMITS 
 
Administrative Assistant advised that board that the annual Rubbish Permits , which are due January 1 st, have 
been prepared.  Typically, the members of the board sign the permits.  Mrs. Schnepf is asking that she be able to 
sign the permits on behalf of the board, or type their name. 
 
Chairman George Emond stated that he would rather have the permits signed rather than the names typed. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board unanimously approve d authorization 
to sign permits for the duration of the Covid crisis by roll call vote. 
 
299 PAGE STREET 
 
Jim Morin met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The soils  on this site are 
strange and they had difficulty getting good depth of soil.  They tested by the old system but the soils were not 
desirable and ledge was found.   Decent soils were found at the rear of the property with a 9 MPI Perc rate.  
There was also good depth of soil.  Variance requested is offset to groundwater from four feet to three feet.   
 
Jim Garreffi stated that granting this variance helps with grading with the requirement of a poly barrier. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the septic variance was approved by unanimous 
roll call vote. 
 
The house is served by an artisan well.  The owner of the house is asking to keep two wells as irrigation wells on 
the opposite side of the property.  These wells were marked on the septic plan.  These well appear to be concrete 
lined and do have covers although they are covered with brambles. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the request to keep the two wells as noted on the 
septic plan was approved with the condition that a deed restriction be place on the property, the wells have 
covers and are fully disconnected from the residence and are not to be used as a so urce of potable water. 
Unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that there seems to be a spirt of complaints, including one from the state.   Some of the 
complaints are second violations and Mr. Garreffi will be writing letters. 
 
The number of cases is up to about 51 for this last reporting week.  Mr. Garreffi is seeing a lot of multiple cases 
within the same address.  40% to 45% of reported cases are home clusters. 
 
Mr. Garreffi has been meeting with the school superintendent and the schools are doing a great job of keeping 
the kids in school safe. 
 
Nashoba has will be receiving doses of  the Moderna vaccine which will be given to first responders at a clinic 
on January 21 st or January 22nd.  This will include fire, rescue a nd EMS.  In order to provide this vaccine, new 
software was provided to keep track of scheduling, billing and second doses. 
 
Mr. Garreffi stated that as this point the distribution of the vaccine to the general public if very vague.  As stated 
by Governor Baker, distribution will be in Phases with the first doses going to health care workers and those at 
greater risk. 
===PAGE 4===
 
It might be late spring before vaccine is available to the general public.  It is possible that vaccine distribution 
with be through pharmacies such as CVS and Walgreens. 
 
Currently the vaccination rate is poor, between 25% and 30% of what was expected.  Many are waiting to see 
what other experience as far a side effects are. 
 
There are some business that are not adhering to the guidelines as put forth by the Department of Public Heath 
with regard to capacity, mask wearing and reporting.  When Mr. Garreffi was asked if any business are at a 
point where they should come before the board, Mr. Garreffi stated no. 
 
Chairman Emond, as well as other board members commented on what a great job member Even Watters is 
doing charting Covid numbers for the board. 
 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Watters and seconded by Jewell, the meeting was 
adjourned at 9:00 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 