===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, April 5, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and 
Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Publi c Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remotel y so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will featu re public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded a nd that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewe ll then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
370 WEST TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
Justin LeClair met with the board on behalf of the owner.  A Presby system is proposed.  Variances 
requested are a groundwater offset from four feet to two feet, sieve analysis and an offset for the well 
from 50 feet to 35 feet (new well) 
 
Mr. LeClair stated that the property is small with high ground water.  The adjoining small lot is owned 
by the Town of Lunenburg and would not be affected by the granting of the well variance. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that this is a tough lot.  There is no place on the lot for the well that would meet the 
required offset.  With the small, Town owned abutting property, Mr. Ga rreffi does not believe the well 
variances is an issue and the well will provided a better water supply that what is there now.  Because 
this is a tough site with tough soils, he stated that this was a good replacement. 
 
After discussion, on motion by Fortin and second by Jewell , the board voted  unanimously to approve 
the variances by roll call vote. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
244 PLEASANT STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the Board on behalf of the owner.  This was a previously approved plan for a 
Geo Flow System.  The proposed plan is for a Geo Mat System with the same footprint.  Although this 
is a different system, Mr. Smith stated that he is more comfortable with a Geo Mat. 
 
Variances requested are groundwater offset to 4 feet, inlet and outlet tees less than 12 inches (5 inches 
and 2.5 inches respectively), sieve analysis and offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 35 feet. 
 
This design has added a filter and a single component tank with a pump chamber and then a one foot 
mat.  As designed, it will keep the fill within the boundaries. 
 
George Emond asked if the filter needs to be replaced.  Mr. Smith replied that it does and it is easy to 
get to when cleaned and/or replaced. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that he is familiar with this system.  It is a low profil e system that is pressure 
dosed and allows for an offset to groundwater.  It is a good fit for this lot. 
 
On motion by Watters and second by Fortin the board voted unanimously to approve the requested 
variances by roll call vote.   
 
110 SUNSET LANE 
 
Doug Smith met with the Board on beha lf of the owner.  This property has a steep slope and goes 
rapidly downhill.  This lot is at just about the end of Sunset Lane.   
 
Variances requested are offset from cellar wall, 10 feet to 3 feet and distance from a common drive, 50 
feet to 8 feet (well variance). 
 
Wattles (temporary fence) will be installed 8 feet from the common driveway.  This driveway was 
started years ago and then just stopped.  A 40 ml barrier will be installed. 
 
The new drilled well will have a setback of 100+ feet from the system.   Currently the well is in the 
basement. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that there is not a lot of traffic on this driveway as the house is nearly at the end.  
The casing of the well must be sealed into bedrock.  He also stated that the new situation is much 
better than the existing. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters the board voted unanimously to approve the requested 
variances by roll call vote.   
 
60 WOODLAND DRIVE 
 
Board was notified that the owner has opted for public water. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
809 CHASE ROAD 
 
Chris Cr owley met with the board as the new owner of this lot.  There is an approved septic plan 
designed by Ross Associated in place but it has expired.  Mr. Crowley has re -submitted the plan for re-
approval.  As a part of the prior approval, a variance was approved for the well (already installed) from 
50 feet to a property line to 40 feet. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that the current placement of the well does not impact the abutters to this 
property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin  the board unanimously approved the 
re-granting of the well variance by roll call vote. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
3/1/2021 
3/15/2021 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Emond the minutes for March were unanimously approved by roll call vote. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi gave a Covid Update. 
 
He stated that the agency has started a homebound program for Covid vaccine.  In order to qualify for this 
program you must need assistance to leave your home.  Nashoba has 100 inoculations available spread across 
the Nasho ba towns.  Agent Garreffi noted that it was a lengthy process to put this program in place.  It is 
anticipated that each nurse will be able to make 5 home visits per day. 
 
There was a discussion and a request to hold Prom in the town of Lunenburg.  The sta te did come out with 
guidance in holding a prom.  Agent Garreffi spoke with the school nurse.  It was decided that there is nothing 
about prom that incorporates social distancing so Prom will not be held. 
 
In the past two weeks there have been 17 positive tests for Covid.  This is much improved from the 30 previous 
cases.  We are waiting to see what school opening and Easter break brings. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Watters and seconded by Jewell, the meeting was 
adjourned at 8:15 pm  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 