===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 15, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 6:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building due to Caucus   
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond, Paul Fortin and 
Evan Watters.  Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the Board of Health  is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Departme nt of Public 
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This me eting will feature public comment.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell  then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
2 SMITH DRIVE (Parcel No. 114-006-0000.0) 
 
Nancy Caron, owner, met with the board.  Dave Passios was also pre sent.  Mrs. Caron would like to 
make an apartment in the lower level of the above property.  The home is a high ranch or raised ranch.  
Currently, the house has 3 bedrooms.  Mrs. Caron is proposing taking out a wall upstairs and 
converting 2 bedrooms into one and adding a bedroom in the basement. 
 
Due to the layout of the existing house, with the addition of the bedroom in the lower level, the house 
would exceed the allowable number of rooms. 
 
After discussion, on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to allow the construction 
of an apartment in the lower level in accordance with the submitted drawings , with the condition that 
an 8 room, 3 bedroom deed restriction be placed on the property.  Roll call vote as follows: 
 
George Emond: Yes 
Perry Jewell: Yes 
Paul Fortin: Yes 
Evan Watters: Abstain 
===PAGE 2===
 
Mrs. Caron asked if the house could be further expanded with a new septic system.  Chairman Emond 
answered yes it could be, provided the new system was variance free. 
 
Dave Passios added that Whalom Roa d does have sewer available and could possibly be connected to 
sewer. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
No minutes were approved. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Watters and seconded by Jewell, the meeting was 
adjourned at 6:20 pm.  By roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 