===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 3, 2021 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Roll Call conducted by Vice-Chairman, Perry Jewell:  Perry Jewell, George Emond and Evan Watters.  
Agent, Jim Garreffi, was also present. 
 
Vice-Chairman Perry Jewell prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the 
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and th is meeting of the Board of Health is being conducted 
remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public 
Health and the CDC  regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all 
town facilities are currently closed to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending 
Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all  public meetings are being 
conducted remotely.  The Governor’s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website 
COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public 
bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as re asonable public access is afforded so that the public can 
follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public 
participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public comme nt.  
For this meeting the Board of Health is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive 
as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some at tendees are participating by video conference.  
Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share 
your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
Perry Jewell then covered  the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting 
minutes.  All voting by Roll Call Votes.   
 
9 BOUTWELL STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the Board on behalf of the owner.  This is a tough site of .37 acres with wells and 
wetlands.  A Presby system is being proposed.  Variances being requested are distance to well, 100 feet 
to 78 feet, distance to wetland 100 feet to 44 feet. 
 
Mr. Smith stated that there is really only one possible site for the new system as the ground slopes.  A 
wall and poly barrier will be installed. 
 
Perry Jewell asked if this proposal has been discussed with the Conservation Commission.  Mr. Smith 
stated that it was heard by Conservation two weeks ago and it was Ok’ed based on Board of Health 
Approval. 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that because it is such a tough site with wetlands that what is being proposed 
is much better than what is there.  With the wells and slope this is a reasonable design. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion, on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board voted unanimously to approve 
the variances by roll call vote. 
 
30 GILCHREST STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Mr. MacKenzie is proposing a Presby 
system.  They are unsure of where the current system is. 
 
A groundwater offset from four feet to three feet is being requested.  There is no pump chamber for the 
system. 
 
George Emond asked what the perc rate was and Mr. MacKenzie advised 7 mpi 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi stated that there is not information on where the current system is.  Th is is a part of 
a land division and the property must be brought to current code.  The property is served by public 
water.  The plan as proposed is a good solution for the lot. 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters the board voted unanimously to approve the requested 
variances by roll call vote.   
 
250 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
The owners amended their building permit to meet requirement so there is no need to meet with the 
board. 
 
HOLMAN STREET 
 
The owner revised their building plans to reduce the number of rooms and meeting regulations so there 
was no need to meet with the board. 
 
MEETING MINUTES 
 
None Approved 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi gave a Covid Update. 
 
The rolling average over the past 2 weeks is yellow.  The positivity rate in Lunenburg has dro pped 
from 4% to 2.5% and the past week ending April 30 th saw only 5 positive cases.  Hopefully this is a 
trend.  Active cases and positivity rates within the Commonwealth are also trending down. 
 
There have been a lot of changes statewide.  The outside mas k order is being lifted provided you can 
still maintain a social distance. 
 
There are standards on activities so you need to look at the activities so see if masks are required. With 
regard to sports, it depends on the sport and gives exemptions. 
 
Governor Baker has laid out a path leading forward. 
===PAGE 3===
 
May 10th – Large venues can have more attendees.  Theme parks can open, amateur sports can begin 
and singing indoors is allowed (church) among other changes. 
 
May 29th - Street festivals and agricultural fairs c an open.  Beer gardens can open.  You can be served 
only at a table but food is not required among other changes. 
 
August 1st – Commonwealth is fully open. 
 
Mr. Garreffi stated that this plan does provide a path for citizens.  It is important for people to  get 
vaccinated.  It is important also that policy makers are eliminating restrictions based on much lower 
Covid number.  He believes it is a nice balance to get back to normal. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  Motion by Jewell and second ed by  Emond, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:45 pm by roll call vote, all in favor. 
 
 