===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 16, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell and Lisa Normandin.    
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
May 2, 2022 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Emond, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
LOT A NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Valerie Diagle met with the board on behalf of the owner.  Ed. McSweeney, owner, was also present.  
The owner is proposing new construction on a newly formed ANR lot.   Variance being requested is an 
offset of well to property line from 50 feet to 42 feet.   
 
Due to the location of wetlands and the surrounding wells and septics, the required 50 foot offset 
cannot be met.  Reducing the offset does not impact the abutting lots. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, the board unanimously approved 
the requested variance. All in favor. 
 
524 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Valerie Diagle met with the board.  Ed McSweeney was also present.  This is the remainder l ot of the 
Lot A Northfield Road.  A replacement system is being proposed due to the spit of the property.  
Regulations state the existing system must be inspected, the division won’t make the lot less Title 5 
compliant and show that a replacement system ca n be installed.  The existing system failed due to its 
location in groundwater. 
 
Variances requested are offset to wetlands from 100 feet to 50 feet and groundwater offset from 5 feet 
to 4 feet.  The system as designed will allow for a gravity system to be installed.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, the variances were approved.  All 
in favor. 
 
PORTA POTTIES SHADY POINT 
 
Shady Point has submitted their annual plan for porta potties. 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, the plan was approved.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:00 pm, all in favor. 