===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, September 19, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Evan Watters and Lisa Normandin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
None 
 
37 SPRING STREET 
 
Steve Marsden met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The existing septic system is in failure.  
This is a small lot on Lake Shirley with high groundwater surrounded by private wells.   
 
A GeoMat system was designed to maximize the  offset to adjoin ing wells and the we tlands (Lake 
Shirley).  The GeoMat system incorporates a treatment tank (Jet) and a pressure dosed leach field  
which will provide equal distribution across the leaching area. 
 
Variances requested are offset to wetlands from 50 feet to 44 feet, offset to adjoining wells: 
 
100 feet to 45 feet – 45 Spring 
100 feet – 76 feet – 31 Spring 
100 feet to 53 feet – 37 Spring (on site well) 
 
Adjoining property owner Mr. Mc Partland was also present and asked about his concerns with regard 
to groundwater runoff.  After discussion with Mr. Marsden as well as the board, Mr. Mc Partland was 
satisfied with the proposed plan. 
 
A deed notification for the use of the GeoMat system, Jet Tank as well as a two bedroom deed 
restriction are required. 
 
Once the system is installed the Board is requiring testing of the surrounding wells and the well on the 
property.  Further, yearly testing of the on-site well is required. 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Jewell, the variances were approved with the condition of the 
required deed notifications and well testing.  All in favor. 
 
152 SUNNY HILL ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the  board on behalf of the owner.  Installer Dan Proctor was also present.  The 
system in in failure.  This is a larger lot but has been developed wi th a garage and parking.   The lot 
slopes in the wrong direction toward the house.  The existing system is in the front of the house and 
testing was again conducted in the front yard.  The site has been filled and there is not four feet of 
naturally occurring material.  They did find 2 feet of naturally occurring material.  A sieve analysis 
was conducted because the site was too wet to perc.  The perc rate is 30 MPI. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Variances requested are offset to cellar wall 20 feet to 15 feet 
Use of a Sieve analysis 
Pervious soil from 4 feet to 2 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
290 NEW WEST TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This is system is in failure  and in high 
groundwater.  This is a small lot with an on -site well and wetlands.  A Presby system has been 
designed with a poly barrier. 
 
Variances requested are offset to well 100 feet to 79 feet 
Offset to wetlands 100 feet to 60 feet 
 
After discussion and on motion by Normandin and second by Watters, the variances were approved 
with a poly barrier.  All in favor. 
 
919 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure and in the 
groundwater.  Upon testing, the perc rate is high at 47 MPI requiring a very large, mounded system.   A 
Presby system has been designed to reduce the foot print of the system and the amount of fill required. 
 
Variances requested are offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet. 
 
After discussion and o n motion by Watters and second by Normandin, the variance was granted.  All 
in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:55 pm, all in favor. 