===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, January 10, 2022 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin , Lisa Normandin  and Evan Watters .   
Agent Jim Garreffi was also present. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
December 20, 2021 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
138 HOWARD STREET 
 
Kimberly Murphy, owner  met with the board .  This is a failed system on public water.  A Presb y 
system is being proposed.  A groundwater variance from 4 feet to 3  feet is being requested.  This lot is 
a fairly big lot with gravely soils and no wetland issues.  Agent Garreffi was present at the meeting and 
had no issues with the granting of this offset to groundwater variance. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by  Fortin, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variance. All in favor. 
 
390 NW TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
The permit on the above property has expired.  This permit is for new c onstruction no variances were 
allowed.  During the course of Covid the Commonwealth of Mass enacted an emergency declaration to 
extend permits on a State Level.  Local permits were extended for 60 days past the expiration of the 
emergency declaration.  This permit meets all state and local codes. 
 
At the time that the extension was in place, the excavation had been done.  There is now a new owner 
and the permit has been transfer. 
 
Based on the Commonwealth’s extension of permits and discussion of the board and on motion by 
Normandin and second by Jewell, the board voted to extend this permit for a period of one year or until 
January 10, 2023.  All in favor. 
 
1078 LANCASTER AVENUE 
 
Engineer Mark Malbag met with the board on behalf of the owner, Jeff Laundry, who was also present.  
This an old camp built in 1953 by the current owner’s grandfather.  This is an extremely small lot on 
Massapoag Pond which is currently served by an old leaching pit. 
 
Mr. Malbag is before the board requesting a variance for the inst allation of a 3,000 gallon tight tank on 
the site.  Due to the size of the lot and location on Massapoag Pond, there is no other alternative 
available for this property. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion, and on motion by Watters and second by Normandin, the board voted t o approve the 
request for the installation of a tight tank with the condition of a 2 bedroom deed restriction and a 
maintenance agreement in place.  Further, the tight tank installation must be completed by May 15, 
2022. 
 
FLAT HILL ORCHARD – MATSON 
 
Jim Garreffi was present to speak with the board  with regard to this matter.  Mr. Matson purch ased a 
portion of land from Flat Hill Orchard for a housing development .  The land purchased was previously 
used as part of Flat Hill Orchard.  As a part of the approva l for this subdivision, soil testing to 
determine if there was soil contamination from orchard spraying was required. 
 
This property had been used as an orchard since the 1930’s where  chemicals were sprayed on the trees 
including phosphates, arsenic and lead.  Jim Garreffi asked that testing be conducted in at least the top 
one foot of soil. 
 
Mr. Matson contracted with a company to complete the testing but Agent Garreffi does not believe that 
manner and reporting of the results are adequate.  Agent Garreffi  is requesting that the testing results 
be submitted in a form that is readable.  If the results obtained are under the standards then the soils are 
ok.  In addition, there will be wells located on the individual building lots.  Those wells will also be 
tested for pesticides, as well as standard Lunenburg tests. 
 
COVID UPDATE 
 
Agent Jim Garreffi reported that there were 148 cases of Covid last week.  The two week rolling 
average doubled to 148 from the previous week of 72.  With the exceptionally high number of case is it 
becoming harder to contact trace for all cases.  Nashoba has recently invested in a new system that will 
send out an automated text to those that test positive. 
 
The CDC is changing guidance frequently and the different guidance for differe nt groups makes it 
difficult.  Enforcement is difficult.  Mask mandates are hard to enforce. 
 
Nashoba will be holding vaccine and booster clinics and will be able to offer other vaccines besides 
Moderna. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:35 pm, all in favor. 
 
 