===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, April 3, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Evan Watters  
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
March 20, 2023 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Waters, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
493 WEST STREET 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure and in the 
groundwater.  The house is connected to pubic water.  Soil testing  was completed and an area was 
found for the installation of a replacement system, however, the water table was so high a perc test 
could not be conducted.  The site is challenging in that it has very high seasonal ground water and 
limited areas of the required 4 feet of pervious soil. 
 
This matter has previously been before the board.  What is being requested now is a reduction in 
groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet and inlet and outlet tees reduction.  This is due to the seasonal high 
ground water and to ma ke the installation of the system more affordable.  This property will require a 
three bedroom deed restriction and the destruction of the on-site existing well. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board voted to approve t he 
requested variances with the condition of a three bedroom deed restriction and destruction of the 
existing well.  All in favor. 
 
134 HOLLIS ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system would fail a Title 5 inspection 
due to high seasonal ground water. 
 
Mr. Proctor stated that they dug 11 test holes, all ledge, no workable materials.  A very shallow depth 
to bedrock was found throughout the site.  Without the minimum soil requirements, a sewage disposal 
system could not be designed.  The applicant is proposing to install a tight tank. 
 
Title 5 Regulations require the board to approve the use of a tight tank before they can move forward.  
In addition, the approval letter from the Board of Health must be recorded on the deed of the property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the use of 
a tight tank on the above property.  All in favor. 
 
Once the design plan is approved by Agent Jim Garreffi, a maintenance plan needs to be i n place, and 
deed restriction for the tight tank, as well as a deed restriction for a three bedroom dwelling 
===PAGE 2===
398 SUNSET LANE 
 
This residence on the property was a tear down/rebuild.  A new well was required prior to moving 
forward with new construction on the lot.  There is also an old point well on the property.  The owner 
is requesting retaining the old point well for irrigation purposes. 
 
The old point well would need to be totally disconnected from the house.  The point well can only be 
used for irrigat ion purposes.  The re will need to be a deed notation  that the point well is only for 
irrigation purposes. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and seconded by Jewell, the board voted to approve the use 
of the point well for irrigation purposes.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion Fortin and seconded by Watters, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:10 pm, all in favor. 
 
 