===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 1, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Evan Watters and Lisa Normandin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
April 3, 2023 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
11 LONGWOOD ROAD 
 
Rick and Linda Hillson met with the board.  Mr. & Mrs. Hillson have had ongoing complaints of 
fumes coming from their neighbor’s oil furnace power vent.  The power vent was installed as a part the 
construction of an addition. 
 
Mr. Hillson called MA DEP and spoke with Michele Delmar re who in turn contact ed Agent Jim 
Garreffi.  In May of 2022, Garreffi spoke wi th Jim Ricci of the Lunenburg Fire Department.  Prior to 
Garreffi’s conversation with Ricci, a n inspection was done through the fire department and it was 
noted that there was an odor coming from the oil burner as well as a soot problem visible on the home.  
At that time, the power vent was replaced and  there was no longer a soot problem.   Mr. Hillson has 
sent emails to Jim Garreffi when he noted a problem.  Agent Garreffi  has responded to those emails by 
inspecting the property when he is able as well as sitting at t he property at times when the burner fires 
up.  He has noted an odor for approximately 3 – 4 minutes but then it disappears.  Agent Garreffi has 
done many inspections but does not believe that the intens ity and duration of the odor rises to the level 
of air pollution. 
 
Agent Garreffi sent a letter to the homeowner asking about the performance and maintenance of the 
burner and power vent.  The owner responded and advised that the both were working properly. 
 
There is approximately 100 feet between the power vent and the Hillson’s home. 
 
The Hillson’s stated that the owner of the adjoining property also has to close their windows w hen the 
burner is running.  Mr. Hillson stated that  he does not believe that the power vent is installed properly.  
The Hillson’s believe that weather, wind pattern and humidity have an affect  on the migration of the 
fumes. 
 
Mr. Hillson stated that they can’t enjoy their property, they can’t stay outside, and they can’t open their 
windows.  They suffer from physical symptoms such as coughing, burning throat and the fumes flare 
asthma. 
 
Chairman Emond asked why the air pollution definition cannot be used.  Agent Garreffi stated that the 
there is not a long enough duration to cite the regulation. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Hillson proposed installing a pipe up above the roof  line instead of the power vent to carry the 
fumes upward.  The estimated cost of a double wall chimney would be $2,000 for approximately 25 
feet.  He stated that communication with his neighbor is not an open communication right now. 
 
Member Normandin asking if a double walled pipe was installed  would that satisfy the Hillsons.  They 
agreed that it would. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that he would like to  see more information as well as more inspections of fumes 
noted.  Chairman Emond asked that the Hillman’s keep a detailed log. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by No rmandin and second by Watters, this matter was continued until 
May 15th at 7:00 pm.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion by Normandin and seconded by Fortin, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:50 pm, all in favor. 
 
 