===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, February 6, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, and Evan Watters.    
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
December 22, 2022 
 
On motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
77 PENINSULA DRIVE 
 
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  This is a small lot 
with an irregular shape that borders Hickory Hills Lake .  Because of this, the available area for a 
system is limited.  The property is served by public water.  The wetlands (lake) are more than 100 feet 
away 
 
Variance requested:  groundwater offset from 5 feet to 4 feet.  This would reduce the surface grading. 
 
There are two wells on the property that need to be either decommissioned or approval granted for 
irrigation wells.  This property is part of an estate to be conveyed to the Conservation Commission. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Watters, the board unanimously approved the 
requested variances. All in favor. 
 
493 WEST STREET 
 
Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  The property is 
served by town water.  The lot has shallow depth of soil and very high groundwater.   
 
Variances requested:  Sieve analysis and reduction in 12”  on inlet and outlet tees.  This  is an existing 
house and the plumbing cannot be raised enough to allow the tank outlets to meet the offset. 
 
There is a shallow well on the site that needs to be decommission or approval granted for irrigation. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Jewell  the board voted to approve the 
variances.  All in favor. 
 
733 WEST STREET 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of  the owner.  This system is in failure.  This lot has high 
seasonable groundwater at 18: and a perc rate of 29 MPI. 
 
===PAGE 2===
This is an existing house and the plumbing cannot be raised, an offset to inlet and outlet tees is 
requested.  Because of the high ground w ater, the leaching area will be built above the existing grade, 
requiring considerable fill, therefore, a groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet is requested.  This will 
keep the fill on the owner’s lot. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and sec ond by Emond, the board voted to approve the 
request for a one year extension until February 14, 2023.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Watters and seconded by  Jewell, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 