===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 20, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Evan Watters and Lisa Normandin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
March 6, 2023 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
105 HORIZON ISLAND ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner .  The property is served by Town water.  
Conservation Commission has approved t his plan. This is a very small lot with a failed septic system.  
This property is a peninsula surrounded on three side by Hickory Hills Lake.   
 
Variances requested are offset to wetland from 100 feet to 25 feet.  An aerated Jet System tank is being 
proposed instead of a septic tank, along with a Geomat pressure dosed leaching system.  The system 
will be 5 feet above ground water.  The treatment tank will reduce the strength of the wastewater 
before it is discharged to the leaching area.  The new system, as  designed, will be a vast improvement  
over the system that is currently on site. 
 
A poly barrier is required.  Deed notations for the IA Geomat system as well as the Jet tank are 
required.  An annual maintenance agreement is required for the Jet Treatment tank. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Normandin, the variance was approved with 
the condition of yearly maintenance agreement and deed notations.  All in favor. 
 
41 COUNTY ROAD 
 
The Septic Permit was originally due to expire in March of 2021, during Covid.  In March of 2022, the 
then owner of the property requested a one year extension of the permit, which was approved .   The 
property was then sold.  The new owner would now like to begin installing the system and is asking for 
a one year extension to complete the work. 
 
After discussion, and on m otion by Norman and second by Watters , the board voted to approve the 
request for a one year extension.  This is the last extension that will be granted.  All in favor. 
 
 
Having no further mat ters before the board and on  motion Normandin and seconded by  Watters, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:35 pm, all in favor. 
 
 