===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, March 6, 2023 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Evan Watters and Lisa Normandin 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
February 6, 2023 
 
On motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, the above minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
1 VALLEY ROAD 
 
The Septic Permit was originally due to expire in April of 2021, during Covid.  In March of 2022, the 
then owner of the property requested a one year extension of the permit, which was approved until 
February 14, 2023.  The property was then sold.  The new owner would now like to begin installing the 
system and is asking for a one year extension to complete the work. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the board voted to approve the request 
for a one year extension.  This is the last extension that will be granted.  All in favor. 
 
JEN DUFFY – RESIDENTIAL KITCHEN 
 
Jen Duffy met with the board.  Ms. Duffy had been in c ontact with Bridget Braley, Food Service, for 
Nashoba.  She was requesting a Residential Kitchen Permit to produce Jellies and Jam.  Ms. Duffy has 
a septic system and a private well.  These permits have been issued in the past.  Typically, if a Title 5 
has not be recently completed, the board would request one.  In addition, a well test can be requested. 
 
Ms. Braley advised that “because you have a private septic a business from your home is prohibited – 
under Title 5 Septic Regulations.  This would be cons idered a change in use of the property and could 
cause premature failure of your septic system”. 
 
Admin. Assistant Andrea Schnepf contacted DEP and spoke with James Laughlin.  There is nothing in 
DEP or Title 5 that disallows the issuance of a Residential Kitchen Permit if you have a septic system 
and there is no guidance from DEP on this issue.  DEP state that at one point they considered providing 
guidance but there is a reduction in requests and they never issued guidance.  This was then sent back 
to the local Board of Health to address. 
 
Ms. Duffy stated that she is now a member of the Lunenburg Ag Commission and would like to 
participate in the Lunenburg Farmers Market.  She has a small homestead on Goodrich Street.  The 
volume of jelly she would produc e is small.  She purchased the house less than 2 years ago and there 
was a Title 5 completed.  Her well has a double filtration system on it.  As Ms. Duffy currently has a 
full time job, she is not considering making her home kitchen her source of income. 
 
===PAGE 2===
After discussion and on motion by Watters and second by Norman din, the board voted to approve  a 
Home Kitchen License for Ms. Duffy.  All in favor. 
 
In addition, Chairman George Emond will pursue this with the Nashoba Board as this has an effect on 
all of the Nashoba towns and by extension, the farmer’s markets. 
 
STATE EARMARKS FOR SATE FY24 BUDGET 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux sent general information for possible requests for State Earmarks for 
the State Budget.  Member Evan Watters stated that as a member of the Finance Committee he is a part 
of this process should the Board have a request. 
 
After discussion, the Board did not have any request. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion Normandin and seconded by  Jewell, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 