===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, May 6, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  George Emond, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Jim Garreffi 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
March 4, 2024 
 
135 HIGHLAND STREET  
 
This property was subject to a fire.  The owner is now in a position to rebuild this house.  The owner is 
proposing to keep the same room count but increase the size of the rooms, thereby increasing the square 
footage of the house. 
 
At the time the septic system was approved, there was a DEP policy in place that stated one could not 
increase the square foot of the dwelling with Class B soils.  That DEP policy has since expired.  After 
review by Nashoba, it was determined that a new septic tank would be required.  The septic tank has 
been applied through Nashoba. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Fortin, the Board voted to allow the increase of 
square footage in a property with Class B soils as long as the room count remains the same and that Class 
B soils are now considered pervious.  All in favor. 
 
747/757 CHASE ROAD 
 
Jason Cole and Frank McPartlan met with the board.  A new septic design as approved contingent on the 
“new” Zone 1 well being installed.  The well was begun 10 years ago but was not completed.  Mr. Cole 
and Mr. McPharlan would like to discuss the possibility of signing off on the COC for the septic system, 
even though it is contingent upon the new Zone 1 Well being completed. 
 
Mr. Cole stated that since 2020 they have been steadily doing work to bring the well on line.  They ran 
into issues with the fire suppression system among other problems. 
 
Jim Garreffi stated that he has no documentation of the status of the well or progress of the well 
completion.  Before determining whether a  sign off on the septic system could be considered, Mr. 
Garreffi would need to be in possession of those documents. 
 
On motion by Normandin and seconded by Fortin, the board voted to continue this matter until May 20, 
2024 at 7 pm to allow the parties to provide Mr. Garreffi with the necessary paperwork.  All in favor. 
 
 
SHADY POINT CAMPGROUND 
===PAGE 2===
 
The Board reviewed and unanimously approved the annual request for the use of portable facilities at 
Shady Point Campground. 
 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Emond and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 