===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, October 7, 2024 
 
Edited content here! 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Matt Proctor   
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
August 19, 2024 
Sept 16, 2024 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Proctor the minutes were approved.  All in favor. 
 
142 WHITTING STREET 
 
Seth Mayer met with the board.  This matter was continued from the September 16, 2024 meeting.  At 
the time of this meeting none of the repairs have been completed.  Perry Jewell stated that this Board 
cannot continue to push the repairs off and this matte r should now be forwarded to town counsel for 
pursue further legal enforcement as well as a $25 a day fine for non-compliance. 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Proctor the board will be forwarded this matter to town counsel for 
legal enforcement action to include a $25 a day fine for non-compliance.  All in favor. 
 
5 POND ROAD 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  A replacement Presby 
system has been designed.  Estimated groundwater is at 84 inches.  Variances requested are as follows: 
 
Groundwater offset from 5 feet to 3.5 feet; 
Use of innovative system (Presby) 
Local Upgrade:  groundwater offset 4 feet to 3.5 feet. 
 
The system as designed would allow the use of gravity instead of requiring a pump system.  On motion 
by Proctor and second by Fortin the variances were approved.  All in favor. 
 
35 SKYLARK 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  Testing showed high 
ground water at 36 inches.  Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to groundwater from 4 feet to 3 feet. 
 
Approving this variance with allow for a gravity fed system.  There are no well or wetlands within 100 
feet of the proposed system. 
===PAGE 2===
 
On motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the variance was approved.  All in favor. 
 
REORANIZATION OF THE BOARD 
 
Paul Fortin nominated the following: 
 
Chairman Perry Jewell 
Vice Chairman – Matt Proctor 
Secretary – Paul Fortin 
 
Chairman Emeritus – George Emond 
 
On motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the above were elected.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:00 pm, all in favor. 
 
 