===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, November 18, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Matt Proctor 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
No Minutes were approved 
 
577 WEST STREET 
 
Chris Knuth met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system, a cesspool, is in failure.  This is a 
small lot with high ground water and shallow depth to bedrock.  There are no wells or wetlands in the 
vicinity of the system.   A replacement Geomat system is being proposed. Variance s requested are the 
use of an IA system and groundwater offset from 4 feet to 3 feet. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Procto r, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
323 NORTHFIELD ROAD 
 
Alek Chongris met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This property is served by town water.  This 
system is in failure.  Due to the constraints of the site such as wetlands, wooded a reas, and existing site 
grading and groundwater at 32 inches, a Presby system is proposed. 
 
Variances requested are: 
 
Groundwater offset from 4 feet to 2 feet 
Use of an IA system 
 
After discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
46 ARBOR STREET 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure with groundwater 
at 50 inches.  A replacement Presby system has been designed.  Variances requested are: 
 
Offset to groundwater:   4 feet to 3 feet 
Use of a sieve analysis 
Offset to wetlands:  100 feet to 63 feet 
Use of IA System 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and Second by Proctor, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
===PAGE 2===
 
1260 RESERVOIR ROAD 
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  The owner is proposing to build new office 
space and to continue to utilize the existing building as storage.  A Title 5 was completed and the system 
passed.  The existing system is sized to accommodate 5 employees and 6, 644 sf of office space.  There 
is more than the required capacity of the existing space (to be storage) and the proposed office space. 
 
The septic tank is to be upgraded to a 2,000 tank with two compartments.  Soil testing was completed to 
prove a reserve area and showed sand and gravel soils. 
 
Variance request is an increase in the maximum amount of cover allowed over a septic tank from 36 
inches to 72 inches proposed. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Fortin and second by Proct or, the variances was approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
97 WOODLAND  
 
Chris MacKenzie met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This property is connected to public water 
and is fully disconnected from the on-site well.  The owner would like to utilize the private well for 
irrigation purposes.  The existing well is 100 feet from the leaching area and is an artesian well. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the request was granted.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:50 pm, all in favor. 
 
 