===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, December 16, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Matt Proctor 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
November 18, 2024 
 
6 PENINSULA DRIVE 
 
The owners of this property are requesting to continue to use the existing well for agricultural purposes.  
The well was discontinued once this property was connect to town water.  All of the piping has been 
disconnected from the potable water lines. 
 
The well is located on the septic plan.   
 
After discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the request was approved.  All in favor. 
 
11 LONGWOOD DRIVE 
 
Mark Augusta met with  the board as a continuation of his appeal hearing on an Order issued by Jim 
Garreffi on August 9, 2024 for fumes emitted from a power vent on Mr. Augusta’s home.  The original 
hearing has held on September 16, 2024 and continued to collected additional information. 
 
After reviewing the file and hearing all the information presented, as well as meeting with the owners of 
both properties regarding this issue the Board of Health finds as follows: 
 
The Board has been provided with documents which indicated the system has been inspected and found 
to be operating as  designed and in compliance with the venting requirement of the Massachusetts 
regulations for exhaust vents; the company who conducted the inspection offered an opinion regarding 
venting the exhaust from the roof line and indicated it might make the situation worse. 
 
After a further review of the materials provided and meeting with the parties, the Bo ard has withdrawn 
the order for the following reasons.  The furnace was found to be operating as design ed, the exhaust 
location is in compliance with Massachusetts code for exhaust vents  and the vent is approved for use.  
The Board does not feel the frequency and intensity of the fumes (for a unit in compliance and approved 
with the current specification and regulations) warrant the order issued by the Health Agent. 
 
After further discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, the order was rescinded.  All in 
favor. 
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 2===
142 WHITING STREET 
 
Chairman Perry Jewell met with town counsel on December 11, 2024.  Documents that are to be filed 
with Housing Court were reviewed.  Town Counsel filed the document on December 12, 20 24 and a 
hearing date has been set for December 20, 2024 at 9:00 am in the Leominster Housing Court.   
 
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 7:50 pm, all in favor. 
 
 