===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, February 5, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Evan Waters, Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin and Lisa Normandin.   
 
Perry Jewell took over the running of the meeting. 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
January 8, 2024 
 
Motion by Normandin and second by Fortin, minutes were approved subject to review by member Lisa 
Normandin. 
 
21 BIRCH ISLAND WAY 
 
Jack Maloney met with the board on behalf of the owner.  This system is in fai lure.  This is a very 
small lot, wetlands (lake) with a perc. rate of 2 MPI.    
What is being proposed is a new system with a Singular treatment tank.  Variances requested are as 
follows: 
 
IA system with Singular treatment tank 
Offset to cellar wall (tank): 10 feet to 1.5 feet 
Offset to wetland:  100 feet to 43 feet 
Offset to Cellar Wall:  20 feet to 19.2 feet 
1 deep hole 
 
Jack Maloney stated that this is a very small lot.  They will be removing the existing septic system and 
replacing that with a new system in the same location.  Gravel will be replaced with clean gravel.  The 
replacement system is no closer to lake and is a better solution than what is currently on the property. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Emond and second by Normandin, the board vo ted to approve  the 
requested variances with the conditions of a maintenance agreement on the Singular tank.  All in favor. 
 
24 SOUTH ROW ROAD 
 
Owner, Michael Ferrara, met with the board.  He has submitted a building application to finish his 
basement as well as adding a full bathroom.  A review of the plans notes that it will be one large room 
that is separated by stairs.  There will be no doors on either side.  Nashoba agent has stated that a new 
two compartment septic tank will be required. 
 
After discussion, and on motion by Emond and second by Normandin, the board voted to allow the 
basement to be finished and a full bath added.  The building permit can be signed after application to 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health for a new two compartment septic tank has been completed.  All 
in favor. 
===PAGE 2===
Having no further matters before the board and on  motion by Normandin and seconded by Fortin, the 
meeting was adjourned at 7:20 pm, all in favor. 
 
 