===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, September 16, 2024 
 
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Perry Jewell, Paul Fortin, Matt Proctor and Jim Garreffi 
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
No Minutes were approved 
 
142 WHITTING STREET 
 
Seth Mayer met with the board.  This matter was continued from the August 19th meeting.  Mr. Mayer 
provided the board with the smoke certificate from the fire department.   
 
At the time of this meeting very few of the repairs have been completed.  Agent Cara Olejarz performed 
an inspection of this property on September 6 , 2024 for the Order dated June 3, 2024 .  Of the noted 
repairs required very few were completed.  Ms. Olejarz noted that although the tub was caulked it is not 
an adequate seal and the hole in the bathtub was fix although not in a workmanship manner.  Mr. Mayer 
stated that the sink was a hole cut in the wrong place years ago and the tub was repaired with a RV vinyl 
repair kit.  Agent Garreffi explained with the term repair in the code refers to and how this is interpreted 
in this instance.   
 
Again Mr. Mayer stated that he has had difficulty gaining access to complete repairs.  It was suggested 
by member Fortin that Mr. Mayer hire a contractor to complete repairs in a timely manner inasmuch as 
the Order to repairs was dated June of 2024.   The board as a whole wanted to see significant repairs 
complete since they last met on August 19th, that is not the case. 
 
After much discussion, t he board as a whole wants all the interior work completed in a workman like 
manner and all outstanding issues resolved to include but not limited to weather tight doors, all interior 
issues including peeling paint and painting, the kitchen repaired and painted,  laundry room repair.  All 
of this work must be completed by the next board of health meeting. 
 
Motion by Fortin and second by Proctor to continue this matter until October 7, 2024 with the 
understanding that all interior violations will be repaired or this matter will be forwarded to town counsel 
for further legal enforcement action.  All in favor. 
 
167 TOWNSEND HARBOR ROAD 
 
Ryan Proctor met with the board on behalf of the owner.  A new septic system was permitted and 
inspections completed by Nashoba Associated Boards of Health in 2012.  No COC was issued as no 
engineers as-built was submitted.  Both Dan Proctor, the T itle 5 inspector as well as Admin Andrea 
Schnepf reached out to the engineer.   Agent Cara Olejarz sent a letter to the engineer of record.  No 
response was received. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Title 5 completed by Dan Proctor is a passing Title 5 with no issues.  Jim Garreffi is present and 
inspected the system as it was installed.  Mr. Garreffi stated that he sees no reason not to accept the Tile 
5 prepared by Dan Proctor, 
 
On motion by Fortin and second by Proctor the board voted to accept the T itle 5 as prepared by Dan 
Proctor.  All in favor. 
 
79 COVE ROAD 
 
Evan Carloni met with the board of behalf of the owner.  This system is in failure.  A Presby system is 
proposed.  Variances requested are: 
 
Groundwater offset from 5 feet to 3 feet; 
Use of an innovative system (Presby) 
Increase in the maximum cover of leach field from 36” to 60” 
 
After discussion and on motion by Fortin and second by Proctor, the variances were approved.  All in 
favor. 
 
11 LONGWOOD ROAD 
 
Mark Agusta, owner of 11 Longwood Road met with the board.  Mr. Agusta was send an order to correct 
and requested an appeal before the Board.  Mr. Rick Hillson was also present. 
 
Jim Garreffi provided a definition of air pollution.  He advised that in order for there to be the presence 
of air pollution it did not have to be all the time but did have to be observed.  Mr. Garreffi stated that he 
felt that it had been observed. 
 
Mr. Agusta asked if what was happening with the power vent was unreasonable? And does not believe 
that the fumes coming from the power vent reach the level of air pollution.   Mr. Garreffi stated that in 
his opinions the fumes do meet the definition of air pollution. 
 
Perry Jewell stated that is not the place of the board to determine how this issue is resolved.  Mr. Agusta 
stated that the power vent cannot be relocated.  That the power vent was installed according to 
specifications and it is operating correctly.  He provided paperwork stating same. 
 
Members Matt Proctor and Paul Fortin stated that the power vent in question is an approved system and 
it would be hard for me to make judgment against it. 
 
Initially, a possible solution was a chimney to carry the fumes higher.  It was  determined that this was 
not a viable solution due to the manner in which a power vent is designed and could possibly allow 
fumes back into the residence if the venting manner was changed from what is approved by the State. 
 
Possible solutions discussed are a high fence or shrubs. 
 
After much discussion and on motion by Proctor and second by Fortin, this matter was continued until 
November 4th at 7:00.  All in favor. 
 
Commented [AS1]: inted 
===PAGE 3===
Having no further matters before the board and on motion by Jewell and seconded by Fortin, the meeting 
was adjourned at 8:45 pm, all in favor. 
 
 