===PAGE 1===
 LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH 
MEETING MINUTES 
Monday, April 6, 2026 
 
The Board of Health met at 4:30 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building  
 
Members Present:  Matt Proctor, Lorraine Rudd, Nick Pirro and Perry Jewell.   
 
MINUTES APPROVED 
 
December 6, 2025 
February 2, 2026 
March 16, 2026 
 
 1491 MASS AVENUE 
 
Dan Proctor met with the board to request an offset to wetlands less than 100 feet.  This is a new building 
lot.  The property is served by town water. 
 
Offsets are 100 feet to 90 feet of the primary system location and 100 feet to 60 feet on the reserve area. 
 
Andrea Schnepf spoke with the Conservation Administrator , Herlin Jamie, who  indicated that she did 
not believe the Conservation with have an issue with the variance. 
 
 After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Jewell, a roll call vote was called as follows: 
 
Rudd – yes 
Pirro – yes 
Jewell – yes 
Proctor – recuse 
 
Variance was approved. 
 
3 CHASE ROAD 
 
Owner Tim Robichaud met w ith the board.  There was a housing complaint open on a basement 
apartment.  All issues have been resolved except how the living space can be advertised.  The space was 
rented as a studio apartment with storage space.  The current tenant is using the stora ge space as their 
bedroom.  The storage space has no windows.  The landlord is asking that the apartment be deemed a 
studio apartment with the tenant utilizing the space however they see fit. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Pirro and second by Jewell, t he board voted to make this apartment 
as studio apartment.  All in favor. 
 
41 NEW WEST TOWNSEND ROAD 
 
===PAGE 2===
Carla Laventure, owner, met with the board on an outstanding housing complaint.  All violations have 
been completed with the exception of water seeping into the unit.  A sump pump was installed but there 
is still water seepage. 
 
Mrs. Laventure stated that there was a large snow bank making the situation more difficult and the water 
table is high.  There is a French drain surrounding the property. 
 
Board member suggested making sure the French drain is working properly, sealing the foundation, 
amongst other suggestions. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Rudd, the board granted an extension until May 
18th at 4:30 pm at which time a solution must be provided.  All in favor. 
 
PARKS COMMISSION USE OF SEPTIC REPAR FUNDS 
 
In August of 2021 the Board of Health voted to allow the use of the Septic Repair Funds (old grant 
money) be used to replace/repair the septic system at Marshall Park.  Alt hough there was a design plan 
for a new septic system approved, the project was never completed.  There are no current plans to move 
forward with any projects at Marshall Park. 
 
After discussion and on motion by Rudd and second by Pirro, the board voted to take back the use of the 
Septic Repair Fund for use by the Board of Health.  All in favor. 
 
Having no further business and on motion by Rudd and second by Proctor the meeting was adjourned at 
5:30 pm.  All in favor. 