===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday August 13th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:05PM 
Present:  Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on July 9th were read approved. 
CTA’s: An application for a CTA at 909 Massachusetts Avenue (the Harley House).  The application was not entirely clear to the 
board, and some questions lingered as to what was being approved.  Chairman McGrath attempted to contact the applicant dur-
ing the meeting, but was unable to make contact.  Decision on the application was tabled until the next meeting. 
Old Business: 
Town Properties- Old Primary School 
LaVeck reported on his discussion with the town counsel, which advised him that the APD bylaw is written so that enforcement 
requires resort to a court.  This legal action would need to be authorized by Select Board.  As it seems unlikely that the Select 
Board would authorize legal action against itself or the town manager, town council had little to offer in the way of options to force 
action on maintenance of the Old Primary School. 
One remedy discussed would be to change bylaw by vote at town meeting, so that it would authorize APDC to asses fines for 
non-compliance. 
Another option discussed would be to ask the building commissioner to enforce an order to act.  However, as Lunenburg current-
ly has no Building Commissioner, this did not seem like a very promising route. 
LaVeck motioned that the clerk draw up a cease and desist order to the Town Manager and send a copy to the Select Board 
regarding the demo by neglect of Brooks House. 
  
Brooks House:  
Dwyer announced that the the APDC was on the Planning Board’s agenda for September 9th.  He planned to attend and explain 
APDC’s position on the Brooks House: namely that the best option would be to sell the house for use as a private residence.  He 
hoped to discuss the process and steps required to subdivide lot, provide parking, easement, and to re-zone the property to this 
end. 
APD signs: McGrath is still working of getting correct proof for the sign layout. 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, September 10th, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:02PM
