===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday July 9th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 6:58PM 
Present:  Chairman McGrath, Corcoran, LaVeck and Dwyer 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on June 11th were read and approved with certain clarifications. 
Old Business: 
Town Properties- Old Primary School 
LaVeck reported on discussion and public comment from recent Select Board meetings.  One town resident had presented plans 
and a concept drawing of how the property might be used, which involved removal of the building.  In LaVeck’s opinion, the inac-
tion of the Select Board regarding maintenance of the Old Primary School stemmed from a general feeling on their part that they 
needed a complete plan for all the town properties, including the possible move of town offices to the T.C. Passios building and 
re-use plans for the Town Hall and Ritter Building.  They seemed reluctant to devote resources to efforts not part of that plan. 
Partly for the benefit of Lunenburg Ledger reporter Matthew Stewart (who attended the meeting), McGrath and Dwyer reviewed 
the APD bylaw and guidelines regarding demolition by neglect and enforcement measures. 
  
Brooks House: Dwyer reviewed notes taken from the APDC’s joint workshop with the BoS on January 15th.  At that time, Land 
Use Director Burney said that since the Brooks house had been disused as a single family home for more than two years, the 
village district bylaw would require a variance to reinstate such a use.  The house shares the same lot as T.C. Passios, and 
would need to be subdivided to create a separate lot.  Access from Massachusetts Avenue would require a curb-cut from the 
Mass DOT, which might be denied due to safety and space issues between the library and high-school.  Access to the property 
via the library parking lot might be possible, though that would remain a practical and political hurdle. In sum, he felt that there 
were significant obstacles to re-use as a single family home, and that the historic character of the building would make it unat-
tractive to home-buyers anyway.  Adams mentioned that the Tappe study estimated the cost of demolition would be $30-40K, and 
moving the house would be about $30K. McQuaid noted that the Tappe study was for restoring buildings to “current use” and did 
not really apply to this situation.  He also noted the town’s past record as a negligent land-lord, and thus cautioned against rent-
ing the building. Finally, McQuaid mentioned that off-site parking for residences was permitted in the village district, and might be 
an option for the Brooks House. 
After some discussion, Corcoran concluded that despite the difficulties, selling the Brooks House as a single family residence 
would still be best way to preserve the property and its historical value.  The clerk will contact the planning board to pursue the 
next steps. 

===PAGE 2===
LaVeck suggested approaching the town manager to allocate funds for future maintenance of historic town properties.  McGrath 
thought that a letter should be drafted for this purpose.  After some discussion, it was agreed that the APDC would first seek 
advise from the Town Manager. 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, August 13th, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:07PM