===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday September 10th, 2019 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:00PM with all members present. 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on August 13th were read approved with certain clarifications. 
CTA’s: An application for a CTA at 909 Massachusetts Avenue (the Harley House) was reviewed with the applicant (John Kypri-
anos) present.  The sliding door in question is on the west side of the house toward the back.  The material he selected was 
vinyl.  LaVeck motioned to accept the application, Corcoran seconded and all voted in favor. 
Old Business: 
Town Properties- Old Primary School 
In a recent meeting of the Select Board, the future of the Old Primary School was discussed.  LaVeck reviewed the video record-
ing of the meeting and expressed dismay at M. Jefferies apparently disrespectful comments toward the APD bylaw.  Another 
revelation from the Select Board meeting was that, due to typesetting errors, certain portions of the APD bylaw were never sub-
mitted to the State Attorney General’s office, and so were never ratified by the state of Massachusetts.  The omission included 
the definition of Demolition by Neglect.  LaVeck had noticed the omission and notified the Town Manager, Land Use Planner, and 
Cerk by email back on November 15th, 2017; but the problem was never rectified. 
LaVeck also noted that the town’s current capital 5-year plan includes funds for demolition of the Old Primary School in 
2023-2024. 
At 7:40 the APDC went to recess, and reconvened at 7:50 in the Bilotta Room of Town Hall to meet with the Select Board. 
Facilities Manager Kit Walker had submitted an estimate to the Select Board amounting to a one-time expenditure of almost 
$11,000 for the items requested by the APDC to arrest the deterioration of the Old Primary School. 
M. Jeffries noted the discrepancies between the bylaw passed at town meeting and the version submitted to the State.  He 
agreed with T. Alonzo that the evening’s discussion should proceed with the assumption that the problem would be resolved and 
that the version passed at town meeting was the one in operation. 
LaVeck expressed his displeasure at M. Jeffries’ previous comments, and Jeffries apologized, explaining that his comments were 
not intended as LaVeck had taken them. 
T. Alonzo noted that the troubles with the Old Primary School stemmed from the town’s lack of consensus as to what to do with it.  
He asked if the APD wished to preserve the building, and McGrath replied in the affirmative, noting its architectural and historical 
value. 
D. McQuaid saw little value in the building, citing the cost to renovate it to modern standards.  But P. Luck had spoken to Ron 
Dion who was optimistic about its potential. 
K. Adams noted that attempts to convey the property had been three times rejected at town meeting, strongly indicating that the 
town wanted to keep the property.  She also noted that the property had been neglected even before its disuse. 
It was also noted that the Old Primary School building was still covered under the town’s liability insurance. 

===PAGE 2===
With the discussion concluded, the APDC retired to allow the Select Board to deliberate on the matter. 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, October 8th, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:30PM