===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman     
Jim LaVeck, Vice-Chair    
Cullen Dwyer, Clerk.    
Brian Corcoran, Member.     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday January 14th, 2020 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:06PM with all members present. 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the meeting on December 17th were read and approved. 
Correspondence: 
Elaine Peterson called for report for the 2019 town Report.  She set a firm Deadline Feb 15th 
Old Business: 
Old Primary School: 
LaVeck reported that the Select Board approved funds to stop the deterioration of the Old Primary School.  Dwyer will contact the 
Town Manager and ask what the plan is to utilize those funds. 
McGrath Joined Mass Historic’s Online Forum, and received many responses regarding the reuse of similar buildings.  Maynard 
reused a similar building for elderly housing.  Beverly also converted a similar building for elderly housing and other community 
spaces.  They put out to bid with deed restrictions on preservation of exterior and interior features.  The use was not stipulated in 
the call for bids, but preference stated.  The town sold the property to the new developer.  McGrath will assemble the responses 
and the committee will prepare an educational presentation on the possible re-use of buildings like the Old Primary School to 
educate and inspire the public of Lunenburg. 
Monday Jan 27th, 6:30 at town hall the APDC is on the Planning Board’s agenda to discuss the future of the Brooks House.   The 
APDC will advise the planning board to subdivide the property and sell the house in place, without deed restrictions, for use as a 
dwelling or mixed-use building.  McGrath will approach the board of library trustees to see if they would be willing to cede a park-
ing space from their lot for use at the Brooks House. 
LaVeck reported that there were some capitol planning requests for the interior of Ritter Building. 
APDC Signs:  
McGrath got the design of the new signs to Jack Rodriquenz, who will order them and install them in the spring.  A map and de-
scription of sign locations was delivered to the DPW and Town manager. 
New Business: 
LaVeck announced that his term of service would expire this year, and that he did not intend to re-apply. 
Inventory of contributing properties: 
Dwyer will take a look in his old files and try to find a list of contributing properties, which would serve as a check-list for the bi-
annual inspection of the APD 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, February 11th, 7:00PM 

===PAGE 2===
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 7:47PM