===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
         
Richard McGrath, Chair 
Cullen Dwyer, Vice Chair 
Tony Nicastro, member     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday September 9th, 2021 
7:30PM Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:40PM with McGrath, Dwyer and Nicastro in attendance. 
Approval of minutes: minutes from the August 5th meeting were reviewed and approved. 
Correspondence: 
Emily Hutchings: assistant planning director, City of Beverly wrote, asking for guidance on creating an architectural preservation 
district for their town.  Richard replied. 
R. McGrath wrote to Mass Historic community website about legality of town’s neglect of the OPS.  Dennis DeWitt replied saying 
that he saw no legal issue, but rather a political one.  The post also elicited advice from many officers of historic commissions of 
other towns. 
R. McGrath contacted Steve Cook at New View and sent pictures and dimensions of the OPS.  Cook replied that he was inter-
ested and had experience converting such buildings into apartments. 
McGrath requested Robert Oliver of the DPW to replace APDC sign on w. Mass Ave.  Offered to order and pick up the sign.  
Oliver replied that such assistance would be appreciated. 
T. Nicastro noticed that there was a request through town email from a roofing company looking to re-roof Bad Larry’s and asking 
what the process was. 
New Business: 
McGrath suggested sending guidelines to all in district.  Dwyer suggested a brief glossy brochure might be better, and agreed to 
work on it. 
WWII bronze plaque damage: 
Richard plans to repair this fall.  Asked for help. 
Discussion of the Old Primary School Building: 
National Registry application has been submitted. 
Nicastro contacted town manager about proper use of Facebook for town boards, but received no reply.  Dwyer suggested we 
launch the page.  All agreed. 
The select board reportedly sent out an RFP for $30K to design a new park and green space on the OPS property.  Apparently 
they received no offers. 

===PAGE 2===
Brooks House: 
There has been no news or action on this property.  The Commission agreed that the best way to revive the topic would be to 
ask the Planning Board to invite us to one of their meetings to discuss the matter. 
Other Business: 
Richard LaTarte on Lancaster ave. has expressed interest in buying pound keepers house.  He wanted to be informed of how the 
APD bylaw would effect him as a property owner. 
Richard asked Leandra White-Walker if she would be willing to sell her house to the to APDC.  She was receptive to the idea, 
and hoped that the APDC could restore it. 
Next Meeting: Thursday Oct 14th,7:30 
Adjourned: at 8:41PM 