===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
         
Richard McGrath, Chair 
Cullen Dwyer, Vice Chair 
Brian Corcoran, Clerk 
Tony Nicastro, member     
                           
Meeting Minutes 
Wednesday April 28th, 2021 
Meeting held Remotely 
Call to Order: At 7:04PM with McGrath, Dwyer and Nicastro in attendance. 
Review of Minutes:  
Minutes from the March 24th meeting were read, Dwyer motioned to accept them as read and Nicastro seconded the motion, 
which carried. 
CTA Applications: 
None 
Correspondence: 
McGrath wrote to Matt Alison of the planning board regarding the next steps to be taken with regard to the Brooks house, and 
also to solicit the planning board’s opinion on warrant article 24 of the upcoming ATM. (Article 24 proposes using town meeting to 
appeal decisions made by the APDC.)  So far there has been no response. 
The APDC received two letters from Rhonda Lisio which were read: one objecting to warrant article 24, and another criticizing 
the Select Board for its uncompromising stance regarding the demolition of the Old Primary School. 
Selectmen Jeffries submitted a long, clear and thoughtful letter offering perspective on the situation with the Old Primary School, 
and the circumstances surrounding Article 24. 
James LaVeck submitted a letter objecting to Article 24. 
Secretary Brian Corcoran submitted a letter notifying the APDC that his term will end in June this year, and that due to his busy 
schedule he will not seek reinstatement.  McGrath wrote back to him acknowledging his resignation and thanking him for his 
service. 

===PAGE 2===
Old Business: 
APD signs: 
As requested, the DPW moved the APD sign on Oak avenue to the correct location, and replaced the missing sign on the east 
side of Massachusetts Avenue.  However, now another sign has gone missing on the west end of Massachusetts Avenue. Mc-
Grath has notified that DPW that it needs to be replaced. 
Old Primary School: 
Chairman McGrath took a moment to review his extensive credentials as a stone mason and brick layer, and concluded with his 
opinion that the masonry structure of the Old Primary School is in fair condition, and that its demolition is not necessary. 
Despite its uncertain future, Dwyer has been completing a Form B to submit to the Mass Historical Commission for recognition of 
the Old Primary School as a registered contributing structure to the Lunenburg Historical District.  He requested any additional 
resources that might give background to the buildings historical significance, as well as advise on what architectural style it 
should be listed as. 
New Business: 
Article 24: 
Discussion followed regarding Article 24, and it was agreed that the APDC would oppose it.  There was some confusion, be -
cause Elaine Peterson had forwarded an original and amended version of the article.  It appears that the original version was 
printed on the warrant.  The original version creates a special appeals process just for town-owned buildings, and the revised 
version opened that process to the owner of any building in the APD.  Dwyer agreed to review the recorded meeting and prepare 
a statement that included the salient points that had been discussed in opposition the warrant article. 
Public Comment: 
At the end of the meeting, Rhonda Lisio joined to verbally express her objection to article 24.  She believed that the Select Board 
intended to change the article to the revised version on the day of Town Meeting. 
Next Meeting: May 26th, 2021, 7PM 
Adjourned: With no further business before it, and APDC adjourned at 8:32PM