===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 Richard McGrath, Chairman   
William Lloyd, Member.     
Cullen Dwyer, Vice Chair 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Member 
                           
Meeting/Hearing Minutes 
Thursday November 3rd, 2022 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:30 with McGrath, Dwyer, and Sculimbrene present. 
Opening Public Comment: 
Ana Lockwood requested that the APDC meeting be recorded and made available on the internet.  She criticized the APDC’s 
decision regarding the RItter Building, saying that it had overreached the power and purpose of the bylaw.  She said the purpose 
of the bylaw is to protect the neighborhood’s overall character, as the Village District re-zone brought business development and 
greater density. 
Review of minutes: 
Forestalled until next meeting 
Old Business: 
Ritter Building Renovations: Facilities Manager Visconti was present to share price quotes from contractors, and compare the 
cost of historic restoration of windows vs. Pella replacement windows.  The restoration project by Raven was quoted at over 
$225K.  Pella windows quoted less than $54K, but the quote only included materials for the replacement windows themselves.  
Town Manager Lemieux was interested to know if the APDC would revise its decision regarding refusal of the CTA.  No motion 
was made to that effect.  The commissioners present felt that the information presented was insufficient to make them change 
their minds.  Such a decision would require some proof that the windows needed to be replaced, and that restoration was not 
feasible. 
Ballot Measure to Revise APD Bylaw:  Dwyer described his meeting with the select board to discuss changes to the APD bylaw.  
The changes are in a warrant article to be voted on at the upcoming Special Town Meeting.  Dwyer summarized the discussion 
saying that the changes were regarded as positive, but that the Select Board found other problems with the procedures outlined 
in the bylaw, and discrepancies between the bylaw and the procedures practiced by the APDC.  The conversation led Dwyer to 
believe that the bylaw revisions were insufficient, and require further work.  Dwyer proposed that the APDC pass over the article 
at the Special Town Meeting and plan to present a better revision at the Annual Town Meeting in the spring of 2023.  Sculimbrene 
defended the changes as they stood.  After discussion, the APDC voted against the proposal 2-to-1, with Dwyer in favor and 
McGrath & Sculimbrene against. 
New Business: 
Dwyer explained that building Commissioner Burlingame had contacted him regarding unsanctioned construction work in the 
district.  Windows had been replaced at 33 Lancaster without a building permit or CTA.  After discussion, it was decided that 
Dwyer would follow up with Burlingame on enforcement procedures. 
Close of meeting: 9:26PM
