===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Anthony Nicastro, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, October 13, 2022 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:32 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, McGrath, Sculimbrene, Nicastro, Lloyd,  
 
Review of Minutes:  Review of Minutes from September 1, 2022; accepted by all present 
   Review of Minutes from October 6, 2022; accepted by all present 
Public Comment: No Public Comment (None in attendance) 
Correspondences:  
1) None – Mailbox was checked 
New Business: 
 
1) None 
Old Business: 
 
1) Town Warrant Article 
a. Mbr Sculimbrene at town meeting on Oct 11, 2022 fielded questions about the town 
warrant.  He was able to answer concerns but ended with a reconvene at the Oct 18, 
2022 town meeting.  Awaiting the final vote if they accept new warrant content with the 
summary of changes vs entire by-law. 
b. Changes to the application is needed, too confusing and intimidating to the submitter. 
c. Changes to By-Laws 
i. Will stay with the verbiage of shall vs must. 
ii. “Day-4-day extension” to “any extension” 
iii. 113-8C discussion about removing requirement to submit application to the 
town clerk – Town clerk gets final determination as stated in 113-10 
iv. Mbr Sculimbrene reads updated summary of changes to by-laws 
1. Vote on All Approved changes –  Mbr McGrath Call to vote: (Mbr 
Dwyer, Sculimbrene, McGrath, Lloyd, Nicastro all for) 
2. Will be final summary of summited changes 
 
2) Ritter Building Windows 
a. Mbr McGrath submitted list of preservation contractors / restoration experts to Facilities 
Manager 
b. Chair will follow up with Facilities Manger 
c. Wait to see if Town Council will override our ruling or will resubmit if not. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Other Business: None 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, November 3, 2022 
 
Adjourned: 8:48 PM 
 
 
 
 
  