===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, February 21, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:38 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, Lockwood, Sculimbrene, Lloyd,  
Review of Minutes: Meeting Minutes for January, Mbr Sculimbrene voted to approve, seconded by Mbr 
Lloyd; approved by all present members.  
Public Comment: None 
Correspondences:  
1) None – Mailbox was checked a few weeks ago, no new mail. 
New Business:  
1) New Member Introduction– Nathan Lockwood 
a. Prior Planning board member, lives in historic home 
b. Village District & APDC creation in 2015, were both introduced and intended to be created 
together. 
2) Vision of beginning of APDC & Village District 
a. Why does APDC get questioned more than the Village District 
i. Village District keeps “new” single family home in the district, but does not limit 
renovations and work on existing structure.  Allows a denser footprint on the 
individual parcels.  Allows more flexibility
 
ii. APDC is seen as a more restrictive, saving the historical aspect of the town and 
being the other half of the pairing of the Village District.
 
iii. Negative comments from the 2015 creation 
1. The usual concern that property owners object to any regulation to private 
property
 
b. What was vision of the  
i. Historical Committee, Building Use Committee, and Planning Board all trying to get 
on board with the creation of both the APDC and VD.
 
ii. APDC was built with strong anti-demolition protections and addressed demo by 
neglect which gave the town some muscle to protect its historical buildings and 
village appearance. 
iii. Wording on bylaws and guidelines needs to be simplified, could include examples. 
1. The “how to” preserve and restore 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business: 
 
1) Flow Chart 
a. Mbr Sculimbrene – tightening up terminology, application that is user friendly and spells 
out what the APDC will do with their application. 
b. Can we include building inspector in process to eliminate applications that might not 
need APDC review. 
c. Admin review vs binding review; 
i. Admin review doesn’t have a submittal, no hard files 
 
 
Other Business: 
1) Action Items 
a. Bylaw review 
b. Applicant flow chart 
c. Application form revision *two versions* 
2) E-mail to Select Board to confirm APDC is awaiting a resubmittal for Ritter Building 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, March 7, 2023 
 
Adjourned: 9:26 PM 
 
 
 
 
  