===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, December 12, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:00 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
1) Mr. William Lax & Mrs. Jennifer Sanderson from the historical commission for hometown heroes’ banner  
a. Wants to join our local communities like (Groton, Fitchburg, ect) to honor our residents 
b. Historical commission voted to fund first 10 banners 
c. Cost  $104.95/$69.50 / 24” x 36”  / Est lifecycle of 6-8 Years 
d. Asking for the APDC’s acceptance of the program 
i. Motioned to discuss by Member Sculimbrene, Seconded by Member Lloyd 
1. Voted to endorse and support approved by all 
Review of Minutes:  
Meeting Minutes: 
May 2023; motion to approve by Member Lloyd voted approved by All 
August 2023; motion to delay to allow 
October 2023; motion to approve by Member Lloyd voted approved by All 
November 2023: motion to approve by Member Sculimbrene voted approved by All 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Post from outside state organization 
a. That a resident in need might be able to use to support renovations and improvements.  
Old Business: 
 
1) Town Hall 
a. Estimate for $258K to repair roof, windows and clock tower 
b. $43K for two chimney repairs 
c. Bid was over allotted amount, will split project into phases based.  Phase 1 will include chimney 
repair 
d. Asked architect to come up with another estimate with updated pricing 
2) Recommendations to town 
a. Annual reports to match terms of committee chairs 
b. Asked to allow inputs from committees for town website redesign 
3) Work done on building next to 912 Mass Ave. CTA project 
a. No building permit was issued 
i. If more than 100SF building permit required 
b. APDC not consulted on work to be done 
4) 3 Lancaster Ave 
a. Deviations in the construction 
i. Windows were designed as “like for like” but different windows installed 
===PAGE 2===
ii. Signage was not coordinated / approved 
b. No change orders were submitted to the APDC for review 
c. Need to have building commission backing to confirm approved designs met. 
5) Town Council 
a. Building inspection had visited APDC and discussion on what they can do to help enforce APDC 
by-laws 
b. Fines can be issued but if residents choose not to pay, town would have to take action in court 
c. Will need to cross-reference the terminology into the town by-law to include the APDC by-law 
d. Carrots ‘vs’ rubber hose – entice good behavior vs punish neglect 
i. Looking into if town can have a fund to support homeowners, leans or grants  (w/help to 
fund repairs as an incentive to maintain rules and regulations | Will require set 
parameters| 
ii. Will follow up & request a timeline 
6) Town Master Plan 
a. Next meeting on Thursday 
b. Library asked for input of a new sign (Signage plan for town center) 
i. Multiple facilities in town will need signage in near future.  
7) Work plan activities 
a. Boucher & mailer 
 
 
New Business: 
 
1) None 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, January 9, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:37 PM 
 
 
 