===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Cullen Dwyer, Chairman  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, March 7, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Dwyer, Sculimbrene, Lloyd, Lockwood 
Review of Minutes: Meeting Minutes for February, Chair Dwyer voted to approve, seconded by Mbr 
Sculimbrene; approved by Dwyer, Sculimbrene, Lloyd;    Lockwood & McGrath abstained  
Public Comment: None 
Correspondences:  
 
1) Philp’s House - Historical windows were replaced without building permit, asked about penalty if 
work completed without permit. *Issuance of fines if building permits are not issued*  
a. Creating a process so when homes sell within the district the new owners are aware of the 
process of routing work through APDC. 
New Business: 
 
1) New Draft of CTA 
a. Review 
i. Filing Fee, is it needed.  Will have to research history of the fee. 
ii. Requested documents within the CTA, are all needed. 
iii. Questionnaire to replace statements of evaluations. 
iv. Documentation of applications that do not apply to 113-B need to be recorded how. 
v. Need to discuss with Town Clerk about application fee and dual submittal of 
applications. 
2) Flow chart 
a. No update of sketch of the process, will change if CTA draft adapted. 
b. Submission date, could have to wait 30 days for answer depending on submission.  
3) Report from Historical Commission 
a. Putting together a veteran banner project – will submit plan to APDC  
 
Old Business: 
 
1) 50 Main Street – Former Methodist Church 
a. Falling into a status of demolition by neglect, within the APDC powers to ask building 
inspector to issue a cease and desist order to stop the demolition by neglect.  Order can 
cause the loss of ability to apply for building permit for two years.  Member Lockwood 
===PAGE 2===
will talk to owner, and might ask to come to board to discuss the location. Prior notice 
of violation sent by Chair Dwyer (June 2021) but unknown if notice ever made it to the 
owner. 
2) Town pound is in disrepair 
a. Member McGrath asked to allow him to create a plan for restoration.  Will deconflict 
with the sale of the property to avoid any concerns with the sale. Will check with 
assessor to check to see if the parcel includes the town pound. Additionally, he will look 
into process of work clearance for his plan.  
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, April 4, 2023 
 
Adjourned: 8:59 PM 
 
 
 
 
  