===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, June 13, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) May 9, 2024 – Will be voted on at the July meeting 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
 
Current Business: 
 
1) CTA received on 12 June 2024 for 920 Mass Ave. 
a. Contractor Les Zabary speaking for owner, will use red cedar board, with primed bevel red cider, 
trim with be basic pine. 
b. Will have to evaluate for rot 
c. Member Lloyd motion to approve CTA for 920 Mass Ave, seconded by McGrath, all voted to 
approve.  CTA is approved. 
2) CTA 61 Main Street 
a. Motion to approve by Member Lloyd, seconded by McGrath, all voted to approve. CTA is 
approved 
3) Brooks House Preservation 
a. Member Lockwood, would like to propose a private use to the Brooks House.  A way forward to 
repair and reutilize the property.  A future privatization plan could be submitted to the town for 
action. 
b. Discussion during the municipal plan had Brooks house as a loss. 
c. Member Lockwood will get an outline together to discuss.  The house does have historical value 
and will need to include the planning board. 
4) Select board meeting 
a. Member McGrath was approved to another term on the historical commission, but did not come 
to a conclusion on the APDC due to some confusion.  The vote never took place.  He will reach 
out to the select board to get the vote added to the agenda. 
 
Old Business: 
===PAGE 2===
 
1) Work on the Town Hall and Ritter Building 
a. No status update on the work, concern about the lack of movement on the projects 
b. Heading towards a potential for demolition by neglect 
c. Biggest concerns for Ritter, 
i. Rubber lined gutters, windows and roof. 
ii. Concern that additional damage will occur if repairs are not complete 
d. Needs to be a priority for the town (potential for remaining HARPA funds) 
i. Update cost estimates, plan way forward for appropriations.  
2) Letter to APDC property owners 
a. Draft letter and appendage, will finalize at next meeting. 
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Member Lockwood, spoke with a contactor that might have someone interested in the property 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) Historical Preservation Committee Update 
a. 763 Main Street is under development delay, building inspector negotiated with owner to parcel 
out the property to sell off individual parcels. 
i. Will have to also look into a deed restriction 
b. Dickersons property along Northfield Road, Cabin is under demolition by neglect, they are 
notifying the current owner. 
c. Mr. Laxo had been working a town wide survey of the Kilburn houses, he is retiring.  
d. Restoring old road markers 
e. Town wide survey moving forward 
f. Looking for new, younger members 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, July 11, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:31 PM
 