
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman 
Nathan Lockwood, Member 
Richard McGrath, Member 
William Lloyd, Clerk 
Vacancy

Meeting Minutes
Thursday, July 11, 2024
Ritter Building
Call to Order: At 7:38 PM 
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, McGrath, Lockwood
Public Comment:

None

Minutes Approval:

Minutes for 9 May were not available. Minutes for 13 June  need some revisions so those will be approved at the meeting in August.

Correspondences:

Chair Sculimbrene reported on his appearance at the Select Board. It was suggested by the vice chair of the Select Board that a meeting be held to provide some background information on the APDC to the new board chair, Ceasar Nuzzolo. Chair Sculimbrene will take the lead in setting up that meeting.

Current Business:

CTA for 920 Mass Ave.
It was anticipated the applicant, Courtney Zivojinovic, was to be in attendance. The chair had identified to town staff upon receipt of the CTA and drawings, that missing information on materials was needed. Since the applicant was not present and that information requested by eamil had not been provided there was discussion about approving the CTA subject to receipt of that information. Member Lockwood was concerned this approach could lead to further delay. Chair Sculimbrene said it was not his intent to approve or disapprove the specific items only to ensure the submittal was complete. Chair Sculimbrene moved to approve the CTA for 1010 Mass Ave upon receipt of the missing information with a second from Member McGrath. All voted to approve the CTA conditionally.
Old Business:

Brooks House Preservation-no additional information on developing a plan.
Work on the Town Hall and Ritter Building-no status update on the work. 
763 Mass Ave-there’s been no report provided by the current owner as required by the Demolition Delay letter. 
Letter to APD property owners-there was extensive discussion about sending the letter. It was agreed the letter would not be sent at this time. Member Lockwood indicated he would prepare a draft change to the APD bylaw for the meeting in August. 
50 Main Street-no change in condition of the steeple. 

Next Meeting: 	Meeting Schedule:  
Thursday, 8 August 2024

Adjourned: 8:40 PM








Town of Lunenburg 
Architectural Preservation District Commission 
205007628051










