===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, December 12, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Will vote on November minutes at the January meeting 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
New Business: 
 
1) None  
Old Business: 
 
1) APDC and Historical Commission Merger 
a. Chairman Sculimbrene and Member McGrath made a presentation to the town council  
i. Statement that trouble to recruit members is not a good reason to merge 
ii. Combining resources and talent to provide the town the best available service to the 
public 
iii. Historical properties still have to run through the Historical Commission 
iv. Would like to get the legal feedback before we ask outside resources, will play a role in 
the decision. 
 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Planning Committee 
a. Taylor and Burns is under contract for a 10% design for Town Hall as a meeting place, Ritter 
building reuse. 
i. Storage was one of the main issues that was part of conversation. 
ii. Member Sculimbrene was invited to walk through both buildings from basement to attic. 
1. Got eyes on chimney and looked in good shape from the inside. Structure was in 
good shape and very solid. 
iii. Discussion about how to keep existing offices and use while bringing facility up to code. 
iv. Can PACC be brought into the town hall and keep the select board (space constraint) 
meeting in town hall? 
v. Should be able to keep tin ceiling from other past historical buildings that have been 
visited. 
===PAGE 2===
vi. Civil war slabs would have to be protected and safeguarded if they choose to move them. 
vii. T-Mobil has a cell tower in the bell tower 
1. Will be replacing battery soon 
b. Ritter Building 
i. Facility is in good shape 
ii. Has a big galvanized tub in the attic 
iii. Project is not moving - Exterior repairs, to be priced, trying to keep in under $100K, 
windows will not be able to be funded. 
 
3) Town Hall Bids 
a. Will fix chimneys – if member McGrath wants to get up on the roof and take a look there might 
be a need to have some safety and liability issues addressed. 
b. Three-tab shingles vs architectural shingles; APDC ok with architectural shingles. 
c. The building is the 3rd roof, last one was installed in 2010 
 
4) Brooks House – What role will the APDC have in the process.  Select Board has assigned the Brooks house 
to the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee. 
a. Concern that the committee is already over tasked, and cannot take on another facility 
b. Does not need a committee to solve this issue, can be handled within town staff. 
 
5) 50 Main Street – No movement 
a. Owners have done nothing to correct issues, leading to demo by neglect 
b. Steeple have significate historical value to the town. 
 
6) ADPC Notification 
a. Wants to wait until merger talks are complete. 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, January 9, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:14 PM 