===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, September 12, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) May 9, 2024 - Motion to approve by Member Lloyd, seconded by Lockwood, Approved by all 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Carter Teranzini – Conversation about Town Hall and Ritter Building improvements.  Talks of use of 
HARPA funds to the municipal building.  However, the question is asking if they can use those funds for 
buildings that already have designs in place.  Cost estimates have not been redone but designs are 
complete.  Carter said he would discuss with team and call back.  Called 9/12 but said capital projec ts are 
all in jeopardy with limited funding.  Ritter exterior in greater need then most.  Discussed immediate needs, 
verse work that can wait (ie handicap ramp, most windows).  Carter asked for a need list, as his main focus 
is on not losing HARPA funds.  APDC will prioritize work needs and focus on limiting cost to fit into this 
years funding constraints.  Goal to go back to Carter by Monday with priority list.  We will work with the 
process but want the Town to understand the need.   
2)  
 
New Business: 
 
1) Lunenburg Municipal Building design committee 
a. Have not met as a committee in some time  
b. Micheal Ray Jefferies is pushing a hybrid design – Focus on moving people to Ritter and TCP and 
then renovating TCP after and eventually the Brooks house.  Looking to get and architect to 
addition to Ritter, renovation of Townhall and develop scope. 
c. Had two members of public both have opposite opinions on allotting funds to TCP. At this time 
funds are not available for all the work to be done. 
d. Turkey Hill Elem needs to be figured out as part of this plan in the long run plan.  
e. Rough plan by MRJ for a 3 project plan, which could be estimated up to $15M.  Architect must 
have experience with historical preservation and will also need to abide by the town by- law 
===PAGE 2===
Old Business: 
 
1) Mailers have not made any movement 
 
2) APDC / HC Merger 
a. Meeting on 25 Sept at 1pm at the library to discuss the merger of the two organizations 
3) Preservation of the Brooks House 
a. Looking to get this on the November warrant 
i. Allow select board to: 
1. Subdivide lot to allow for parking at Brooks House 
2. Allow use of library parking for use of Brooks House 
3. Convey to owners of property’s adjacent to property 
4. Place building for sale 
b. Concern about pushing warrant without proper vetting 
c. Motion for APDC to submit Brooks House for sale on November warrant 
i. Motion by Lockwood, seconded by McGrath, Approved by All – Motion Passes! 
ii. Recommend no deed requirement at time of submission 
iii. Will coordinate with Planning Board/Select Board/Historical Commission 
4) 763 Mass Ave 
a. Location is in the limited business area 
b. Talk of expanding town wide, what would that look like 
c. Will expansion coincide with merger of APDC and HC 
5) 50 Main Street 
a. Asking a contractor to come take a look at the project to get a better idea of the scope of the 
project 
 
Other Business: 
 
1) Historical Commission 
a. Stone Farm sold 
b. Turned in survey for mid 2025 for 83 buildings for historical preservation 
c. Resident pulled permit for addition but instead demolished 1945 house without approval, 
penalty could be a 2 year ban for construction 
i. Second occurrence and concerned of a trend. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, October 10, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:35 PM 