===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Tuesday, January 16, 2024 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:32 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
1) None 
Correspondences: 
 
1) Annual Review 
a. Member Sculimbrene will review minutes and complete review. 
New Business: 
 
1) Meeting minutes approved 
a. August 2023 – Motion to approve by Member McGrath, Seconded by Sculimbrene, Approved by 
all 
b. December 2023 – Motion to approve by Member McGrath, Seconded by Sculimbrene, Approved 
by all 
2) Need 5th Member for ADPC 
a. Member Sculimbrene will ask other committees if any members are interested. 
3) 50 Main Street 
a. Continues to disintegrate, with no action by owner 
b. Will invite to next meeting, and will offer other options to meet   
 
Old Business: 
 
1) Lunenburg Master Plan 
a. Meeting on February 1st 630-800 at Lunenburg Senior Center. 
b. Discussing about having meetings in buildings that are affected by the master plan, agreed upon 
the Senior Center. 
2) Certificate to Alter (CTA) 
a. Create an interim form; referencing Bylaw 113-7 Minor alteration vs major. 
b. Propose creating a new form (samples on hand), less detail, fast track minor work. 
c. Response would be given no later than 3 days after next meeting after date received.  
d. Proposed application fee to be waived, and one submittal location to drop off “vs” two.  
e. Can we review electronically? 
f. All members agree to shorten form, speed up process, and look into electronic means . 
3) Brochure to ADPC houses 
a. Might have examples from another town. 
4) Historical Commission is applying for a grant to survey Cyrus Killorn historical facilities, required to be 
completed to be added to the historical registry. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Other Business: 
 
1) None 
 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Tuesday, February 13, 2024 
 
Adjourned: 8:10 PM 
 
 
 