===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, April 10, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:32 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 13 March minutes by Member Lockwood, seconded by Lloyd, approved by all 
members. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) Determination of Applicability 3 Oak Ave 
a. First submission using the Open.gov process 
b. The owners are on the right path and pictures showed a good demonstration of proposal.  
c. Motion to approve by Member Lloyd, seconded by Member Lockwood, approved by all members.  
 
2) Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee activity 
a. No meeting except for this Monday 
b. Brook’s house was discussed in detail, a lot of discussion about demo and no value  
c. Was also discussed at Select Board, the LMBDC chair recommended that the Brook’s house has 
no value and should be demo’d 
i. Member Sculimbrene brought comments to the Select Board as a private citizen about 
the purpose of the warrant and that the LMBDC discussion does not meet that intent.  
ii. At closing comments Brook’s House was again brought up by the LMBDC chair about 
their position of not wanting to save the house.  Again Member Sculimbrene addressed 
the fact the committee has not met the warrant that the town approved. 
iii. Proposing to enter a comment from the board at Select Board 
1. APDC worked with Town Manager to bring this issue to light in the proper 
channels, and was a clear direction from Town Meeting to explore options for 
the Brook’s House. Town needs to make a response as directed by the will of 
the Town. 
2. Will compile a comment from the board to bring up at the next Select Board 
meeting next week. 
===PAGE 2===
3. Economic development is a need of the town and Brook’s House can be a key 
piece of development.  Another exampled was the old gas station on Main Street 
that has sat dormant. 
4. Town needs to take action to make these opportunities fruitful. 
 
d. Motion to approve to General response to Select Board by member Lockwood, Seconded by 
Lloyd, Approved by all members. 
 
 
Old Business: 
 
1) Status of Town Hall and Ritter repair projects 
a. Town Hall work on-going, roof work is completed.  Replacement weather vane has been located 
but needs to have more repairs before it can be placed back on roof. 
 
2) Historical Commission/APDC Merger Update 
a. Historical commission this month did not have a quorum this month, has been an issue over the 
past several months. 
i. Town has to make filling these positions priority 
 
3) Status of 763 Mass Ave 
a. Building inspector has said the house will be developed into a two family and building condos in 
front on the house. 
b. Still under a demolition delay status by the historical society. 
 
4) Status of 50 Main Street (Old Methodist Church) 
a. Member Lockwood has had several conversations with the condo owners representative, both 
members understand the need, and have requested quotes.  Will follow up next month and see if 
other bids come in. 
 
5) Historical Commission 
a. Phase I of the survey is complete. 
b. Phase II has started, surveyor has spent a few days researching at the H istorical Society, 85 
properties are going to be looked at town wide.  Training ground for the Militia  and Marshall Park 
will also be looked at. 
c. Hometown Heros projects, talked to Town Manager, will look into it after Town Meeting  
d. Levi Goodrich Headstone will be preserved. 
6) Master Plan Steering Committee 
a. Meeting to be schedule June 12 at 6:30PM at coffee shop 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, May 8, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:18 PM
 