===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Richard McGrath, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, May 08, 2025 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:31 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, McGrath 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve 10 April minutes will be voted on at the June meeting. 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) Town Meeting 
a. Brooks House 
i. Member Sculimbrene – a lot of effort on report for the Brooks House.  Parking is not an 
issue as the library parking lot was built larger in order to allocate parking to future 
Brook’s house use.  Town is mainly interested in leasing verse selling the land.  Anyone 
interested in upgrading the property would see that as restricting investment value. 
Prevailing wage also will come into play.  Asking during the LMBDC is the process for 
reviewing the future lease/purchase and add an option for “other uses”. 
1. Sculimbrene sent an e-mail to town manager to address the property use in the 
future. Both the Brooks house and old gas station both should be considered 
together. Performance bond or clause based on use requirement.  Have both 
projects pulled from the LMBDC and let the Economic Committee develop 
project options. 
2. McGrath - When Jones house sold, the historical commission had a clause that 
limited the use and any misuse the property would revert back to the town.  
Price was reduced as property needed a lot of work.  Town did not do much 
upkeep while the town owned the property. 
b. LMBDC – did not meet the 2/3 vote to be approved 
i. There is potential that the town vote could gain another vote at special town meeting. 
ii. Is the design out of scope? Original ask was 4K SF of annex space, the design voted on 
was over 14K SF. 
c. There was a separate conversation with Adam Costa about the merger of APDC and historical 
commission. He will follow up in June. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
2) Opengov.com Website 
a. No way for Chair Sculimbrene to approve documents that are approved by the committee.  He 
was provided a website for training and now has access to approve. 
b. System will send a reminder that items are awaiting approval in the website.  
3) Town Hall / Ritter Construction 
a. Scaffolding currently in front of Townhall is for the cell phone tower upgrade.  
 
Old Business: 
 
 
1) Status of 763 Mass Ave 
a. Brian Gaingries had a site visit with owner last week. They were looking at turning the unit into a 
duplex, the structure is set up well for that type of construction. 
b. Someone did try to make an offer but realtor said it was off the market.  Belief is that the 
developer is going to purchase. 
 
2) Status of 50 Main Street (Old Methodist Church) 
a. No new information 
 
3) APDC Budget 
a. Reduced to $500 annually, originally not believed to be an annual reoccurrence. 
 
4) Historical commission 
a. One member applied to reappoint 
 
5) APDC Member 
a. Member Lloyd will continue to serve 
 
6) Whiting and Lancaster House 
a. Member McGrath spoke with her about selling the house to someone interested in restoring it 
while allowing her to remain until she decides to relocate. 
b. Property was in mint condition as recently as 25 years ago. 
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, June 12, 2025 
 
Adjourned: 8:15 PM 