===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Architectural Preservation District Commission  
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Chairman  
Nathan Lockwood, Member  
Jennifer Sanderson, Member  
William Lloyd, Clerk  
Vacancy 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, February 12, 2026 
Ritter Building 
Call to Order: At 7:37 PM  
Present: Chairman Sculimbrene, Lloyd, Lockwood 
Public Comment: 
 
1) None 
Minutes Approval: 
 
1) Motion to approve minutes for January 8th 2026 meeting minutes, by member Lloyd 
a. Lockwood Aye, Lloyd Aye, Sculimbrene Aye; Motion approved 
 
Correspondences: 
 
1) None 
Current Business: 
 
1) 50 Main Street 
a. Letter has been sent owner and other members of the condo association. Letters were sent certified 
mail.  There are three trusts that are associated with the property that cover 4 different units in the 
condo.  Both members who received the letters, were not able to attend.  One trust was not 
responsible for building maintenance. The other member was not available.  They stressed that 
they could make an appearance in April. 
b. Motion by member Lockwood to resend the letter with a proposed April 16 meeting date with the 
trustees  
i. Lloyd: Aye, Sculimbrene; Aye, Lockwood: Aye - - Motion Passes. 
2) 925 Mass Ave 
a. Member Sculimbrene was invited to working group to look at an RFP for future use of 925 Main 
street. Appraised value $135K. 
b. State hired planning consultant to review use, could stay as a single-story building, or a small two 
story with limited parking. 
c. Seen as a success story, as the removal action that was paid for by the state. Gas, oil and hydraulic 
tanks have been removed. Can Lunenburg still push out an RFP if there is still pending 
remediation at the site? 
d. Lockwood, nothing special about the structure, demo would be most likely way forward.  
i. Village district by-law is very open to zoning offsets and other ways 
e. Lloyd, Will be interested to see what the consultant recommends.  Might be easier to sell the land 
to adjacent properties. 
 
Old Business: None 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Next Meeting:  Meeting Schedule:   
Thursday, March 12, 2026 
 
Adjourned: 8:08 PM 