===PAGE 1===
 
Page 1 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 9, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, April 9, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo, 
Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Heather Lemeiux, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
Vice Chair Lou Franco announced that eclipse glasses are being collected at the library, to be 
reused in South America to enable children there to see the October eclipse.  Member Tom 
Alonzo mentioned he was able to see the total eclipse and it was incredible. 
 
Public Comment 
Mr. George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle: Mr. Burden described some issues he has experienced 
with legal matters regarding his HOA.  He is seeking certain video clips and also shared some 
personal observations about members of the Selectboard.  Chair Jeffreys assured Mr. Burden that 
there is no connection between the law firm Mr. Burden mentioned and himself. 
 
Mr. John Bowen, 162 Highland St., via Zoom: Mr. Bowen discussed information he has 
collected about the cost of maintaining the cemeteries and pointed out some anomalies in the 
rules and regulations regarding maintenance responsibilities. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Town Manager Heather Lemeiux announced that tax bill proofs have been sent for printing after 
the errors were worked through and should be mailed by May 16. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
Mr. Matthew Allison, representing the Agricultural Commission, briefed the Board.  He reported 
that there may not be a Farmers Market this year due to personnel matters.  The lack of a meeting 
quorum has delayed the release of the rules and regulations.  In addition, participation by local 
===PAGE 2===
 
Page 2 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 9, 2024 
farmers actually costs them more than running their own markets.  It would also be helpful if the 
Town could assist with permanent space.  Chair Jeffreys offered to schedule an appointment with 
the Commission at the next meeting.  Mr. Allison feels that the Town could be more supportive 
of the agriculture community, and in particular mentioned there might be State funding that 
could be pursued.   Chair Jeffreys indicated that the April 23 meeting was a possible date. 
 
Mr. Mark Burch, Chair of the Water District Commission, gave an update.  Hydrant flushing is 
underway.  Additionally, public meetings on the PFAS master plan will be held on April 11 
(noon) and April 25 (6:30) at the high school.  Any resident is welcome to attend.  On May 16 
(6:30) there will be a meeting to vote to appropriate funding for the remediation of PFAS.  Water 
District Commission meetings are also open to the public.  The EPA is expected to announce 
soon that the maximum contaminant PFAS level is 4 parts per trillion, reduced from 25 parts per 
trillion. 
 
APPOINTMENTS 
7:15 PM Presentation of “Black Excellence On The Hill” Citation from State Delegation to 
Chairman Jeffreys 
Senator John Cronin, Representative Margaret Scarsdale, and Representative Michael 
Kushmerek presented Chairman Jeffreys with the 2024 “Black Excellence On the Hill” citation 
to acknowledge his service as a combat veteran, and to recognize his work on the Select Board 
and as Vice President with Mass Development.  His leadership lifts up communities of color and 
is an inspiration for the future.  The delegation extended their congratulations and thanks to 
Chairman Jeffreys. 
 
7:30 PM Public Hearing for Special Event License for Car Show Fundraiser request on 
May 22nd from the Turkey Hill Family Lions Club 
Ms. Dawn Johnson, 357 Lancaster Ave. appeared representing the Turkey Hill Family Lions 
Club.  She requested permission to hold a car show fundraiser in collaboration with the PTO, at 
the TC Passios school and Memorial Drive on May 22 from 4 to 8 pm.  Approvals from the 
school, the BOH, and police/fire have already been obtained.  Rain date is May 29. 
 
Motion by Member Tom Alonzo to approve the Special Event License for Car Show 
Fundraiser on May 22nd by the Turkey Hill Family Lions Club from 4 to 8 pm.  Seconded 
by Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-
0). 
 
7:40 PM Public Hearing for Tollbooth Fundraiser request on May 18th from the Fitchburg 
/ Leominster Shriner’s Club in Support of Shriners Hospital Transportation Fund 
Mr. Carl Edmunds appeared representing the Fitchburg/Leominster Shriner’s Club.  The 
organization requesting permission for a tollbooth at the intersection of Mass Ave and Main St., 
as they did for the past two years.  Funds are being raise for the transportation of patients from 
all over the world, which costs between $40,000 to $80,000 due to the specialized equipment.  
Last year the tollbooth took in close to $2,000. The hours would be 9 am to 2 pm.  However, 
===PAGE 3===
 
Page 3 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 9, 2024 
Member Alonzo pointed out that there is a conflict with another event already approved, and the 
date on the form is not the date presented at the hearing.  The form will need to be resubmitted 
for approval, but as the group has experience with the event, Mr. Edmunds will not need to 
appear in person again.  
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Alternate Plumbing/Gas Inspector, 
Jeremy Pierce  
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Facilities Custodian, Allan Smith 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Seasonal Beach Director Liz Simeone 
and Seasonal Lifeguards Paige Gengler and Mason Bowser  
Resignation of Police Public Safety Coordinator Amanda Moore and Police Officer Deven 
O’Brien 
The Town Manager informed the Board that ratification of the three appointments is being tabled 
due to pending documentation, until the 23rd.  Officer O’Brien is going to the MA State Police, 
and Ms. Moore’s position has been posted internally.  The Board thanked both Officer O’Brien 
and Ms. Moore for their service to the Town, and wished them all the best.  Ms. Moore is hoping 
to continue to offer her services to the Town, as she is on the ballot. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
Notice of Right of First Refusal for 100 Howard Street/Lots 1-4, (Conversion to 
Residential) 
Tanner Cole, 100 Howard St., stated he is the owner of the 64 acres there and the land has been 
in chapter 61 for 5 years. He is planning for 4 house lots on a small portion.  The town has the 
right of first refusal.  The 4 lots in question would cost the town $435,000 in total in they wish to 
purchase 
. 
Motion by Member Alonzo to waive the right of first refusal on the 4 lots at 100 Howard St. 
as presented in our paperwork and by the applicant.  Seconded by Vice Chair Franco.  Call 
for the vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Sign Annual Town Meeting and Annual Town Election Warrants 
The Board signed the annual town meeting, town election, accounts payable and payroll 
warrants. 
 
Review Draft Turnover Policy  
Delayed to the 23rd. 
 
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
Signatures were delayed to the following week. 
 
Committee Reports 
===PAGE 4===
 
Page 4 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 9, 2024 
Agriculture Committee meeting with the Select Board is to be scheduled.   The Finance 
Committee and the Planning Board will be meeting soon.  Member Emkey reported that the 
School Committee voted that if the override passes they will return the ARPA funds.   
Vice Chair Franco reported that the COA met today. The adult Activity Center could be a venue 
for the 300th anniversary celebration. Additionally, coffee with the Chief is April 19, and the 
Covid clinic is April 22 3-6 pm.  Growing Places is a program to distribute fresh produce, and 
the pancake breakfast is tomorrow.   
 
Chair Jeffreys reported on his meeting with the superintendent of Monty Tech, and their 
conversation about the admissions policy, prompted by the Chair’s personal interest and concerns 
about implementing a lottery system for admittance.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  
April 23rd, April 30th, May 4th at 9 AM (Annual Town Meeting)  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
None from Town Manager 
 
PUBLIC 
Jane Rabbit, 314 Townsend Harbor Rd.  
Mrs. Rabbit reported on free concerts at the Groton Hill Music Center, every 3 months on 
Wednesdays at noon.  There were a number of buses from senior centers and she wondered if the 
Town could provide transportation for our seniors.  The Rabbits’ thanked Chair Jeffreys and all 
the board members for their service. 
 
Mr. John Bowen, 162 Highland St.  
Mr. Bowen discussed unions, prevailing wages, training and materials taxation.  Chair Jeffreys 
stated that the Select Board and the Town Manager do not advise our employees on unionization. 
 
BOARD 
Vice Chair Franco described the many conversations he and Chair Jeffreys have had on 
American politics and history, and he wished to acknowledge that Chair Jeffreys has been a role 
model for the Black community, and a friend.   
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzulo. Call for the vote: Five-Aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:30 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
===PAGE 5===
 
Page 5 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 9, 2024 
Sharon Jordan 
 
 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from April 9, 2024. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 
 
 
 