===PAGE 1===
 
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom  
Tuesday, March 26, 2024 
 
Members Present:  Chair: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair: Lou Franco, Clerk: Caesar 
Nuzzolo, Member: Tom Alonzo and Member Renee Emkey 
Also Present: Town Manager: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager and Town Counsel:  Adam 
Costa 
 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and 
broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the 
agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items 
not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.   
 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT  
• BOARD: Member Renee Emkey stated she wanted to address some comments that have come 
up recently at various committee meetings.  Member Emkey stated she believes this year’s 
budget season has been transparent but it’s a process that adapts as numbers and unknowns 
become knowns.  Preliminary budgets are based are on estimates.  Member Emkey stated she 
believes the Town Manager has the experience to allow her to make knowledgeable initial 
estimates.  Last year the money was transferred to the overlay account to cover property tax 
abatements and the Town was able to pay out over $1M in abatements without an override. 
 
 
Member Emkey stated she has had several discussions with Town Manager Lemieux and the 
School Committee to close the gap for the needs-based budget. The gap has since been closed.  
Member Emkey stated she honestly believes everyone shared the common goal of working 
together to close the gap.  The School Department as well as other departments in town have 
budgets that are under significant strain, which is why the Proposition 2 ½ override has been 
brought forward by the School Committee.  It is asking people to pay more money through a 
property tax increase. 
 
Member Emkey formally submitted an action item for the Select Board after the May 21
st 
meeting to formulate a task force that consists of stakeholders to address the financial situation 
across the town so it can be part of the next budget season. 
 
Member Tom Alonzo stated he remembers when, in this town, there was a big division that 
existed and it took many years of working together to become unified again.  Taking shots at 
leadership is one thing but when you take aim at employees who are doing what they can to 
come up with solutions is not helpful.  Member Alonzo stated he is hopeful everyone can 
refocus energies getting through the budgets.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
 
Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo thanked everyone for being patient with his remote participation and 
thanked everyone who reached out over the last five months expressing support and words of 
encouragement, he is very grateful.   
 
Vice Chair Lou Franco stated he endorses comments made by both Member Alonzo and 
Member Emkey.  Vice Chair Franco stated he commends those who came forward and fought 
for something they felt was important.  Every member of every board works very hard and 
dedicates their time to this town.   
 
Vice Chair Franco stated he wanted to thank everyone who did step forward to run for office at  
the caucus. It is disappointing that there were zero contested seats.  Every seat at every level 
should be contested every time. There are a lot of commenters out there, many who are very 
constructive, but when it comes time to step up and run for a seat there is crickets.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated this morning he was reminded that spring is in the air and he encourages all 
to reflect on all the many things in our lives that we should be grateful for.  Each day is an 
opportunity to have the best day of your life.  Chair Jeffreys stated let’s be mindful of the 
positives that we encounter every single day in our lives. 
 
• PUBLIC  
Town Manager Heather Lemieux stated that she would like to address comments made at last 
week’s finance committee meeting.  She stated she is very cognizant of the fact that when you 
are in a public position it is expected that you will receive occasional criticism and you should 
have thick skin.   However, she would like to respond to a comment that she feels was an attack 
on her integrity. Town Manager Lemieux stated she values education and understands the critical 
impact it has on their residents and the impact it has on attracting people to relocate here.  Town 
Manager Lemieux stated to insinuate that she is the reason the school is in this position is 
inflammatory and it does not acknowledge how much cooperation and collaboration there has 
been to get to this point.   The preliminary budget and the needs-based budget have been closed.  
They have had unanticipated items that affected that outcome.   Town Manager Lemieux stated 
she did not orchestrate this outcome or collude with the Chair and she finds it offensive that this 
is the narrative being spun.   
 
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street stated he is here regarding the Cemetery Commission.  They 
concluded that Article 21 in 1979 created the commission and identified Chapter 40 Sec 8D as 
being the Chapter it was created under. If Section 8D has not changed since 1979, then it was 
already accepted back in 1979.  The section does speak to alternate members and the Town 
Manager being the ones to select and the Select Board is to ratify.  Mr. Passios is proposing that 
they either clarify whether or not that section has changed since it was accepted in 1979 or Town 
Counsel Costa suggested a cleaner way would be to add the acceptance of this section into the 
article at Town Meeting. 
 
Debbie Lincoln, Chair of the Council on Aging,  46 Hemlock Drive thanked everyone for all 
their hard work during this budget process.  Ms. Lincoln stated she heard this afternoon that the 
===PAGE 3===
 
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
request from the Council on Aging for $6,648.42 to make a 19.5 hour employee to a benefitted 
24 hours has been removed from the budget.  Ms. Lincoln stated, as the COA Chairman, they 
have been short changed for the longest time.  When they had their patio, it came back with the 
lowest bid and the pavilion and the sod was removed. It’s a beautiful site but it would not be if 
they did not have the pavilion and sod donated, it would be mud. It’s a beautiful spot for the 
whole town. They have been relying on donations for the Lunenburg Adult Center for a long 
time.  Ms. Lincoln stated she felt this ask was very reasonable.  They did not ask for anything 
that they did not really need. Ms. Lincoln stated she is heartbroken that this was taken out of the 
budget and she is imploring the board to please try to find a way to make this work.  This is one-
third of their population and they deserve the board’s consideration.   
 
Sibyl Kaufman, 27 Oak Ave stated she is here on behalf of the group known as Save Our Schools 
Lunenburg. She read into the record the statement they made on their social media.  
 
Shoshana Mulé, 139 Cove Road stated she got involved with the school budget process to 
support the music program.  She stated she attends dozens of public meetings and it is clear to 
her that the town finances need a review.  Her family has lived in Lunenburg since 2010 and like 
most families their home is their biggest asset.   Ms. Mole stated she supports the creation of a 
task force to analyze the operation and capital budget process and determine which services get 
funded and how. They are hosting a meeting tomorrow at 7pm in the library.  
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated due to an issue with MUNIS, the tax bills will be going out the 
last day of March.  Chair Jeffreys asked Town Manager Lemieux to elaborate on the issue. 
 
III. APPOINTMENTS   
7:05 PM Discussion with Town Counsel on Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles and 
Proposition 2 1/2 Override Ballot Question 
 
Town Counsel Adam Costa joined the Board for discussion. Town Manager Lemieux stated they 
have invited Town Counsel Costa here to address a variety of questions regarding the override 
and ballot question.   
 
Chair Jeffreys stated they would like to confirm that the language in Article H is correct and 
appropriate.  They did receive a revised number from the school committee in the amount of 
$948,136.  Town Counsel Costa stated MGL is very specific when it comes to ballot questions, 
they include specific language with no opportunity for revisions.  When it comes to Town 
Meeting warrant articles that is not the case.  There are multiple approaches as to how it can be 
done.  Town Counsel Costa stated they could adopt an override as a single warrant article when 
reviewing the budget or alternatively take the contingencies aligned with the overrides and put 
them into separate warrant articles. Chair Jeffreys asked if he recommends replacing an 
‘additional sum of money’ with the specific dollar amount.  Town Counsel Costa stated they 
could, it is a matter of preference, but they will need an accurate number in the motion so there 
is an accurate number appropriated.   Chair Jeffreys proposed to his colleagues that they include 
the dollar amount in the warrant. 
===PAGE 4===
 
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
 
Vice Chair Franco stated to the extent possible, the language of the warrant article should 
parallel the language of the ballot question with the exception of the additional dollar amount.  
Town Counsel Costa confirmed. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated the Board has to vote on the ballot wording next Tuesday so that 
the ballot questions are in the booklet that goes out to residents. 
 
Member Emkey asked for Town Counsel Costa to clarify the sequence of events and what is 
possible to amend at town meeting on the floor.  Town Counsel Costa stated there can be no 
amendments to ballot questions at town meeting.   
 
Chair Jeffreys stated the Board needs to consider if the warrant article fails but the ballot passes, 
that the next action could be for the Select Board to call a Special Town Meeting and a re-vote.  
Town Counsel Costa confirmed and referred to Appendix D (page 20 of the guidance 
document).  
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to submit and amend what is currently identified as Article H to read 
as follows: to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate $948,136 to supplement the 
Lunenburg public schools operating budget for fiscal year 2025 contingent upon the 
passage of a proposition to a ballot question or take any other action thereto.  Second by 
Member Tom Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated it is his understanding that the School Committee is meeting 
tomorrow and that there may be some discussion on this dollar amount.   It is the difference 
between the needs-based budget and the level service budget, minus the ESSER, plus the money 
identified from the Select Board to be identified by ARPA to be added into the school budget.  
What they appropriating is not a full 5.44% increase and their starting number next year will 
only reflect the 4.44% because the ARPA funds will not be included.  
 
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair of the School Committee stated he would refer to the Superintendent 
and Town Manager Lemieux on the specific number but he believes it was 5.34%.  Town 
Manager Lemieux confirmed. 
 
Laura Brzozoski, Member of the School Committee stated 8.51% without the ARPA funding for 
the ESSER cut level funded budget.  Chair Jeffreys confirmed.  
 
Chair Jeffreys asked if there is a possibility that tomorrow’s meeting will result in a change to 
the number.  Vice Chair Lehtinen stated he couldn’t say as of today. 
 
Amanda Gilman, 186 Reservoir Road stated should it not pass at town meeting but pass on the 
ballot, the Select Board could have a Special Town Meeting to see if it passes and asked if there 
is a time limit.  Town Counsel Costa stated it would have to be done prior to the tax rate being 
set. Ms. Gilman asked for confirmation that a group of citizens could request a town meeting, 
and Town Counsel Costa confirmed and stated there is a provision in the statute.  
===PAGE 5===
 
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
 
 
7:45 PM Meeting with Personnel Committee Representative on Personnel Committee 
Annual Town Meeting Articles  
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated we are looking at Articles I, J and K. 
 
Wendy Bertrand of the Personnel Committee provided an overview of the Articles and why they 
are before the Select Board.  The charter is reviewed every 3 years looking at the salary grid.  
They looked through many comps to get their employees to a more competitive wage.  
 
Clerk Nuzzolo read Article I and Article J for the Board.  
 
Vice Chair Franco referred to Article I for the Council on Aging Meal Site Manager being 
assigned to grade seven.  Ms. Bertrand stated those positions were ones they looked at with their 
revised job descriptions and their grades were significantly lower than the 8 comps they looked 
at.  
 
Member Emkey asked if any of the grades were reduced and Ms. Bertrand stated they were not.  
Ms. Bertrand stated they looked at the scope of their responsibilities and everyone is being 
bumped up, there were no decreases.   
 
Clerk Nuzzolo stated upon his review, the way he understands it, these positions are below 
average and Ms. Bertrand confirmed and stated it was their goal to get them to the median. Ms. 
Bertrand stated they are also receiving a 2.5% COLA on top of that. 
 
Member Alonzo asked what the average increase is and Ms. Bertrand stated that it varies grade 
to grade.  
 
Sue Andrews of the Personnel Committee stated in 2024 they asked for the grid to be changed 
by 2.5% and this is asking them to do almost 3% this year.  There are 8 steps at a 3% increase.  
 
Member Alonzo asked if everyone got at least 5.5% and Ms. Andrews confirmed.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated at the town meeting presentation it would be helpful to identify what the 
rate was when started and what the rate is when ended and also maybe a dollar amount would 
help people get a better understanding.    
 
Member Alonzo stated he wants to keep good people and make sure they feel as though they are 
being treated fairly without breaking the town budget. It’s not an easy position. 
 
Assistant Town Manager Julie Belliveau (via ZOOM) stated for FY24 they are dropping the first 
2 steps and begin with step 3 as the new starting point at $15.50.  In FY25 they are starting at the 
new existing step 2. 
 
===PAGE 6===
 
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
Chair Jeffreys proposed to add clarifying verbiage to the sick time leave so they can continue to 
accrue vacation time and Ms. Andrews stated they won’t stop accruing.  
 
Member Emkey asked if FMLA is unpaid and Ms. Andrews confirmed. PFMLA is different.  
 
8:00 PM Meeting with Planning Board Representative on Planning Board Annual Town 
Meeting articles  
 
Matthew Brenner Chair of the Planning Board provided an overview and purpose of Articles Y 
and Z.  One relates to the water supply protection district and the other relates to battery solar 
arrays.    
 
Mr. Brenner stated that the water supply protection district is really old. It previously went to 
town meeting in the fall and was tabled to the spring.  He indicated after receiving input from 
Interim Land Use Director Richard Harris he pared down the article for easier understanding 
while keeping the meat of the article essentially the same.  Mr. Brenner stated that the current 
protection bylaws are “older than dirt”.  Technology and engineering has changed.   
 
Chair Jeffreys stated they had a site walk for a body of water and it was well attended.  When we 
remember the town meeting that had to be moved to the high school it was relating to water.  
Chair Jeffreys stated it seems that when the most people come out is when we’re talking about 
water.  If the work that needs to be done before town meeting is zone 1 then is a month really 
enough time to resolve all these concerns.   
 
Mr. Brenner stated he believes the concerns can be addressed by either pointing to clear 
explanation of the law or if there is an issue by reinstating the town’s control over zone 1.  Chair 
Jeffreys stated they are putting an issue on town warrant without having it resolved and asked if 
this is premature.  Mr. Brenner stated he feels the issues are very limited and will be resolved and 
he does not feel it is premature.   
 
Mr. Brenner gave a brief overview of Article Y. According to the state, battery storage systems 
are necessary for function on the grid, they count as solar installations and get all the rights and 
benefits. A company came before the ZBA and stated the systems aren’t allowed in Lunenburg 
and the State says that they have to be.  They have come to them and stated they can work 
together and craft something that works for everyone.  Mr. Brenner stated that this legislation 
gives them some control over battery storage systems, making sure they are not an eyesore or 
cause a noise issue for the town.  Mr. Brenner stated that overall there has not been a big public 
response about this at all.  
 
 
IV . OLD BUSINESS  
1. Review Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles and Vote on Recommendations  
 
Vice Chair Lou Franco moved to place Articles A-Z on the town warrant.  Seconded by 
Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
===PAGE 7===
 
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval of Article A.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  
Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously  
(5-0-0). 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article B -Revolving Funds for 
departments, boards, committees, agencies, officers, etc. Seconded by Member Alonzo.  
Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article C – Local Wetlands Protection 
bylaws fees at $50,000.  Second by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Articles D- K were held until next meeting. 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article L –  Town to raise $100,000 for 
stabilization fund.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved the town to recommend approval for Article M –  $250,000 from free 
cash for special purpose stabilization fund.  Seconded by Member  Alonzo.  Call for the 
vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article N –  Other post employment 
benefits funds for $187,110.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Article O – Held until next meeting. 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article P –  Sewer Capital Reserve 
stabilization fund.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Article R and S– Held until next meeting.
 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article T – $10,000 Cemetery lot.  
Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(5-0-0). 
 
Article U – Held until next meeting. 
Article V – Held until next meeting. Vice Chair Franco stated this is relating to decreasing the 
age of exemptions from 70 to 65 under Chapter 40C.  Vice Chair Franco would like them to 
consider raising the exemption from $750 to $1000.   
 
===PAGE 8===
 
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
Chair Jeffreys moved the town to recommend approval for Article W –  create a 
Declaration of Trust.  Seconded by Vice Chair Lou Franco.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to recommend approval for Article X –  relating to Historical 
Commission.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  
Disccussion: Mr. Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he has concerns with Article X because he is 
unsure if they need to reaccept the paragraph in Chapter 40 that is also in this Article.  Members 
decided to hold this article to be placed on a future agenda.   
 
Article Y and Z – Held until next meeting. 
 
2. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles   
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that they have worked with the Superintendent and the School 
Committee and have closed the budget gap, the final gap was approximately $41,000.  Town 
Manager Lemieux stated historically, her budget style is to be conservative.   
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated in the preliminary budget proposal there were various increases 
in hours for the meal site manager, IT administrative position, the rec director position and the 
part time accessory data collector as well as a half year position at the police department. Town 
Manager Lemieux stated that due to recent conversations with EL Harvey there is up to a 70% 
increase to extend the bid so they are going to put that contract out to bid to see what they get. 
They are going to look at a cart options which are less intensive.  There are companies that 
won’t even bid on towns not using a cart system.  The contract has been extended for 90 days.  
As of now there aren’t funds available to enter into a contract in September and so they need to 
pull back on those other positions for right now to prepare for that impact.  
 
Chair Jeffreys asked for confirmation that those positions total $195,000 and Town Manager 
Lemieux stated they would be $150,000 with health insurance.  Town Manager Lemieux stated 
the only position currently moving forward is the accessory data collector position because she 
feels strongly that it is a corrective action they need to take for that department.  
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the salary reserve line was at $100,000 but based on the SAP 
impact the wage was at around $111,000.  They also need to budget for the DPW union 
negotiations that are forthcoming this year so Town Manager Lemieux stated she is increasing to 
$155,000. 
 
Member Alonzo stated he understands all of the adjustments Town Manager Lemieux has 
explained.  Member Alonzo stated he would be in favor of adding back the data collector in the 
accessory department to maintain revenue coming in and also the meal site manager. The Board 
agreed.  
 
V . UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  
===PAGE 9===
 
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
April 2nd, April 9th, April 23rd  
Chair Jeffreys stated they have received a request from the register of voters regarding in-person 
voting.  It has to be posted at a public hearing and it is scheduled for next week.   Town Manager 
Lemieux stated they do need to have a public meeting next Tuesday and Annie is taking care of 
the notice. The board has to vote to opt-out on voting by mail for the town election. Chair 
Jeffreys stated the request is to not allow by mail voting, absentee voting will still be allowed. 
Chair Jeffreys stated he is inclined to support that request.  
 
 
 
VI. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
• TOWN MANAGER: None 
 
• PUBLIC: Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street referred back to the discussion earlier with the 
Personnel Committee and their attempt to mitigate the issue with sick leave and vacation time.  
Mr. Passios stated that he thinks this is a good fix but there should be a deeper dive.  Mr. Passios 
stated corporations use PTO. 
 
TJ Loughlin, 207 Rolling Acres Road referred to Town Manager Lemieux’s recognition that 
health insurance and transportation costs are an actual problem.   
 
Sybil Kaufman, 27 Oak Ave stated that if the town wants people to run for the different boards 
they need to make it so they can. Ms. Kaustated she has kids in school, the Board meetings are 
very late and long. 
 
Laura Brzozoski, 21 Francis Avenue stated she is here as a resident, not a school committee 
member. Ms. Brzozoski stated she is asking the Board to support the override as a parent.  They 
need enough money to run the schools. There were going to be drastic cuts this year and she is 
so appreciative.  
 
 • BOARD:  Member Alonzo announced this week’s upcoming committee meetings and 
suggested to pack lunches. They are bound by open meeting law so if they want to discuss 
things they have to speak about things within the meeting which can result in lengthy meetings. 
 
Vice Chair Franco stated you would be hard pressed to find someone more in support of robust 
school funding than him. 
 
 
Chair Jeffreys thanked everyone for watching the meetings.  Everyone has a life and 
responsibilities with or without kids.  There are several boards that meet during the day and 
several that meet 30-60 minutes. We have said often that these jobs need to be approachable to 
both women and men.  
 
Chair Jeffreys thanked Town Manager Lemieux for all her hard work and stated he enjoys 
working with her.  
===PAGE 10===
 
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 26, 2024 
 
 
VII. ADJOURN  
 
Chair  Jeffreys moved to adjourn at 10:27 pm. Second by Vice Chair Franco.  Call for the 
vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
Leanna Harris 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from March 26, 2024. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 