===PAGE 1===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 1 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM 
Tuesday, February 20, 2024 
 
Members Present:  Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Member Tom 
Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent:  Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo 
Also Present:  Heather Lemieux, Town Manager. Public Comment Participants are listed 
in the minutes. 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 6:45 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
I. COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys read a detailed update letter from the Lunenburg Water 
District into the record. (Attached). 
 
II. APPOINTMENTS 
 
6:45 PM Continuation of License Denial Hearing for Conrad’s Drive-In, 835 
Massachusetts Ave. 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized David H. Lee, 835 Massachusetts Ave. and 149 
Bowling Acres Road, the General Manager for Conrad’s Drive-In. Mr. Lee explained that 
there had been issues with Workers’ Compensation, since corrected, and that there are 
some outstanding tax obligations on both properties. Mr. Lee explained that COVID and 
bad weather caused hardship, and they are working on refinancing to correct tax issues. 
 
Chair Jeffreys verified that Mr. Lee will have issues resolved within ninety (90) days. 
Chair Jeffreys stated that he is included to approve a license due to Conrad’s 80 year 
history in Lunenburg. 
 
Member Renee Emkey asked the Chair if he would support granting a license now or 
when financial plans are complete. The Chair said that he would support a license now. 
 
Member Tom Alonzo asked if, in fact, the application had been received in November. 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux stated that it had not been received complete due to 
Workers’ Compensation issues. Member Alonzo stated that he would vote to approve a 
===PAGE 2===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 2 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
license as long as there is a deadline included to correct tax issues. Member Lou Franco 
agreed. 
 
Motion by Member Tom Alonzo to issue the license for Conrad’s Drive-In at 835 
Mass. Ave. with the contingency that the back taxes have to be resolved or a plan in 
place no later than May 20. Seconded by Member Lou Franco. Call for the vote: 
Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
7:00-8:30 PM Joint Meeting of Select Board, Finance Committee, School 
Committee, with State Delegation on Budget Priorities and Legislative Priorities 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized Evan Watters, Chair of the Finance Committee 
and Carol Archambault, Chair of the School Committee. The Chairs of Finance and 
School Committees called their respective meetings to order, conducting roll call of their 
memberships.   
 
Chair Jeffreys introduced and welcomed State Senator John Cronin, State Representative 
Michael Kushmerek, and State Representative Margaret Scarsdale. Each legislator 
provided an update.  
 
School Committee Chair Carol Archambault recognized School Committee Member Mr. 
Peter Beardmore who spoke about the State not paying their fair share to communities. 
Chair Archambault expressed concern about this year’s School Department spending and 
state contributions. School Committee Member Laura Brzozoski echoed these 
sentiments. Representative Kushmerek talked about stagnation in Chapter 70 monies, and 
the need to find a solution for rural and suburban school districts. Senator Cronin talked 
about economic growth, housing needs, and the need for workforce development.  
 
8:30 PM Request from Little League to use old Primary School property for T-Ball 
games and practices 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized TJ Loughlin, 207 Old Acres Road. (via Zoom), 
Vice President of Lunenburg Youth Baseball and Softball. They are requesting using the 
fields for T-ball because of skate park construction which might be disruptive to usual 
fields. This would be for Spring season only.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo asked about liability and maintenance. Town Manager Heather 
Lemieux stated that the Baseball League would need to provide insurance and the 
maintenance would not be anything other than what is being done.  
 
Member Renee Emkey said that the field is bumpy and sloped; Mr. Laughlin said that this 
is okay. 
 
Member Alonzo confirmed that any changes or needs will be managed by the league at 
no cost to the Town.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 3 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
[** Select Board Member Caesar Nuzzolo joined the meeting at this point via Zoom **] 
 
Select Board Member Caesar Nuzzolo asked how long this need would continue. Mr. 
Loughlin explained that this need would be for the length of time Marshall Park and the 
skate park were under construction, and that this is not meant to be a permanent 
arrangement. Member Nuzzolo asked about parking. 
 
Board Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys said that he does not support this request, because 
changes made would lead to it being an expansion of Marshall Park, and because he is 
not comfortable with liability and that there would need to be a more solid plan in place. 
Mr. Loughlin asked how the current arrangement was insured.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo asked what the timeframe was for a decision. Mr. Loughlin said 
that the league would need to know by early April.  
 
It was agreed to put this on an agenda for early March. Before then work needs to be 
done to add details, especially about liability, into the agreement. 
 
III. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
 
Member Lou Franco reminded residents about the many activities available at the 
Lunenburg Adult Activities Center. 
 
Member Franco announced that he will not run for a second term on the Select Board. 
 
Public Comment 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized John Bowen, 162 Highland Street. Mr. Bowen 
spoke about issues with planning and funding an upcoming cemetery project. Chair 
Jeffreys clarified that the Board cannot meet with him in Executive Session, and that the 
Select Board does not remove members of other elected boards. 
 
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, objected to the Select Board’s prioritization of 
school issues in discussion with the town’s legislators. Chair Jeffreys stated that there is 
nothing prohibiting any other board from meeting with the legislators.  
 
IV. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux stated that the Annual Town Meeting Warrant is open 
until March 18
th at 4:00 pm for submission of Articles. 
 
V. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Anna Lockwood, 91 Main Street – Historical Commission, term to expire June 30, 2025. 
===PAGE 4===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 4 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized Anna Lockwood. Member Tom Alonzo stated 
that documentation shows that the Historical Commission may have three to seven 
members, but traditionally has always had five members, and he is not in favor of 
expanding the committee. Town Manager Heather Lemieux explained that on April 11, 
2023, she had discussed this with the Select Board, and discussion occurred about 
changing the bylaw to five members, but nothing was done.  
 
Chair Jeffreys noted that the town website has been advertising a vacancy on the 
Historical Commission for a long time.  
 
Member Renee Emkey stated that she reviewed last April’s discussion and she would 
support an article at this year’s Town Meeting defining the board as having five members.  
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to appoint Anna Lockwood and Heather Sroka, to the 
Historical Commission, term to expire June 30, 2025. Seconded by Vice-Chair 
Franco. Call for roll call vote: Member Nuzzolo, Aye; Member Emkey, Nay; 
Member Alonzo, Nay; Vice-Chair Franco, Aye; Chair Jeffreys, Aye. The motion 
passed (3-2-0). 
 
Kim Duffy, 1479 Mass. Ave. – change from Associate to Full Member of Green 
Communities Committee, term to expire June 30, 2024 
 
Member Alonzo moved to change Kim Duffy from Associate to Full Member of the 
Green Communities Committee, term to expire June 30, 2024. Seconded by Member 
Emkey. Call for roll call vote: Member Nuzzolo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Member 
Alonzo, Aye; Vice-Chair Franco, Aye; Chair Jeffreys, Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
VI. TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux presented her report. 
 
1. Board and Commission vacancies on the Architectural Preservation District 
Commission, Cemetery Commission, Council on Aging, Green Communities 
Committee, Open Space Committee and Personnel Committee.  
2. Open positions with the Town include Conservation Administrative Assistant, 
Facilities Custodian, Heavy Equipment Operator, Land Use Director, and Planning 
Board Administrative Assistant. 
3. Town Manager Lemieux met today with MassDevelopment about handling 
development of the Request for Proposals (RFP) for disposing of 925 Mass Ave. 
4. A number of Bids/RFPs are currently advertised, including Data Collection Services 
for the Assessing Department, the Flat Hill Culvert Project, Road Materials, and 
Project Manager Services for Marshall Park. 
===PAGE 5===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 5 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
5. The new Electricity Supply Contract with BP was signed last week for 11.77 cents 
per kWh for 48 months. It will begin when the current contract (11.868) ends in 
November 2024. 
 
VII. OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
 
No discussion heard. 
 
2. Discuss Environmental Policies and Select Board Bylaws 
 
No discussion heard. 
 
VIII. CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. FY24 3
rd Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $12,711.75  
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to commit $12,711.75 for the FY24 3rd Quarter Water 
Commitment. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for roll call vote: Member 
Nuzzolo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Vice-Chair Franco, 
Aye; Chair Jeffreys, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
2. Sign Warrant for Presidential Primaries 
 
Member Alonzo moved to approve and sign the Warrant for the Presidential 
Primary. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for roll call vote: Member Nuzzolo, 
Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Vice-Chair Franco, Aye; Chair 
Jeffreys, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
The Board signed Accounts Payable warrants in the amount of $196,710.50. 
 
4. Committee Reports 
 
Member Emkey reported that the Stormwater Task Force was unable to meet last 
week. Member Alonzo reported that a Finance Committee meeting that had to be 
cancelled because of incorrect posting has been rescheduled for tomorrow.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Select Board met last Saturday to do a site walk.  
 
IX. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
March 5
th, March 12th, March 19th 
===PAGE 6===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 6 of 6 
May 14, 2024 
 
X. PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
 
TOWN MANAGER 
No public comment. 
 
PUBLIC 
Chair Jeffreys recognized Dave Passios, no address given, via Zoom, who advised the 
Board that the Finance Committee will also be meeting on Thursday to begin 
departmental meetings. Secondly, Mr. Passios confirmed that the Historical Commission 
is created by Bylaw, and not by Charter.  
 
BOARD 
Member Emkey thanked Mr. Franco for his time on the Board.  
 
Member Alonzo stated that it is alarming that nine months ago the Board discussed 
changing the membership of the Historic Commission but nothing was done, and that 
communication on this issue had been poor. 
 
XI. ADJOURN 
 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Franco. Call for roll 
call vote: Member Nuzzolo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Vice-
Chair Franco, Aye; Chair Jeffreys, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:30 P.M. 
 
*** Per Policy, Public Comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per 
speaker except at the discretion of the Chairperson 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Ellen McKenna Doiron 
Minute Clerk 
 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday, January 6, 2026 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes of February 20, 2024. 
Seconded by Clerk Renee Emkey. Call for the Vote: Four-aye. One abstention (Member 
McLeod). Motion Passed (4-0-1). 