===PAGE 1===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 1 of 5 
May 14, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM 
Tuesday, May 14, 2024 
 
Members Present:  Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo, Member Tom Alonzo, 
Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent:  Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
Also Present:  Heather Lemieux, Town Manager. Public Comment Participants are listed 
in the minutes. 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Vice-Chair Lou Franco called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Franco informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None heard 
 
Town Manager 
None heard. 
 
Public Comment 
Vice-Chair Franco recognized Ashley Brun, 607 Reservoir Rd. Ms. Brun has sent a letter to the 
Select Board about an issue with the location of her neighbor’s dock. Member Tom Alonzo stated 
that he will speak to the Conservation Commission about the problem.  
 
Vice-Chair Franco recognized Mr. Burden,39 Cortland Circle, who stated that he was the victim 
of a “witch hunt.” 
 
Vice-Chair Franco recognized Pete and Debbie Lincoln, Hemlock Drive. The Lincolns, who 
have a combined total of 120 years of volunteerism in Lunenburg, presented the Select Board 
with a plaque listing Select Board members since 1900. The Board accepted with many thanks. 
 
Vice-Chair Franco thanked his colleagues, past and present, as well as the Town Manager and 
other boards and committees, as this was his last meeting as a member of the Select Board.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux reminded everyone about the date and time of the upcoming 
Town Election.  
===PAGE 2===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 2 of 5 
May 14, 2024 
Member Tom Alonzo announced a Water District meeting on Thursday at the High School 
Auditorium.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Vice-Chair Franco recognized Mark Bursch, Chair of the Board of Water Commissioners, and 
Fran McNamara, Superintendent of the Lunenburg Water District. They stated that they were 
disappointed that the Select Board had voted not to support their plan for PFAS Treatment 
Options. They stated that they believe that Select Board Member Emkey should have abstained 
from participating in this discussion. Mr. Bursch also clarified several points that he stated had 
been misrepresented.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo responded, defending the rights of citizens to form a group opposing the 
Water Department plans for PFAS treatment. 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Police Public Safety Coordinator Kennedy 
Jackson 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to ratify the Appointment of Police Public Safety Coordinator 
Kennedy Jackson. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed. (4-0-0). 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Public Access Videographer George Martin 
Motion by Member Alonzo to ratify the Appointment of Public Access Videographer 
George Martin. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed. (4-0-0). 
 
Resignation of Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager Camille Farrar 
Town Manager Lemieux will continue to investigate issues, primarily with MUNIS software, 
cited by Ms. Farrar in her letter of resignation.  
 
Retirement of Assessors Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen 
Town Manager Lemieux noted Ms. Craigen’s many years of service. The Board extended their 
thanks and wished her well in retirement. 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Town Manager Lemieux outlined the outstanding vacancies on boards and committees and 
assorted employment opportunities with the Town. She additionally reviewed current Requests 
for Proposals/Invitations for Bids. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 3 of 5 
May 14, 2024 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
Disposal of Surplus Property Policy 
Final edits have been made. Town Manager Lemieux asked the Board to wait until next Tuesday, 
pending some requested answers from the Library. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
Review Draft Tax Investigation Report 
 
Tabled 
 
Discussion on Follow-up Items from Annual Town Meeting 
 
Clerk Nuzzolo mentioned a procedure that had been previously discussed about large attendance 
meetings. No action was taken. 
 
Member Emkey mentioned a small video about how to work electronic clickers at Town 
Meeting. 
 
Member Alonzo expressed concern about technical issues with a time lag in registering response 
of clickers. 
 
Review Draft License Agreement with Shady Point 
 
Member Tom Alonzo stated that this agreement was well written and thought out. Town Manager 
Lemieux reviewed changes at the request of Clerk Nuzzolo. Member Emkey had questions on 
the termination clause. Information about insurance has been sent to the Town’s insurance 
company.  
 
Review Town Manager Evaluation Timeline 
 
At Vice-Chair Lou Franco’s request, Town Manager Heather Lemieux reviewed the Timeline for 
her Evaluation, which typically starts in April. The Board concurred that Town Manager 
Lemieux should do the self-evaluation prior to the Board’s input. 
 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to use the Town Manager Evaluation Form as it currently exists. 
Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed. (4-0-0). 
 
Town Manager Lemieux agreed that she can have the self-evaluation done for the 26
th. The 
Board could then address the issue in early June. Further discussion was held as to scheduling. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the timeline discussed for the Town Manager 
Evaluation. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed. (4-
0-0). 
 
===PAGE 4===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 4 of 5 
May 14, 2024 
 
 
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
The Board approved Accounts Payable Warrants in the amount of $10,000 for half of the 
previously committed ARPA Payment to the Lunenburg Food Pantry. 
 
Committee Reports 
 
Member Emkey summarized a recent meeting of the School Committee with the DPW Director 
about the retention basin in front of the High School. Also discussed were current and future 
fees, including High School parking and Pre-K fees. 
 
Member Alonzo has emailed concerned parties about scheduling for Capital Planning. 
 
Clerk Nuzzolo reported on recent Planning Board meetings; Member Franco highlighted 
upcoming events at the Council on Aging. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
May 21
st, June 4th, June 11th, June 18th 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
 
TOWN MANAGER 
No Public Comment 
 
PUBLIC 
Dave Passios, former Finance Committee member, thanked Mr. Franco for his service, and spoke 
to IT issues that are ongoing.  
 
BOARD 
Member Alonzo responded to a previous Public Comment about MUNIS software that the issue 
is not due to internal IT but is due to problems with MUNIS software and Tyler Software 
company. 
 
ADJOURN 
 
Clerk Nuzzolo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-
aye. The motion passed. (4-0-0). Meeting adjourned at 8:31PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Ellen McKenna Doiron 
Minute Clerk 
 
===PAGE 5===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 5 of 5 
May 14, 2024 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday January 13, 2026 
 
Clerk Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes of May 14, 2024. Seconded by Vice-
Chair Moore Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per 
speaker except at the discretion of the Chairperson 