===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, December 10, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda 
Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo noted that Vice-Chair Jeffreys was running a couple minutes late. Chair Nuzzolo 
informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be 
uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics may be 
discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as 
permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
 
Member Renee Emkey commented that the Salvation Army will host two boot drives this 
Saturday from 10 AM-2 PM. One in the center of town and one at the CVS intersection.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo commented that State Representatives Kushmerek and Scarsdale will be 
ringing the Salvation Army bell this Saturday from 10 AM-11AM at the Lunenburg Walmart.  
 
Public Comment 
None. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that anyone who wants to send a letter to Santa, can do so by using 
Santa’s mailbox located in the center of Town. He added that Santa’s Mailbox sends letters to the 
North Pole with sponsorship by the Lunenburg Ledger. Chair Nuzzolo also announced that there 
is a pancake breakfast tomorrow morning from 8AM-10AM at the Lunenburg Adult Activity 
Center. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
Finance Director’s Presentation Re: FY’24 Year End Financial Report 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Finance Director was unavailable tonight, so this agenda item will 
be postponed. 
 
===PAGE 2===
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
None. 
 
INTERIM TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini provided his report to the Board: 
• Interim Town Manager Terenzini taped a Talk of The Town episode with Land Use 
Director, Christopher Reilly.  Topics of the episode included the status of the Master Plan, 
the MBTA Zoning Act, and new law on Accessory Dwelling Units. 
• Still waiting on Department of Revenue to sign off on free cash. The final tax rate was set 
at $14.36 and he and anticipates tax bills will be mailed out next week. 
• Interim Town Manager Terenzini met with the representative from the Food Pantry on 
their ARPA contract and has received their redlines. He also met with the Village at Flat 
Hills representative to identify the final documents they need to submit to process the 
payment. Those documents were delivered physically today and electronically yesterday.  
He also has received Bill Bernard’s inspection report on the project.  
• Mr. Terenzini met with the owners of the property of the cemetery that was found on 
West Terrace. The property owners provided Interim Town Manager Terenzini with 
questions, and he will be pushing those out to the Historic Commission and other relevant 
parties. 
• He stated a tentative meeting has been set with Town Counsel review the potential merger 
of the APDC and Historic Commission. 
• He provided the following project updates: the Library Teen Room contract has been 
executed, and the Town Hall roof replacement and chimney restoration contract has been 
issued.  He stated he met with the Ritter building roof contractor, and he is very 
comfortable with the scope of the work and understands the scope of work. He also felt 
comfortable with his estimate but wants to go through it one more time and will provide 
his final answer tomorrow.  The DPW floor project started today, and he expects the roof 
project to start next week. 
• Most ARPA orders have been placed. Minor variations in pricing may be seen as they 
move forward.  
• Interim Town Manager Terenzini reported that the Sewer Commission meets tonight and 
subject to their action, there will be a Sewer Business Manager starting January 6
th.  
• Current Recruitments: PAC Videographer, Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager, 
Police Officer, Police Sergeant, Agricultural Commission, Architectural Preservation 
District Commission, Board of Health, Conservation Commission, Cultural Council, 
Finance Committee, Historical Commission, Library Board of Trustees, Master Plan 
Steering Committee, Personnel Committee, PACC, Stormwater Task Force, and ZBA 
• He stated there would be a flyer seeking volunteers for various boards and commissions 
going into the tax bills. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
Annual License Renewals 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read the attached list of alcohol licensees and asked if there was any discussion on 
any of the licensees (see attached).   
===PAGE 3===
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve all 2025 alcohol license renewals as read. Seconded 
by Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Auto Dealer Class 1 License Renewals 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read the attached list of Class 1, 2, and 3 Auto licensees and asked if there was 
any discussion on any of the licensees (see attached). 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to renew the 2025 Auto Dealer licenses. Seconded by Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Common Victualler Renewals 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read the attached list of Common Victualler licensees and asked if there was any 
discussion on any of the licensees (see attached). 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to renew the 2025 Common Victuallar licenses. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Limousine Licenses 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read the attached list of Limousine Licenses and asked if there was any discussion 
on any of the licensees (see attached).  Vice-Chair Jeffreys commented that based on our policy 
you have to be licensed in our town to provide the service in our town even if you don’t actually 
live in our town or have your business in our town. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the 2025 Limousine License Renewals. Seconded by 
Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Status Update and Potential Vote on ARPA Funds 
Interim Town Manager Terenzini stated that at the end of last week, they had roughly $105,000 
in ARPA funds remaining. He stated he is awaiting final roof contractor estimates for the Ritter 
Building before reallocating the remaining funds. He needs to make sure he has correctly 
accounted for all of the capital amounts that they are doing. He is not using too much ARPA 
money but is leaving enough capital money behind for contingency. He hopes to have the final 
report for the Board next Tuesday.   
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that he received status updates on some of the more recent purchases. 
Many of the purchases were authorized by Interim Town Manager Terenzini. Purchases included 
DPW equipment requests, fire department requests. Some purchases were already made such as 
the fence for the Council on Aging, along with the purchases made by the Historical Society, and 
the Boys and Girls Club.  
 
===PAGE 4===
Interim Town Manager Terenzini reported that the Food Pantry was very enthusiastic and 
conveyed their deep appreciation. Member Alonzo reported that he was at a Boys and Girls Club 
event last night and they said the same thing.  
Chair Nuzzolo requested that as items are purchased and closed out, that the Board has updates 
so that they can track this matter live. Interim Town Manager Terenzini stated that the Finance 
Director would do this as invoices are paid in Accounting and that it would be a duplicate but 
that this can be done. Chair Nuzzolo clarified with Interim Town Manager Terenzini that he 
would like to hold off on voting on the remainder for any contingency until next week. Interim 
Town Manager Terenzini confirmed stating that he wanted to feel comfortable with the numbers 
and that he hadn’t heard from the Ritter Building contractor that he met with earlier that day, and 
he doesn’t believe anything until he has ink or DocuSign on paper. 
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys commented that he thinks it would be helpful to turn this into a newspaper ad 
and publish it to the public to inform where these funds have gone so that there is awareness 
amongst the community of how these funds were committed by this Board. He added that not 
many people watch these meetings, but many people read the Ledger so if there is a way to 
convert this into an ad that can get out before the holiday season. Chair Nuzzolo and Clerk 
Amanda Moore agreed. Clerk Moore stated that she’s not sure if doing it before the holidays 
makes sense and that she would feel more comfortable waiting until everything was finalized. 
Interim Town Manager Terenzini added that they could do a report to the community which 
could become part of the Annual Town Report. Interim Town Manager Terenzini stated that this 
may be a January task. 
 
Review and Potential Vote on Lunenburg Skate Park Letter of Support 
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys drafted the Lunenburg Skate Park Letter of Support and had a colleague who 
is experienced in grants, make modifications. Vice-Chair Jeffreys read the Lunenburg Skate Park 
Letter of Support. Member Emkey had one modification which was correcting the incorrect 
spelling of her last name. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he would like to change the word 
community to town in the second sentence of the second paragraph. Vice-Chair Jeffreys asked if 
the rest of the Board was available to sign the letter of support this week. Chair Nuzzolo, Clerk 
Moore, and Member Emkey indicated they could sign it on Thursday. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the Lunenburg Skate Park Letter of Support with 
the modifications noted during their discussion. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the 
vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Review Draft of Cannabis Control Commission Host Community Agreement for Bliss 
Cannabis 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that this was not available tonight. Interim Town Manager Terenzini stated 
that Bliss Cannabis sent them some documents and will be going over those with Town Counsel 
tomorrow, subject to comments that he makes and then they will meet with Bliss again. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
Discussion on Annual Climate Survey Policy 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the rest of the Board can send notes and feedback, and he will put 
together a draft. He would like to review the draft next week or sometime in January. Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys stated that he thinks having the outline in case members are unfamiliar with a climate or 
engagement survey. He added that it is helpful to look at the existing and what he would like to 
see in this policy is not just the schedule of when they want this to come out, but also the kind of 
details of what they are looking for and a lot of that is answered by the questions that go out into 
the survey which look at a variety of different areas. Having the list of questions that came from 
the company initially before modifications were made would be helpful to see what the template 
looked like. Chair Nuzzolo added that his idea in thinking of it was that what they’re looking for 
might change year-to-year so ideally the Town Manager would draft and then they review and 
give questions that they want to add or remove. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said that it should tie into 
Town Manager evaluation in terms of some of this because there is a level of inappropriateness if 
they go out and directly engage with Department Heads and ask them what they think of their 
boss. He suggested having a neutral survey that captures the information, and they can pair it into 
the Town Manager evaluation.  
 
Member Alonzo stated that most of this should go to the Towns HR person and that is where 
most of the decision should be made. He added that the Board should be able to review what 
they’re going to do but he is not sure about how much input the Board should have. Chair 
Nuzzolo suggested inviting the HR Director in to discuss this when they talk about it next. 
 
Discussion on Select Board and Town Manager Goal-Setting Process 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated the idea of doing quarterly check ins on goals throughout the year and give 
progress updates. Vice-Chair Jeffreys talked about getting an update on the capital plan every 
other month. He added that goal setting could be time-consuming, and they must be careful 
about creating a process that no one has time to implement. He said that an alignment of goals 
would be helpful to help things happen. Clerk Moore added that there are several communities 
that start with their Town Manager and Select Board goal setting and then employees work with 
their Department Heads to set goals, but it is tied to their pay. Member Alonzo stated that most 
people working in departments in whatever role have a running list of things they need to do so 
the goals should be self-determined throughout the year rather than coming up with goals in one 
point of time. He added that the Town Manager should be working with the Department Heads 
all year around about what things should be on the horizon. Vice-Chair Jeffreys discussed the 
challenges of goals for when a new member joins a Board as they may need to get acclimated 
and determine their own goals. Member Emkey stated that goals are not static, they evolve, and 
one goal may not make sense because something else came up that’s higher priority. Chair 
Nuzzolo suggested a mid-year check in and potential realignment of goals could be worthwhile.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
Action Re: Vacating Final Judgement #17TL001765 (Land Court) 
 Chair Nuzzolo stated that they discussed this last week, and they just need an updated motion. 
 
===PAGE 6===
As provided under Mass general laws Chapter 60 § 69, I, Caesar Nuzzolo, hereby move to 
vacate the final judgement entered on August 18th, 2023, in Massachusetts land court tax 
lean foreclosure case number 17TL001765 Town of Lunenburg v. Joseph Edwin Brogna 
and Kevin M. Brogna covering the property located at 14 Sunset Avenue Lunenburg 
Massachusetts, Accessors parcel 112-034-00-00, on the condition that the Town receives 
payment of all amounts due to redeem the tax taking covering a property which include but 
are not limited to taxes and interest to the date payment is received by the town, all charges 
and fees associated with the foreclosure case, all tazes and interest in lieu of an assessment 
as a result of the Town’s ownership, all water and sewer charges incurred prior to and 
subsequent to the entry of the foreclosure judgement, and any costs incurred by the town 
while in the care, custody, and control of the property after the entry of the foreclosure 
judgement. The Town must receive payment in full within 14 days starting from the day 
after the Select Board vote. Upon payment to the town of the full redemption, the Town will 
take the necessary action to vacate the foreclosure judgement and withdraw the foreclosure 
case in the Massachusetts land court and issue and record an instrument of redemption. 
Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(5-0-0). 
 
Action Re: Sell or Hold 531 Reservoir Rd; 56 Carr Avenue 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that these are properties entering into the foreclosure process and as he 
understands it, there was a change in state law so Select Board now must decide if as the Town if 
they want to withhold these properties of if they want to sell them. He stated the new law, 
Chapter 140 of the Acts of 2024.  
 
Interim Town Manager Terenzini explained that this is a new law, and it speaks about the right of 
communities to keep value in excess taxes that were owed. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that 56 
Carr Avenue has a lot of value and thinks there is a lot of value to the community in holding the 
11 acres, whereas he does not see the value in the municipality holding 531 Reservoir Road. 
Chair Nuzzolo agreed with Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Member Alonzo stated that he would like to 
know more about the property before they make a decision. Vice-Chair Jeffreys added that 
property cards would be helpful, along with staff having the ability to take photos. Chair 
Nuzzolo stated that the Board is going to hold off on this until next week. 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Regular Session Minutes for December 19, 2023; January 9, 2024 
Member Alonzo suggested revision to a Board comment for the spelling of an individual’s name 
and added that they should include the individual’s last name. He also suggested correcting page 
numbers. Chair Nuzzolo ensured he would let Annie know of this revision. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the meeting minutes of December 19, 2023. 
Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(5-0-0). 
 
Warrants 
• Accounts payable warrant in the amount of $514,353.  
===PAGE 7===
• Accounts payable warrant in the amount of $150,048. 
 
Action Items 
Clerk Moore indicated an action item of looking into the idea of and pricing of an agenda and 
minute software. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
School Committee: Member Emkey reported that the Committee met last week. 
Town Manager Screening Committee: Member Alonzo reported that the committee meets 
tomorrow and Thursday for three interviews each day. Following interviews on Thursday, 
discussion on all interviews and potentially have a list to provide to the Select Board. 
 
Economic Development Committee: Clerk Moore reported that the committee is still 
tentatively meeting next week. 
 
Master Plan Steering Committee: Clerk Moore reported that public meeting number five was 
not posted for the open meeting law so some of the committee members were not able to attend 
or were advised not to attend so that they did not violate open meeting law. There was back and 
forth conversation and a member resigned because of it. The committee has been experiencing  
challenges with a quorum. 
 
Municipal Building Design Committee: Vice-Chair Jeffreys reported that the Committee 
proposed for PACC to be located at the TC Passios building. Facilities Director attended the 
Municipal Building Design Committee meeting last week and vocalized concerns about the 
boiler system at the TC Passios building and whether it would get through the winter without 
significant need for repair. Conversation was had with PACC about what their minimum space 
needs are. Vice-Chair Jeffreys reported that he intends to discuss integrating PACC into the plans 
with the Municipal Building Design Committee. Conversations will need to be had about 
whether PACC can be accommodated, and some of the challenges with PACC’s studio space 
requirements is that they have no interest being in the Town Hall because of the sounds it makes, 
and they also have concerns about being collocated with phones ringing, people talking, break 
rooms, etc. 
 
300
th Anniversary Committee: Chair Nuzzolo reported that the committee unofficially met last 
night and there was a lot of discussion about events and merchandise that they could do for that. 
The first official meeting will be April 28
th. Chair Nuzzolo added that there was a lot of 
discussion about how the committee doesn’t want to be the authority over events and 
celebrations that happen, and they want to encourage other committees, boards, groups of people 
to plan things. The organization sees themselves being the committee that’s going to coordinate 
all of it. Vice-Chair Jeffreys commented that he hears what Chair Nuzzolo is saying, but he 
wondered if the committee would be doing outreach to look for activities. Chair Nuzzolo 
clarified that they will be doing outreach, and will be planning many events, but they just want 
other groups to know if they have ideas and they want to organize it, then they are free to do so. 
 
Council On Aging: Chair Nuzzolo reported that the Council met this morning and had a brief 
meeting where they had a celebration party for the outgoing Council on Aging Director Sue. 
===PAGE 8===
Chair Nuzzolo added that he met with the new Council On Aging Director, Deb, who seems to 
be terrific and he is looking forward to working with her. 
 
Planning Board: Chair Nuzzolo reported that the board met last night but he did not have a 
chance to watch it. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULED 
December 17
th; January 7th 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Interim Town Manager 
Interim Town Manager Terenzini commented that depending on the good work from the Town 
Manager Screening Committee on Wednesday and Thursday night, John Petrin is tentatively 
scheduled to come before the Board next week to provide information on where all that is headed 
and ask how the Board wants to proceed with their final interview. He asked if the moderator 
should come with John and Member Alonzo stated that he would relay that request. 
 
Public 
Dave MacDonald thanked the Board for all that they have been doing during the busy Christmas 
season. He also thanked PACC TV for the new sound system. Mr. MacDonald wished Fred and 
Mario Patacchiola a happy birthday and that he is proud to live in a town that has these two very 
respected men. He added that Chair Nuzzolo did a great job with the Christmas tree lighting the 
other night and that there were a lot of kids there who brough letters to the mailbox. He informed 
the Board that Santa will be at the Town Center this Saturday 10AM-12PM to take photos with 
children and to check on the mailbox and he invited the Board to come down to see Santa. Mr. 
MacDonald thanked Chief Sullivan and Chief Thibodeau for ringing the Salvation Army bell 
next Saturday at Walmart from 9AM-11AM.  
 
Board 
Member Alonzo thanked Chair Nuzzolo for his work with the tree lighting. He thanked the 
people in the band who provided the music and the fire department for bringing Santa there. He 
added about potentially spending $500 in ARPA funds to get an amplified speaker system.  
 
ADJOURN 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys moved to Adjourn. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: 
Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:17 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Lauren Menard 
Minute Clerk 
 
 
===PAGE 9===
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 1, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from December 3, 2024. Seconded 
by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed 
(4-0-1). 
 
===PAGE 10===
 2025 Alcohol License Renewals
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
A B C D E
449 Corporation Lakeview Club 449 Whalom Road General On Premises-All Alcohol $1,450.00
Aayan Corporation Hilltop Farms 1 Main St. Package Store- Wine & Malt $700.00
American Graffiti, Inc. American Graffiti 113 Summer Street Restaurant-All Alcohol $1,450.00
Central Mass Garden Center Central Mass Gardens 621 Chase Road Package Store- Wine & Malt $700.00
Embers Lounge & Restaurant LLC Embers Pizzeria 84 Lakefront Drive Restaurant All Alcohol $1,450.00
Genghis Inc. Jaxx Country Variety 1353 Massachusetts Ave. Package Store- All Alcohol $1,450.00
Global Montello Group Corp. Honey Farms #3829 134 Leominster Shirley Rd. Package Store- Wine & Malt $700.00
Il Forno Lunenburg Bar Inc. Il Forno Lunenburg Bar 494 Electric Avenue Restaurant- All Alchohol $1,450.00
Jiang Jun Lou, Inc. Asian Imperial 5 Electric Avenue Restaurant All Alcohol $1,450.00
Bedrock Builders LLC Bedrock Bar and Grill 324 Electric Ave Restaurant All Alcohol $1,450.00
Lake Front Beverage Inc. On The Rocks 96 Lakefront Drive Restaurant All Alcohol $1,450.00
Lanni Orchards Inc. Lanni Orchards 294 Chase Road Package Store-Wine & Malt $700.00
Lunenburg Zeda's Inc. Bad Larry's 1 Main St. #4 Restaurant- All Alcohol $1,450.00
Mahant Baker's Variety Inc. Baker's Whalom Variety 423 Electric Avenue Package Store-Wine & Malt $700.00
Red Pepper, Inc. Ixtapa Cantina 308 Massachusetts Avenue Restaurant- All Alcohol $1,450.00
Sarjudas LLC Lunenburg Liquors 433 Electric Avenue Package Store- All Alcohol $1,450.00
Settler's Crossing Enterprises Inc. Settlers Pub 994 Northfield Road General On Premises-All Alcohol $1,450.00
Smokestack Roasters LLC Smokestack Roasters 39 Massachusetts Ave Restaurant- Wine & Malt $700.00
Victory Distributors LLC Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388 333 Massachusetts Ave Package Store- All Alcohol $1,450.00
Lunenburg Liquor Mart Inc Liquor Mart 88 Massachusetts Ave Package Store- All Alcohol $1,450.00
===PAGE 11===
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
A B C
2025 AUTO DEALER RENEWALS Fee $100.00 
CLASS I
NAME DBA ADDRESS
COLONIAL IMPORTS, INC NORTH END SUBARU 757 CHASE ROAD
COLONIAL IMPORTS WEST INC. NORTH END MAZDA 747-753 CHASE ROAD
RECREATIONAL DIMENSIONS INC. CENTRAL MASS POWER SPORTS 19 MASSACHUSETTS AVE.
JOE SMALLEY AUTO SALES, INC. DAEWOO NORTH 30 SUMMER STREET
CLASS II
NAME DBA ADDRESS
CAROL & HENRY BAKER BAKER'S TOWING 421 ELECTRIC AVENUE
K B AGYEMAN K B CARS LLC 555 CHASE ROAD
MASS AVE. MOTORS INC MASS AVE MOTORS INC 381 MASSACHUSETTS AVE
JOHN V. GOGUEN J G SERVICE 346 ELECTRIC AVENUE
COLONIAL IMPORTS INC NORTH END SUBARU 44 CHASE ROAD
MICHAEL R. & ROBERT C. LOVEWELL R C MOTORS 9 KIRBY AVE & 480 ELECTRIC AVE
MICHAEL BARTNOWSKI K C SALES AND SERVICES LLC 1312 MASSACHUSETTS AVE.
CHAPDELAINE TRUCK CENTER INC. CHAPDELAINE TRUCK CENTER 199 MASSACHUSETTS AVE.
JACK NASSIF ENTERPRISES INC. J & E AUTO SALES 383 WHALOM ROAD
CLASS III
NAME DBA ADDRESS
MICHAEL CHAPDELAINE CHAPDELAINE AUTO SALVAGE RR 199 MASSACHUSETTS AVE. 
===PAGE 12===
LICENSEE NAME DBA ADDRESS Fee
449 Corporation Lakeview Club 449 Whalom Road $25.00
Aayan Corporation Hilltop Farms 1 Main St.  $25.00
American Graffiti, Inc. American Graffiti 113 Summer Street $25.00
BBK Group, LLC White Thai Cuisine 177 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
Embers Lounge & Restaurant LLC Embers Pizzeria 84 Lakefront Street $25.00
Genghis Inc. Jaxx Country Variety 1353 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
Global Montello Group Corp. Honey Farms #3829 134 Leominster Shirley Road $25.00
IL Forno Restaurant Inc. Il Forno Restaurant & Catering 494 Electric Avenue $25.00
Jiang Jun Lou Inc. Asian Imperial 5 Electric Ave. $25.00
Konrad Café Inc. Dippin Donuts 455 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
Lake Front Beverage Inc. On the Rocks 96 Lakefront Ave. $25.00
Lanni Orchards Inc Lanni Orchards 294 Chase Road $25.00
Lunenburg Zedas Inc. Bad Larry's 1 Main Street # 4 $25.00
Mahant Baker's Variety Inc. Bakers Whalom Variety 423 Electric Avenue $25.00
Presto Pizza Inc. Presto Pizza 429 Electric Avenue $25.00
Red Pepper Inc. Ixtapa Cantina 308 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
Settlers Crossing Enterprises Inc. Settlers Pub 994 Northfield Road $25.00
Smokestack Roasters LLC Smokestack Roasters 39 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
Victory Distributors LLC Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388 333 Massachusetts Ave. $25.00
White Farm Ltd. Cherry Hill Ice Cream 826 Leominster Road $25.00
Yatim Central Convenience Lunenburg Lunenburg Gulf 451 Mass. Ave. $25.00
Bedrock Builders, LLC Bedrock Bar and Grill 324 Electric Ave. $25.00
Lunenburg Liquor Mart Inc. Liquor Mart 88 Mass. Ave. $25.00
===PAGE 13===
 2025 LIMOUSINE LICENSE
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
A B C D
FIRST CHOICE LIMOUSINE & FIRST CHOICE LIMOUSINE 55 CHASE ROAD $25.00
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE INC. 
THOMAS L. CROUNSE LLOYD'S LIMOUSINE SERVICE P O BOX 502 $25.00