===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, March 12, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco(Via Zoom), Member 
Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo, Member Tom Alonzo 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
Member Renee Emkey stated that she has questions regarding the budget and will wait until the 
agenda item to ask her questions.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board is aware of the outpouring of concerns and support for the 
School override ballot question. Chair Jeffreys stated that at the last Board meeting, the Board 
informally agreed to add a placeholder for a School override. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board 
will discuss this further later in the meeting.  
 
Public Comment 
Sarah Cammer: 304 Lancaster Avenue: described the education her child receives in the Town’s 
school system. Ms. Cammer stated that she is concerned with prior budgetary limitations of the 
School budget and potential for additional staffing cuts. Ms. Cammer stated that she is 
disappointed in the Board’s opinions regarding the proposed School override. 
 
Laura Brzozoski, 21 Francis Avenue: stated that she is speaking as a resident, not as a member of 
the School Committee. Ms. Brzozoski requested that the Board put the School override on the 
Town Meeting warrant, and a municipal ballot question, while voicing support for the two 
initiatives. Ms. Brzozoski described the public education system in the Town as a cornerstone of 
democracy. 
 
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road: stated that she serves as the President of the Lunenburg 
Education Association. Ms. Foyle stated that the School district has not had adequate funding for 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
over 20 years. Ms. Foyle described the lack of maintenance in school facilities. Ms. Foyle stated 
that the School district is understaffed due to low salaries compared to other districts. 
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road: stated that she is not in support of the School district 
override. Ms. Lisio stated that she has concerns about higher property taxes due to the proposed 
override. Ms. Lisio stated that the School district has significant costs due to transportation. Ms. 
Lisio stated that she believes that the number of students in special education programs is too 
high, and she said it needs to be cut. 
 
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street: stated that he is speaking as a lifelong resident of Lunenburg. 
Mr. Passios stated that he has been concerned about unsustainable School budgets for the past 
decades. Mr. Passios stated that more financially conservative choices could have been 
implemented in the past 15 years that would have limited budget overrides. Mr. Passios stated 
that the Town’s budget has been conservative for the past decade. 
 
Mandy Gilman, 186 Reservoir Road: thanked the Board for engaging with residents regarding 
the proposed School budget override. 
 
APPOINTMENTS 
 
7:15 PM Lunenburg Skate Park Update 
Aidan Moore, 51 Wildwood Road: stated that he is the only member of the skate park initiative 
who was able to attend the meeting. Mr. Moore described his interest and identifying the need for 
a skate park in Lunenburg. Mr. Moore stated that some land was donated for a skate park. Mr. 
Moore stated that dozens of fundraisers occurred to secure funding for the park. Mr. Moore 
stated that national media outlets covered their story. Mr. Moore stated that their non-profit has 
raised more than $330,000 to fund the project. Mr. Moore described the demographic changes in 
the population of Lunenburg. Mr. Moore stated that he distributed a community survey and 
received 400 responses, the vast majority of them being positive. Mr. Moore described the design 
plans for the park, which include experienced and beginner areas. Mr. Moore stated that the right 
of entry agreement and the state park builder contract are 90% complete. Mr. Moore stated that 
the anticipated groundbreaking is in the Summer 2024. 
 
Vice-Chair Lou Franco stated that he has been following the project for several years and is in 
support of the project. Member Emkey echoed Vice-Chair Franco’s sentiments. Chair Jeffreys 
congratulated and thanked Mr. Moore and others for their efforts regarding this project. 
 
7:30 PM Tax Classification Hearing as required by M.G.L. Ch.40 § 56 on allocation of the 
local property tax levy among the four classes of real and personal property 
 
Board of Assessors Chair Brian Laffond called the Board of Assessors meeting to order at 7:30 
PM. 
 
Members Present: Chair Brian Laffond, Member Sarah Cammer, Member John Rabbitt 
 
Mr. Laffond stated that the Board of Assessors main goal since September 2023 was to restore 
trust with the taxpayers of Lunenburg. 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
 
Mr. Laffond stated that the Board of Assessors have worked with Mike Tarello from Vision and 
has reviewed every property in the community. Mr. Laffond said that they have put together a 
data collection manual focusing on the factors for every piece of property in the community. He 
stated that a master file has been created for the 2023 abatements. He stated that during the 
public disclosure period there were eight parcels that were changed. Mr. Laffond stated that Ms. 
Cammer has created the “how to reach your vision property card”. Mr. Laffond stated that the 
Board of Assessors is wrapping up the 5-year revaluation process that is required by the State. 
 
Mr. Laffond stated that Nate Kramer of Municipal Financial Services will provide a presentation 
for the Tax Classification Hearing.  
 
Mr. Kramer described what his presentation will include four areas of focus; (1) select a single or 
split tax rate; (2) whether to adopt an open space discount (3) whether to adopt a residential tax 
exemption (4) whether to adopt a small commercial exemption.  
 
Mr. Kramer stated that between FY2023 and FY2024 the following value changes based on 
sales; single-family waterfront increased by 10-14%, single-family non-waterfront increased 6%, 
Condos increased 30%, Multi-family increased up to 30%, Commercial/industrial increased 6-
8%, and Personal property increased 17%. Mr. Laffond stated that the waterfront figures are after 
abatements, he said that if FY2023 values were used as they were assessed, waterfront areas are 
decreasing by 11%-31%, depending on the neighborhood. 
 
Mr. Kramer stated that the market is increasing due to record-low mortgage interest rates in 
2022. Mr. Kramer said that despite high interest rates currently, the demand is still high. 
 
Mr. Kramer stated that FY2023 Levy Limit is $424,043,723, Plus 2.5%: $701,093, Plus New 
Growth: $630,220 
 
Mr. Kramer stated that the FY2024 levy limit is $29,375,036, Debt Exclusion: $2,477,704, 
FY2024 Maximum Allowable Levy: $31,852,740 
 
Vice-Chair Franco asked for clarification as to why the Town doesn’t normally have two 
different tax rates. Mr. Kramer stated that not until commercial and industrial approaches 20% of 
the tax base does it make sense to have two different tax rates. Mr. Kramer stated that the 
benefits of the residential taxes are going to be outweighed by the potential for disincentivizing 
commercial, which may cause residential tax rates to rise. Mr. Tarello stated that the Town is 
currently 97% residential.  
 
Member Emkey requests more information about the small commercial exemption. Mr. 
Tarello stated that the Town is allowed to exempt up to 10% of the property valuation for 
owner-occupied businesses with 10 or fewer employees and a valuation of less than $1 million. 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
Member Emkey asked for an explanation about the increase in condominiums. Mike Tarello 
stated that each condo or condo complex is treated as its own valuation neighborhood because 
every condo complex is built at a different time, could be a different style, and different quality. 
Mr. Tarello stated that condo complexes are looked at individually. 
 
Chair Jeffreys asked if the Board has reviewed the detailed FY2023 values and 
compared them to FY2024 values to look for outliers. Mr. Laffond stated that the evaluation 
of the FY2024 values includes the FY2023 values as well as the rate of change from FY2023 to 
FY2024. Mr. Laffond stated that the Board of Assessors presented median averages. 
 
Member Jeffreys asked for an explanation of what certain terms mean related to means and 
medians. Mr. Laffond stated that to find the mean average, you add them all up and divide them 
by the number you have. He said that the median takes all numbers and ranks them to find the 
midpoint. Mr. Laffond stated that this eliminates the impact of those outliers at the top and the 
bottom. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Town needs a commercial tax base and is unsure if the Town should 
be exempting them from any taxes. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Town needs a residential tax 
base, and he believes the Town cannot afford to have an exemption from any taxes. Chair 
Jeffreys stated that there is a significant number of people who have placed their properties under 
open space protection. Chair Jeffreys stated that he does not want commercial businesses to flee 
Lunenburg. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to adopt a single tax rate for the Town of Lunenburg and to take 
no action on a discount for open space, a discount for residential exemptions, or a discount 
for commercial exemptions. Seconded by 
Member Emkey. 
 
Motion was amended by Chair Jeffreys to include $14.10 as the single tax rate. Seconded by 
Member Emkey. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- 
Aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
Presentation from Board of Assessors on Proposed Annual Town Meeting article for 
changing M.G.L. Ch. 59 §5 Clause 41C Low Income Senior Tax Exemption from 70 to 65 
years or older 
 
Chair Jeffreys clarified that the Board of Assessors propose a warrant article to change the low-
income senior tax exemption from 70 to 65 years old. 
 
Mr. Laffond Board of Assessor Member stated that the Board of Assessors found modifications 
that could potentially help elderly property owners. Mr. Laffond stated that as the Chair of the 
Board of Assessors, he allowed the Board of Assessors to investigate and evaluate an article 
warrant to make modifications to 41C. Mr. Laffond stated that it is not within the purview of the 
Board of Assessors. Mr. Laffond stated that the modifications should have been brought to the 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
Council on Aging. Mr. Laffond stated that the proposed change of 41C would cost $2,500 to the 
Town. Mr. Laffond stated that it would cost every residence $0.57 a year. Mr. Laffond suggests 
that the cost could be absorbed from the current overlay. 
 
Motion by 
Mr. Laffond to absorb the recommended change within the current overlay 
Seconded by Ms. Cammer. Call for the vote: Three-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-
0-0) 
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to accept the request as submitted and to provide Town Counsel 
the ability to modify the language of the article. Seconded by Member Emkey. Roll Call 
Vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
Vice-Chair Franco stated that he would have supported the request for an additional $10,000 if it 
had been brought forward to raise the exemption to an additional $250. Chair Jeffreys and 
Member Emkey agreed.  
 
Chair Jeffreys requests that the Board of Assessors bring forward both options to the Select 
Board. 
 
Mr. Laffond moved to adjourn. Seconded by Ms. Cammer. Call for the vote: Three- Aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
The Town Manager stated that the warrant for the Annual Town Meeting is currently open for 
article submissions until March 18, 2024, at 4:00 p.m. The Town Manager stated that the Annual 
Town Meeting is scheduled for Saturday, May 4, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there is one vacancy in the Architectural Preservation District 
Commission, one vacancy until the Annual Town Election for the Cemetery Commission, one 
vacancy on the Council on Aging, two associate member vacancies in the Green Communities 
Committee, one Member-At-Large vacancy for the Open Space Committee, and one vacancy on 
the Personnel Committee.  
 
The Town Manager described the available employment opportunities with the Town. The Town 
Manager stated that there is a Conservation Administrative Assistant position for 10 hours a 
week, Facilities Custodian for 40 hours a week, Land Use Director for 40 hours a week, Planning 
Board Administrative Assistant for 36 hours a week, seasonal Cemetery Laborers and Seasonal 
Lifeguards, and a temporary Administrative Assessing Assistant for 32 hours a week.  
 
The Town Manager stated that as part of her annual goals, she had a site visit on March 7, 2024, 
with MassDevelopment, BETA Group regarding the real estate technical assistance project at the 
site on Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
The Town Manager stated that the Town received three bids in response to the road maintenance 
IFB. She said that PJ Keating was awarded the bid. She stated that the bid was approximately 
$127,000 lower than the estimated budget. The Town Manager stated that an RFQ for 
Owners/Project Managers Services for Marshall Park is due tomorrow. The Town Manager 
stated that an IFB for the Flat Hill Culvert Project is due March 27, 2024. The Town Manager 
stated that an IFB for cleaning services in Town buildings is due April 4, 2024. 
 
The Town Manager notified Town officials and staff that the FY2024 new growth was approved 
at $630,220. The Town Manager stated that in the Fall 2023, it was projected that no new 
buildings or additions were expected at that time. The Town Manager described the conservative 
estimate of new growth over the year. The Town Manager stated that any new growth funds 
would go towards covering the School budget.  
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discuss Environmental Policies and Select Board By-laws 
The item was tabled. 
 
2. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles 
The Town Manager stated that the only new Annual Town Meeting warrant article that was 
submitted is by the Cemetery Commission for the sale of cemetery lots to appropriate funds from 
that account. Town Manager Lemieux stated that this article is an annual article. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the School Committee submitted an article to raise and 
appropriate or transfer from Free Cash a sum of $82,119.00 to pay for network security upgrades 
at Lunenburg Public Schools. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that a placeholder on the warrant for the school district override has been 
made. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board informally agreed at the last meeting to add the 
override to the warrant and as a ballot question. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board and the 
School Committee will meet at the end of March to go over the language of the override. Town 
Manager Lemieux recommended that Town Counsel attend the meeting to answer any questions. 
 
Motion by Vice-
Chair Franco to suspend the Board’s policy regarding the requirement for a 
60-day notice before putting a question on the Town ballot. Seconded by Member Emkey. 
Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
Member Emkey stated that this is her first time as a Board member reviewing the Town and 
School budget. She stated that she has attended every School Committee and Finance Committee 
meeting regarding the budget. Member Emkey stated that she appreciated the efforts of all the 
committee members. She stated that in the Tax Classification Hearing, it was discussed that 
13.5% of residential properties are expected to see a 20% or more increase in their assessed 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
values. She stated that it doesn’t include the proposed School override. Member Emkey stated 
that there are a lot of residents who are unaware of what a budget override entails. Member 
Emkey stated that a larger long-term budget projection for the Town and School budget is needed 
in the future.   
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. Discuss Environmental Policies and Select Board By-laws 
The item was tabled.  
 
2. Review List of Upcoming Vacancies in Boards/Committees for FY25 
The item was tabled. 
 
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $355,054.87. Accounts Payable warrant in the 
amount of $699,281.70. Payroll warrant in the amount of $985,077.55. 
 
Action Items 
Member Emkey requested that at the next Select Board meeting, discuss ARPA funding to cover 
cybersecurity upgrades for the School district so that the funding doesn’t have to come from Free 
Cash. She said that if a discussion could occur regarding using Chapter 90 funds to upgrade and 
improve sidewalks at schools instead of using ARPA funding.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Vice-Chair Franco stated that he was not able to attend a Council on Aging meeting, and he said 
that he will receive a debrief from the Chair of the Council on Aging shortly. Vice-Chair Franco 
stated that there is a Pancake Breakfast at the Senior Center tomorrow.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board will meet on March 19, 2024, and a tentative meeting on 
March 26, 2024, to discuss the school override language.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
The Town Manager stated that the Parks Commission received a notification on a successful 
PARC grant award to fund renovations at Marshall Park. Chair Jeffreys stated that $2.5 million 
has been awarded from other sources that are not directly paid by Lunenburg taxpayers. Town 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 12, 2024 
Manager Lemieux stated that the plan is to bring the Marshall Park renovations to Fall Town 
Meeting this year.  
 
Public Comment 
Sibyl Kaufman, 27 Oak Avenue: stated that the override language is 2-3 sentences on the 
warrant. She stated she appreciates Member Emkey’s remarks about cooperation with other 
committees. She stated that she would like the Board to publicly support voting for a School 
override.  
 
Board Comment 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board received several emails and comments regarding the School 
override. Chair Jeffreys commented that respecting other people’s viewpoints is critical for local 
democracy.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Emkey moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Franco. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco- Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-
0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:32 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from March 12, 2024. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 
 
 
 