===PAGE 1===
 
Page 1 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday February 13, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo (via Zoom), Member 
Tom Alonzo, Member Renee Emkey,  
Member Absent: Vice-Chair Lou Franco 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager and Adam Costa, Town Counsel 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle – commented that he has sent numerous emails and texts but 
not received any response. He added that the Home Owner’s Association is dysfunctional and 
was concerned that the 9” of snow was not the town’s responsibility.  Chair Jeffreys stated that 
Mr. Burden is welcome to meet with the Board to discuss his concerns.  
 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street- thanked the Board for giving him time to speak. He noted that 
Chair Jeffreys communicated with Nancy Yasko (Cemetery Commission) on 8/17/23 and that 
Nancy contacted Town Counsel on her own, without going through the Town Manager. Further 
he stated that the Cemetery Commission has no superintendence, maintenance and management 
powers—these are reserved for the Town Manager and DPW Director.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Town Manager Lemieux gave the following announcement: 
• Annual Town Meeting Warrant is open now until March 18th at 4pm. Articles should be 
submitted to the Select Board office  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Discussion & Vote on ARPA funding request of $2,500 from Economic Development 
Committee – Chair Jeffreys reported that he has been working with the Economic Opportunity 
Committee and asked Joeci Gilcrest to make her presentation. Joeci, representing the 1st 
Middlesex District Economic and Community Development Collaborative, stated they are being 
asked to contribute $1,200 for development of the Collaborative Website. The amount had been 
===PAGE 2===
 
Page 2 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
re-estimated from the original $2,500. This website will be the hub for area rural towns to 
display information that will lead to economic development and growth. They are still in the 
stage of gathering estimates for building the website. Chair Jeffreys noted that smaller towns 
experience a hardship in amplifying their needs and identifying what each has to offer for 
community activities and business. Joeci replied that this website would offer a central hub to 
display all this information and she will come back with more information as she gets it. They 
are working on a logo, mission statement and the website. Member Alonzo asked for a written 
proposal when it is available. Member Nuzzolo inquired about the figure for available ARPA 
funds and Chair Jeffreys replied that there is $58 K plus the $101K in interest. The Board 
welcomed the proposal but did not vote. 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATION 
• Public Hearing on Conrad’s Drive-In, 835 Massachusetts Avenue for Denial of 
License: no one present –tabled to later in the meeting.  
 
• Limousine License Application- George Kharialla d/b/a MediGo Transportation 
LLC, 313 Reservoir Road: Mr. Kharialla proposed starting a non-emergency medical 
transportation company to lessen the calls for ambulance transfers and is applying for a 
limousine license. His company would also be open for transporting people to do errands 
such as grocery shopping. He presently works in the ER at Leominster Hospital and has 
set up liability insurance. Member Emkey cautioned that he would need to set boundaries 
on the degree of medical conditions handled and Mr. Kharialla replied that he would deny 
any ER requests. They would transport in surrounding towns and he will check on license 
requirements for those towns. To start, they will use 2 four door vehicles and would like 
to add wheelchair accessible vans later. Chair Jeffreys stated he would suggest approval, 
conditional on proof of insurance and urged Mr. Kharialla to contact the building 
inspector about the number of vehicles he can have at a residence before needing a 
commercial location.  
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the limousine license application for George 
Kharialla d/b/a MediGo Transportation LLC, 313 Reservoir Road, conditional on 
him providing us proof of insurance and liability and all other insurances required 
by the limousine policy as stated. Seconded by Member Emkey. Roll Call Vote: 
Clerk Nuzzolo-aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo-aye and Chair Jeffreys-
aye. Motion passed. (4-0-0) The Board will sign and hold until insurance proof is 
provided. 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Executive Assistant to Town 
Manager/Select Board, Annie Aubrey: The Town Manager detailed the application process 
which yielded 5 interviews. Annie Aubrey has been the Assistant to the Planning Board and was 
the best fit. In the absence of a Land Use Director, she has been keeping that office going. Chair 
===PAGE 3===
 
Page 3 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
Jeffreys noted that Annie has demonstrated the ability to work well with the public and the Board 
is happy to see the job filled internally. 
Motion by Chair Jeffreys to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Executive Assistant 
to the Town Manager/Select Board of Annie Aubrey. Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Roll 
Call Vote: Clerk Nuzzolo-aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo-aye and Chair 
Jeffreys-aye. Motion passed. (4-0-0) Heather Lemieux stated the appointment will go into 
effect immediately and they will advertise for the Assistant to the Planning Board position. 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATION 
• Meeting with DPW Director and Town Counsel to review and vote on Flat Hill Road 
Order of Takings for Flat Hill Road Culvert project: Bill Bernard DPW Director 
reported they are getting ready to advertise the project for the Flat Hill Bridge over the 
Catacoonamug Brook at Lake Shirley. They need to move the utility poles and lines 
upstream 10 feet and requires easements, in order to bring a crane in for the project. 
Town Counsel referenced the map showing the easements and added that Bill was 
successful in getting 2 of the 4 property owners to do voluntary conveyances. He did not 
have success with the 3rd property and the 4th property is subject to a mortgage which 
would be complicated. He is proposing an order of taking for 890 & 914 Flat Hill Road-
areas 1 and 3. Mr. Costa explained the wording for the vote and noted the rates for 
compensation to property owners based on appraisals – 890 Flat Hill Rd.- $3,000 and 914 
Flat Hill Rd- $2,100 for easement awards. His office will contact those residents.  
Motion made by Chair Jeffreys that the Select Board acquire by eminent domain 
for the necessary health and welfare of the inhabitants of Lunenburg for municipal 
purposes, specifically for improvements to the bridge on Flat Hill Road over the 
Catacoonamug Brook, as authorized by Article 10 of Lunenburg Special Town 
Meeting of November 16, 2021 and that it further authorize the Board’s Chair, 
Michael Ray Jeffreys, to execute and enter into any and all documents necessary to 
effectuate the acquisition of the following property: a temporary easement located 
at 890 Flat Hill Road, Lunenburg, Massachusetts, depicted as temp. easement #3 
area about 1,803 sq. ft. and a permanent easement located at 890 Flat Hill Road, 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts, depicted as perm. easement # 3, area about 667 sq. ft. on 
the plan entitled “Easement Plan of Land of Lunenburg, Massachusetts”, prepared 
by VHB, Inc. comprised of 2 total sheets dated January 6, 2023 and to be recorded 
with Worcester North District Registry of Deeds, together with the order of taking 
and a temporary easement located at 914 Flat Hill Road, Lunenburg, 
Massachusetts, depicted as temp. easement # 1 area about 1,104 sq. ft. and a 
permanent easement located at 914 Flat Hill Road, Lunenburg, Massachusetts, 
depicted as perm. easement # 1, area about 81 sq. ft. on the plan entitled “Easement 
Plan of Land of Lunenburg, Massachusetts”, prepared by VHB, Inc. comprised of 2 
total sheets dated January 6, 2023, and to be recorded with Worcester North District 
Registry of Deeds, together with the order of taking and that still further, the Board 
award damages for said eminent domain takings in the total amount of $5,100.00 to 
===PAGE 4===
 
Page 4 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
the affected record owners of said land, the amount per record of owner being 
specified in aforementioned order of taking.  
Seconded by Member Alonzo. Discussion: Member Alonzo asked why there were 
irregular shapes on the map and Bill Bernard stated that is where the telephone poles are 
being moved back. 
Roll Call Vote: Clerk Nuzzolo-aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo-aye and 
Chair Jeffreys-aye. Motion passed. (4-0-0). The Board signed the sheets. 
 
• Meeting with Village at Flat Hill Trustees to discuss and review Stormwater 
Maintenance Plan: Chair Jeffreys noted that this is a discussion of the Flat Hill Road 
and Page Street drainage. Wayne Gariepy, 32 Cortland Circle (also Flat Hill Trustee) 
stated they want to get permission from the Conservation Commission to do the 
maintenance dredging on the retention pond. After the work is done, they will ask the 
Engineer, contracted by the town, to check the work and make further arrangements. 
They will be contracting with Powell Stone & Gravel for the dredging after receiving 
permission from Conservation. Mr. Gariepy added that the Trustees were looking for 
assurance that the town will not use this opportunity to add more requirements. Member 
Alonzo mentioned the possibility of water getting into the pipes. Mr. Gariepy replied that 
after the engineer makes his conclusions, they can address that issue. Member Emkey 
suggested asking the engineer for a scope of work and Mr. Gariepy stated they would be 
open to that.  
Chris St. Germain, 268 Flat Hill Road and member of Conservation Commission- said 
he did not think the retention pond was wetlands. They can contact the Conservation 
Admin. for clarification.  
Brian Marchetti – (Engineer contracted) – commented that the first step is to do an as-
built survey of the basin and compare it to the design plans.  The basin is not wetlands 
but it is located within the buffer zones to the resource area and should be an RDA with 
Conservation.  
Matt Allison, 188 and 305 Flat Hill Road – noted the issue was that the basin was not 
done correctly and questioned if the study was already done with suggestions. He added 
that Mr. Marchetti stated previously that the structure was in failure. He also confirmed 
there is still $40K in the Capital Plan for this project.  
Susan Whalen, 377 Flat Hill Road – expressed concern about water coming across the 
St. Germain property and down the road. She questioned if the water may be coming 
from the vacant lot and if it could be detained prior to entering the road. Chair Jeffreys 
noted the engineer did suggest adding a pond there to deal with the water.     
Karen Menard, 672 Page Street – thanked Mr. Gariepy for working with the neighbors. 
She added that she also has water in her yard along with flooding in her basement.  
David Melvin, 655 Page Street – stated that the drain is not handling the water 
coming from Flat Hill Road to Page Street and suggested there may be a blockage 
between the 1st and 3rd drain. He asked if they could put a camera through to check 
for that and suggested adding drains were the water is collecting.  
===PAGE 5===
 
Page 5 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
Bill Bernard – replied the Jetter truck came out twice and the catch basin truck cleaned 
the catch basin. The Jetter went through but it appears the pipes are undersized. They also 
have had similar flooding at Electric Ave. and New West Townsend Road. Bill has put in 
3 Capital Plan requests for Stormwater related issues in these 3 areas. They just need to 
find money to do the upgrades.  
Brian Marchetti – reported that Whitman & Bingham (now Haley Ward) did a right of 
way survey 2 years ago of Flat Hill from Cortland Circle down to Page Street and a right 
of way survey from the intersection of Page down to Beaver Brook. They looked at the 
drains and did test pits for stormwater but it did not make sense. The findings report 
included deficiencies in the outlet structures. He stated that the as-built survey of the 
basin will give them a better understanding of what condition the pond is in. Brian added 
that no closed pipe system can deal with the 100 year storms we are now getting.  
Chair Jeffreys summarized they will work collaboratively with the Village of Flat Hill, 
provide some engineering to evaluate their scopes, perform assessment to identify what 
the as-built is compared to what it was meant to do, converse on other sources of water 
contributing to this and how to mitigate it.  
Brian Marchetti- suggested engaging a hydrogeologist to do borings and ground water 
testing. The most realistic solution is to collect stormwater at the source and pipe it 
underground to the detention basin.  
Chair Jeffreys- further summarized that the Village of Flat Hill will be cleaning out the 
detention basin and the engineer will evaluate the scope of work to confirm if the basin is 
as it should be. They will ask Mr. Marchetti to use a camera to look for blockages in the 
drains.   
 
• Public Hearing on Conrad’s Drive-In, 835 Massachusetts Avenue for Denial of 
License – No one is present for this hearing. The Town Manager stated that the Board 
can act on the denial of license. She added that the owner has not paid the back taxes and 
had a payment agreement. Member Alonzo pointed out that their license expired on 
December 31, 2023 and they did not apply for a renewal. The Board discussed giving 
them due process and whether to open the public hearing. 
Motion by Chair Jeffreys to continue the hearing until February 20, 2024 at 6:45 
pm. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Roll Call Vote: Clerk Nuzzolo-aye, Member 
Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo-aye and Chair Jeffreys-aye. Motion passed. (4-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux provided a comprehensive list of openings on town boards and 
commissions, urging interested citizens to fill out an application on the town website. She further 
noted these job opportunities -Facilities Custodian, Heavy Equipment Operator, Land Use 
Director and Temporary Administrative Assessing Assistant.    
• Update on 925 Mass. Ave. – The Town Manager reached out to the EPA for funding to do 
the water and soil testing. They met with Jim Byrne (EPA) about doing the scope of work 
and Joe McLaughlin (consultant) will provide the scope. He will also file an Immediate 
Response Action as required.  
===PAGE 6===
 
Page 6 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
• Bids & RFPs – Data Collection Services for Assessing Dept. for FY25 to FY27. 
Request for Qualifications for Owners Project Manager for Marshall Park Project.  
• Assistant Town Manager is working with the Facilities Director for bids on roof 
replacement at the Town Hall. 
• IFB – for Flat Hill Culvert project will be advertised on 2/27, with bids due 3/27 
• IFB – for road materials is due 2/21 
• Request for quotations for personal property maintenance and utility appraisal services 
was due 2/8. They received 1 proposal from RFC for $21,100 for FY25, $22,600 for 
FY26 and $23,200 for FY27. The Asst. Town Manager notified RFC that they were 
awarded the bid.  
• FEMA decision on September Storm Reimbursement – The Town Manager was notified 
that FEMA denied the state’s request for reimbursement and the state will appeal.  
• The state did appropriate $5 Million in the fall for the September Storm and there’s a 
chance Lunenburg and other affected communities will receive reimbursement. The town 
requested $75,000 from FEMA. 
• FEMA for Covid Related Services – the Fire Department submitted paperwork 3 years 
ago for $66,780. When it is received, it will be a local receipt and a close-out balance for 
the fiscal year received.  
• FY25 update – the Town Manager was notified by the MIIA representative that the 
insurance increase will be 5.7% for active town and school employees. The first estimate 
was 10%, which was revised to 6.6% and finalized at 5.7%.  
• Monty Tech – Town Manager was notified that there will be a 3.75% increase for 
$44,256. The School Committee will vote on the budget 3/6. 
• Update on electricity supply – Working with Tradition Energy, they solicited a new 
contract, starting November 2024. They will be securing a new contract with BP for 
$.1177/kwh. The current rate is $.11868/kwh for 48 months.  
• Grants – The Fire Department received an emergency performance grant for $3,500 to 
replace 2 cold water rescue suits and accessories for the inflatable sled.  Also $18,800 for 
the Fire Fighter Safety Grant to update 3 power saws and 3 radios.  
 
OLD BUSINESS 
1. Review and Vote on Sub-Recipient Grant Agreement for ARPA Distribution to outside 
agencies – The Town Manager reported that it was reviewed by Town Counsel, with 
tracked changes. The Water District had no questions, the Food Pantry asked who fills it 
out and the Boys & Girls Club were reviewing the last version at their February 12th 
meeting. 
         Motion by Member Alonzo to approve and accept the ARPA Grant Agreement 
         as printed to us, dated 2/01/24. Seconded by Member Emkey. Roll Call Vote: Clerk 
         Nuzzolo-aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo-aye and Chair Jeffreys- 
         aye. Motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
2. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and    
===PAGE 7===
 
Page 7 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles – Chair Jeffreys noted the Town Manager will 
present to Finance Committee on February 15th  and encouraged all the Board to watch. He 
also suggested discussion at the next meeting.  
FY24 Budget – 40S funding – Town Manager met with Representative  Kushmerek and on 
February 13th. She stated this year’s calculation was based on FY23 when they received a 
large bump of $730,000 in Chapter 70 money as a foundation community.  Due to this, 
Lunenburg was disqualified from receiving aid now. They may be able to close out without 
a deficit due to conservative estimates for local receipts. Most likely they will qualify again 
next year. Chair Jeffreys noted he met with members of their delegation, pointing out the 
flaw in the 2 ½ system, with no inflationary adjustment.   
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
Regular Session Minutes for October 3, 2023.  Motion by Chair Jeffreys to approve the 
minutes of October 3, 2023. Seconded by Member Emkey. Roll Call Vote: Clerk Nuzzolo-
aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alonzo- aye and Chair Jeffreys-aye. Motion passed. (4-
0-0) 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $ 668,531.70. Payroll Adjustment of $744.45. 
Payroll warrant in the amount of $987,987.12. 
 
Action Items - none 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Board of Assessors: Member Alonzo reported they are going through the preliminary numbers 
of the final re-val, setting up their town report and how to convey information to the public 
before it is approved by the DOR. 
Finance Committee: Member Alonzo reported they had a discussion concerning the grant writer 
proposition, 2 ½ and the School Budget, and the Town Manager’s proposed Budget to be 
presented on Thursday.  
Stormwater Task Force: Member Emkey noted the board is now full, with Jenny Pewtherer 
joining from Conservation.   
Planning Board: Clerk Nuzzolo stated the board met 2/12 and the development at 255 Sunnyhill 
Road was continued to February 26th. 
Chair Jeffreys thanked the Board for their openness in hearing Joeci’s presentation. He also 
received an email from Shady Point in response to Open Space’s request to transfer property to 
provide access to the community for non-motorized vehicles. They have not discussed time-lines 
yet. Chair Jeffreys would like to schedule a meeting when they next discuss Open Space’s 
request. He reported they had a productive meeting with the School Committee Chair concerning 
the budget.  
===PAGE 8===
 
Page 8 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
February 17th at 10 am - Site Walk at 51 Parmenter Road and 0 Shirley Reservoir Road  
February 20th at 7 pm- Meeting with our State Delegation, Evan Watters (Finance Committee 
Chair) and Carol Archambault (School Committee Chair). They will meet 7-8:30 pm and the 
regular meeting will begin at 8:30.  
There will be 3 meetings in March. Member Emkey asked if they will be discussing the remote 
meeting policy and Chair Jeffreys replied they will discuss it in March.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
TOWN MANAGER: none 
 
PUBLIC: 
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street and member of the Green Communities Committee – 
requested help in getting Associate member Kim Duffy to a full voting seat. ChairJeffreys replied 
that they will put this on the next meeting agenda and Ms. Duffy does not need to be present.  
Kim Duffy, 1479 Mass. Ave. – stated she would like to become a full voting member of the 
Green Communities Committee. She has rolled out a social media presence for the Committee to 
spread awareness of the grant opportunities. Also she would like to encourage collaboration 
between her committee and other town boards.  
 
BOARD COMMENTS 
 
Chair Jeffreys – encouraged residents to present public comments and for boards to meet with 
the Select Board.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Alonzo made Motion to Adjourn. Seconded by Member Emkey.  
Roll Call Vote: Clerk Nuzzolo-aye, Member Emkey-aye, Member Alanzo-aye, and Chair. 
Jeffreys-aye.  Motion passed.  (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:43 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
 
Jane Ranley, Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
===PAGE 9===
 
Page 9 of 9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 13, 2024 
Tuesday ______ 
Member ____made Motion to Approve minutes from February 13, 2024. Seconded by 
Member ____. All, aye. Passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 