===PAGE 1===
1 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, April 8, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda 
Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live 
and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
Anthony Sculimbrene Sr., 5 Valley Road discussed the Brooks House. Mr. Sculimbrene 
expressed his frustration with comments made regarding the Brooks House by both the Select 
Board members and the Municipal Building Design Committee members.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS  
 
Ratification of Town Manager’s Appointment of Chief of Police Jeffrey Thibodeau  
Chair Nuzzolo announced that this agenda item would be taken out of order.  Town Manager 
Warren-Dyment announced her appointment of Jeffrey Thibodeau as Chief of Police.  She 
recounted his career history and time specifically in Lunenburg.  She discussed the hiring process 
and the Screening Committee’s high opinion of Mr. Thibodeau as candidate for Chief.  Chair 
Nuzzolo explained that the Town is planning a Swearing In and Pinning Ceremony for the Chief 
and that is why the appointment was less ceremonial than is typical.  Member Alonzo stated he 
was present when Mr. Thibodeau was first appointed and that it has been impressive to see him 
rise through the ranks.  Clerk Moore stated she has observed Mr. Thibodeau’s work first hand as 
Sargeant, Lieutenant, and now Interim Chief and that Lunenburg is in good Hands.  Vice Chair 
===PAGE 2===
2 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
Jeffreys stated that Lunenburg does a great job training its officers and that can be attributed to 
Mr. Thibodeau’s leadership.   
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Jeffrey 
Thibodeau as Chief of Policy contingent upon successful contract negotiation.  Seconded by 
Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five- yes. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
SCHEDULED MEETING AND HEARINGS 
 
7:05 PM Tollbooth Fundraiser request on June 7
th for the Fitchburg/Leominster Shriner’s 
Club in support of Shriner’s Hospital Transportation Fund 
Karl Edmands, on behalf of the Fitchburg/Leominster Shriner’s Club approached the board. Mr. 
Edmands requested the opportunity to hold a tollbooth event in the center of town from 9:00 
AM-2:00 PM. Mr. Edmands explained that the money is being raised for the transportation of 
children all over the world to the United States for medical care. Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
confirmed that the application was complete.  
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the tollbooth fundraiser request by the 
Fitchburg/Leominster Shriners Club in support of the Shriners Hospital transportation 
fund to be held in Town Center on June 7
th from 9-2 PM. Seconded by Member Emkey. 
Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
7:10 PM Special One-Day Wine/Malt License Application for May 10, 2025 from 11AM-
6PM by Home Fruit Wine 
Lori Perkins, owner of Home Fruit Wine approached the Board. She explained that they are 
doing different vendor fairs and events throughout the summer and would like to get involved in 
the All-Vendor Fair on May 10
th from 11AM-6PM. She stated their intent of setting up booths to 
sell bottles of their wine and tastings. Town Manager Warren-Dyment confirmed that the 
application was complete. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the special one-day wine/malt license application for 
Home Fruit Wine for May 10
th, 2025 from 11AM-6PM and the rain date for May 11th. 
Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
7:15 PM Peddlers License Application for Paul Cianciulli dba Ecoloop 
Paul Cianciulli, representing Ecoloop, joined the Board via Zoom regarding his application for a 
peddler’s license in Lunenburg. He stated Ecoloop is a local solar installer based in Danvers, 
MA. Mr. Cianciulli explained that Ecoloop identifies residential properties with strong solar 
potential and seeks to engage homeowners through door-to-door outreach. Their goal is to save 
homeowners money and support the environment.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo asked Mr. Cianciulli if he would be the only person from the company going door 
to door, since he is the only applicant on the application. Mr. Cianciulli stated that he would most 
likely be the only one going door to door in Lunenburg. Town Manager Warren-Dyment clarified 
===PAGE 3===
3 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
that if additional individuals intend to go door-to-door, each will need to apply and go through 
this same process. Chief Thibodeau approached the board and stated that he met with Mr. 
Cianciulli regarding the application but mentioned previous issues with drones with other 
companies. Member Alonzo asked if the applicant would be comfortable with prohibiting the use 
of drones under the Peddlar’s license.  Vice Chair Jeffreys, offered that drones, or “UAS”, 
operators are required to be licensed pilots.  Vice Chair Jeffreys stated that he would like to 
exclude Sundays from the license.     
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the peddlers license application for Paul Cianciulli 
doing business as Ecoloop with the additional stipulation that no UAS flights are permitted 
under this license. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-nay- 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys. The motion passed (4-1-0). 
 
7:20 PM Pole Petition Hearing for West Townsend Rd Plan #978-L, Proposed New Pole 
approximately 2305’ North of Howard Street and approximately 3375’ South of Townsend 
Town Line 
Clerk Moore read the Public Hearing Notice into the record.  The Public Hearing opened at 7:29 
PM.  John Kimball of Until approached the Board.  The new pole would be installed to provide 
service to a new home at 433 West Townsend Road.  He stated the existing poles are too far 
away.  Member Alonzo and Vice Chair Jeffreys commented on the clarity and completeness of 
the documentation provided.  Member Emkey expressed concern with the proximity of the pole 
to the driveway.  Mr. Kimball responded that the homeowners are aware of the location and it is 
their driveway.  Chair Nuzzolo asked if there were any public comments as this was a Public 
Hearing. There were none.  
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to close the Public Hearing. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. 
Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the pole petition for West Townsend Road plan 
3978-L, with the proposed new pole being as indicated on the provided documentation. 
Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. 
The Town Manager reported that a Town Meeting Preview will be filmed next Monday with 
PACC, department heads, and representatives from proponents of certain articles. 
 
The Town Manager reported that the Attorney General’s Office is beginning bi-weekly briefings 
regarding their response to mayors and municipal managers on their efforts to protect 
Massachusetts federal funding and defend the laws of the Commonwealth.  
 
The Town Manager reported that the Public Employee Committee (PEC) held their first meeting 
with their new bargaining unit representatives. The contract between the Town and the PEC is 
expiring this June. Anticipating signing a one-year extension with the Town’s health insurance 
advisor. She added that she needs to sign the health insurance renewal for FY26 before April 
===PAGE 4===
4 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
30th. She asked the advisor to come in and explain to the Board and to the public about the 
changes around health insurance, why the costs are so high, and what options are for 
municipalities.  
 
The Town Manager discussed a meeting was held last week with the Chair and Vice Chair of the 
Parks Commission, Facilities Director, and the Recreation Director.  She stated they discussed 
working over the next several months to determine whether it was feasible to make the Director 
position fulltime.   
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated Lunenburg will be receiving $3,964 from the Executive 
Office of Public Safety and Security and the Department of Fire Services und the second round 
of the FY25 Firefighter Safety Equipment Grant Program.  These funds will be used to purchase 
an additional handheld thermal imaging camera and a “plug” that disables electrical systems on 
Electric Vehicles, so as to render them safer in the event of an accident. She also stated the Town 
will receive $4,699.45 from the FY25 SAFE program and $2,199.87 from the Senior SAFE 
program.   
 
The Town Manager informed the Board that a meeting has been scheduled for later this week 
with the Chair of PAC to begin to discuss the ascertainment process.  The cable license 
agreement expires in February of 2028. She announced that Anne Aubrey, the Executive 
Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board’s last day working for the Town will be this 
Thursday.  She also announced there will be a dunk tank at the Lunenburg Vendor Fair and that 
several employees have signed up to spend some time in the tank.   
 
The Town Manager reported that the Town is waiting the MassDOT Underwater Bridge 
Inspection Team to inspect the bridge on Flat Hill before it is re-opened to the public. She stated 
she hoped that the bridge can open in the next few days as the Town sorts out the contractual 
issues with Kenefick Corporation.  She also reported that the Town is putting out an Invitation 
for Bids for DPW Support Services and that the IFB for Roadway Maintenance (Fog Seal and 
Crack Seal) has been advertised.   
 
The Town Manager reported on the position vacancies.  She stated the posting for Executive 
Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board closes on April 9, 2025, an offer is pending for 
the Part-Time Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager, offers are forthcoming for the Seasonal 
Lifeguard position and an offer is pending for the Seasonal Beach Director position.  She stated 
that the offer for Administrative Assistant for Conservation had been rejected.  She stated that 
vacancies on Boards, Committees, and Commissions had not changed.    
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Finalize Votes on Annual Town Meeting Articles 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that there were four articles that needed finalized votes: 
Article 8 (FY26 Capital: Town Manager Warren-Dyment explained that the article has changed 
since the Board’s last vote. The School Department received a grant through the Green 
Communities’ program for a heat pump.  While the grant is for a heat pump, in order to qualify 
===PAGE 5===
5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
for grant funding a control system would also need to be purchased.  The Town Manager 
explained that the control system was on the FY27 capital plan.  The Town Manager shared a 
new FY26 capital plan with the Board that removed all school projects and replaced them with 
$146,865 for the new heat pump. Vice-Chair Jeffreys expressed interest in withdrawing the 
Board’s recommendation and deferring to Town Meeting due to lack of details. Member Alonzo 
concurred with Vice-Chair Jeffreys recommendation.  
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to withdraw the recommendation to “approve” and replace 
it with “defer”. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
 
Article 13 (Amendments to the SAP Titles/Grades): Chair Nuzzolo stated that this article was 
previously passed over. 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 13. Seconded by Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Article 14 (FY26 Salary Schedule): Chair Nuzzolo stated that this article was previously passed 
over. 
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys for the Selectmen to recommend approval of Article 14. 
Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously 
(5-0-0). 
 
Article 29 (Municipal Building Design): Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the debt 
exclusions, including this article were moved up so that they were not all the way at the end. 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys summarized the work being done by the Municipal Building Design 
Committee. He noted changes in dollar amounts due to minor modifications to contingencies 
which drove the cost up a bit. The Board discussed the impacts to taxpayers. The Board 
discussed the Town debt policy and information that came in from Finance Committee. Member 
Emkey raised concerns about the ACE program being in a public building as well as how the 
current Town Hall would be used during the day. Member Jeffreys said the Superintendent was 
adamant that the ACE program be with their administrative offices and that during the day Town 
Employees would used current Town Hall as meeting space.  
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 29. Seconded by Clerk 
Moore. Call for the vote: Five – aye. The motion passes unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Article 32 & 33 (Tax Exemptions): Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated these were the two tax 
exemption articles put forward by the Board of Assessors.  She noted that we don’t know for sure 
what the Department of Revenue was going to do with these articles if passed.  
 
2. Vote to Approve and Sign Annual Town Meeting and Election Warrants 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment said there was substantial discussion on the Marshall Park 
Project since they don’t know exactly how that project is going to come out of town meeting. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
She said they have made one ballot question for the Marshall Park project which covers any 
outcome of the Town Meeting vote.  
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the Annual Town Election warrant. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five – aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the 2025 Annual Town Meeting booklet and include 
any changes that are required or necessary to complete the booklet per the discretion of the 
Town Manager. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five – aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
3. Discussion on FY2025 Budget, FY2026 Budget, Capital Plan, and Annual Town 
Meeting Warrant Articles 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys asked if Town Manger Warren-Dyment has talked to Finance Committee 
about the consent calendar. She said she did not. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that it typically goes 
through the Finance Committee and the Town Moderator as well. Member Alonzo added that 
things on the consent calendar are things that would be non-objectionable to anyone and if 
Finance Committee is not going to approve, then it probably should not be on there. Chair 
Nuzzolo said that this is just an initial pass. Discussion on the consent calendar followed the 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment listing the articles that she is proposing to put on the consent 
calendar and the possibility of adding others.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
Regular Session Minutes January 23,2024; March 11, 2025; March 18, 2025  
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to approve the minutes of January 23, 2024. Seconded by 
Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
The Board provided feedback on the March 11, 2025 and March 18, 2025 minutes and the Town 
Manager stated she would have them re-drafted.    
 
Warrants 
None. 
 
Action Items 
• Member Emkey indicated an action item of getting a breakdown from the Finance 
Committee on if they do the smaller of the Marshall Park instead of the total. Town 
Manager Warren-Dyment stated that it does not come from the Finance Committee, but 
rather the finance committee takes the data from Bond Council, and she is unsure if it can 
be broken down further.  
• Chair Nuzzolo stated he received the invitation for the Are You Smarter Than Our Sixth 
Graders event and they need to put a team together. The event is Friday May 9
th at 7:00 
PM with doors opening at 6:30 PM. Chair Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Clerk Moore, 
and Member Emkey indicated their attendance as part of a team. Member Alonzo will be 
MCing the event.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
School Committee: Member Emkey reported that the School Committee met last week and they 
found four finalists for interviews of superintendent. Those interviews are targeted to be at the 
end of April. She reported that there was discussion on potential ideas of how they would use the 
$500,000 free cash if approved. She reported that they had the monthly facilities report which 
included the start of new Facilities Director Chris Stevenson. Discussion on the green 
communities grant. She reported that two contracts have been awarded, the first for the exterior 
door replacement at Turkey hill which should be completed by the end of August, and the second 
being for the security system at Turkey Hill and the Primary School. She also reported that the 
Turkey Hill study is nearly complete and will be discussing the report at the School Committee 
meeting next week. The fire alarm upgrade is under contract.  
 
Master Plan Steering Committee: Clerk Moore reported that the Master Plan Steering 
Committee meets tomorrow.  
 
Municipal Building Design Committee: Vice-Chair Jeffreys reported that the Municipal 
Building Design Committee met last night where they discussed the Brooks House. The 
Committee has invited the APDC to provide a representative at their meetings and they try to 
capture the APDC’s feedback into the planning process. He added that they discussed their 
opinions on the request and the strongest opinion came from Mr. Blatt who thinks the Brooks 
House should be a training exercise for the fire department, and three other members agreed with 
that. By a soft poll, he reported that he does not believe the committee will be in favor of 
partitioning off the land. Over the next two meetings, the Committee expects to deliver to the 
Select Board some conceptual ideas of what a partition of the Brooks House lot could look like 
and also note the limitations that could come from it. Vice-Chair Jeffreys also reported that he 
coordinated with the Town Manager and Facilities Director Chris Ruth to create open houses of 
Town Hall and the Ritter Building.  
 
Joint Committee on Ways and Means: Chair Nuzzolo reported that he attended and testified 
the Joint Ways and Means hearing at the state house. He shared his testimony to the Board. Vice-
Chair Jeffreys and Clerk Moore thanked Nuzzolo for his testimony and his job well done. 
  
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
April 15, 2025; April 22, 2025; May 3, 2025 at 9:00 AM (Annual Town Meeting) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Town Manager 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment commented it has been a long two months to get to this point 
and she publicly thanked those who have assisted her in getting to this point. She added that 
those who sit on boards, committees, and commissions, as well as staff, have been helpful, 
===PAGE 8===
8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
welcoming, and supportive. She emphasized that it has been a joint effort, and she appreciated 
the collaboration.  
 
 
 
Public 
Glenn McLeod, 436 Reservoir Road commented regarding the Municipal Building Design 
Committees plan for the Town Hall. He commented on the lack of options presented to voters, 
it's too expensive, and it’s too large for the parcel. He added comments on the ACE program and 
would like to know the report of the Turkey Hill study prior to making decisions. He also pointed 
out that the ADA issues should have been addressed many years ago. 
 
Anthony Sculimbrene Sr., 5 Valley Road commented that he loves the Town Meeting approach to 
government but is disappointed that the Architectural Preservation District Committee went to 
the Select Board and asked for something that could generate revenue and eliminate costs and 
nothing was done. He pointed out that this is not the way to embrace volunteers.  
 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street commented on the previous speakers comment. He stated that 
Town Meeting is a preliminary process and that the residents are the voice and charge, and that 
the Select Board as elected officials should do what they are told to do because our government 
is for the people. 
 
Board 
Member Alonzo commented that he completely agrees with Mr. Sculimbrene’s assessment. He 
stated that people at Town Meeting have an expectation that things they pass will be taken with 
some level of seriousness and some level of addressing, even if it takes work. He pointed out the 
Select Boards lack of doing so. He stated that they really need to do a better job at serving the 
people of the Town when things like this come up.  
 
ADJOURN 
Member Emkey moved to adjourn. Seconded by Tom Alonzo. Call for the Vote: Five-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:47 PM.  
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
Lauren Menard 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 15, 2025 
Clerk Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes of April  8, 2025.  Seconded by 
Member Lehtinen.  Call for the Vote: Three-aye. One-abstention (McLeod) Motion Passed 
(3-0-1). 
===PAGE 9===
9 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
 