===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street 
September 23, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk Renee Emkey, Member Brian Lehtinen, 
Member Glenn McLeod  
Members Absent: Vice Chair Amanda Moore, 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed top ics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Lunenburg Public Library will host a number of special events 
in October to celebrate the 20
th anniversary of our library building. Events include a kickoff 
celebration on October 3rd from 6:00-7:30 p.m. featuring a performance by the Lunenburg 
Middle School Marching Band.  The month-long celebration will conclude with a closing 
ceremony on October 24th, with a birthday style celebration with cake and fanfare. Events will 
also include a fundraiser that patrons will be able to claim donated skills and services from 
members of our community in exchange for monetary support of the Friends of Lunenburg 
Public Library. 
 
Lastly, Chair Nuzzolo announced the Lunenburg Community Spaghetti Supper will be hosted at 
the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center tomorrow, September 24
th, from 4-6 p.m. There will be 
pasta, meatballs, bread, and soda. $7 for adults, $5 for seniors, and $3 for children.  
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
7:05 PM Application for Tollbooth/Boot Drive Permit by the Eagle House Supporters, Inc. 
and The Club—Lunenburg Teen Center in support of the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center 
and after school program- Requested date: October 25, 2025 from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
 
Eagle House Supporters, Inc. Director, Nicole Waters and Andrew Woods, Senior Youth 
Development Professional of The Club approached the Board.  As they both requested to hold 
their tollbooths on the same day, they decided to combine their tollbooth applications and split 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
the proceeds. Member Glenn McLeod stated he would be abstaining from this vote based on 
safety concerns with the policy. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to approve the tollbooth requests from both the Eagle House 
supporters and the Lunenburg Teen Center for October 25, 2025 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. Seconded 
by Clerk Renee Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-aye. One abstention (Member McLeod). The 
motion passed (3-0-1) 
 
7:15 PM Earth Removal Permit Renewals  
 
P.J. Keating- 998 Reservoir Road- Permits SBER-25-1, SBER-25-2,  SBER-25-3,  SBER-
25-4,  SBER-25-5, and  SBER-25-6,   (formerly permits 15, 16, 17, 27, 30, and 57) 
 
Building Commissioner Brian Gingras inspected the site previously, when in Lancaster, and has 
inspected the site from Lunenburg for the past several years.  He stated the the inspection went 
very smoothly. Improvements were made to equipment and dust control measures with the 
addition of misting systems. All sites are in compliance and some of the parcels are not currently 
active.   
 
Clerk Emkey moved to renew the PJ Keating earth removal permits as listed on the agenda 
(998 Reservoir Road- Permits SBER-25-1, SBER-25-2,  SBER-25-3,  SBER-25-4,  SBER-
25-5, and  SBER-25-6,   (formerly permits 15, 16, 17, 27, 30, and 57).  Seconded by Member 
Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed (4-0-0).  
 
Jim Latanzi- 780 Northfield Road- Permit 61 (renewal not requested) 
 
Building Commissioner Brian Gringas stated he inspected the site which started as a large sand 
pile from his Christmas tree operation and not all the material sold. He stated that there is still a 
sizable pile, but trucks are using Northfield Road instead of Chase Road as instructed.  He stated 
an Earth Removal Permit renewal will be submitted for consideration at a future meeting.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Robert Foster, Chair of the Blue Knights Alumni Association (25 Fitch View Avenue) 
approached and stated that the Alumni Association’s annual banquet will be held on November 
2
nd at the Bull Run in the Sawtelle Room. This year’s honoree is Pete Lincoln. Tickets are $45 
per person and can be purchased at www.bkalumni.org or the Blue Knights Alumni Association 
Facebook page.  
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS  
 
Ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Penelope Balish as Library Page, effective 
September 24, 2025 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated Ms. Balish has shown great eagerness in wanting to join 
the library and will have her first job with the Town with this entry-level position.  
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Penelope Balish as 
Library Page, effective September 24, 2025. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the 
vote: Four-aye. The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
Acknowledge the Resignation of Amy Driggers, Assitant Accountant 
The Town Manager stated she would discuss Ms. Driggers departure in the Town Manager’s 
Report.  
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Manager Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board.  
 
She stated that there are substantial changes in the Financial Department:  
• Nancy O’Rourke (Payroll and Benefits) has a planned retirement, effective October 31
st 
and that offers that have been extended to candidates for the position have fallen through.  
She stated that time is running out to overlap the position with Nancy for training.  
• Amy Driggers (Assistant Accountant) has submitted her resignation. Ms. Driggers will be 
moving to Leominster for a position in the Comptroller’s Office. A contractor that was 
previously used to help the Town with Accounts Payable has been brought back on. 
Currently he is working on a contract three days a week with Rockport and will be 
available on Wednesdays and Fridays for accounts payable services.  
• Lastly, Ezequiel Ayala (Finance Director) will be going back to the private nonprofit 
sector as the Executive Director of the Latin American Health Alliance. A contract has 
been placed for transitional services with Eric Kinsherf CPA. He provides services across 
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and is already meeting weekly with Ezzy. Katie 
McKenna has accepted the offer for the position and an employment agreement will be in 
an upcoming meeting.  
 
It was previously discussed that the bag fee increase was to have a start date of October 1
st, but 
that date has been pushed to October 15th.  
 
The Town Manager thanked everyone involved in the Whalom 25 Years of Memories event last 
weekend. She commented that it was really great to see so many people come out and talk about 
how Whalom impacted their life.  
 
The Town Manager provided a recruitment update to the Board. Current recruitments are for the 
Payroll and Benefits Coordinator, Assistant Town Accountant, Equipment Operator, Land Use 
Director, Administrative Assistant (Building Department). An offer has been accepted for the 
Finance Director position. There is an open position for a Dietary Aid (9 hours weekly), and 
Children’s Staff Librarian that the Town is not currently interviewing for. An offer is going out 
for the Recreation Director position this week.  
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
 
The Town Manager announced that outstanding vacancies on Boards and Commissions are the 
same as last reported.  
 
Member McLeod inquired on whether the Planning Board participates in interviews for the 
Planning Director. The Town Manager states the Planning Board Chair has been invited to 
participate. Also present in interviews are the Building Commissioner, Town Manager, and HR 
Director.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1.  Right of First Refusal- 222 West Townsend Road- Chapter 61B Land  
 
Chair Nuzzolo went over comments that the Select Board had received from other Boards on the 
Right of First Refusal.  All comments received recommended that the Select Board not exercise 
its Right of First Refusal.  There is 120 days for the Board to come to a decision, which would be 
on November 19th. The Town Manager’s recommended that if the Select Board was inclined to 
waive its Right of First Refusal, that they also waive the requirement in the policy to provide 
notice to the Board’s indicated in the policy of the results of the meeting (with the Select Board), 
and the recommendations of the various committees. A brief description of the process of the 
Right of First Refusal was discussed.  
 
Clerk Emkey asked if there were any comments received by any of the Boards in support of their 
positions. The Town Manager stated the Open Space Committee commented that the parcel was 
not contiguous with other properties.  
 
The Town Manager stated the total lot size is 13.31 acres and a Notice of Intent was filed to 
develop 6 buildable lots on the parcel. There is one existing structure on the lot and part of the 
land is in Chapter 61B status.  
 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to waive the Select Board’s Right of First Refusal for 222 West 
Townsend Road. Seconded by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed (4-0-0). 
 
2.  Representation by Mead, Talerman & Costa of the Town of Lunenburg and the City of 
Fitchburg for the Contract for the Supply of Water 
 
There is an existing inter-municipal agreement between Lunenburg and Fitchburg for the sale of 
water. The Town Manager explained that agreement is expiring, and it is time to execute a new 
agreement. Mead, Talerman, and Costa represents both Lunenburg and Fitchburg, which is 
usually a conflict of interest, but in this case they will be acting as a scrivener to draft the terms 
and will not be negotiating the agreement. The Board would be voting to allow the Town 
Manager to acknowledge the Town understands the advantages and disadvantages of allowing 
Mead, Talerman, and Costa to represent both communities. Also, if a conflict does occur that 
Lunenburg consents to finding its own Counsel.    
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
  
Chair Nuzzolo moved to authorize the Town Manager to execute the representation letter 
by Mead, Talerman, and Costa of the Town of Lunenburg and City of Fitchburg. Seconded 
by Member Lehtinen. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1.  Discussion on Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles  
 
The Town Manager stated the Board had a rough draft of the Warrant and reminded the public 
that the Warrant would be closing on Thursday, October 2, 2025 at 5:00 pm.  She stated that the 
firm deadline to have the Warrant in the mail is November 4
th. Articles will be discussed in depth 
and voted upon during the first two weeks of October.  
 
The Town Manager did discuss one article regarding $300,000 for a repair of a portion of the 
roof that part of the building that’s being decommissioned. The Board had discussed potentially 
moving that funding to another part of the building. Facilities Director, Chris Ruth had costed 
out the total cost of the roof including a contingency fee at an estimated $1,360,700. However, 
there are two areas overlaid (on the attached diagram).  One covering approximately 6 
classrooms and the other covers the cafeteria and gym- both areas are leaking. The Town 
Manager represented that the Facilities Director does feel, in his professional opinion, that 
repairing the roof in sections will cause future issues and he would prefer to bring the full project 
through the Capital Planning process.  
 
Member McLeod stated he has concerns about delaying the roof repairs by going through the 
Capital Planning process.  
 
Member Lehtinen asked if there is any interest in having an article in the warrant about the 
additional Chapter 70 funding for the schools. The Town Manager stated that there is an article 
on the Warrant to adjust the budget, but that the Superintendent has not identified a specific need 
for the money so the Town Manager is not inclined to transfer any funds at this time.  She stated 
that the motions can change right up to Town Meeting. 
 
Clerk Emkey had questions regarding the article to dissolve the Personnel Board and whether 
there will be an alternative. Assistant Town Manager, Julie Belliveau has been researching 
alternatives that other communities are using.  There has not been a member on the Personnel 
Board in over a year and no applications received.  
 
2.  Recommendations to the Master Plan Steering Committee on Master Plan Update 
 
The Town Manager added comments on all the policies under the Select Board jurisdiction. 
Member Brian Lehtinen appreciated the comments and the extra work the Town Manager put 
into them. The deadline is September 30
th to have comments submitted. Board members stated 
they collectively needed more time to review and will discuss the matter before the Tri-Board 
meeting on September 30th.  
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
3.  Discussion on Tri-Board Meeting of the Select Board, Finance Committee, and School 
Committee 
 
The next Tri-Board meeting is on Tuesday September 30th. Police, Fire, DPW, and Facilities will 
be presenting.  
 
4.  Authorize FY2026-FY2028 Agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and the 
Montachusett Regional Transit Authority (MART) for Council on Aging Services 
 
The Board was referred to the document in their packet showing the changes to the Agreement.    
 
Member Glenn McLeod had a question regarding item 7 about reimbursement of insurance. The 
Town Manager questioned whether the town is currently being reimbursed for insurance on this 
vehicle and will follow up with the Board.  This matter was tabled to a future meeting. 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Executive Session Minutes September 2, 2025 
 
Motion by 
Member Lehtinen to approve the Executive Session minutes of September 2, 
2025—Not for release. Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed (4-0-0). 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Member McLeod stated the Planning Board met with the Library last night for some training for 
employees with OpenGov. He informed the Board that a Special Permit and Site Plan was 
approved for a ground mounted solar array located at 390 Goodrich. He also stated that the 
MBTA Communities Act public hearing scheduled for October 27
th.  
 
Member McLeod attended the Agricultural Committee the night prior and stated they will be 
having a fair this Saturday, September 27
th from 10:00 am to 2:pm at the TC Passios Building. 
There will also be an Alpaca Fest on October 5th from 11:00 am to 3:00 pm at In The Meadow 
Farm on Page St.  
 
Member Brian Lehtinen announced the School Committee held their meeting the week prior. He 
stated they had Open Houses and book fairs. Upcoming events include Penny Wars for the 
Washington D.C. 8
th grade trip, and Homecoming which will be on November 1st.   Member 
Lehitnen informed the Board that there was minimal damage from the fire and the roof was 
quickly repaired. New refrigeration controls for the school kitchens are being considered through 
a grant. There has been ongoing mechanical issues at the middle school that is being addressed.  
 
Member Lehitnen discussed items that were discussed during the School Committee meeting. A 
proposed $7,000 grant to enrich arts experiences was approved. The Committee considered 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
engaging a new law firm for legal representation for better availability and turn over—which was 
approved. Courtney Fuller’s hours were approved to be increased by 15 hours per week to 
support the middle high school office. The Committee discussed the FY27 draft Capital Plan 
prioritizing projects and a budget update. There is a current surplus reported of about $603,000 
and there was a community Q&A on the budget and overage.  
 
Clerk Emkey reported that there will be both a Stormwater Task Force and Financial Committee 
meeting this Thursday.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo had his first meeting of the Capital Planning Committee and the Bylaw Review 
Committee. Being the first meeting discussion was centered around timelines.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced upcoming meetings which included the Tri-Board meeting being held 
on September 30
th and the next Select Board meeting that will be held on October 7th.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Public Comment 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, asked the Board whether it is Fitchburg or Lunenburg 
looking for the agreement regarding water. The Town Manager explained that it is an 
intermunicipal agreement. Chair Nuzzolo suggested the discussion will be taken offline to 
answer questions.  
 
Mr. Rodgers then asked if the town is leasing the TC Passios Building to outside businesses 
stating that he has concerns with the roof leaks and mentioned placing large tarps on the roof 
interim.  
 
Town Manager Comment 
None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Lehtinen moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Emkey Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:01 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Melissa Richard 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 8 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
September 23, 2025 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday October 14, 2025 
 
Member Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of September 23, 2025, 
Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-
0). 
 
 
 
 