===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 18, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, February 18, 2025 
 
Members Present: Caesar Nuzzolo, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Tom Alonzo, Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: Amanda Moore 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law.  
 
BOARD COMMENTS 
 
Member Alonzo announced he would not be seeking re-election to the Select Board this year and 
encouraged candidates to run for his seat. He also announced the Town Caucus will be held on 
March 10, 2025. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
 
Glenn McLeod of 436 Reservoir Road commented on the municipal building design update 
agenda item and expressed concern about the town's management of existing buildings and their 
issues. 
 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle, raised several concerns regarding not being able to attend 
the Finance Committee Appointing Committee Meeting that was held this evening. He 
commented he was not sent the Zoom details and could not attend the meeting. He elaborated on 
issues with public record requests and the Town’s relationship with a company based out of New 
York that has human rights violations. He expressed concerns about feeling attacked after raising 
concerns about tax assessments, and his taxes went down 33% and the value of his home went 
down.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 18, 2025 
None. 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS  
 
Acknowledge the resignation of John E. Baker, Constable, effective May 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo read a resignation letter from John E. Baker, the town constable, effective May 
2025. Mr. Baker, who has served Lunenburg in various capacities since 1969, expressed his 
decision to step down from the position to allow "some young blood to fill this position." He 
noted in his letter that it has been his honor o have served this town all these years.  Board 
members took a moment to express their gratitude for Mr. Baker’s long service. Member Alonzo 
personally thanked Mr. Baker, recalling his years of service, not only as a constable but also for 
his involvement with the police force and other committees. Chair Nuzzolo echoed these 
sentiments, appreciating Mr. Baker’s decades of dedication to the town.  It was noted that the 
constable position is an elected role, responsible primarily for posting town meeting and election 
warrants. 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment provided her report to the Board, beginning with project 
updates.  She reported the replacement of the floors in the Library teen room and story room is 
complete.  Phase 2 of the project will commence once the doors for the Library Director’s office 
have arrived and the director has relocated.  The Town Hall roof replacement and chimney 
restoration project has not seen any updates due to unfavorable weather conditions.  She stated 
the Invitation for Bids for cleaning services for municipal buildings was released today. She also 
reported that the Town has entered into a contract with BETA Group for design and engineering 
services to develop sidewalk design plans along Northfield Road and Highland/Chestnut Street. 
The contract also includes an assessment of sidewalk and ramp replacements and repairs as 
identified in the Town’s 2020 ADA Transition Plan. The total contract amount is $119,010, which 
is funded through Chapter 90.  
 
The Town Manager reported that the Division of Local Services has informed the Town that the 
Schedule A for Fiscal Year 2024 has been processed and approved.  She provided an update on 
the long-duration winter storm impacted the community this past weekend. The Public Works 
Crew worked tirelessly for thirty-three consecutive hours to ensure public safety.  She also 
updated the Board on a conference call with Congresswoman Trahan, Department Head 
meetings, and her visits to various Town Departments.  She also stated she is considering closing 
public-facing offices for two to three hours on March 17, 2025 for a staff engagement event.  She 
also provided an update on current vacancies.   
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
Action Re: Sell or Hold 56 Carr Avenue: The Board discussed the timeline for making a 
decision on this property. They agreed to table the matter until spring when an assessment could 
be done without snow cover, targeting the first meeting in April. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 18, 2025 
Review Draft of Cannabis Control Commission Host Community Agreement for Bliss 
Cannabis: The Board reviewed the draft agreement with Bliss Cannabis.  Vice-Chair Jeffreys 
expressed concerns about some of the hiring practice language required by the state but said he 
supports the business coming to town. 
 
Member Alonzo moved to authorize the Town Manager to execute the host community 
agreement with Uma Flowers on behalf of the Select Board. Seconded by Member Jeffreys. 
Call for vote: Three-Yes . One-No (Jeffreys).  Motion passed (3-1-0). 
 
Discussion on Workplace Climate Survey Policy: The Board reviewed the redlined version of 
the policy contained within their packet.   
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys moved to approve the Workplace Climate Survey Policy, to be 
identified as section 2.13 of the Select Board policies and procedures. Seconded by Chair 
Nuzzolo. Call for vote: Four-Yes.  Motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
Member Emkey noted the need to get the Personnel Committee in place, stating the position has 
been vacant for nearly a year.  
 
Discussion on Select Board and Town Manager Goal-Setting Process:  The Chair passed over 
this item. 
 
Review and Discussion on Budget Task Force Recommendations:  Member Emkey discussed 
the recommendation to adopt the Community Preservation Act (CPA) and discussed the timing 
of when to bring the matter to a Town Meeting.  She discussed other projects that may have an 
impact on taxpayers.  
 
Municipal Building Design Update: Vice-Chair Jeffreys provided an update on the municipal 
building design project and stated that the Committee has not met since last presenting to the 
Select Board.  He stated that discussions have started with Bond Counsel and finance staff on 
borrowing details.  The Committee is preparing their presentation for Town Meeting and is 
considering holding tours of Town buildings.  The Board discussed receiving any additional staff 
feedback by the March 11
th Select Board meeting when the Committee will give their next 
update. 
 
Discussion on FY2025 Budget, FY2026 Budget, Capital Plan, and Annual Town Meeting 
Warrant Articles:  Chair Nuzzolo stated the Town Manager planned to give her budget 
prestation on February 27
th.  Board members discussed the potential $3.5 million deficit in the 
School budget.  Members stated they need to see more information and details before fully 
forming their opinion and expressed interest in meeting jointly with the School Committee and 
discussed potential scheduling options including holding a special meeting.  Member Emkey 
expressed concerns with the timing.   
 
The Board then turned their discussion to reviewing the Town Meeting Warrant articles and 
discussed a schedule for reviewing and approving the Warrant.  The Board discussed having 
proponents of warrant articles appear before the Select Board. 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 18, 2025 
 
Review ARPA Press Release: The Board reviewed the draft ARPA press release and suggested 
changing the phrase "Munis and Web Deployment" to "Munis and Cloud Deployment" and 
correcting  the "Village of Flat Hills" to "Village of Flat Hill". 
 
Member Alonzo moved to approve the ARPA press release with revisions as discussed. 
Seconded by Chair Nuzzolo.  Call for vote: Four-Yes.  Motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
None.   
  
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
The Board passed over the review of the regular Session Minutes for January 15, 2025, February 
4, 2025, and February 11 2025.  The Town Manager stated the January 21, 2025 minutes listed 
on the agenda had already been approved.  The Board reviewed an accounts payable warrant for 
$408,887.23. 
 
Board Members discussed action items, with Chair Nuzzolo stating he had created an action item 
tracking sheet.  The Board discussed creating Board and Committee specific handbooks, an 
organizational chart tagged with job descriptions, a State of the Organization report which would 
summarize staff departures, organizing the shared drive, obtaining the full results from the 
workplace survey, and addressing meeting room temperature issues. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Finance Committee: Member Alonzo reported that the Finance Committee Appointing 
Committee, which had convened earlier in the day, successfully appointed two new members, 
Ana Lockwood and Michael Rupp, to the Finance Committee. He added that the Committee was 
under some time pressure to fill these vacancies, as they were critical for the Finance 
Committee's continued operation. Both appointees were expected to attend their next meeting 
after getting sworn in.  
 
Board of Assessors:  Member Alonzo mentioned that he would be meeting with the Principal 
Assessor, a member from the Board of Assessors, and Lou Franco to discuss the mechanics of 
implementing the senior tax abatements, which were a result of recent special legislation. He 
noted the importance of this meeting in establishing a systematic process to inform seniors in the 
community about the tax abatement opportunities available to them. 
 
John Bowen of 162 Highland Street interjected from Zoom.  Due to a glitch, he had become 
Zoom “host”.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced the Board is meeting on March 4, 2025 and March 11, 2025 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 5 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
February 18, 2025 
 
TOWN MANAGER COMMENT 
 
None. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
 
John Bowen of 162 Highland Street commented on federal funding for students and expressed 
concerns about voting procedures at Town Meeting. 
 
BOARD COMMENTS 
 
None.  
 
ADJOURNMENT  
 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn.  Chair Nuzzolo seconded the motion. Call for vote: 
Four- Yes.  Motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
The Board adjourned at 8:19 PM. 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
Annie Aubrey, 
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday March 11, 2025 
 
Member Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes from February 18, 2025. 
Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 