===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, May 13, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda 
Moore, Member Tom Alonzo 
Members Absent: Member Renee Emkey 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live 
and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics 
that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be 
brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
RECOGNIZE OUTGOING SELECT BOARD MEMBERS TOM ALONZO & 
MICHAEL-RAY JEFFREYS 
State Senator John Cronin and Representative Margaret Scarsdale presented citations to Vice-
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys and Member Tom Alonzo. Representative Scarsdale stated that both 
members have been integral partners with the State delegation. Senator Cronin echoed the 
sentiment of Representative Scarsdale. Senator Cronin noted the leadership of the Board. 
 
Police Chief Jeffrey Thibodeau presented the outgoing members with a certificate of 
appreciation from the Lunenburg Police Department. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo presented the outgoing members with gifts on behalf of the Select Board and the 
Town Manager. 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment thanked the outgoing members for onboarding her to the Town 
of Lunenburg. She stated that the outgoing members led by example and did what was best for 
the community, and did so with grace and respect.  
 
Clerk Amanda Moore thanked the outgoing members for their steadfast service to the Town. 
 
Lou Franco, 250 Arbor Street: thanked Senator Cronin and Representative Scarsdale for 
presenting the outgoing members with citations. Mr. Franco stated that the outgoing members 
were mentors and colleagues to him. Mr. Franco thanked both of them for their service to the 
Town.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys thanked the community, Member Alonzo, Board members, Town staff, and 
State delegation. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that the Town is run by volunteers, and it is a shared responsibility. 
Member Alonzo stated that this is always available to volunteer and serve on a board or 
committee. Member Alonzo thanked Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Board members, Town staff, and State 
delegation.  
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Brody Tapply as Police Officer 
The Police Chief stated that he and Town staff interviewed six candidates and 
recommended Brody Tapply as a Police Officer. Chief Thibodeau stated that Mr. Tapply 
is a resident of Lunenburg and graduated from Lunenburg High School in 2021. Chief 
Thibodeau stated that he is currently enrolled in the criminal justice program at Fitchburg 
State University. 
 
Mr. Tapply thanked the Town Manager and the Police Department for their continued 
guidance.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Brody 
Tapply as Student Police Officer, effective May 18, 2025. Seconded by Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
Chair Nuzzolo thanked the organizers of the Town Fair for putting together a well-managed and 
well-attended event.  
 
Member Alonzo thanked all those who were involved and attended the “Are You Smarter than a 
Sixth Grader” event.  
 
Public Comment 
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street: congratulated the outgoing Board members for their 
dedication. Mr. Beardmore was concerned about remarks made at the last Town Meeting. Mr. 
Beardmore described the May Town Meeting Citizens’ Petition to appropriate contingent upon 
revenue to fund portions of the School budget. 
 
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street: thanked the outgoing Board members for their efforts in the 
Town. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road: thanked the outgoing Board members. Ms. Foyle stated that she 
appreciates the fiduciary responsibility of the Select Board. Ms. Foyle stated that as an 
employee, she saw that budget cuts and firings take a toll on employee morale.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Annual Town Election is this Saturday from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
in the TC Passios Building. Chair Nuzzolo stated that there are two more yard waste collection 
days on Saturday, May 17
th and Saturday, May 31st. Chair Nuzzolo stated that it will be held at 
the landfill on Young’s Road from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Chair Nuzzolo stated that there will be 
a classic car cruise night on May 21
st from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on Memorial Drive to the TC 
Passios Building. He stated that is being hosted by the Lunenburg Community Food Pantry, the 
Lion’s Club, the PTO, and the Club Teen Center. He stated that the rain date is May 28
th.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
7:15 Presentation by LHS Cares on Lunenburg Trash Clean Up (Civics class project) on 
May 31st, 9am-12pm 
Grace, Lola, Emma, Madison and Ava spoke to the Board regarding their civics class project in 
the 10
th grade. The students described their proposal of a Lunenburg Trash Clean Up on May 
31st. The students stated that the cleanup will be surrounding the Town Center. Chair Nuzzolo 
noted that there should be chaperones for each of the six sections. Town Manager Warren-
Dyment stated that volunteers should not be picking up and removing large discarded debris as it 
may pose a safety hazard.  
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to co-sponsor the LHS Cares Lunenburg Trash Clean Up event 
on May 31st from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: 
Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS (CONTINUED) 
 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Brody Tapply as Police Officer 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Jarrod Bowser as Seasonal 
Beach Director 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Logan O’Connell as Executive 
Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Brian Gingras as Land Use 
Director 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Casey Corey as Seasonal 
Lifeguard 
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of James Versoi as Seasonal 
Cemetery Laborer 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointments as described 
above. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the transition to the MUNIS Cloud system is taking 
place next week, on Thursday, May 22
nd. She stated that online functions will be available during 
the transition. She stated that on Thursday, May 22nd there will be no in-person financial 
transactions in the Town. The Town Manager stated that Officers Brad McNamara and Jenna 
Morris were critical in an investigation regarding the arrest of an individual charged with 
allegedly soliciting an underage college applicant. 
 
The Town Manager stated that T-Mobile is servicing the cell towers on the Town Hall roof. She 
stated that the work is not related to the weathervane. She stated that the renovations to the 
kitchen in the adult activity center have been completed and is back in use. She stated that the 
slate roof at the Ritter Building is completed. The Town Manager stated that bids were opened on 
May 5
th for the DPW Support Services contract. She stated that the Town received one bid from 
the current contractor. She stated that the cracked ceiling bid received one bid that was slightly 
higher but within the budget. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there is now a vacancy in the Planning Department for an 
Administrative Assistant at 36 hours a week with an anticipated start date of July 1, 2025. The 
Town Manager stated that interviews are being scheduled for the Conservation Administrative 
Assistant at 10 hours per week. She stated that Board Clerk/Secretary positions are advertised. 
She stated that there is an open position for a dietary aide that is 9 hours per week. The Town 
Manager stated that the Land Use Director position has not yet been posted. She stated that there 
will be several appointments at future Board meetings for seasonal lifeguard positions. 
 
The Town Manager stated that applications are being accepted for board and committee positions 
for two more days. She described the vacancies and expirations for FY2026 as follows:  
• Agricultural Commission (1 Vacancy) 
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 Vacancy and 2 Expiring Terms) 
• ADA Commission (1 Expiring Term) 
• Conservation Commission (3 Expiring Terms only 1 is seeking reappointment) 
• Council on Aging (4 Terms Expiring) 
• Cultural Council (2 Vacancies and 2 Terms Expiring) 
• Finance Committee (2 Terms Expiring) 
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate Member Vacancies and 1 Term Expiring) 
• Historical Commission (2 Vacancies) 
• Personnel Committee (5 Vacancies) 
• PACC (1 Vacancy and 1 Term Expiring) 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
• Stormwater Task Force (1 Vacancy) 
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Vacancy and 3 Terms Expiring) 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
1. Memorandum of Agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and the Lunenburg Public 
Employee Committee (FY 2026 Health Insurance) 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the agreement is a one-year extension. She stated that 
all member groups met and voted upon the extension. She stated that the Town will be working 
with the PEC for FY 2027. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys to approve the Memorandum of Agreement between the Town 
of Lunenburg and the Lunenburg Public Employee Committee (FY 2026 Health 
Insurance). Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
2. Discussion on Bylaw Review 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Annual Bylaw Review per the Town Charter must occur. He stated 
that the Bylaw Review Committee will be comprised of the Town Clerk, two members appointed 
by the Town Moderator, and two members appointed by the Select Board. He stated that the 
Committee will draft recommendations for substantive changes as deemed necessary or 
advisable.  
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that the last Bylaw Review coincided with the Town Charter review 
and changes were incorporated into the Bylaws. Chair Nuzzolo stated that if residents are 
interested in joining the Bylaw Review Committee they would complete the form, and the Board 
will appoint as necessary. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys to create a Bylaw Review Committee consistent with the Town 
Charter. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Sick Leave Bank Policy 
Tabled until a further meeting. 
 
2. Discussion on Acceptance of Gift Policy 
Tabled until a further meeting. 
 
3. Tax Investigation Report 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys incorporated comments from Member Alonzo from last week’s meeting. 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that on page 13, Member Alonzo asked for a more expansive 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
statement regarding the mailings. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that an additional substantive change 
is in the Executive Summary, which now includes corrective actions that were identified by the 
Department of Revenue. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board will need to vote upon the 
acceptance of the report at a future meeting. 
 
4. 56 Carr Avenue: Sell or Hold 
Tabled until a further meeting.  
 
5. Discussion on Budget Task Force Charge 
Member Alonzo stated that he does not believe a Budget Task Force is necessary. He stated that 
the Board, Finance Committee, and School Committee should request the Town Manager and the 
Superintendent to provide a set of data. He stated that there should be a joint meeting to review.  
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys agrees with Member Alonzo. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he believes the 
budget planning should fall within the purview of the Select Board and School Committee. He 
stated that an area of improvement is better communication with the Select Board and School 
Committee. 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she has had conversations with Member Emkey, who 
is not present at the meeting. The Town Manager stated that Member Emkey would agree with 
the sentiments of Vice-Chair Jeffreys and Member Alonzo.  
 
Clerk Moore stated that there should be more regularly scheduled joint meetings with the School 
Committee.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $328,059.72  
 
Action Items 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he requests that the Town Manager and the Town Clerk add the 
Town Election and Town Meeting results on the website.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that he attended a recent Council on Aging meeting. He said that their plan 
in FY2027 is to add a Program Coordinator position. He said that they are looking to modify the 
position name of Outreach Coordinator to Assistant Director. Chair Nuzzolo stated that summer 
concerts and other activities are beginning in June. Chair Nuzzolo stated that they are 
considering moving band concerts to the gazebo. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Council on Aging 
is looking into utilizing more capabilities from My Senior Center to process and accept payments 
for programs. 
 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 13, 2025 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on May 20 with a new Select 
Board slate.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
John Bowen Jr., 162 Highland Street (via Zoom): thanked Vice-Chair Jeffreys and Member 
Nuzzolo for their service to the United States. He thanked the outgoing members for their service 
to the Town of Lunenburg. He stated that he is organizing the placement of cemetery stake flags 
on veterans’ graves on Memorial Day. He stated that this will occur on Saturday, May 24, 2025 
at the North Cemetery and he is looking for volunteers. 
 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street: thanked Vice-Chair Jeffreys, and Member Alonzo thanked 
them for their service. He stated that the Town needs to invest in the Cemeteries and make it a 
priority.  
 
Board Comment 
None.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Four-
aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:53 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 7, 2026 
Vice- Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of May 13, 2025.  Seconded 
by Clerk McLeod.  Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
 