===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Wednesday, October 1, 2025  
6:00 PM  
*REVISED AGENDA  
Virtual Meeting Only- Zoom  
 
*This meeting will be held via Zoom. The following information is also provided for members of 
the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a 
computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and 
enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for 
your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. 
Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users 
may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
*Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host 
for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI 
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of 
meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom 
application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of 
the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by 
the Chair. V otes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and 
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
6:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
I. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Motion to Enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to conduct strategy with respect to 
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and 
the chair so declares 
(Town of Lunenburg, acting by and through its Select Board and its Chief of Police, and Nashoba Valley 
Regional Dispatch District v. George B. Burden and Jennifer P. Burden, 2585CV01256A). 
ADJOURN  