===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, March 19, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda 
Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Finance Director/Town Accountant 
Ezequiel Ayala Jr.  
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
Public Comment occurred later in the meeting due to a Zoom technical difficulty.  
 
DISCUSSION ON FY2025 BUDGET, FY2026 BUDGET, CAPITAL PLAN AND TOWN 
MEETING WARRANT ARTICLES 
 
Pavement Management Program 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment stated that the budget became unbalanced, and there is 
now additional funding because there was a decrease of $175,000 for the Assessor Overlay. 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment presented two different budget proposals to the Board: one with 
the Pavement Management Program (PMP) restored to $279,000 and the second budget proposal 
where the PMP is not restored. 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment described how the PMP could be restored by modifying the 
existing budget. Town Manager Warren-Dyment proposed an increase to the snow and ice budget 
over the past fiscal year so that there would not have to be a large restoration after the winter 
season. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that $50,000 for the grant writer position and 
$10,000 in Police overtime could be removed. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she 
spoke with the Police Chief to confirm a small reduction in the police training funds due to a new 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
MILO system that would allow training to occur during shifts. Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
stated that the Reserve Fund was proposed to be decreased from $200,000 to $185,000, and 
Information Technology Purchase Services was decreased by $5,000. Town Manager Warren-
Dyment stated that the Police Department's motorcycle is proposed to be eliminated. Town 
Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the $15,000 in training under the insurance line was 
reduced. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the historic commission equipment, APDC, 
and funds offsetting the Capital Plan were proposed to be reduced. 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that if the PMP was restored to the full $550,000, she 
stated that layoffs would occur. 
 
Member Renee Emkey asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment what the proposed reduction of the 
Capital Plan was to restore the PMP to $279,000. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that it is 
a reduction of $39,000, however, there is no impact to the Plan, it would shift the funds from 
taxation to Free Cash. 
 
Clerk Amanda Moore asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment, with these proposed reductions, if 
the Police Chief was confident that these cuts would not affect service. Town Manager Warren-
Dyment stated that the Chief is confident that it would not affect services, and that the 
Department would be able to fund overtime pay even with a reduction because some employees 
who were at the higher end of the pay scale no longer work for the Department.  
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that there will be no longer adjustments for the payment 
plan under the salary reserve. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that the proposed budget 
includes just 2.5% COLA. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that a part-time Council on 
Aging Outreach position was eliminated to support two part-time kitchen staff who can no longer 
be funded through the formula grant.  
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that if an override was approved, she would recommend 
that the Grant Writer position be reinstated and bolstered due to the need for contracts and grant 
management across departments. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that there would not be a 
noticeable decline in the overall PMP if the amount was reduced by one year. Town Manager 
Warren-Dyment stated that there would be a noticeable decline in PMP impact if the program 
were not funded for multiple years. Chair Nuzzolo and Vice-Chair Michael Ray Jeffreys stated 
that they did not have an issue with the proposed restoration of the PMP to $279,000. 
 
FY2026 Budget 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that at the upcoming Town Manager’s budget presentation, it would be 
helpful to have an explanation of what was approved in the budget for FY24 pre-override. Vice-
Chair Jeffreys stated that this explanation would be helpful to describe the budget increase with 
the override year over year. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that the format of the budget is different 
from prior fiscal years, and he believes it is important to show the growth over time. Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys said that any budget formatting changes should be discouraged. Town Manager Warren-
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
Dyment said that the consolidation of budgetary lines was from recommendations of the Budget 
Task Force. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he understands what Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
said and that he recommends that a year-over-year level of analysis occur so that Town Meeting 
voters can view percentage and dollar increases. Member Tom Alonzo stated that he agrees with 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys, and he stated that he understands the shifts in budgetary lines that are being 
made. 
 
Finance Director/Town Accountant Ezequiel Ayala Jr. stated that the budgetary shifts were made 
to follow best practices from the Uniform Massachusetts Accounting System. 
 
Member Emkey stated that there may be a discrepancy between the School FY25 final revised 
budget and the additional Chapter 70 funds that were approved at the Special Town Meeting. 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment and Finance Director/Town Accountant Ayala Jr. agreed that 
there was a discrepancy in the spreadsheet and that it would be updated. 
 
Member Emkey asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment if the FY2026 budget includes combining 
two part-time Council on Aging meal coordinators into one full-time position, and funding two 
part-time meal assistants in the budget, instead of formula grant funding. Town Manager Warren-
Dyment stated that it was correct.  
 
Clerk Moore asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment what is included in the reduction of 
Information Technology Purchase Services for FY2026. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said 
that there was a small reduction available to be made in the internet services line that will not 
impact services that are being provided.  
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment if there were additional reductions 
that occurred, he asked where the funding would come from. Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
said that any additional reductions would come from the Capital Plan offset to balance the 
budget. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that if there was a departmental reduction, it would 
come from a reduction in taxation that’s offsetting capital. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that the Town staff did well in the task of restoring a portion of the PMP 
while not significantly impacting the services of other departments. All the Board members 
agreed that they are in support of restoring the PMP as presented by the Town Manager.  
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that, based upon the FY2026 expenditure lines alone, 
there is minimal room in the budget, and she believes there will not be the same level of Free 
Cash compared to FY2025. Clerk Moore asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment if the Town will 
be able to cover the snow and ice budget line through Free Cash in FY2026. Town Manager 
Warren-Dyment said that she expects to have sufficient free cash to cover the snow and ice 
budget line. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that the FY27 Capital Plan may not be covered 
by Free Cash based on current FY26 expenditures. 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that now that the Board is comfortable with the balanced 
budget, including the restoration of the PMP, she will work with town staff to make the budget 
digestible for residents and town meeting voters. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that she 
appreciates and welcomes all feedback from the Board regarding making the information 
digestible. 
 
Town Meeting Warrant Articles & Override Discussion 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she met with department heads this morning and 
asked them to each create a list of needs if the override occurred. Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
said that she provided the Board with the emails of each department head. Town Manager 
Warren-Dyment said that a holistic approach needs to occur in the future to make sure critical 
needs are not being left behind. Town Manager Warren-Dyment suggested that in the future, 
quotes from vendors should occur in advance, staffing structure and wage rates should be 
considered in comparison to the market. 
 
Member Emkey asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment how much Free Cash can be given to the 
Schools for FY26. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said she believes $150,000 could be given to 
the schools. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that the schools will determine what may be 
covered by their existing budget.  
 
Member Emkey asked Town Manager Warren-Dyment if the two proposed new DPW trucks 
could be paid for using Chapter 90 funds. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that based on 
the reduction of the PMP that she would not recommend using Chapter 90 funds for the DPW 
trucks to make additional funding available for the schools using Free Cash. Member Alonzo 
said that the Capital Planning Committee makes recommendations for projects and does not 
consider allocating funding for the projects. Member Alonzo stated that the Town will not know 
if the Chapter 90 bond fund will be passed and if it will be maintained for FY2027 at the same 
rate before the May Town Meeting. The Board discussed prior purchases of DPW trucks using 
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds and the delivery and production delays that occurred.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo asked the Board for their opinions on putting forward a municipal override. Vice-
Chair Jeffreys said that he is not in favor of a municipal override due to the school district’s 
significant need for additional funding so that layoffs do not occur. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said that 
he does not believe the public will consider the municipal override a necessity. Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys said that the Town should consider future long-term budgetary planning before 
considering a municipal override. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said that he believes that the School 
Committee should have had more foresight regarding substantial budget shortfalls. 
 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment said that capital projects are being underfunded because 
consulting and design services have not been funded. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said there 
is a significant need in the Fire Department for design and consulting services for a new 
building/facility. 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
 
Clerk Moore stated that she would not support a School-only override. Member Alonzo stated 
that proper planning is needed when justifying an override. Member Alonzo stated that long-term 
budgetary projections and long-term override projections are important to stabilize the budgets 
and to justify overrides as preventative rather than ‘band-aid’ fixes. Member Alonzo stated that 
he does not support a School and municipal override for FY2026. Member Alonzo stated that 
there is no time for the School and the Town to justify an additional override. Member Alonzo 
stated that data and narrative are important for budgetary considerations and projections. 
Member Alonzo said that he supports education and needs projections from the school district.  
 
Member Emkey stated that there has been significant turnover and resignations regarding 
volunteers and finance staff at the school district. Member Emkey said that she appreciates the 
work that School staff and elected officials have done. Member Emkey stated that she would not 
support a School or Municipal override.  
 
Clerk Moore stated that more joint meetings with the School Committee would be beneficial. 
Member Emkey agreed with Clerk Moore. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she 
recommends the Town work to project for FY2027 in the Summer of 2025 to be prepared for 
next year. Member Alonzo described the 2008 recession and significant budgetary cuts.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo said that he has not decided on supporting the school citizens’ petition override. 
Chair Nuzzolo said that signatures were compiled quickly, and he said that there may be an 
appetite for an override by voters. Chair Nuzzolo said that he is comfortable supporting what the 
majority of the Board decides. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said that the Board should support what other 
elected boards and committees are doing. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said that the Board has a majority 
that will not support a School and Municipal override, and he stated that the School Committee 
has the same opinion for this year. Vice-Chair Jeffreys says that he respects the Board’s 
preferences; he said his preference is to pursue a School-only override. Vice-Chair Jeffreys said 
that the community will decide on a School-only override. Chair Nuzzolo stated that he would 
like the Board to formally vote at the next meeting not to have a municipal override as a town 
meeting warrant article. Board members praised the Town Manager and the Finance 
Director/Town Accountant for providing the Board with a presentable and readable budget.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $239,384.27. Payroll warrant in the amount of 
$948,580.71. Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $1,169,135.29. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
John Bowen, 162 Highland Street (via Zoom): thanked the Finance Director/Town Accountant 
for making himself available to members of the public. Mr. Bowen commented that he disagrees 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
with the expansion of North Cemetery because he believes there are already enough plots 
available. 
 
Dave Passios, Jefferson New Hampshire Presidential Highway (via Zoom): commented on the 
previous speaker and stated that there is more information regarding the expansion proposal of 
North Cemetery. Mr. Passios stated that the prior Town Manager did not provide a procedure in 
place for grants for boards/committees to access. 
 
TJ Loughlin, 207 Rolling Acres Road: stated that he believes the Board’s opinion is incorrect 
regarding the override. Mr. Loughlin stated that he asked the Finance Committee to create a 
holistic plan last year, and he believes that it has not yet occurred. Mr. Loughlin said that he 
believes there will be better planning next year by the Town Manager. 
 
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road: asked if the revised budget proposal includes a contribution 
to OPEB. Town Manager Warren-Dyment said yes.  
 
Board Comment 
Clerk Moore thanked Mr. Loughlin for his efforts in supporting the School district. Clerk Moore 
stated that the budgetary conversations are similar to last year, but there are new staff because of 
turnover. 
 
Member Alonzo thanked Mr. Loughlin for his efforts, and he believes that Mr. Loughlin has the 
best intentions. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice Chair Jeffreys. Roll Call Vote: Vice-
Chair Jeffreys-Aye; Clerk Moore-Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-
Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:36 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2025 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from March 19, 2025. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 