===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Tuesday, August 11, 2026 
4:00 PM 
AGENDA 
Brooks House (1033 Massachusetts Avenue) 
and T. C. Passios (1025 Massachusetts Avenue) 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to 
attend this in-person meeting.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact  be discussed and other 
items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
4:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
 
SCHEDULED MEETING 
• Select Board site visit to Brooks House and T.C. Passios** 
o Brooks House, 1033 Massachusetts Avenue (Approximately 4:00 PM – 4:15 PM) 
o T.C. Passios Elementary School, 1025 Massachusetts Avenue (Approximately 4:20 PM – 5:00 
PM) 
o Select Board members will be touring both buildings with Facilities Director Christopher Ruth 
and members of the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee  
o The purpose of this site visit is to familiarize the Select Board members with the present 
condition and layout of the buildings and to allow the opportunity to allow members to ask 
Director Ruth questions regarding the same. Any discussion will be limited to observations and 
factual information regarding the buildings. Any deliberation or action by the Select Board 
regarding the future of the properties will occur only at a properly posted public meeting. 
 
ADJOURN 
 
** This meeting consists of a walking tour of a vacant and partially vacant buildings. The tour includes travel over 
uneven walking surfaces and the use of stairways. Due to the condition of the buildings, attendees may encounter wet 
or uneven floors, deteriorated building materials, low overhead clearances, limited lighting, and other conditions 
commonly associated with vacant structures. 
 
The buildings have experienced water intrusion and may contain environmental hazards, including but not limited to 
mold, damaged building materials, and asbestos-containing materials. The Town has not undertaken environmental 
remediation of the buildings. Individuals entering the buildings do so at their own risk and should exercise appropriate 
caution. 
 
Because of the physical characteristics and condition of the buildings, this meeting is not fully accessible to individuals 
with mobility impairments. The Town has selected this location because the purpose of the meeting is to inspect the 
buildings in their existing condition, and no alternative location would permit the Select Board to accomplish that 
purpose. 
 
Individuals requiring an accommodation are encouraged to contact the Town Manager's Office as soon as practicable 
prior to the meeting so that reasonable accommodations can be explored. Certain portions of the tour may not be 
accessible due to the existing condition of the buildings. 
 
 