===PAGE 79===
79 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lun enburg Fire Department are dedicated to providing the 
highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to the citizens of the town of Lunenburg.  
 
In 2017 your Fire Department responded to 2107 calls for service, broken down as follows:  
 
Fires & Hazardous Conditions                     514                Emergency Medical      1022 
 
Inspections                  587                 Other                             20 
 
 
Fire Department staffing as of July 1, 2017  is 5 Career and 40-45 On Call Firefighters an d Emergency Medical 
Technicians, plus 1 full time Administrative Assistant/EMS Coordinator.  The Station is manned 7 days per week  from 6am-6pm 
with 2-3 Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technicians , plus the Chief of Department and EMS  Coordinator weekdays.  The Station 
is also staffed two nights per week with 2 Firefighter/EMT’s.  This coverage is a combination of  Full Time personnel  in 
conjunction with 84  hours per week of per diem coverage.  The per diem coverage is provided by our C all Firefighter/EMT’s  
manning the Station at their hourly Call rate.  
 
Sunday through Thursday nights however, the Station is unmanned and all of our personnel respond from home on an 
“on call” basis.   This  adds several minutes or more to our response tim e as personnel must respond to the station, pick up the 
appropriate equipment and then respond the call.  
 
The call volume in 2017 was an overall increase of 3% over 2016.  We also experienced a 6% increase  in Emergency 
Medical related calls, which is cons istent with the growth we have seen over the last 10 years .   As our community continues to 
grow, the demand for emergency services grows along with it .  I must continue to state the need for  24 hour staffing in the 
Station.  Funding to maintain a minimum of 2 Firefighter/EMT’s or Paramedics in the Station 24 hours a day, 7 days a week is 
critical to maintain the high level of se rvice our Townspeople expect.   This would allow either the first ambulance or first piece of 
fire apparatus to respond immediatel y.  Not only would this reduce our response times to critical emergencies, it would also 
reduce the “wear and tear” on our Call members.   This coverage would in no way re duce the need for our  On Call personnel; it 
would only supplement their response and reduce response times. 
 
Staffing was slightly increased on July 1, 2017 with the addition of 1 Full Time member.  Lt. Christos Lekaditis joined 
the ranks of our full time staff and functions as our Assistant Fire Prevention and Training Officer.  Christos was a Call Firefighter 
with the Department for 10 years and also served as a Full Time Firefighter with the Devens Fire Department.  The addition of  
this full time position allowed us to slightly increase our coverage during the day time, and to begin cove ring two nights per week 
as well.  It should be noted that an additional 5 positions are needed to provide 2 personnel in the Station 24/7, plus an ad ditional 
member weekdays when most of our Call Personnel are out of town.  
 
As we plan towards additional staffing in the future, consideration for transitioning the Ambulance Service to the 
Paramedic Level of care must also be considered.  We currently operate two Ambulance s at the Advanced EMT Level, but must 
rely on outside agencies for assistance with full  Advanced Life Support Care.  Hiring Paramedic Level trained Firefighters and 
equipping the ambulances to that level will bring a higher level of care to our residents in a faster, more efficient way.      
  
Recruitment and Retention of our Call Firefighters continues to be one of the greatest challenges for the Department, and is my 
main reason to call for more permanent staffing in the Station.  Make no mistake, our Cal l personnel do an outstanding job, and 
their commitment never ceases to amaze me.  However, like many Call Departments we suffer from a continual turnover  
                   655 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
       CHIEF 
 Patrick A. Sullivan 
 TEL: (978) 582-4155 
 FAX: (978) 582-4033 
 
===PAGE 80===
80 
 
  
in personnel.  Public Safety is a field where training and experience are critical.  A new Call Firefighter/EMT must 
attend over 340 hours of initial training, plus additional time in orie ntation and field training.  Members qualifying to drive Fire 
Apparatus must complete an additional 65 hours of classroom and practical training.  On average, it takes a new member one 
and a half to two years to properly complete these requirements.  Unfor tunately, for a variety of  reasons we often do not retain 
members for more than 5-6 years. 
   
As an example, during 2016 -2017 6 of our most active Call Firefighters obtained Full time Firefighting Positions with 
other Departments, and another member joined the Armed Services.  While most have remained members of the Department, 
their availability to be “On Call” and cover per diem shifts has been significantly reduced.   
 
In 2017, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 587 Inspections .   This is in addition  to multiple fire drills and public 
education initiatives.  By law we are required to inspect Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detector installations when a home is sold, 
as well as all new oil burner and propane gas installations.  Any business holding a liquor license is also required to be inspected  
for fire safety issues as well.   In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire protection, 
as well as ongoing inspections during the construction process.   Personnel also continue to provide fire safety education to not 
only children in our schools but adults as well.     Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2017 include: 
- Continuation of a Department of Fire Services Grant in the amount of $6953  to assist with Fire Safety Education in 
both the Schools and with Senior Citizens.  This Grant provides funding for both materials and personnel to bring 
fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations.  Highlights of activity through this grant include:  
o Educational programs in basic fire safety in Grades K -3, including use of the Regional Fire  Safety 
Trailer.   
o Educational programs in conjunction with the Council on Aging.  These included cooking and heating 
safety, a CPR Demonstration and Ice safety.  
- Participation in the Senior Center’s “Sand for Seniors” Program.  This program provides buckets of walkway sand 
for Senior Citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter months.  In partnership with this  
program, Captain James Ricci delivers the san d to the residents and when possible, inspects their homes for 
Smoke and Carbon Monoxide Detectors.  If the resident was lack ing detectors, Capt. Ricci is able to  install free 
detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE Grant.     
- It should be noted that eac h year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent smoke 
detectors. 
 
Firefighters Joseph Arsenault and Stephen Morse graduated from the Massachusetts Firefighting Academy’s 
Call/Volunteer Training Program.  This intensive 4 month pro gram provides the basic skills firefighters need to operate in today’s 
challenging environments.  All newly hired Firefighters are required to complete this program within one year of hire.   
 
 10 Firefighters from Lunenburg have undergone specialized trai ning and respond as part of the District Technical 
Rescue and Dive Teams.  These regional teams provide specially trained personnel  and equipment beyond what most 
communities are able to provide at the local level.   In conjunction with these Teams, Lunenb urg operates both a Water Rescue 
Unit and a Collapse/Trench Rescue Trailer.  In September, Chief Sullivan, Capt. Ken Jones and Firefighter Ben Boudreau 
participated in Operation SCORE, a Disaster Drill designed to test the capabilities of the State’s Regio nal Technical Rescue 
Teams.  Our members, along with 50+ other Firefighters from Worcester County traveled to Cape Cod and operated through the 
night at a simulated community destroyed  by a severe weather event.  Crews stabilized damaged structures  and conducted 
rescues of simulated victims.  This was the first full scale deployment and test of the Worcester County Teams.  Our Region’s 
Team was one of the few that was able to fully complete all tasks assigned to them, and completed them ahead of schedule.     
 
Apparatus replacement continues to be a concern .  Two of our front line fire apparatus (Engine 4 and Ladder 1) are 22 
and 29 years old  years old respectively.  Both units are showing  their age through increasing maintenance costs and “out of 
service” time.  These units have been submitted for replacement  on the FY’19  Capital Plan ( both having been turned down in 
FY’18) and it is hoped that due consideration will be given for their timely replacement.  Rescue 2, a 2008 Ambulance has also 
been submitted f or replacement as it is near the end of its projected life span.  The high reliability required of front line 
emergency apparatus becomes increasingly difficult to maintain as these units reach the end of their life span.     
 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their  outstanding commitment to 
the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to impress me every day.  I would also like to thank the 
other department heads, board s and commiss ions for their continuing help.  Most people do not realize the level of 
interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business.  My thanks also go out to the citizens of 
Lunenburg for their ongoing support of public safety .  It is that support that allows us to continue prov iding the services you 
expect from us. 
===PAGE 81===
81 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2017 
 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department+*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
James Ricci, Captain/EMT+    Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT+* 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT+    Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT 
J. Gregory Massak, Lieutenant/EMT    Shawn McKenna, Lieutenant/EMT 
Patrick Hakey, Lieutenant/EMT    Christos Lekaditis, Lieutenant/EMT+* 
Rev. Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    Karen Weller, EMS Coordinator+* 
 
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT    Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT 
David Augusta, EMT    Kristen Hirsch, EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT    Ronald Hyatt, FF/EMT 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT*    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT    Lorenzo Leonardo, Firefighter 
Melissa Buchanan, Firefighter    Warren Mayhew, FF/Paramedic 
Frank Byrne, FF/EMT    Matthew McAuliffe, Firefighter 
Michael Byrne, FF/AEMT*    Jordan Melendy, EMT 
Traci Camelo, EMT    Stephen Morse, FF/EMT 
Joseph Cardone, FF/EMT    Timothy Paton, Firefighter 
Charles Colburn, FF/EMT*    Tyler Pelkey, FF/EMT 
Matthew Cormier, FF/EMT    Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT    James Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT    Jamieson Shea, FF/Paramedic* 
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT*    Evan Valliere, Firefighter 
     
     
     
     
     
 
+ Indicates Full Time Staff 
*Indicates member of District 
Technical Rescue Team 
                   655 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
       CHIEF 
 Patrick A. Sullivan 
 TEL: (978) 582-4155 
 FAX: (978) 582-4033 
 
===PAGE 82===
82 
 
Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
2017 Annual Report 
Chief James P. Marino 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                        CHIEF 
               James P. Marino 
                  TEL: (978) 582-4150 
                  FAX: (978) 582-4159 
 
              
 655 Massachusetts Ave. 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
===PAGE 83===
83 
 
 
Administrative  
Chief James P. Marino 
Public Safety Coordinator Amanda J. Moore 
Lieutenant Michael Luth 
 
Patrol Supervisors 
Sergeant Thomas Gammel 
  Sergeant Sean Connery 
Sergeant Jack Hebert 
 
Detectives 
Detective Sergeant Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Detective (Vacancy) 
 
Community Outreach/School Resource Officer 
Officer Sean Zrate 
 
Traffic/ K-9 
Officer Joshua Tocci 
K-9 Jerry 
 
Patrol Officers 
Officer Robert Diconza, Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc,  
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Kayla Leger, Officer John Morreale 
 
Desk 
Officer Lisa Melnicki 
 
Reserve Intermittent Officers 
Officer Stan Barney, Officer Donald Letarte, Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Ben Campbell, Officer Lisa 
Melnicki, Officer Jacob Lachance, Officer Chad Stateler, Officer Jonathan May, Officer Zach Levasseur, 
Officer John Wagner, Officer Erin Considine, Officer Whitney Mansfield, Officer Gage Russell,  
Officer Kamerin Munroe 
 
 
Animal Control 
Kathleen Comeau 
 
===PAGE 84===
84 
 
 
With much Appreciation 
 
Officer Deven Z. O’Brien “DOB” 
 
Deven O’Brien began his career in August of 2013 as a Lunenburg Police Reserve Officer. Deven went 
on to become a full time Career Police officer on July 20, 2014. Deven is the Officer you’ve seen at 
almost every community event riding the Police Bike or helping with traffic; Little League Parade, 
Homecoming, Miles for Myles, the Teen Center’s “Are You There Yet,” 5K to name few. Deven is 
always a professional with an eye towards improving the quality of life. He is a good friend and is held 
in high regard by his peers.  
In February of this year his career path took him to the City of Marlborough Police Department where 
he is now employed as a Police Officer. I’m confident that Deven will serve the Citizens of 
Marlborough well as he has done for the Town of Lunenburg. We are all very proud of “DOB” and all 
of the things he did to make the Lunenburg Police Department a better organization, and the Town a 
safer place. We wish you the best DOB! Be safe! 
 
 
New Arrivals 
 
Full Time: Officer Kayla Leger, Officer John Morreale, 
Reserve Intermittent: Officer Erin Considine, Officer Whitney Mansfield, Officer Gage Russel, 
Officer Kamerin Munroe. 
Administrative:  Public Safety Coordinator Amanda J. Moore 
 
Retirements 
Linda C. Carrier 
Public Safety Coordinator 
 
Congratulations to Linda Carrier on her retirement!  On May 16, 1983, after being employed in the 
Town offices for a couple of years, Linda was appointed to the police department as the Chief’s 
Administrative Assistant, a job that would later be reclassified as the Public Safety Coordinator. On June 
18, 1984 Linda would be appointed as a Reserve Intermittent Police Officer and then field train to 
become a certified Sexual Assault Investigator. I speak on behalf of the entire police department when I 
say it’s been an honor to work with Linda. Linda has served this community well with unwavering 
enthusiasm and passion for over 34 years. She will be sorely missed!  We here at the Police Department 
wish Linda happiness and health in her retirement. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 85===
85 
 
 
Citizen’s Police Academy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Citizens of Lunenburg for making the second annual 
Citizen’s Police Academy a success. I am again grateful for the enthusiastic support of the Citizen 
Students. The program curriculum included: Criminal Law, Court Process, Firearms Familiarization, 
Use of Force and Defensive Tactics, Taser, Traffic Safety & Accident Investigation, K-9 Operations, 
Crime Scene Photography, Drug Investigations, and Latent Finger Print Recovery.  
 
I have nothing but praise the officers who volunteered their time to present these subjects; Dep. Chief 
Retired, Paul Bozicas, Clerk Magistrate Patrick Malone, Sgt. Sean Connery, Sgt. Tom Gammel, Officer 
Brad McNamara, Officer Josh Tocci and Det. Sgt. Jeff Thibodeau. A special thanks again this year to 
Lieutenant Mike Luth for organizing and facilitating the program. The next Citizen’s academy will be 
scheduled in the fall of 2018. I look forward to seeing you then.  
 
 
About the Police Department 
 
 
The Police Department is in operation 24 hours a day 7 days a week.  Two patrol officers are assigned to 
each shift with support from the Traffic Enforcement/K-9 Officer who works two day shifts and two 
evening shifts. Also supporting the patrol unit is the Criminal Investigation Unit headed by a Detective 
Sergeant. The Community Outreach officer, who is also assigned as the School Resource Officer comes 
under the auspices of the C.I.U. Unit The Lieutenant and Public Safety Coordinator are on duty Monday 
thru Friday between the hours of 7Am and 3Pm. Office hours for the Chief of Police are 8Am to 4Pm 
Monday thru Friday. The Animal Control Officer, who is under auspices of the Police Department, is on 
call. 
The front desk is open Monday thru Friday from 7AM to 7PM.  Emergency, Non-emergency and 911 
calls are routed through Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District, (NVRDD). For all emergencies dial 
911. For general calls please call (978) 582-4531.  
 
Applications for Firearms Licensing can be found on the Police Department Website at 
lunenburgma.gov. Contact (978) 582-4531 for an appointment.  
 
===PAGE 86===
86 
 
 
The public is reminded to report any animal related complaints to the Regional Call Center at (978) 
582-4531. For emergencies dial 911. More information can be found on the Animal Control Web-site at 
lunenburgma.gov.  
Dogs must be licensed by April 1st annually. Dogs must have a current Rabies certificate to qualify for 
licensing. This can be done at the Clerk's office in Town Hall, 17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA 01462. 
Unspayed Female/Unaltered Male $20 fee. Spayed Female/Altered Male $5 fee.  Late Fee: $25 
 
 
The State of the Police Department 
 
The Police responded to 17048 calls for service this year, a 2.2% increase over last year; responded to 
301 motor vehicle accidents, investigated 1282 incidents, 44 Field Interview Reports, wrote 2236 motor 
vehicle citations, arrested 193 people, summonsed 175, and placed 13 people in protective custody. The 
K-9 was deployed 27 times.  In the first half of fiscal 2017 staff assignments had to be increased 75 
times to effectively meet service demands.  
 
The day shift desk officer answered 2083 calls and took 1402 lobby inquiries and complaints between 
July and December of 2017. The day shift desk officer wrote 93 incident reports and 3 field interview 
reports in 2017.  This year the day shift desk watch officer was responsible for conducting suicide watch 
and assisting with the court processing of 66 detainees; either taken into custody overnight or during the 
day shift. The day shift desk officer processed 134 Firearms Licenses, 11 Non FID related finger prints, 
and registered 13 Sex Offenders. The 3pm to 7pm desk watch officers assisted in the processing of, 50 
detainees while providing suicide watch and numerous other services as noted in the job description 
below. 
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Town for supporting the staff increase that I requested 
in the FY 18 budget. The addition of one officer enabled the Police Department to create a School 
Resource Officer Position. An outpouring of input from the community, and the shift in societal values 
and dynamic social change has combined to influence the decision to create such an important job. 
Growth revenue provided the funding for the additional officer and although the School Resource 
Officer position is important to ease the concerns of crime and violence in schools, because the Officer 
is committed to the School District for at least 10 months, it does not help the Police Department keep 
pace with the demands for service. This year, although arrests are down, calls for service continue to rise 
causing the work load to grow.  
 
In the past twenty years the police department has not seen any significant increase in staffing despite a 
significant increase in community development and growth. For several years I have asked for three 
officers per year until the police department reaches an appropriate number of full time officers to meet 
the work load demand. I have proven through work load demand studies that this police department 
should employ between twenty-three (23) and twenty-six (26) officers. The studies agree with 
Department of Justice assessments which indicate that based upon our population the Lunenburg Police 
Department should employ 2.6 officers per thousand populations.  
 
In past presentations I have publicized town reports dating back to 1996 that makes it clear the number 
one priority has been to increase the size of the police department. Recently I discovered a letter from 
the previous police chief addressed to the then town manager dated April 23, 2006. The letter indicated 
that the police department employed 13 full time officers including the Chief of Police, today it employs 
15. The letter pointed out that a survey conducted by the Bureau of Justice Assistance revealed that 21 
full time police officers for every 10,000 residents served.  The Police Chief reports in the letter that a 
Massachusetts Police Employment Survey revealed an average of 2.1 police officers per 1000 residents 
served with some 3.0 and the lowest 1.8 officers per thousand residents served. Attached to this letter  
===PAGE 87===
87 
 
 

===PAGE 88===
88 
 
 

===PAGE 89===
89 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 90===
90 
 
Lunenburg’s Charter specifically mandates a Capital Planning Committee prepare a Fiscal Year Plan and Capital 
Improvement Plan to be presented to the Town Manager. The criterion for any capital request includes mandates, 
safety, need, crisis, cost effectiveness and ability to fund. The committee has to review each request under these 
six elements. Not only do they have to determine that the request fits within the criteria, but they have to prioritize 
the level that meets the criteria. Therefore, not all requests are included in the fiscal year plans, mostly due to 
funding.  
At the Annual Town Meeting in May 2017, the following items totaling $633,317, were  
presented in the FY18 plan.    
 
Capital Planning Report
The Capital Planning Committee has presented the Fiscal Year 2018 plan to the Town Manager as required by Charter.
The Committee has recommended the following items be included in the FY2018 Capital Plan
CIP Cumulative 
Tracker Priority Item Cost Cost
FM16-09 1 Senior Center Painting 18,300$                                  18,300$                
- 1 Town Hall Painting 87,750$                                  106,050$              
FM17-10 1 Fuel Tank - DPW Building 110,000$                                216,050$              
- 1 Playground Project 12,000$                                  228,050$              
DPW16-07 1 GMC Dump Truck 53,767$                                  281,817$              
FD16-14 1 Command Car 60,000$                                  341,817$              
PD16-10 1 Tasers (8) 10,500$                                  352,317$              
PD16-13 1 Police Vehicles (2) cars 111,000$                                463,317$              
LPS16-19 1 Turkey Hill Asbestos 145,000$                                608,317$              
- 1 Police Fingerprint System 25,000$                                  633,317$              
Total 633,317$           
Capital Planning Committee
Jamie Toale, Chair, BOS Representative
Heather Sroka, Vice-Chair, School Committee Representative
Karin Menard, Clerk Member at Large
John Henshaw, Member, Finance Committee Representative
Damon McQuaid, Member, Planning Board Representative
===PAGE 91===
91 
 
PLANNING BOARD  
 
Fourteen ANR plans (plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law, but still requiring Board 
endorsement) were approved. 
 
Approved residential subdivisions were in various stages of completion.  The following continued to build:  a 
nine-lot subdivision on Butterfly Lane, Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, and Stone Farm Estates off Massachu-
setts Avenue.   
 
The Board approved applications for expansion of the parking lot at Walker Orthodontics on Massachusetts 
Avenue, and construction of an office and garage on Massachusetts Avenue for the Lunenburg Water District.  
Approval was also given for nine single -family house lots at 175 Northfield Road, and a two -bay self-service 
car wash on Electric Avenue.   
 
Unitil and a self-storage facility, both located on Electric Avenue, continued construction. 
 
Town Meeting approved a bylaw for a temporary moratorium on the sale and distribution of recreational mariju-
ana through November 30, 2018.  While this moratorium is in place, the Board researches potential impacts to 
the Town, taking into consideration the regulations of the Cannabis Control Commission.   
 
Damon McQuaid resigned from the Board in May 2017 and the Board reorganized.  Gregory Bittner was voted 
Chair, and Matthew Allison, Vice Chair.  Kenneth Chenis continued as Clerk.  Board members served as repre-
sentatives to the following committees:  Gregory Bittner on the School Building Committee, Capital Planning 
Committee, and Green Community Task Force; Matthew A llison on the Stormwater Task Force, and continued 
liaison to the Agricultural Commission; David Prokowiew as the Montachusetts Regional Planning Commission 
representative and Open Space Committee member; and Kenneth Chenis as the Montachusetts Joint Transporta-
tion Committee representative.    
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be reached 
at 978-582-4147 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at http://lunenburgma.gov/  on the Planning 
Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective 
Bylaws), Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, and Rules & Regulations for Site Plan 
Approval & Special Permits are available online.  The Board continues to work on updating the Zoning portion 
of the Code.   
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair      Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair      David Prokowiew, Member  Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
===PAGE 92===
92 
 
 
Planning Board Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
FY 2017 
 
Over the past fiscal year, the Open Space Ad  Hoc Committee advised the Planning Board and other 
municipal boards on Chapter 61 withdrawals .  The Committee is looking forward to updating the Open 
Space and Recreation Plan in 2018 in order to keep the Town eligible for certain state grants to defray the 
costs of open space and recreation projects, and to assure the town is taking a measured approach to 
meeting the residents’ open space and recreation needs. 
 
 
 
Brandon L. Kibbe, Acting Chair, Member At Large 
Richard A. Brockelman, Member At Large 
Todd Dwyer, Conservation Commission 
Thomas Bertram, Conservation Commission 
David Prokowiew, Planning Board 
 
 
===PAGE 93===
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       Zoning Board of Appeals 
 
The Zoning Board of Appeals heard pe titions during calendar year 2017.   There were several applicants seek ing special 
permits and special permits for dimensional variations.  The Zoning Board meetings are held on the second and fo urth 
Wednesdays of the month on an “as needed” basis. 
 
The Zoning Board consists of the following members:  Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman, 
Members: Robert Cadle, Paul Doherty and Hans Wentrup and Associate members, David Blatt, and Sheila Lumi.   Lisa 
Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board. 
 
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows: 
 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town’s Protective By-Laws as authorized in the By-laws. 
 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town’s Protective By-laws. 
 
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts General Laws, as 
amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a permit or enforcement action 
from the Administrative Officer or  Board in the Town, the Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or 
other Administrative Official. 
 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 
40B.  The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews re quests for comprehensive permits submitted to the Board under 
Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.  These requests can, by law, circumvent local 
zoning ordinances. 
 
The o ffice of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue , 
Lunenburg.  Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday and 
Thursday, closed Friday.  If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals please contact us at 978-582-4146 
X 421 during regular business hours.  Zoning Board applications are available in the office and o nline at 
www.Lunenburgonline.gov. 
Alfred Gravelle, Chairman 
James Besarkarski, Vice Chairman 
Robert Cadle, Member 
Paul Doherty, Member 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
David Blatt, Associate Member 
Shelia Lumi, Associate Member 
 
     Ritter Memorial Building 
    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
         Phone:  978-582-4146 
         Fax:      978-582-4353 
 Town of Lunenburg 
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
EDUCATION 
===PAGE 96===
96 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
2017-2018 
 
Through its stated Mission and Core Values, The Lunenburg Public Schools provides its 
students with an understanding of, and a responsible commitment to the principles of 
freedom, respect, personal worth and a concern for each other.    
 
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, 
confidence and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to 
successful careers, active citizenship and rewarding lives. 
 
The Core Values of the Lunenburg Public Schools 
• Quality education cultivates creative problem solving, independent thinking         
   and multiple points of view. 
• Effective education addresses the whole child, involve authentic engagement,    
   and provide multiple   pathways to success. 
• Students must be provided with an academically and personally safe  
   environment that promotes effective learning. 
• Students should be provided with opportunities to develop initiative and  
   responsibility which will help them become active and supportive community  
   members. 
• Focused, sustained professional development and reflective practice are  
   fundamental to excellence in teaching. 
• Strong collaboration and open communication among school staff, students,  
  families and the community develop mutual respect and trust, and enhance  
  students’ ability to succeed. 
• Resourcing decisions should be responsible, address critical needs and put       
  students first. 
 
Lunenburg School Committee 
                                            
 Chairperson:  Heather Sroka -Term Expires 2020 
 Vice-Chairperson:  Wendy Bertrand -Term Expires 2018  
 Secretary: Dawn-Marie Ayles -Term Expires 2019 
 Member: Meredith Weiss -Term Expires 2019 
 Member:  James LaVeck -Term Expires 2020   
 
Regular Meetings 
First Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall - Televised 
Third Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Lunenburg Middle-High School  
Special meetings or changes in meetings are posted at Town Hall 
===PAGE 97===
97 
 
 
Central Office Personnel 
Superintendent of Schools  Special Services 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent  Julianna Hanscom, Director 
Elizabeth Petersen, Executive Secretary  Fran McCluskey, Admin. Secretary 
  Emily Lehto, Secretary (part-time) 
School Business/Human Resources  Facilities & Grounds 
Michael Cassidy, Director  John J. Londa, Director 
  Robert Roy, Maintenance   
  Ben Pellerin, District-wide  
Technology/Network Service 
Steve Malandrinos, Director 
Daniel Nadareski, Network Administrator 
Nicholas Scoggins, School Technology Coordinator       Transportation Services   
Jordan Pochini, Technician              Dee Bus Service 
 
Cafeteria Services  
Nadine Lorenzen, Director of Food Services; Patricia Pichnarcik, Lunenburg Middle -
High School Café  Manager; Joslin Schneider, Turkey Hill Elementary School Café 
Manager;  Elin Forgues, Lunenburg Primary School Café Manager  
 
Superintendent’s Message  
I am pleased to report another engaging and productive year of teaching and learning in 
the Lunenburg P ublic Schools. Typically I would review our state assessment results in 
this report, but our District did not receive an accountability rating this year since 
students in grades 3 -8 participated in 2017 Next Generation MCAS tests.  Students 
received indivi dual results and the high school received the highest accountability 
ranking.  The next -generation MCAS is a reformatted test, and as such the scores are not 
comparable to the prior tests.  The next -generation MCAS emphasizes readiness for 
higher-level work at the next grade level and has different performance categories.    
 
To support the students our faculty engaged in focused professional development and 
curriculum renewal to ensure alignment with the new rigorous State standards and 
assessments consistent with the new strategic plan.   After a year -long development effort 
involving the entire community, in the fall of 2017 the School Committee adopted a new 
mission, vision and strategic plan, based upon the core values identified in the planning 
process.   
 
Strategic Plan 2018-2023 
Goal 1: Social-emotional learning, prevention programs and secure schools provide safe 
environments, promote kindness and celebrate cultural differences. 
Goal 2: Civic learning and engagement enable all students to become knowledgeable 
citizens and active community members. 
Goal 3: Curricula and assessments in major subject areas are aligned with recent 
Massachusetts State Frameworks and fully implemented. 
===PAGE 98===
98 
 
 
Goal 4: Implementation of digital literacy and computer science curr iculum is expanded; 
and, instructional technologies are more available. 
Goal 5:  The processes for annual professional development ensure opportunities for 
well-targeted individual, school-based, and district-wide professional growth. 
Goal 6: Strategies to improve instructional support for struggling learners are enhanced. 
Goal 7: Enrichment opportunities are expanded to include the arts and other areas of high 
student interest. 
Goal 8: Collaboration and communications within and among the schools and the 
community are improved. 
The first year update on progress toward the above goals will be posted on the District 
website in June 2018. 
 
We are in the process of closing out a very successful building project.  The Lunenburg 
Middle-High School finished on time.   The approved projected project budget was 
$72,590,848.   At the time of writing this report, the project is projected to come in 
approximately $4,477,355 under the projected budget.    
This fall we opened all the new grass fields.  Coupled with the re furbished track and field 
facility, this outdoor facility is second to none in the region.  Our coaches and athletes 
were excited for the opportunity to practice and play on -site after the loss of most of the 
fields during construction.  This fall we also welcomed to our school campus Lunenburg 
youth and adult sports teams.  Our Adult Education/Lifelong Learning program continues 
to grow and expand.  Five new activities were added to the program this year including 
educational presentations on the opioid cr isis offered in conjunction with the Lunenburg 
Resources for Opioid Awareness and Reco very Task Force (ROAR).  The partnership 
between the School Department, the Lifelong Learning Program, and the youth sports 
programs is an example of the positive outcome  of a community working together to 
meet the needs of all its citizens.    
 
Abigail L. Dwyer received the 2017 Superintendent’s Award.  Ms. Dwyer is the daughter 
of Todd and Jacqueline Dwyer.  During her four years at LHS Abigail enrolled in a 
rigorous cou rse of studies taking honors and advanced placement courses.   She was 
active in the arts as a vocalist and thespian. Ms. Dwyer was also active as a volunteer in 
her school and community while also working part -time.  In college she will study 
sociology an d mathematics and then plans to attend law school. I was honored to 
recognize this accomplished young woman.           
 
I am extremely pleased to announce our affiliation with the North Central Massachusetts 
Early Literacy Innovation Zone.   The Lunenburg Public Schools in conjunction with the 
Community Foundation of North Central Massachusetts, the United Way of North 
Central Massachusetts, Fitchburg State University,  Footsteps2Brilliance and nine other 
districts in the area have joined together to create a collective impact, region-wide 
literacy to address school readiness with the goal of all students reading on grade level by 
third grade.   Two applications are available to any family residing in Lunenburg at no 
cost.   Using mobile technology, families have access to a comprehensive curriculum of 
books, songs, and games in English and Spanish.  The curriculum can be downloaded and 
access off line.    We are excited to be part of this regional effort.   Information about how  
===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 
to access the programs is available by calling the Superintendent’s Office or at the 
District website. 
This past year our schools bid farewell to retirees who devoted many years to public 
service.  Retiring in 2017 were: Sandra  Curley, Susan Diamantopoulos,  Steve 
Kyajohnian, Claudette LaChance, Joanne Londa, Marie Martin, Sharon McCullah, Lisa 
Stone, and Cathy Zayka.  Added together these employees have 196 years of service to 
our students, schools, and community.  On behalf of our school community, I extend to 
each of them our heartfelt thanks and sincere appreciation for their service.  At this time I 
also want to extend my thanks for the honor of serving the Lunenburg students and 
community.   This summer I am retiring after 40 years in public education, 21 years in 
Lunenburg, 15 as Superintendent.   A special thanks to my assistants during my tenure 
Liz Petersen and Mary Landi.  I am grateful for the opportunity to work with so many 
talented and caring adults – educators, parents/guardians, and public officials -over the 
years. 
                                               Enrollment February 21, 2018 
 
In closing this, my final Town Report, it is my greatest hope that the legacy I leave is an 
inclusive, respectful and accountable and transparent organization stronger than when I 
arrived.  Working with talented educators and School Committee members we focused  
Grade Level Lunenburg 
Resident 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Total 
PK 55 0  55 
K 107 0  107 
1 121 0 121 
2 123  0 123 
Primary Total 406  0 406  
3 115 0 115 
4 131 0 131 
5 125 0 125 
Elementary Total 371    0  371    
6 151 0 151 
7 124 2 126 
8 148 0 148 
Middle School Total 423  2 425 
9 110 15 125 
10 97 10 107 
11 105 10 115 
12   95  3 98 
High School Total  407  38 445  
    
  Advanced 
Community 
Experience Program 
(TCP) 
10 1  11  
All Schools Total  1,617 41  1,658  
===PAGE 100===
100 
 
 
on the whole child and their academic, social and emotion growth.  This is a wonderful 
community for children to grow up and attend school. The students are caring, respectful 
and hard working. They have talented, dedicated educators committed to their growth and 
success and loving parents/guardians who are involved and supportive.  Finally, they 
have an entire community that values public education.  They  represent our hope for the 
future and our pride and joy.  The future is bright for the Lunenburg Public Schools. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools 
School Facilities 
The first year of operation of the new Lunenburg Middle -High School included training 
on the new systems in the school, discovering warranty items that needed to be addressed 
and collecting data on the school operating cost.  The school relies heavily on t echnology 
to operate efficiently and the maintenance staff continued to learn about the heating and 
ventilation controls, lighting system, security camera and door access system, telephone 
system and fire safety system throughout the year. Between the vari ous contractors and 
the school maintenance personnel mostly all issues were rapidly resolved.  One 
significant finding in late February 2017 was that snow sliding on the pitched roofs 
toward the center of the A and D wings had the potential to do great dam age to roof top 
equipment and to roof penetrations.  In July 2017, roof guards were added to the A and D 
building by Greenwood Industries at selected locations to protect those items that were 
felt to be at risk from sliding snow.  An unresolved issue with  rooftop ventilation units 
that caused the units to shut down at start up during temperatures below 20 degrees, 
continues to be worked on by the contractors and equipment manufacturer and is 
expected to be resolved by the end of March 2018. 
The roof top so lar project for Lunenburg Middle -High School was completed in June 
2017 which will produce 335,000 kilowatt hours in the first year of operation at a fixed 
price for the next 20 years at .83 cents per kilowatt.  This represents an estimated 40% of 
the scho ol electricity needs. This roof top unit coupled with two power purchasing 
agreements through the town lead to a significant reduction in cost to operate the school 
and resulted in all electricity needs for the school district being provided by solar power.      
The focus of school maintenance for FY18 continues on preventative maintenance on 
heating and ventilation systems and energy conservation measures.  Funding for 
conversion of Turkey Hill Elementary School to LED lighting and building envelope 
tightening will be high priorities for Lunenburg Schools in the March 2018 Green 
Communities Competitive Grant round. 
The FY 18 capital program funded additional asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill  
Elementary School. In July and August 2017, Encore Contracting Ser vices for $168,079 
removed spray -on fire proofing above the ceiling in the first floor hallway and one 
stairwell of the classroom wing.  This project included removal of the splined ceiling and 
the floor tiles in the hallway, as well as the flooring in the  administration area and the 
connecting corridors. Turkey Hill Elementary School is expected to continue to have 
additional asbestos removal planned for a number of years.     
 
Respectfully submitted, 
John Londa, Director of Facilities and Grounds  
===PAGE 101===
101 
 
 
Technology Department 
Technology touches all our lives every day at the Lunenburg Public Schools. It is our aim 
in IT to serve our students, faculty, and staff proactively, so that the tools used to 
facilitate learning function seamlessly and responsively when needed. From checking 
email, to accessing class information, to connecting and collaborating with colleagues 
near and far, faculty, staff, and IT are working together to help redefine what is possible 
for our students, so they can redefine what’s poss ible for the world. Our annual report 
highlights the IT team, as well as some of the improvements we have made this past year 
to achieve this goal. 
The IT Team 
Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we improve our infrastructure and 
explore innovations in education technology.   
Steve Malandrinos – Information Technology Director 
 Five years working for the Town and Schools 
 Previously an engineer at Cisco Systems, IT Director for the Town of 
Belchertown, MA and Belchertown Public Schools 
Daniel Nadareski – Network Administrator 
 Retired Police Officer from the Albany, NY police force with over 24 years on 
the job 
 Prior experience includes computer crime and forensics, network administration, 
video security system administration, and IP phone system administration 
Nicholas Scoggins – School Technology Coordinator 
 Received Associate and Bachelor of Science degrees from ITT Technical Institute 
 Served 5 years as Security System Administrator at Greater Lawrence Technical 
School 
Jordan Pochini – Tech Support Specialist 
 Graduated from Fitchburg State University with a degree in Computer Science 
 Prior experience includes both individual contributor and management roles in 
retail environments 
 
Spurred on by the need for capacity for computer based testing, our student-to-device 
ratio continues to improve year after year.  We strive to put as many devices into 
students’ hands as possible, with the goal of making the improvements sustainable in 
following years always top of mind.  In the spring of 2016, our districtwide student-to-
device ratio was approximately 4.2 to 1.  As of now, it stands around 1.4 to 1 and 
continues to drop each year due to district-funded improvements as well as generous 
donations from individuals and organizations like the PTO. 
Our ultimate goal remains to provide the tools necessary for faculty, staff, and students 
alike to facilitate the learning process in a secure, highly-available, and high-performing 
environment, and to always just ‘make IT work’.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Steve Malandrinos, Information Technology Director 
 
===PAGE 102===
102 
 
 
Special Services Department 
FY17 (data taken from 2016-2017 school year) 
From the March 1, 2017 report, there are 275 students with disabilities receiving 
special education or related services in Lunenburg (last  year there were 299).  This 
represents 16.9% of our total student population of 1,628 students (it was 18.8% last 
year).  The state average from the 2017 school report card is 17.4%.  As of March 1, 
2017, the total number of students receiving services ou tside the district was 14 (last year 
was 19).  Of the 14 students, 2 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 8 are in Day 
Placements and 4 are in Residential Placements.  Additionally, from the March 1, 2017 
report, 103 students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in 
Lunenburg (last year was 114).   
This year as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is NO 
LEVEL with the Primary School (Insufficient data), Turkey Hill Elementary School (No 
level), Lunenburg Middle School (No level), and Lunenburg High School (Level 1).  The 
state report card lists the district’s determination of need for Special Education technical 
assistance or intervention for Students with Disabilities in Lunenburg as “Meets 
Requirements – At Risk (MRAR)”.  Students with Disabilities participated in MCAS this 
year with the following rates:  English Language Arts = 99% (it was 99% last year), 
Mathematics = 99% (It was 100% last year), and Science = 97% (It was 100% last year).  
We “Met Tar get” for all areas of participation.  This data can be found at the DESE 
website:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=0162
0000&orgtypecode=5& 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when 
looking at the whole Special Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for 
certain Indicators they are targeti ng each year.  For our Indicators, the following 
information is available below and also can be found at: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
 
Indicator 1  – Graduation Rate. For the 2015 -2016 school year, the state target for 
Students with Disabilities was 84% (was 82.0% last year). Lunenburg’s rate was 73.9% 
(was 66.7% last year) and the overall state rate was 71.8% (was 69.9% last year) for 
Students with Disabilities.   
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2015-2016 school year, the state target for Students 
with Disabilities was 2.7% (was 3.0% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs 
was 1.8% (it was 0% last year and 2.2% the year befo re) and the overall state rate was 
2.6% (was 2.9% last year).   
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS.  For the 2016 MCAS, 
Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows: 
  Grade 3 – Reading:  Lunenburg = 55.8  State = n/a   
 Grade 3 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 69.2 State = n/a 
  Grade 4 – Reading:  Lunenburg = 43.0  State = n/a 
 Grade 4 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 50.0 State = n/a 
  Grade 5 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 62.0 State = n/a  
 Grade 5 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 59.6 State = n/a 
  Grade 5 – Science:  Lunenburg = 62.5  State = 58.2  
===PAGE 103===
103 
 
 
                        Grade 6 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 81.8 State = n/a  
 Grade 6 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 61.4 State = n/a 
  Grade 7 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 63.1 State = n/a  
 Grade 7 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 40.5 State = n/a 
  Grade 8 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 75.0 State = n/a  
 Grade 8 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 44.0 State = n/a 
  Grade 8 – Science:  Lunenburg = 52.4  State = 49.7  
Grade 10 – ELA:   Lunenburg = 92.3 State = 88.7  
 Grade 10 – Mathematics:  Lunenburg = 67.3 State = 70.6 
  Grade 10 – Science:  Lunenburg = 72.9  State = 72.7  
  
Indicator 4  – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For 
Lunenburg, our rate was .7% (last year it was 0%).  The state rate was .7%.   
Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant discrepancies with the 
Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2016, Lunenburg was not found to 
have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5  -Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2015 -
2016, the state’s rates are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 71.9%, Partial 
Inclusion = 16.2%, Substantially Separate Placements = 7.5%, and for Separate 
Schools/Residential F acilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 4.4%.  In Lunenburg, our 
percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 67.7, Partial = 14.7%, Substantially  Separate 
= 9.0% and Separate schools, Residential, etc. = 8.6%.  
Indicator 6  – Educational Environments for Students  Aged 3-5 with IEPs.  The 2015-
2016 state rates showed the percent of students receiving a majority of their special 
education and related services in a Full Inclusion early childhood program was 53.1%, in 
a Partial Inclusion Program was 21.6%, a Substanti ally Separate Placement (special 
education class, separate school, or residential facility) was  15.4%, and students not 
attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, 
OT, PT) was 9.9%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 27.8%, our 
Partial Inclusion rate was 33.3%, Substantially Separate rate was 19.4%, and Related 
Services was 19.4%. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child 
receiving special educa tion who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a 
means of improving services and results for students with IEPs.  For 2015 -2016 the state 
target was 85%.  Lunenburg’s rate was 78.3% and the state’s rate was 79.7% (from 
information collected in the Spring of 2013).  
Indicator 9 & 10  -Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special 
Education and in Special Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the state determined that 
there was no disproportionality found in either case.  
Indicator 11 –Initial Evaluation Timelines.   T his indicator measures the % of children 
with parental consent to evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established 
timeline. Data is reported for all initial evaluations initiated in October, November , and 
December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance and the state 
average for this Indicator was 100%.  
 
===PAGE 104===
104 
 
 
Indicator 12  –Early Childhood Transition.  T his indicator measures the % of children 
referred by Part C, found eligible for s pecial education services, and who have an IEP 
developed and implemented by their third birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 
100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed”.  Data is suppressed if the number of 
students referred by Part C and foun d eligible for special education services is fewer than 
10.  In Lunenburg, only 2 students were referred during 2012 -2013 (we have not been  
reviewed since 2012-2013 for updated data in this area).  
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs .  This indicator measures 
the % of students with IEPs  who exited high school during the 2014 -15 school year and 
self-reported post-school engagement in education or employment one year after leaving 
high school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education wi thin one year of leaving high 
school.  
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within 
one year of leaving high school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary 
education or training program; or competitively employed, or in some other 
employment within one year of leaving high school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters 
engaged in a post -secondary activity one year after leaving high school. F or the 2015 -
2016 school year, state targets for the three measurements of Post -School Outcomes are 
Measurement A: 49%; Measurement B: 84%; and Measurement C:  91%.  Lunenburg 
rates are as follows (from reporting year 2014 -15):  Measurement A = 50%, 
Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C = 75%.   
 
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be 
an active support group for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and 
community members can join the group, which currently consists of parents of students 
receiving Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are typically 
held the first Friday of each month, 11:00 A.M., in the Planning Room at the Middle 
School.  The executive board is made up of Chairperson: Kelly Harvey. Several events 
and presentations were organized by the PACSAL for both parents and teachers in 
Lunenburg this year. For more information, go to: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/pacsal 
In conclusion, the Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of 
special needs services to meet the varying needs of our students in the least restrictive 
environment.  We  have an experienced, hard working staff that works together with 
parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to 
develop challenging and focused educational programs for children.  We remain 
committed to the Lu nenburg Public Schools mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg 
Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life -
long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active 
citizenship, and rew arding lives.” This is a total community effort and we encourage 
ALL Lunenburg residents to join with us to create positive experiences and futures for 
our children.   
    
===PAGE 105===
105 
 
  
For additional information, please visit our website at: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/, or contact Julianna 
Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts 
Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 305. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Julianna Hansom, Director of Special Services 
 
Lunenburg School Lunch Program 
The Lunenburg School Food Service welcomes Elin Forgues as the Cafeteria Manager at 
the Lunenburg Primary School.  Elin brings with her a passion for nutritious food and a 
great desire to see children enjoy and learn about healthy meal options.  The program also 
welcomes Sarah Romano as general worker in our Middle -High School Cafeteria.  Sarah 
has been a member of our team as substitute for some time and we are very happy to have 
her as a permanent part of our team.  
This is the perfect opportunity to remind everyone of our catering service and mention we 
have made some adjustments to our catering menu and look forward to catering your next 
event, large or small.  
I would like to say thank you to all of the parents that came down to the Cafeteria during 
the open houses this year, we answered many questions and received lots of feedback.  
Our School Lunch Program web page has been updated with information about lunch 
prices, online payments and more information about our lunch  program. This page can be 
reached by clicking on the  School Lunch program   link which is available on  each of 
our schools websites. I would like to encourage parents if you have not done so to create 
an account on PowerSchool. Doing so is a great way to monitor and set low balance 
alerts on student lunch accounts.  The lunch menus for all of our cafeterias can be found 
on each school’s website under the Lunch Menu link.  
Our newest endeavor this year is very exciting.  Our Primary School cafeteria has been 
selected to participate in the Massachusetts Smarter Lunchroom Movement.  The 
Massachusetts Movement is collaboration between the John Stalker Institute and the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education.  For more information please visit 
https://www.smarterlunchrooms.org/about. On Thursday February 8th our Smarter 
Lunchrooms coach came out to the Primary School to observe and assess our lunch 
service. She found that we are doing many things to gently nudge our students to make 
healthy choices giving us a bronze level on our score.  The Primary Cafeteria staff looks 
forward to serving our school community healthful appetizing meals.  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Nadine Lorenzen, Food Service Director 
 
Lunenburg Primary School  
       The Lunenburg Primary School is an early childhood education center for students 
Preschool to 2 nd grade.  Our students range from three years old to eight years old. Our 
community is made up of students, parents, teachers and support staff; working together 
to create an educationally rich and safe learning environment that focuses on the whole 
child.  

===PAGE 106===
106 
 
 
The October 1, 2017 student count reported to the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education was three hundred and ninety -seven students.  Our Preschool 
program services forty -two three and four year old students. We have five Kindergarten 
classes servicing one hundred and nine students. Class sizes in our Kindergartens are at 
21 to 22 students.  This past year we added a 1 st grade teacher in order to keep class sizes 
to 20 -21. We have one hundred and twenty 1 st grade students. First grade is a critical 
learning year for Reading and Writing and we feel that lowering class sizes will allow us 
to focus on individual student learning.  Second grade has one hundred and twenty - three 
students with class sizes ranging from 24 to 25 students.   
     Our professional development this year centered on Responsive Classroom and 
Emotional Intelligence for the second year. All of our classroom teachers are working on 
improving the use of Responsive Classroom Learning Curriculum which includes 
morning meetings, guided discovery, rules, logical consequences and academic choice.   
     To strengthen our commitment to focusing on the whole child and the Social 
Emotional Learning (SEL) needs of our children, teachers and staff have received 
professional developmen t on Responsive classroom and Emotional Intelligence.  Mrs. 
Nancy Chapdelaine has led our educators through in -service lessons for the second year 
in a row focusing this year on Rules in School. This year RULER was rolled in the 
classroom. Students and the ir families are learning about Emotional Intelligence, they 
have developed Charters to live and work by, instituted Mood Meters to assist students to 
learn more about emotions and the strategies to use to shift to a more productive place for 
learning. They have learned about a meta-moment and a blue print for conflict resolution.        
     We are dedicated to making the Lunenburg Primary School one that focuses on 
helping our community of students, staff and parents understand their emotions and how 
we bring our best selves to the learning we do each and every day.  Information on these 
two SEL’s can be found at our  website or by going to 
https://www.responsiveclassroom.org/ and http://ei.yale.edu/ 
     The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered 
instructional system to insure that all students have the services they need to be 
successful. We have a growing English Learning Population of 2. 3% of our student 
population; Thirty-five percent of our students are considered to be high needs students 
according to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education, and 17.6% are 
economically disadvantaged students.  Common assessments are complet ed in the fall, 
winter, and spring for all children in grades K -2 in the areas of reading, writing, and 
math.  These common assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher 
instruction and drive individual student instruction.  Struggling students  are identified 
quickly and additional resources and instruction are provided to address the areas of 
concern identified.  Tiered instructional services are provided in the area of Language 
Arts and Math.  The tiered instructional model requires that the t eachers not only meet 
the needs of the students who may be struggling with learning but those students who are 
doing well and need to achieve higher levels of learning.  Learning is more personalized 
and students are being challenged to be confident indepe ndent learners and problem 
solvers. 
 
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
 
     Our staff works hard to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and 
supportive of each of our members. We have high expectations, insist on respectful 
behavior, and recognize the importance of build ing a community where members feel a 
sense of belonging and responsibility to contribute.  Our students have maintained a high 
level of community engagement and civic learning that is fostered through service 
learning projects at each grade level.  The Kin dergarten students learn about our local 
food bank and gift mart and sponsor school-wide can and gift drives through-out the year.  
Our 2nd grade students have learned about our local veterans and organized Valentines to 
go to area Veteran’s Hospitals.  St udents in the First grade have committed their energy 
to support our local animal shelters.  For the last several years we participate in Trick -or-
Treat for UNICEF as a school, collecting a little over four hundred and fifty-two dollars. 
     The Primary S chool Parent/Teacher Advisory Council meets each month to discuss 
school related concerns and activities.  They review the annual budget for the school and 
provide advice for the administration on the school’s parent handbook and School 
Improvement Plan. 
 
Members of the Council for the 2017-2018 school year were as follows: 
 
Principal:     Elaine E. Blaisdell 
Assistant Principal   Chad Adams 
Teachers:      Ita Murphy, Vicky Barbier, Nancy Murray, Christa         
                                                 Palma  
Parents:         Kristen Burns, Jared Perrine, Tiffaney Tavares 
Community Representative: Julie Bertram 
School Committee Rep:     Dawn-Marie Ayles  
 
The faculty and staff of the Primary School are ext remely proud of the work we do with 
our children.  We are deeply committed to student learning, our own life -long learning 
and improving learning opportunities for our children.  Only through working with 
parents as partners are we able to accomplish our g oals.  For more information about the 
work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/ 
On a final, more personal note, I would like to take this opportunity to say thank -you and 
good-bye.  I have worked in the Lunenburg School system for thirty –one years and I am 
finishing a thirty- six year career as an educator.  I am so proud to have served the town 
of Lunenburg for so long in so many capacities.  I served as a Special Education Teacher 
at the Turkey Hill Middle School for sixteen years, as the Student Services Coordinator 
for nine years and as the Principal of the Lunenburg Primary School for six year s.  I will 
miss the students, parents, teachers and administration and wish them all continued 
success and life -long learning.  I look forward to this new chapter in my life as I enter 
retirement. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Elaine E. Blaisdell, Principal 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
 
Lunenburg Primary School 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2017-2018 
Central Office . Second Grade Teachers 
Elaine Blaisdell-Principal 
 
2A-Vickie Barbier 
Chad Adams-Asst. Principal 
 
2B-Justin Sparks 
Denise Galloway-Admin Secty 
 
2C-Sara Kenney 
Lisa Lavery-School Nurse 
 
2D-Maria Courtemanche 
Karyn Savell - Guidance Counselor 
 
2F-Nancy Chapdelaine 
Karen Tata - Office Clerk 
  
Pre-School 
 
Physical 
Education/Health 
Sherrie Flynn - Teacher 
 
Gen Nass 
Jeanette Biery - Para 
 
Art/Library 
Sue Finnegan - Para 
 
Lori MacDougall 
Ita Murphy - Teacher 
 
Music 
Suzie Barney - Para 
 
Katie Swenson 
Patti McColl - Para 
 
Technology 
  
Kristen Sauvageau 
Achieve 
  Christine DeFelice-Teacher 
 
Special Education 
Shelly Muth - Para 
 
Laura Refrigeri 
Nicole Gentilella-Para 
 
Michelle Withers 
Laurene Broden - Para 
 
Kristen Anthony 
Laurie Xarras - Para 
 
Reading Specialist 
  
Karen Rash 
Kindergarten 
  K1-Kirsten Snape - Teacher 
 
Paras 
Pat Siciliano - Para 
 
Sue Ahearn - 2nd/grade 
K2-Maribeth Ford - Teacher 
 
Julie Kaiser - 1st Grade 
Cinny Mobley - Para 
 
Alicia McCallister 
K3-Sheila Bilotta - Teacher 
 
Specialists 
Julie Drake - Para 
 
Mary Sieling - Speech 
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher 
 
Maggie Critchlow 
Monique Mola - Para 
 
Sue RichardsPhys.Ther 
K5 - Nancy Murray - Teacher 
 
Jayne Dusek - COTA 
Sarah Call- Para 
 
Maggie Porpora-OT 
  
Kristi Schkuta-BCBA  
First Grade Teachers 
 
 
 
 
Cafeteria 
1A - Michael Courtemanche  
 
Elly Forgues - Cafe . 
1B - Nicole Bienvenu 
 
Karolyn Braman 
1C - Kara Courtemanche 
 
Joan Newell 
1D - Christa Palma 
 
 
===PAGE 109===
109 
 
 
1D - Christa Palma 
 
 
Custodians 
1E - Jackie Favreau 
 
Chuck Swift 
1F - Amy Raffaele 
 
Darren Rosa 
Nico Rabuccio-Para 
  
  
 
 
ELL Teacher 
 
Extended Day 
Cynthia Rosancrans 
 
Tammy Perry 
Laura Wyld 
 
Annette Queen 
  
Christin Leger 
Natalie Marabello 
  
Mary Marino 
  
Terri Green 
  
 
  
 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
  
Turkey Hill Elementary is hitting its stride in our second 
year as a 3 -5 building. In 2016 -2017 we had a  total of 27 
teachers, 100% of whom were licensed in their assignment 
area. Our student/teacher ratio was 14.8 to 1, including the 
special area and special education teachers, not as an 
average homeroom size.  We continue to focus on 
developing our own dis tinctive perspective as to how we 
best prepare students for lifelong learning and responsible 
community membership.   
Our academic priority is to increase student learning and 
improve students’ ability to think critically and achieve at 
high levels.  The s chool advisory agreed to  reflect growth 
using three measures:  
 Increase by 3 points annually the CPI score in 
Math. Unfortunately, the new test precluded any CPI 
scores. 
 Increase to 70% the percent of Proficient or   
Higher in Math. We are currently at 55%. 
 Attain a two year average of 50% SGP in Math by the end of 5th grade. We 
exceeded the mark at 59%. 
Grade 
Level 
 2017 Math 
MCAS % 
Meeting or 
Exceeding 
Expectations 
Class of 
2026 
Grade 3 Xx 
Class of 
2026 
Grade 4 
                     
54% 
Class of 
2025 
Grade 5 
                       
47% 
Class of 
2023 
Grade 6 
                        
64% 
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The graph below provides a comparison of our school’s achievement on the Next 
Generation MCAS to other elementary schools in Massachusetts. We believe that moving 
to a computer based platform and more rigorous testing expe ctations holds challenges, 
but we are working to improve students’ preparedness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Professional development has focused on aligning the curriculum across all subject areas 
so that students will have common experiences at each grade level.   We  continue to 
refine the Teacher Support Team protocol, which examines struggling students’ 
academic/personal histories and focuses on the best interventions. Our aim is not only to 
support a teacher’s current concerns, but also to streamline access to impo rtant 
background information and most successful strategies for next year’s teachers.  It is 
imperative to identify where students begin the year academically and catapult them 
forward as far as educationally sound strategies can bring them to the end of the year.  All 
students are assessed using the Developmental Reading Assessment (DRA) and Aimsweb 
Plus for both math and reading more than once throughout the year. This helps us 
monitor individual student progress.  We rely in part upon the expertise of ou r full time 
reading specialist, who works with Title 1 students and provides support and consultation 
for classroom teachers.  
We acknowledge that social learning in a supportive community is as important to 
success as academic learning.  To that end, we embraced a CARES motto, which focuses 
on Civility, Achievement, Respectfulness, Effort, and Sportsmanship. Every grade level  
Grade 
Level 
2014  
Math 
SGP 
2015 
Math 
SGP 
2016 
Math 
SGP 
2017 
Math 
SGP 
Class of 
2026 Grade 
3 xx Xx Xx Xx 
Class of 
2025 Grade 
4 xx Xx N/A 38 
Class of 
2024 Grade 
5 xx N/A 64 54 

===PAGE 111===
111 
 
 
team has created a student learning and professional practice goal related to teaching, 
modeling, and promoting civility as an attri bute of lifelong value. They have developed 
lessons to promote civility between peers, with adults, and in families.  With the full time 
services of our guidance counselor, many students meet weekly in small groups to 
develop both social skills and strateg ies to cope with anxiety, focus issues, and academic 
challenges.  We facilitate the opportunity for outside counselors to meet with students 
one to one. We host the Big Sibs, Little Sibs program on Wednesday afternoons for high 
school students to make connections with younger students in a structured activity group.  
We again hosted the TIGER program from Plymouth State University that focuses on a 
positive message of inclusiveness and how to advocate for yourself and others.  We also 
engage students through broader community experiences such as Nature’s Classroom for 
fifth grade, the Boston Museum of Science programs that visit both fourth and third 
grade, academically themed field trips to the Concord Museum or the Southwick Zoo, 
after school activities, t he Girls on the Run program to promote the empowerment of our 
girls, band for fifth grade and chorus for all three grades. The Bruins Be Fit School 
Assembly Program is coming next March, a 45 -minute all -school program focused on 
promoting a happy, healthy lifestyle by emphasizing the importance of proper nutrition, 
perseverance, and physical activity through the sport of hockey. 
 
We are continuing to develop a healthy, successful school community  with a foundation 
of open communication and sound operational  practices. Our leadership team consists of 
reps from each grade level, special areas, and special services. The members are both 
conduits of communication between administration and staff and decision makers about 
the direction of our school’s culture and  priorities.  Likewise, the School Advisory 
Council, composed of parents, community members, teachers and a school committee 
representative, also provide input and influence the school’s culture and priorities. The 
principal’s and assistant principal’s rol e as instructional leader is part of the equation as 
well. Providing effective feedback to teachers around the teaching and learning is an 
essential element for student success.    
Education is a community partnership . It is the support of the larger commu nity that 
enriches the learning opportunities for students and staff. We are so grateful for all of our 
generous supporters:   the PTO whose funds allow all students to participate in field trips 
and supported the purchase of a new Chromebook cart, private  donations for technology, 
the Lunenburg Lions Club who provided scholarships for Nature’s Classroom and 
regularly provides food donations for students at Extended Day, BoxTop collectors and 
counters, Hannaford Helps supporters, Community Reader day volunt eers, parents (both 
those who support their children at home as well as those who donate hours to school), 
North End Mazda for their donation of dozens of science books, our Veteran’s Day and 
Memorial Day guests and guest speakers.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Heidi Champagne, Principal 
 
===PAGE 112===
112 
 
 
 
 
                     Turkey Hill Elementary  
                    Faculty/Staff Roster 
                    2017-2018 
 
Administration/Office/Nurse Grade 3 
Heidi Champagne, Principal Janet Marshall 
Chad Adams, Asst. Principal Nicholette Dumont 
Laurie Cooney, Admin. Secretary Amy Harrington 
Meghan Marrone, Nurse Danielle Celona 
 
Lisa Bakaysa 
Guidance 
 Gail Okerman 
 John McClintock,Psychologist  Grade 4 
 
Erin Blanchette 
Special Areas Gina Cote 
Deborah Smith Meghan Roberge 
Julie Ferdella Heather Witham 
Kelly Tierney Charlotte Letendre 
Victoria Whipple Lynn Marabello 
Learning Center/Special Education Grade 5 
Ana-Sofia Fernandes Michael Smith 
Amy Jones Brian Chartrand 
Lynn Major Jeff Cournoyer 
Elena Oksanish Sherri Borreson 
Laura Wyld Rhonda Connery 
Kristi Schkuta 
 Sue Charpentier 
 Maggie Porpora Achieve Programs 
Cynthia Rosancrans Kate Robinson 
Paraprofessionals Terri Klingler 
Debra Hitchcock Liz Johnson 
Tatianna Eaton Melody Henry 
Kerry Roder 
 Judith Pierce Custodians 
Patricia Kilcommins Tim deBettencourt 
Kathleen Cordeiro Howard Hargreaves 
Carrie Arciprete Jim Gentilella  
Megan Rodrick Rob Roy 
Kylea Lawn  Ed Wilkins 
 
Jeff Bigelow 
 
Cafeteria 
 
Joslin Schneider 
 
Sheryl Ewen 
 
Donna Cameron 
Jennifer Bidleman 
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong 
programs that support students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that 
each child becomes a self -motivated, creative, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating 
environment that encourages diversity and open honest communication.   The dedicated 
and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of 
educating the whole child  academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a 
means by which all students become positive community members that possess the skills 
to be successful in high school. Lunenburg Middle School is in its second year as a co -
located middle- high school serving grades six through eight in a beautiful new facility. 
Middle School students have experienced some new opportunities with the new middle 
school, such as foreign language and foreign language exploratory for all grade levels as 
well as a Cul tures class for eighth grade students. This year, all students in the middle 
school are participating in a program called Genius Hour. Genius Hour was developed to 
foster passion for learning back into the curriculum by having students facilitate their 
own learning based on their interests.  We will continue to seek out opportunities for 
students that foster critical thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high 
school and beyond or what their passion may lead them to.  
% of Students scoring in the meeting or exceeding expectations 
range Spring 2017 MCAS  
Grade  Subject LMS SGP State 
6 ELA 64% 70 50% 
6 MATH 66% 68 50% 
7 ELA 58% 74 50% 
7 MATH 53% 46 50% 
8 ELA 60% 66 50% 
8 MATH 61% 68 50% 
8 Sci,Tech,Eng 41% N/A 40 
 
In reviewing the results of the 2017 Spring M.C.A.S. tests, our percentage of students 
scoring in the meeting or exceeding  expectations range remains strong and above the 
state average in all tested areas in the middle school. The Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education held schools harmless of an accountability rating for districts that 
participated in on line, next generation MCAS testing. Lunenburg Middle School 
transitional student growth scores are well above the state average and indicate high 
student growth in five of the six content areas that have student growth measured. 
Although we are proud of our students’ performance, we continue to analyze data in our 
monthly results faculty meetings designed to improve our instruction for all students. Our  
===PAGE 114===
114 
 
 
faculty has identified areas of improvement based upon the data and implemented 
strategies to improve their instructional practices that will help students succeed.   
We continue to utilize intervention and power blocks during the school day to meet the 
needs of each individual student. These blocks of instructional time that have been built 
into our master schedule allow teachers time to work with students at their own 
individual skill level.  The philosophy is to challenge students who are high academic 
achievers as well as strengthen skills for students who have identified weaknesses. 
Teachers are able to work with students in a small group to answer individual questions 
or provide more individualized support.  We design this support model to allow students 
to feel more confident, thus, perform better in the classroom.  We will continue to refine 
our intervention block times to best meet the needs of our students. One option for 
students during this intervention block is the use of our web based program called IXL. 
IXL allows students to work at their own skill level, build confidence and moved forward 
with work that is aligned with the state standards. IXL allows teachers a tool for true 
differentiation for every student allowing them to work and grow at their own pac e and 
level.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to offer enrichment blocks for all students. 
Enrichment classes provide students a block of time in which they receive instruction in 
the areas of developmental health and guidance.   Students also receive in struction in 
physical education, art, and music classes that allows them to explore their strengths and 
talents. Students also have the opportunity to sign up for and participate in band and 
chorus during this block. This enrichment block is in addition to  the traditional special 
area classes students receive, and this block offers students additional physical movement 
throughout the day, additional opportunities for hands on activities and more exposure to 
the arts, theatre and technology throughout the school day.  
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different 
programs developed to promote social and emotional growth, self -awareness, and 
community service. We will continue to utilize Developmental Design program to deliver 
our social emotional curriculum. Students meet with teachers in small groups to teach 
social responsibility and problem solving, as well as developing empathy and promoting 
positive self -esteem and strong teacher/student relationships. Our social em otional 
programs have been developed to allow students to showcase their talents and abilities, 
grow and improve as individuals, and promote community outreach for the younger 
generation. 
This year, we have been able to offer foreign language exploratory t o our sixth and 
seventh grade students, giving them the opportunity to explore several different foreign 
language options in order to make an informed decision on which language they would 
like to take in grade eight and high school. The addition of the fo reign language 
instruction has been well received and the students enjoy exploring different cultures and 
languages.  
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and 
supports that ensure student success and promotes a pas sion for lifelong learning. The 
key components to our success is our talented faculty committed to making a positive 
impact on students, our parents and community who support our  teaching and learning, 
and most of all, our students who inspire us through t heir commitment to learning. 
Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
===PAGE 115===
115 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Tim Santry, Principal 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2017-2018 
 
Administration    Admin. Asst.: Tina Cooney 
Principal:    Tim Santry    Secretary:  Deb Aro 
Dean of Students: Annica Scott                                           Secretary:  Katie Berry  
      
Guidance   Specials 
Karma Tousignant   Therrien, Nicole (PE)  
Cheryl Nelson   Rios, Jennifer (PE)  
    Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music)  
Ashley Parent (Speech)   Belair, Dana (Tech)  
Lori Shea  (Psychologist)   Warren, Robin (Art)  
Mary Young (BCBA)   Cormier, Jessica  (FL)  
      
Health Office   Special Ed. Middle School: 
Katie McGuire      Lizek, Maura  6th 
    Mobley, Melanie  7th 
Achieve:Middle School   Pepoli, Brittany  8th 
Jaime Lyons   Porpora, Maggie  (OT) 
Heather Small   Richard, Susan  (PT) 
      
6th Grade:   Custodial 
Beth Arsenault   Jeri Sampson   Head Custodian 
Emily Clarke   Richard Krafve Lead Custodian 
Susan Reardon   Marc St. Jean 
Melanie Pouliot   David Ashness 
Lisa Leblanc   Tanner Cote 
Kristine Bassett   
       
 
 
7th Grade:   
 
 
Paraprofessionals 
Annica Scott   Judith Barone 
Tim Sheasgreen   Anne Marie Beaudoin 
Krista Diamantopoulos   Darlene Caron 
Dawn Grebinar   Kathleen Hyatt 
Stephanie Madrigal    Christine Catalini 
    Elizabeth Marple 
8th Grade:   Sandra Sheehy 
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
 
 
Martha Sullivan   Karen Smith 
Meredith Cormier   Nina Sobecky 
Mary Whitaker   Tina Stateler 
Amy Raboin   Marybeth Ulf 
Linda Collette   Kelly Waterman 
Will Guerra    Jamie Cuddahy 
    Nick Ross 
Technology IT:     
Scoggins, Nick   Cafeteria: 
    
Pichnarcik, Patty       
Eleni Tsiakalos 
    
Carol Hamilton      
Sarah Romano 
    Stella Carlson 
 
Lunenburg High School 
Lunenburg High School has been a hub for academic and social activity in 2017 -2018.  
Teachers continue to provide our students rigorous coursework and hold our students to 
high standards.  Our students meet these challenges through collaborati on, self-advocacy, 
and strong work ethic.  All students in grades 10 -12 have been issued a Chrome Book 
and there are wireless capabilities throughout the building.  Every classroom and 
instructional space has an interactive projector and voice -lift capabil ities. Our students 
are fortunate to be in a building that can meet the needs of the 21st century learner.   
 
During the fall sports season, our students practiced and competed on our three grass 
fields and new artificial turf field.  The youth sports team s in t he community were 
scheduled on the fields, as well.  During the fall season, most of our fields were being 
used from 3:00 pm to 8:00 pm.   
 
The winter season has been very busy, as well.  The gym and weight room are being used 
for a large portion of the afternoon and evening by our basketball teams, indoor track and 
field teams, and students and community members in the Adult Education Program.  
Additionally, we have athletics teams practicing and competing at: Wallace Civic Center, 
The Groton School, Nashoba Valley Ski Area, and at Fitchburg High School.  Our actors 
and actresses have been rehearsing since January for the Competitive Class Plays. 
 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School is currently going through the Self-Reflection portion of the 
accreditation process.  Teachers, students, and parents completed an online survey which 
has given the school feedback on the various standards that we need to measure.  
Teachers have collected evidence and will make claims as to where the school is in 
reference to the various principles within each standard.  The five standards are: Learning 
Culture, Student Learning, Professional Practices, Learning Support, and Learning 
Resources.  In May, two to four individuals from NEASC will come out to do a 
collaborative conference.  They will be presented with our self-reflection, along with 
recommendations and commendations.  The school will then develop and implement a  
===PAGE 117===
117 
 
 
growth plan over the next two years.  The final accreditation visit will be conducted in 
2020 and will look at how well we are making progress on our growth plan. 
 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of 
fundraising and collection endeavors. In the fall, a canned goods drive was held and 
admission to the PowderPuff game was two canned goods.  Everything collected was 
donated to the Lunenburg Food Pantry.  Around the holiday season, advisories collected 
items for the Lunenburg Gift Mart.   
 
There is a Senior English class running t his year that has a community service learning 
component.  Students were tasked with researching and identifying needs in the 
community and then forming an action plan to address the needs.  For example, we have 
students working on: a pet shelter drive, cr eating trail maps for Lunenburg conservation 
land, bringing a small breakfast program to LHS, and forming a group to inform and 
educate about mental health issues.    
 
Lunenburg High School received a generous donation in the amount of $500 from Mr. 
Mike’s Mobil in Lunenburg, MA.  The grant is to be used toward STEM initiatives at the 
high school.  We are in the process of purchasing a new robot for our Robotics class.  
 
Hannaford Helps Schools made a generous donation to Lunenburg High School of $500 
from receipt sales.  This money will be used to benefit a variety of programs at LHS.    
 
In March, the National Honor Society will be having its annual Blood Drive.  Students 
sixteen and over (and staff members) will be able to participate in the Blood Drive w ith 
parent permission. 
LHS has held evening presentations for parents/guardians on the following topics: 
 Planning for High School (grade 8) 
 Early College Planning (grades 9-10) 
 Post-Secondary Education Planning (grade 11) 
 College Application Process (grade 12) 
 Financing your Education/Financial Aid (grades 8-12) 
 
LHS hosted 40 college admissions counselors in the school counseling office to visit with 
LHS students.  In addition, we held two “Decision Day” programs with Fitchburg State 
University and Mount Wachusett Community College. 
 
MCAS RESULTS 
We are pleased to announce that Lunenburg High School is recognized by the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education as a Level 1 school.  As a Level 1 
school, we continue to be among the highest performing schools in the Commonwealth.  
We are very proud of the work that our students and teachers have done to prepare for the 
MCAS test.  While we are recognized as a high performing school, we understand this is 
only one measure used to show student growth and that there is constantly room for 
improvement 
===PAGE 118===
118 
 
 
Lunenburg High School - 2017 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 93% 91% 
Math 90% 79% 
Science/Technology 84% 74% 
 
When you combine the percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, LHS tenth 
grade students scored 93% on the ELA test.  In Mathematics, tenth grade students scored 
90% advanced/proficient. In Science/Technology/Engineering, tenth grade students 
scored 84% advanced/proficient.  We are ex tremely proud of our students and teachers 
for their continued improvement, and we will work to move all students to the level of 
proficiency as measured by MCAS and our goal of college and career readiness as they 
move through our curriculum.   
We were al so very pleased to learn that 29 seniors at Lunenburg High School received 
the state’s John and Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to 
students whose MCAS performance puts them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To 
be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, 
or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.     
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES  
Homecoming was once again a great town -wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful 
parade complete with floats representing all four high school classes.  Many of our sports 
teams qualified for tournament and district play.  The Lunenburg High School Marching 
Band picked up second and third place at two competition s in the fall.  The LHS Mock 
Trial team has performed well this year, going 2 -1 in local trials.  The Latin Club, Jazz 
Band and the Math team represented LHS in numerous competitions; the 52nd annual 
Competitive Class Plays delighted the audience, and The  Pops and Senior Showcase are 
scheduled for the spring.    
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Giftmart” drive during the holidays, 
helping to provide joy to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  
The World Hunger Task Force will be raising money through Penny Wars this spring.  
The money will be donated toward the fight against hunger. 
In March, the National Honor Society will be running its annual Blood Drive.  Students 
and staff participate in the drive.  Our NHS students are looking to add a second date and 
expand the blood drive for Lunenburg community members. 
We started an Advisory program two years ago.  One goal of Advisory is to have students 
have at least one adult who will get to know him/her over the course of four years.  
Students were randomly distributed into small grade-level groups.  They will stay with 
the same group of students, as well.   Another goal of Advisory is to develop 
relationships with students of different backgrounds and social groups so that students 
can get to know each other and develop an appreciation of the diversity that we do have 
in Lunenburg.  Some Advisories will be facilitating some community service learning 
projects. 
===PAGE 119===
119 
 
 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School focused their professional development activities in 
2017-2018 working on vertical teaming, curriculum mapping, and technology.  The large 
focus of professional development has been on the NEASC Self-Reflection process. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Brian Spadafino, Principal 
 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2017-2018 
 
Principal Brian Spadafino Adm. Assistant Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Robert McGrath Secretary Debra Aro 
Nurse Carolyn Finch Secretary Katie Berry 
 
Math   Language Arts  
Sarah Sabatini Dept. Liaison Mary Foyle Dept. Liaison 
Andrew Cantatore  Erinanne Burroughs  
Jennifer Miller  Timothy Macuga  
Eric Short  Michael Hannigan  
Robert Truax  Paul Harmon 
Julia Callahan 
 
    
Science  Social Studies  
Dawn Gearin Dept. Liaison Anna Keegan Dept. Liaison 
Mitchell Friedman  Warren Stevenson  
Craig Pingsterhaus  Timothy Normandin  
Jennifer Biery  Hailee Martin  
Robert Hill  Timothy Macuga  
Richard Cohen    
  Nick Scoggins IT Dept. 
Joanne Poirier 
 
Greenhouse Asst. 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Language  Unified Arts 
 
 
 
Peggy Proctor Dept. Liaison Alexis Pukaite Dept. Liaison 
Jessica Beardmore  Steve Boone  
Tamara Yourk  Derek Guimond  
Jimena Punales-Santiago  Caryn Wardwell  
Lynn Radford  Karyn Giuliani  
  Nathan DiPerri  
 
 
Special Services 
  
 
Peter McCauliff 
 
 
Athletic Director 
===PAGE 120===
120 
 
 
Nicole Kromer 
 
Dept. Liaison Darlene Steele Athletic Secretary 
Joshua Koziol 
Jessica Walker 
Virginia Tedesco                              
  
Pamela Vallee 
 
Media Specialist 
Jennifer Stadler    
Kimberly Jones   
 
Guidance 
 
Ashley Parent 
Meagan Ackerman                                                                                
Jaime Millett 
Mary Young     
Lori Shea                                                            
Speech/Lang. 
 
Social Worker 
BCBA 
School Psych 
Susan Cavaioli 
Jeff Dionne 
Cheryl Nelson 
Penney Borneman                     
Dept. Liaison 
 
 
Guidance Sec. 
 
Paraprofessionals 
  
Cafeteria 
 
Ethan Cheesman  Patti Pichnarcik Café Manager 
Jon Malloy  Carol Hamilton  
Kimberly Monsini  Stella Carlson  
Donna Lavoie 
Lisa Szocik- Maillet                                                     
 Eleni Tsiakalos 
Sarah Rucker 
 
Dawn McGuirl 
Joseph Adamowicz 
Alex Bankuti 
Lyndsi Smith 
Jessica Chait 
Michael Barry 
Jose Martinez 
John Sodano                            
  
Custodians 
Geraldine Sampson 
Richard Krafve 
Marc St. Jean 
David Ashness 
Tanner Cote 
 
 
Senior Custodian 
Lead Custodian 
                               
                               
 
===PAGE 121===
121 
 

===PAGE 122===
122 
 
 
The 2016 -2017 school year marked my third year as Superintendent -Director of Montachusett  Regional 
Vocational Technical School District, and in my short tenure here, I am proud to say I have seen the school 
reach new levels of academic excellence, technical proficiency, and student engagement. Perhaps the most 
exciting aspect of my role here i s bearing witness to the creativity and innovation at work everyday in our 
classrooms and shops. Our students and instructors work collaboratively to explore scientific concepts, 
designing experiments that are conducted aboard the International Space Stati on; they study automation 
and additive manufacturing through the use of robotic arms and 3 -D printers; and even build new 
educational facilities that students will grow and learn in for years to come. Monty Tech is a school unlike 
any other and I am honored to serve the students, faculty and staff  here. 
 
In many respects, 2016 -2017 was a banner year at Monty Tech. We launched a whole school 1:1 
Chromebook initiative, providing all students with increased access to instructional technology, and 
improving communications between teachers and students beyond the traditional school day. We received 
more than $645,000 in competitive grants, and have been able to provide students with remarkable field 
trips to connect their learning to STEM career pathways that spa rk imagination and creativity.  We 
provided high quality professional development opportunities to support the school’s new biomedical 
courses, bringing innovative new science coursework and curriculum to students with an interest in 
biomedical and biotech nology career pathways. Construction of the Monty Tech Veterinary Science 
Training Center and Community Clinic continued throughout 2016 -2017, providing tremendous hands -on 
learning opportunities to students in our Carpentry, Plumbing, Electrical, Cabinetm aking, HVAC,  
Masonry, and Welding trades. School administrators launched an unprecedented fundraising campaign, 
and successfully raised more than $2.5M in donations and in -kind matching services to support this  
project. And finally, thanks to an extremel y generous Skills Capital Grant, we were able to renovate the 
Machine Technology shop, and purchase state -of-the-art machinery for students to train on, earning more 
industry recognized credentials than ever  before. 
 
We recognize that students attending Mo nty Tech have chosen a high school experience that, to many, may 
seem complex and even daunting. Our students are required to pass the same statewide standardized tests  
as students in a comprehensive high school. They take English, mathematics, science, s ocial studies and 
foreign language courses, just as high school students in your community might. A Monty Tech student, 
though, must also balance all of that with a rigorous vocational -technical education, specializing in one of 
our twenty programs. For fo ur years our students work and learn in vocational settings that replicate 
industry standards. They train on the latest equipment, and, through the school’s popular Co -operative 
Education Program, our students may even spend time working and learning in ar ea businesses during their 
Junior and Senior year. It is a great responsibility to provide each and every student with high -quality, 
vocational-technical instruction, and we are honored to serve approximately 1,400 students each year. 
 
This work is only po ssible because of our talented educators and administrators, who remain focused on 
delivering the highest quality academic and vocational -technical education possible. Working closely with 
post-secondary colleagues, we aim to ensure our students graduate p repared to enter college pathways of 
their choosing. Similarly, relying on our expansive network of industry partners, we strive to improve upon 
each of our vocational programs to ensure that every graduate is not only prepared for entry -level careers  
in related pathways, but are also creative, independent thinkers, capable of solving complex, real -world 
situations that present themselves in today’s workplaces. On their behalf, I am delighted to present the 
District’s 2016-2017 annual report to you, provid ing a snapshot of the wonderful experiences happening on 
a day-to-day basis here at Monty Tech. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D.,  Superintendent -Director 
===PAGE 123===
123 
 
 
Our Mission 
 
Every student will graduate from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School with the skills, 
knowledge, and abilities to be a productive and effective member of an ever -changing society. 
 
 
Our District 
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is a four-year career and technical high school 
serving the member towns of: 
 
Ashburnham 
Ashby  
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
 
 
Leadership 
 
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten talented 
administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas of expertise 
contribute to t he success of the school. Working collaboratively, and under the direction of the 
Superintendent and Principal, the team has transformed the school into one of the most sought - after high 
schools in North Central Massachusetts. 
 
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director 
Tom Browne, Principal 
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal 
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager 
Pamela Pothier, Director of Technology 
 
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs 
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs 
Michael Gormley, Director of Facilities 
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator 
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support Services 
 
 
 
Enrollment 
 
 
On June 1, 2017, student enrollment at Monty Tech 
included 1,403 students in grades nine through twelve, 
representing each of the district’s eighteen sending 
communities. Each class of students is comprised of a 
relatively equal balance of male vs. female students, 
and each student attending Monty Tech has elected to 
do so, prepared to explore an interest in one of t he 
school’s twenty rigorous vocational -technical 
programs. While the school currently offers only five 
programs non -traditional for male students, and  
twelve programs non - traditional for female students, 
we are proud to have a student population that is well- 
balanced by gender and a variety of academic interests 
and achievements. 

===PAGE 124===
124 
 
Throughout 2016-2017, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents, and 
community members to learn about and visit the school. In October 2016, approximately 700 dis-
trict  eighth graders participated in the annual “Tour Day” event. Students toured our twenty voca-
tional- technical areas and learned about the school’s challenging academic offerings and exciting 
athletic and extracurricular programs. Career Awareness Night offered interested students the op-
portunity to return in the evening with their family members to further explore the facilities and 
speak with staff members. 
The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P.) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance 
to visit Monty Tech after school and participate in hands -on learning experiences across a variety 
of vocational/technical areas. The program continued to attract a large number of students during 
the 2016- 2017 school year, serving approximately 600 area students.  
Class of 2017 Awards 
Members of the Class of 2017 were awarded approximately $88,950 in scholarships. The Monty 
Tech Foundation generously provided $45,700 in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in 
amounts of $200 to $2,000. The Foundation also awarded $4,000 to the Practical Nursing gradu-
ates. Once again, local and  state organizations, as well as generous individuals, continue to recog-
nize the ability and potential of  Monty Tech graduates in the form of financial donations. The 
School Committee, administration, faculty, and graduates themselves, are grateful for this  support. 
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost 
of  higher education. Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through 
a number  of articulation agreements with public and private colleges across the country. Approxi-
mately 51% of the graduating class of 2017 reported plans to enroll at a 4 -year college/university 
upon graduation. By earning college credits while still in high school, these students will save both 
time and money as they pursue advanced educational  programs. 
Financial Report 
A great deal of effort was put forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff to develop a 
cost- effective budget for the fiscal year 2016 -2017. The final fiscal year 2016 -2017 Educational 
Plan totaled $26,374,468, which represents a .6% increase over the 2015 -2016 Educational Plan. 
The District’s FY17 budget  exceeds  the  minimum  spending  required  by  Massachusetts  General  
Law  Chapter  70  by only $45,000 or .2%.  
 
===PAGE 125===
125 
 
 
The District was audited in October 2017 as part of the yearly financial audit by the accounting firm of 
Melanson, Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA,  and received a very good report.  
 
Grants and Contracts 
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis. These funds help provide many 
educational and social services to the student population. For fiscal year 2017, state and federal grant  
sources provided the school with $961,346. Programs funded by these grants include: Essential Health 
Services, Social Intervention and Mediation, Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and 
Program Improvement, Title I Support, Perkins Occup ational Education, and Marine Corp Junior Reserve 
Officer Training. The District also received more than $645,000 in competitive grants, including a Skills 
Capital Grant for $435,857 to purchase equipment for the Machine Technology Program, and a grant fro m 
the Massachusetts Life Sciences Center in the amount of $99,697 to expand the school’s science program 
to include biomedical coursework and learning laboratories. Using these allocation and competitive funds, 
the school was able to purchase a variety of instructional technology, equipment, and supplies to enhance 
the learning experience across both academic and vocational programs. 
 
Academic Achievement 
 
In 2016-2017, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate 
high academic achievement, earning commendable MCAS scores in English Language Arts, Mathematics 
and Biology. For Spring 2017, Monty Tech’s passing rate on the English Language Arts was 100%, 
Mathematics 97%, Biology 98%.  
 
Monty Tech is committed to provi ding students with rigorous STEM learning opportunities, and as such, 
has expanded the Advanced Placement Program to include two mathematics, two science, and one 
computer science course. Teacher participation in meaningful, high -quality professional devel opment in 
AP and Pre -AP pedagogy remains a priority, and enables us to continually expand and enhance our 
academic course offerings. 
 
The school is in its 5th year of administering Advanced Placement exams, and students enrolled in AP 
courses continue to improve their performance. In 2016 -2017, Monty Tech had more students achieve  

===PAGE 126===
126 
 
 
qualifying scores than any other year – 53 students who took an AP exam qualified for college credit. More 
than half of the students who tested in the following subjects received  qualifying scores: AP Computer 
Science Principles (62.5%), AP Literature & Composition (64%), and AP Environmental Science (51.3%). 
In addition, the AP Environmental Science program experienced the most growth in terms of qualifying 
score as their passing rate increased by 34.7% from 2016 to 2017. 
 
As a first time administration, students took AP Computer Principles and 62.5% of students earned 
qualifying scores – an extraordinary performance for the first year. 
 
AP Exam Results, 5-Year Review 
 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 
Total AP Students 69 57 89 145 120 
Number of AP Exams 69 62 116 187 148 
AP Students with Qualifying Scores  36.2% 57.9% 52.8% 26.9% 44.2% 
Qualifying Scores (State) 72.6% 72.2% 70.9% 70.5% 69.7% 
Qualifying Scores (Global) 60.9% 61.3% 60.7% 60.3% 60.3% 
Courses Offered 2 2 3 5 7 
Data taken from the College Board’s 2017 amended report, 8/4/17 
 
 
Vocational Projects in the District Communities 
In addition to applying their academic skills, students at Monty Tech are a sked to put their vocational - 
technical skills into practice on a daily basis. Students across the twenty different vocational -technical 
education programs are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, 
making walkways more accessible, and performing countless community services. 
 
The 2016-2017 school year was a busy one for our vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide 
practical, hands -on learning experiences for our students, while helping to improve each of t he eighteen 
member communities. 
 
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology : The Monty Tech Auto Body shop benefitted from new 
instructional equipment this year, including a new Frame Machine. In addition, 2016 -2017 marked the first 
year for graduating Seniors to receive the I -Car On -Line Pro Level One certification in refinishing and  
non- structural damage. This certification not only makes our program graduates more employable, it 
enables students to maintain the I -CAR gold class certification. Seniors also r eceived an EPA 6H 
Certificate, while the Freshmen completed their Career Safe Online OSHA 10 -hour General Industry 
Training. Throughout the year, students detailed, repaired, and repainted vehicles, fulfilling more than 
seventy requests that included: a tr ailer for the Fitchburg Police Department, and a van for the Worcester 
Fire Brigade. A Senior student won a gold Medal at the SkillsUSA state competition in the collision repair 
category, and qualified for the National event in June 2017. A total of eight students (four Seniors and four 
Juniors) participated in the school’s popular Co -op Program, working in area auto body shops and 
businesses. (Total enrollment: 65; 40 males, 25 females) 
 
Automotive Technology: As in past years, the Monty Tech Automotive Te chnology program continues to 
service a variety of vehicles for faculty, staff, municipalities, and district residents . 2016-2017 proved to be 
a very busy year for the program, as more than four hundred vehicles were serviced by students and  
===PAGE 127===
127 
 
instructors. In addition to maintaining the school’s fleet of vehicles throughout the year, students were asked 
to repair a Ford Excursion for the Bulldog Pride giveaway. Mr. Hobbs worked with a group of students to 
refurbish a 1966 Pontiac 2+2 so that so it could be auctioned off. Students performed very well in the 
SkillsUSA district competitions, placing first, second, and third, with hopes to improve in the  coming year. A 
total of eight Senior and four Junior students participated in the Co -op Program, applying their technical skills 
in a real work setting. Finally, instructors are proud to announce that three talented program graduates are 
working in automotive repair shops in the area, demonstrating the skills they acquired at Monty Tech. (Total 
enrollment: 64; 50 males, 14 females) 
Business Technology: Students in Monty Tech’s Business Technology program continue to benefit from a 
unique partnership with Workers’ Credit Union. The opportunity to participate in teller training and financial 
literacy workshops has been met with great enthusiasm from our students, and the instructors continue to be 
grateful for this developing partnership. Monty Tech Business Technology instructors, in collaboration with 
their post -secondary colleagues, continue to refine and develop new articulation agreements. These agree-
ments, with Mount Wachusett Community College and New England Institute of Technology, will provide 
qualified students with college credits at no cost to the student. Opportunities to demonstrate customer ser-
vice, cash handling, and accounting skills are ever -present as the Business Technology students successfully 
operate an in -house retail location and greenhouse. The Gear House School Store acquired a credit card ma-
chine, which has made a significant impact on the students’ retail  and customer service experience. In addi-
tion, the camera in the Gear House was replaced, providing the instructors with improved vision on store ac-
tivities while students are working. Eight Seniors and three Juniors were out on Co -op placements during the 
2016-2017 school year. (Total enrollment: 70; 20 males, 50 females) 
Cabinetmaking: All Monty Tech vocational instructors strive to provide Freshman exploratory programs that 
not only represent the work and skills students can expect to encounter throughout their high school experi-
ence, but also one that piques the interest of students new to the trade. Monty Tech Cabinetmaking instructors 
do an outstanding job with the Freshmen exploratory experience, and in 2016 -2017,  the program reached 
capacity with students who listed Cabinetmaking as their top choice. Throughout the year, Cabinetmaking 
students designed and manufactured approximately 400 gifts for the Superintendent's dinner, manufactured 
and assembled seventy-four cabinet assemblies for the new Veterinary Science Training Center, and complet-
ed more than thirty -five additional projects in and around the school, to include: Student Services conference 
room, Chromebook mobile charging stations, trophy Case for the Gardner Skating Rink, new signage for the 
Barre Cemetery, new lettering for the Ashby Fire Department, surfaced planed two large tree butts for the 
Mount Wachusett Community College, and play sets for Crocker Elementary School. Finally, Cabinetmaking 
had another great year of Co -op placement and continues to receive calls from area businesses in need of 
qualified employees. A total of fifteen students (seven Seniors and eight Juniors) were placed in Co -op expe-
riences, and an additional two students earned full -time employment over the summer. (Total enrollment: 70; 
50 males, 20 females) 
Cosmetology: With a significant increase in the number of clients served this year, the Monty Tech Cos-
metology program saw a significant revenue increase, which will be used to fund the program’s much - need-
ed consumable products. The new Salon Iris point-of-sale system was installed, which is a more user- friendly 
and cost effective program for students to train on. In an effort to support the school’s  commitment to com-
munity service, the Junior students traveled to Heywood Wakefield Assisted Living Center on several occa-
sions, providing residents with manicures, styling hair for a Senior Citizen Prom, and offered discounted ser-
vices on “Staff Night” to fundraise for the field trip to New York City. Cosmetology students also provided 
manicure and hair services for the school’s Child Care Center, serviced parents from Athol that work with 
disadvantaged children, and assisted our Drama club with hair and makeup. The program’s greatest accom-
plishment was realized when 100% of the Senior class passed the Massachusetts Cosmetology State Boards, 
earning licenses to practice. (Total enrollment: 91, 0 males, 91 females) 
===PAGE 128===
128 
 
Culinary Arts : Monty Tech Culinary Arts students and instructors are always busy with the daily 
operation of the Mountain Room Restaurant, which is open for lunch from 11:30am to 1:00pm 
Monday through Friday. In addition to operating a full -service restaurant and bakery, serving 90 -
120 patrons daily, culinary students showcase their talents throughout the year, providing outstand-
ing service at events that include the following: two Program Advisory Committee dinner meet-
ings, four Monty Tech Foundation breakfasts, Monty Tech’s Retirees holiday luncheon, a gradua-
tion reception, the Women in Technology event, Principal and Counselors’ Day, the Monty Tech 
homecoming dance, MAVA meetings, all School Committee meetings and sub - committee meet-
ings, Gardner AARP luncheon and MHCC volunteer luncheon. Community service opportunities 
for students are always a highlight, and this year our students prepared meals for the United Way’s 
“Day of Caring” event, Our Fathers House, and NEADS events. Students also participated in the 
“Puppy Love” event in which 300 cupcakes and 350 cookies were made. The Culinary Arts pro-
gram also donated pastry and baked goods to the House of Peace and Education in Gardner. The 
program’s greatest undertaking is always the Annual Superintendent’s Dinner scholarship fundrais-
er. This year, students worked side -by-side with some of the area’s finest chefs, preparing a six - 
course dinner with extensive hors d’oeuvres for 380 guests, raising just over $42,000 to support the 
student scholarship fund. (Total enrollment: 99; 34 males, 65 females)  
Dental Assisting: During 2016-2017, the Dental Assisting program introduced eighteen students to  
industry experience through externships, and a total of eight students (six Seniors and two Juniors) 
earned Co -operative educational placement. All Sophomore, Junior, and Senior students attended 
the Yankee Dental Convention in Boston, and learned about the most current trends and practices 
in the field. Every student passed the National Board (DANB) Infection Control & Radiology ex-
ams, earning two of the required three DANB credentials needed to become licensed Dental Assis-
tants. For the seventh  consecutive year, Monty Tech welcomed Community Health Connections, a 
school-based dental hygiene program, whose goal is to provide dental services to students in need. 
Through this initiative, more than sixty students were examined by a dentist, had their teeth 
cleaned, and had sealants or temporary fillings applied as needed. Monty Tech Dental Assisting 
students were given hands -on, practical experience, as they assisted the staff from CHC during 
each dental procedure performed. Four students qualified for SkillsUSA district level competition, 
and each then advanced to Nationals. Students from the Junior class provided dental education to 
students at Ruggles Lane Elementary School in Barre and Meetinghouse Elementary School in 
Westminster. (Total enrollment: 60; 3 males, 57  females) 
Drafting Technology : As in most programs at Monty Tech, students in the school’s Drafting 
Technology program participate in a number of projects at the school and in our sending communi-
ties. This year, Drafting students completed the layout of the Riverside Cemetery in Winchendon, 
fire escape plans for the North Central Correctional Facility, a layout of the Monty Tech Rain Gar-
den, signage for the Superintendent’s Dinner, graduation, and drama club, to name a few. Seven 
students (four Seniors and 3 Juniors) participated in the school’s Co -op Program, and three out-
standing students earned a spot at the SkillsUSA state competition. Instructors are pleased to report 
that a majority of the graduating seniors intend to pursue careers in the field of drafting. Finally, the 
School Committee approved the name change to CAD/Drafting & Design, which will go into effect 
Fall 2017. (Total enrollment: 60; 40 males, 20 females)  
Early Childhood Education : The Early Childhood Education program received three new Baby 
Care Parent Simulation dolls, and three new car seats for Parent simulation dolls. This added tech-
nology aides instructors as they enhance lessons in infant and toddler safety. Students were delight-
ed to support community service efforts, raising funds to support Lucy's Love Bus, an agency that 
provided grants for children with cancer that are not covered by health insurance.  
===PAGE 129===
129 
 
Students showered the Department of Children & Families with gifts and much needed supplies for 
foster families with emergency foster placements, raised funds for various causes including 
SkillsUSA Change for Children and held a holiday party for children from the Cleghorn Neighbor-
hood Center. Students and staff also assisted at the Children’s Festival at Briggs Elementary School, 
and at STEM night at Westminster Elementary. Fifteen  of  the sixteen graduating seniors are pur-
suing post- secondary education, related to the program. The Monty Tech Child Care Center 
continues to operate at capacity with a waiting list, providing meaningful hands -on learning opportu-
nities for students in the Early Childhood Education program at Monty Tech. (Total enrollment: 62; 
1 males, 61 females) 
Electrical: Throughout 2016 -2017, students and instructors in the Monty Tech Electrical program 
began planning and wiring the school’s new Veterinary Science Training Center, including all un-
derground raceway installations, as well as installing conduits within the walls for all the wiring 
throughout the building. Program graduates are entering the trade at a prime time, as the electrical 
contracting business continues to reach new heights. To that end, program instructors worked dili-
gently to place as many students on Co -op as possible, preparing them for a seamless transition from 
school to work. The program continued to support the building maintenance department by repairing 
numerous small electrical issues throughout the building, which included the installation of new ceil-
ing fans in the plumbing shop, as well as a new speaker and microphone system in school’s Moun-
tain Room Restaurant. In addition, students ran fiber optic wiring throughout the building to improve 
the connectivity and speed of both the wireless and hard -wired computers. While the Electrical pro-
gram already boasts a well -defined Freshman Exploratory program, instructors agree that enhancing 
the program to include new electrical service equipment in  homes and fire alarm projects would 
further strengthen the program, and continue to develop curriculum to support the addition of these 
concepts. (Total enrollment: 78; 68 males, 10  females) 
Engineering Technology : The Monty Tech Engineering Technology program continues to further 
enhance the curriculum and instruction by improving upon the four Project Lead the Way course 
modules, and adding more Computer Integrated Manufacturing content into the already rigorous 
vocational-technical curriculum. All Freshmen completed the OSHA 10 -hour General Industry train-
ing. Field Programmable Gate Array mini systems were purchased and integrated into the Digital 
Electronics curriculum, and  several Engineering students performed well in SkillsUSA district com-
petitions, resulting in four students qualifying for the state competitions, where they represented the 
Monty Tech program so well. (Total enrollment: 42; 31 males, 11  females) 
Graphic Communications : Throughout the 2016 -2017 school year, the Monty Tech Graphic Com-
munication shop produced large quantities of print projects for district towns and community service 
organizations. In fact,  over  four   hundred   print   projects   were   completed,   saving   local or-
ganizations  approximately $165,000. Twenty -two Freshmen chose Graphic Communications as 
their  top program, and two additional students joined our program, resulting in a freshman class of 
twenty-four students. Two Seniors and three Juniors earned Co -op placements, and seven students 
advanced to the SkillsUSA state competitions, where they represented the program so well. The 
Graphic Communications Class of 2017 leaves the program prepared for both college and career, as 
four Seniors entered the workforce, two entered the Armed Services and all others enrolled in col-
lege. (Total enrollment: 90; 36 males, 52 females) 
Health Occupations : The Health Occupations program at Monty Tech continues to educate a large 
number of students, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and 
practice. We continue the partnership with Mount Wachusett Community College that enabled 
Senior students to participate in an Emergency Medical Technician training program, earning eight 
college credits at no cost. Fourteen Seniors took the EMT Course this year.  
 
===PAGE 130===
130 
 
 
The Monty Tech Health Occupations program is dedicated to providing all students with opportuni-
ties to earn industry-recognized credentials. Students also earn the following credentials: OSHA 
Career Safe Online 10-hour Health Care Certification; Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and 
First Aid Certificate through the American Heart  Association; and Certified Nursing Assistant Li-
cense through the American Red Cross. This year, 90% of the Senior students passed the National 
Healthcare Association (CCMA) exam. Ten students earned Co-op placements. All Juniors became 
CPR Certified, and twenty -five Juniors became Certified Nursing Assistants. To support the stu-
dents’ desire to give back, a “Baby Shower” benefitting Battered Women's Resources, Inc. was 
held, and students participated in Pediatric Day with the Monty Tech Child Care Center.  The stu-
dents also made Veteran’s Day cards and sent them to the Bedford VA hospital, bought gifts 
and clothing for the Fitchburg Community Christmas Party, held a Red Cross Blood Drive, and par-
ticipated in “Pennies for Patients” for the Leukemia Lymphoma Society. Finally, the Monty Tech 
program was represented at the SkillsUSA national competition, with a talented student who took 
the top state  prize. (Total enrollment: 106; 9 males, 97 females) 
House Carpentry : While most of the work done by the students and instructors in the Monty Tech 
House Carpentry program last year was done at the school’s new Veterinary Science Training  Cen-
ter,  the program continued to support a number of community organizations, completing projects 
that included: a replica of the scoreboard portion of the Green Monster at Fenway Park for the ARC 
of Opportunity in Fitchburg, three Buddy benches for the Phillipston Memorial School in Phillip-
ston, three picnic tables for the Monty Tech Athletic Department, and numerous Adirondack chairs 
for charitable donations. Last year, a total of eighteen Freshmen entered the trade, and all Sopho-
mores completed the OSHA 10 -hour Construction training. This certification and training enables 
the students to work on all outside projects and participate in the school’s Co -op Program. The 
Sophomore students also traveled to Emerson Green, in Devens, a planned neighborhood communi-
ty in which the focus is on green space and design in the construction of homes. The students toured 
homes in various stages of construction, identifying energy efficient materials and their use (2.K.01, 
2014 Carpentry Frameworks). (Total enrollment: 65; 56 males, 9 females)  
HVAC & Property Maintenance : 2016-2017 brought welcome change to the Monty Tech HVAC 
and Property Maintenance Program. Brendan Curran, our newest faculty member, joined the in-
structional   team, bringing tremendous industry expertise and a passion for teaching, from which 
the students benefit daily. Students and instructors completed two major projects this year, includ-
ing the creation and installation of a walk -in style cooler/freezer unit for culinary bakery, and the 
installation of a heating and cooling system for the new Veterinary Science Training Center. This 
new system encompasses state -of- the-art mechanicals, including heat pump and hydronic energy 
recovery systems. Seven Seniors and one Junior participated in the very popular Co -operative edu-
cation program. In April, channel 5 (WCVB) selected one of our Senior shop students as their A+ 
Student of the Week. A sophomore was accepted into the “Pathways Early College Innovation 
School” at Mount Wachusett Community College. She was one of only twenty -two students in 
Massachusetts to be selected for this program that will allow her to achieve both a two -year college 
degree, as well as her high school diploma in the next two years. The program’s Junior related class 
is now offering the full licensure of the National EPA certification for Refrigerant Recovery, and 
sixteen students earned their Universal HVAC license. This credentialing process was streamlined 
by the school’s new 1:1 Chromebook initiative. (Total enrollment: 66; 53 males, 13  females) 
Information Technology : Last year, thirteen first choice freshmen were accepted into Information 
Technology and three students transferred into the department. Information Technology offers stu-
dents opportunities to earn more industry -recognized certifications than any other program at 
Monty Tech. It is an accomplishment our instructors are so proud of, as these certifications affirm 
the technical skill proficiency needed for so many entry -level careers in networking and infor-
mation technology. Last year, all sixteen Freshmen completed their Career Safe Online OSHA 10 -
hour General Industry training, while the Sophomore class passed the IC3 Certificate Exam for 
basic computer hardware, software, and internet knowledge and skills.  
===PAGE 131===
131 
 
 
All Sophomores also passed the Test -out PC Pro Certificate exam and the Cisco IT Essential 
course for computer repair and maintenance, and the Introduction to Networking course. Two ex-
ceptional Sophomores also earned COMPTIA A+ credentials. All Juniors completed the Linux 
Essentials course, and five passed the CIW Advanced HTML5 & CSS3 Certification exam. All 
Seniors completed the Linux Essentials course, as well as the AP Computer Science Principles 
course in Mobile Computing. Eight of the twelve Seniors then sat for the AP exam, and five 
earned college credit for the course. Finally, program instructors collaborated throughout the year 
with instructors at Mount Wachusett Community College, to review and align curriculum to meet 
college standards. As a result, qualified students graduating from the Monty Tech Information 
Technology program will now receive college credit for four courses, a total of twelve college 
credits, at no charge to the student. (Total enrollment: 64; 57 males, 7  female) 
Machine Technology : 2016-2017 was an incredible year for the Monty Tech Machine Technolo-
gy program, as they received the largest competitive grant awarded in the school’s history. A very 
generous $435,000 Skills Capital Grant was given to Monty Tech, so that the program could pur-
chase updated equipment and instructional materials. The shop is expected to undergo a major ren-
ovation, which will allow instructors to replicate a Clean Room environment, training students on 
precise measurement techniques. In the course of applying for this grant, a unique partnership was 
developed between Monty Tech, the L.S. Starrett Company, and Snap -On Tools. As a result of this 
collaboration, Monty Tech is now the only high school in the nation to offer two levels of Starrett/
NC3 certification and training. The Monty Tech Machine Technology program also received a 
$15,000 Gene Haas Scholarship grant, which enabled district officials to award very generous 
$1,000 scholarships to students enrolling in post -secondary engineering programs. Finally, the stu-
dents and instructors supported a variety of school events and programs, and completed a number 
of outside projects, that included cutting key tags for the Fitchburg Police Department and design-
ing and manufacturing a trophy for Narragansett Regional High School, in Templeton. (Total en-
rollment: 55; 54 males, 1 female)  
Masonry: Fifteen Freshmen selected the Masonry program for their high school experience, enter-
ing a trade that continues to make significant improvements and impact on the school and commu-
nities within the Monty Tech district. During the 2016 -2017 school year, Masonry students and 
instructors completed a walkway at the Winchendon Veterans’ Cemetery, replaced concrete steps 
outside the Dukakis Performing Arts Center, and worked at the Veterinary Science Training Cen-
ter construction site, where they worked alongside industry experts who poured the floor of the 
7,500 sq. ft. facility, poured a concrete pad for the buildings expansive HVAC system, and com-
pleted small repair projects to support the construction process. One Junior student qualified for 
the SkillsUSA national competition, representing the program extremely well in Louisville, KY. A 
total of six students participated in the Co -op Program, and five Seniors entered the Masonry trade 
upon graduation.  (Total enrollment:  63; 51 males, 12  females) 
Plumbing: Nineteen students entered the Plumbing program at Monty Tech during the 2016 -2017 
school year, and all of them successfully completed the OSHA 10 -hour General Training Course. 
Sophomore students completed the OSHA 10 -hour Construction Training, a requirement for par-
ticipation in any  outside building projects of the school’s Co -op Program. While the Sophomore 
class received Viega pex and product review, the Seniors traveled to the Viega training facility in 
Nashua, NH, where the received Viega MegaPress training and certification. Throughout the year, 
Juniors and Seniors gained valuable experience on the Veterinary Science Training Center con-
struction site, where they installed the underground drainage, drain waste vent system, learned to 
read blueprints, use a builder level to read grade and elevations, and install cast iron and copper 
pipe fittings. Two Seniors were recognized for their outstanding technical skills, receiving scholar-
ships from the Plumbing, Heating and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachusetts and the 
Central Mass Plumbing & Gas Inspectors Association.  
===PAGE 132===
132 
 
 
A total of fourteen students (eight Seniors and six Juniors) participated in the school’s Co -op Pro-
gram, which was the highest placement rate in program history. Finally, the program benefitted 
from the installation of new live working stations that include condensing gas boilers and indirect 
water heaters with solar thermal hot water panels. Having the added technology will allow our stu-
dents to train on products used in today’s construction, preparing them to enter the field of Plumb-
ing upon graduation. (Total enrollment: 73; 68 males, 5  females) 
Welding/Metal Fabrication : The shop received a state -of-the-art Miller Inverter Welding Machine 
and implemented new curriculum for grades 11 & 12 that included light gauge aluminum welding. 
With an eye toward preparing graduates for entry -level career opportunities, instructors have also 
integrated lessons in soft skills into the curriculum. Helping students refine job applications, cover 
letters, resume writing, and interviewing skills will undoubtedly help them as they transition from 
school into the world of work. In 2016 -2017, twelve students (six Seniors and six Juniors) participat-
ed in Co-op. In addition, three graduating seniors accepted jobs in the trade after graduation. All 
Freshmen completed their Career Safe Online  OSHA  10 -hour  General  Industry  Training.  The 
shop completed more  than  fifty  projects for residents of the Monty Tech community and per-
formed numerous projects around the building. (Total enrollment: 62; 46 males, 16 females)  
Co-operative Education and Student Placement 
The Cooperative Education Program is an extension of the student’s technical education that com-
bines classroom instruction with on -the-job-training. The Co-op Program provides students the op-
portunity to further develop academic, technical and employability skills in an industry work envi-
ronment. All students are eligible to participate in Co -op Program, provided they satisfy state and 
school grade, attendance and performance requirements. All Co -op students have completed the-
OSHA recognized Career Safe online health and safety course.  
The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both student and employer. For the student, it 
is a chance to gain on -the job training that improves both their technical and employability skills. 
Additionally, making industry connections enhances post -graduate employment opportunities. The 
Co-op Program allows students to earn while they learn.  
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner. Coop students pro-
vide a pool of temporary and potential full -time employees who are already trained, thus reducing 
employer training costs. Co -op work hours may be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employ-
ers. During school year 2016 -2017, a record number of students participated in the cooperative ed-
ucation program. Approximately 37% of the class of 2017 earned Co-op placements, working, 
learning and applying their technical skills related in area  businesses. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 133===
133 
 
Student Support Services  
During the 2016-2017 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District pro-
vided special services to approximately 300 students – measuring progress of over 200 students on 
Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and just under 100 students adhering to individualized Section 504 
plans. While the Student Support Services (SSS) Dept. encompasses special education, the depart-
ment provides support and is available to all Monty Tech students.   
The department includes a full -time nursing staff that administers medications, performs state -
mandated health screening exams, and provides, when necessary, health information to the special 
education team for a student’s IEP meeting. The department benefits from a full -time school social 
worker that participates in departmental meetings and assists students who have needs concerning 
finances, family issues, homelessness, maternity, health issues, and proper food and clothing. The 
school is also fortunate to have on staff a full -time psychologist, whose role it is to evaluate all stu-
dents referred for an initial evaluation or who require a three - year re-evaluation. In addition, we 
have a full-time speech language pathologist, who is available to assist students with disabilities, as-
sess these students and consult with teachers. Our students also have access to the services of a full -
time adjustment counselor and part -time school psychologist. All of these individuals are available 
for scheduled counseling sessions, mental health emergency treatment, medical/mental health re - 
entry and transition support and services, as well as crisis intervention.  
The school’s Director of Student Support Services oversees the District’s Special Education Pro-
gram, which is reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The compre-
hensive  review and evaluation are done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the 
results of the evaluation are used to improve the special education procedures and programs in place 
at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.  
Technology 
The 2016-2017 school year began with a successful roll -out of the long anticipated 1:1 Chromebook 
initiative. Chromebooks were distributed to 1,436 students. Google cloud Print was added, making 
printers available to students and teachers throughout the building. Two Chromebook charging sta-
tions were installed in the library and cafeteria allowing students to charge their devices, and stu-
dents who may have come to school without their devices have been allowed to borrow a   
===PAGE 134===
134 
 
Chromebook from the library, on a daily  basis. 
To support the 1:1 Chromebook initiative and other technology needs, Monty Tech has successfully 
completed a number of necessary infrastructure upgrades. With federal e -rate dollars totaling 
$77,752, the school’s external bandwidth speeds were increased to 1.5GB and internal bandwidth 
was increased by 10GB. In addition to hardware, the school added the following complementary 
software: Lightspeed web filtering and Aruba ClearPass. Lightspeed web filtering is expected to 
provide safe, fast access to the Internet and includes flexible policies, social media controls, band-
width control, malware protection, anonymous proxy detection, mobile filtering, classroom man-
agement tools, and comprehensive reporting. Aruba ClearPass will provide strong network access 
security for monitoring wireless devices, as well as enhanced options for guest access services.  
The school also launched a Digital Citizenship course, proving lessons and guidance relating to ap-
propriate online behavior, including cyberbullying, potential risks related to social networking sites 
and chat rooms. Students at Monty Tech are expected to demonstrate the safe and responsible use 
of technology and an understanding of security, privacy, and ethics. The district maintains Internet 
Safety information on the district website in the Parents & Students section.  
Marine Corps JROTC 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) had an extraor-
dinary school year. All program objectives for the 2016 -2017 school year were achieved. Notewor-
thy was the performance of JROTC’s Cyber Security Team, which for the seventh consecutive year 
captured national recognition by placing third overall in the Air Force Association’s National Cyber 
Security Competition held in Baltimore, MD.  
The 2016-2017 Corps of Cadets completed over nine thousand hours of community service 
throughout the district. The Corps conducted a major  food drive with United Way, worked side -by
-side with the Marine Corps Reserve in a national Toys for Tots campaign, and spent six weekends 
working with the local Salvation Army helping to raise over $25,000 for needy families. The cadets 
conducted their annual 10- mile “March-A- Thon” to support NEADS (National Education of As-
sistance Dogs Services) from Princeton, MA,  raising $25,000 for their Service Dogs for Veterans 
program.  
Sixty-five Monty Tech cadets attended a leadership camp at Prince William Forest, in Quantico 
VA. The camp provided cadets with individual and team development opportunities, as well as the 
opportunity to visit our nation’s capital and many other historical sites.  
During the summer of 2017, our Cadet Cyber Team was again asked to support a Cyber STEM 
camp for the National Marine Corps JROTC program. The Cyber Team coordinated the 8 -day 
camp that focused on defending cyber networks from attacks. The camp also offered an introduc-
tion to robotics programming using the VEX Robotics System and computer programming using 
the CanaKit Raspberry Pi 3’s. The  camp was attended by 150 students, representing eighteen  
states. 
Student Athletics 
The Monty Tech athletic program continues to expend in scope and skill each year. In 2016 -2017, 
approximately five hundred students participated in our freshman junior varsity and varsity athletic 
programs. Seventeen teams competed in Fall 2016, fourteen during the winter season and another elev-
en teams represented the school in Spring 2017.  
 
 
