===PAGE 71===
 
71 
locations to the public sewer and advising those property owners when an illegal connection was discovered, 
whether it is from a sump pump in the cellar or roof drain.  These sources only increase the town’s expenses as 
they are sent via public sewer pipes to the wastewater treatment plants in either Leominster or Fitchburg, 
increasing their flows and capacities unnecessarily.  
 
The Commission has continued to work hard to enforce the Grease Trap Regulation for all Food Service 
Establishments that have or should have a grease trap or grease interceptor.   Annual permit fees were assessed 
in July 2015 based on the establishment’s level of compliance, and the reporting requirements clearly 
communicated.  Lunenburg has 19 grease trap establishments.  This regulation will continue to be strongly 
enforced as fats, oils and grease (FOG) can negatively affect the smooth operation and maintenance costs of the 
sewer system.  While the Grease Trap Regulation focuses on commercial and public disposal, individual home 
owners can also contribute a significant amount of grease into the system which increases everyone’s costs. The 
Commission understands that education is an important aspect of their role and will continue to provide 
information to their customers to keep the sewer system running economically and efficiently by reducing the 
disposal of fats, oil and grease into the system to avoid blockages. Whether on sewer or septic, grease should not 
be put down the drain.  Another enemy of the sewer system is “disposable wipes” which do not biodegrade and 
bring our pumps to a halt.  Nothing but organic waste and toilet paper should be put into the sewer system.   
 
During FY15 and into FY16, the Commission continued working on several projects, with Commissioners 
serving as Project Champions.  They are: 
 Lakeview/Pratt extension  
 I/I reduction project  
 Grease trap compliance  
 Flow Rate/Metering  
 Privately Funded Extension Policy update  
 Business Systems and Process Improvement  
 
The Commission would like to thank Dave MacDonald and Butch Bilotta, who both stepped off the 
Commission in May 2015, for all their hard work and years of dedication and service.  In the town election of 
May 2015, the Commission was happy to welcome Sue Bunish to the Commission, and John Reynolds who was 
appointed to the Commission in July 2015. Troy Daniels stepped off the Commission in January 2016.  Bob 
Ebersole continues to serve as the Board of Selectmen liaison and the Commission is grateful for his knowledge 
and counsel.  Jay Simeone, past member of the Sewer Commission, serves as the Finance Committee liaison to 
blend his experience on the Commission with its financial planning and we thank him for his participation. The 
Commission would also like to thank Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, for the seamless and smooth operation of 
the Sewer division of the DPW and also Jim Breault (DPW-Facilities) who whenever called upon, provides his 
expertise and service to the Sewer Department.    
 
Carl Luck, Chair 
Mike Nault, Vice Chair 
Sue Bunish, Member 
John Reynolds, Member 
===PAGE 72===
 
72 
===PAGE 73===
 
73 
PROTECTION OF 
PERSONS &  
PROPERTY 
===PAGE 74===
 
74 
===PAGE 75===
 
75 
BOARD OF HEALTH 
 
The Board of Health office is located in  the Ritter Library B uilding on the corner of Mass. Ave and 
Leominster Road.  Our office is on the upper level at the end of the hall on the right.  We can be reached at 
978-345-4146, extension 430.  
 
The Board of Health with the assistance of its a gent, the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health , continued 
its mission to maintain its focus on public heal th and safety issues during 201 5, by reviewing Title V 
inspection reports, building permits, septic and well permits, nuisance investigations , housing inspections, 
complaints and general public health related issues.    
 
This past year has seen the reinstatement of the Septic System Repair Program which helps low to 
moderate income families replace fail ed septic systems or connect to public sewer.  Anyone interested in 
finding out more about this program can contact the Board of Health office. 
 
Homeland Security planning is ongoing.  Meetings continue between our agents, other Town Departments 
and region al entities to develop a plan for not only Lunenburg but also with our partner  towns in our 
region.   
 
This year we processed applications for septic permit lot t ests, permits for new construction,  new wells, 
repairs or upgrades to septic systems and well permits.  The Board continues its vigilance with regard to 
septic systems, wells, food service inspection s, housing and nuisance complaints and its general mandate to 
protect the environment and groundwaters of the Commonwealth.  The Board of Health is als o represented 
on the recently created Stormwater Task Force. 
 
The Board of Health  provides numerous other services in cooperation with our health agents, the Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health. In addition to our environmental  services, n umerous clinics a re provided 
throughout the year to our residents.  These clinics provide inoculations, blood pressure screenings, Well 
Oldster Clinics and d ental screening. Fluoride treatment and dental checks of our youngsters in the school 
system are provided by the Nashoba dental staff. 
 
The Town of Lunenburg participates in the Central Mass. Mosquito Control Project.  Mosquito Control 
monitors the mosquito population in Lunenburg and advises of any potential diseases such as EEE and 
West Nile Virus . It  sprays frequentl y to control the population during the warmer times of the year.   
Residents who want to have their property spr ayed can do so by emailing to : cmmcp@cmmcp.org, calling 
(508) 393-3055, completing a service request on their webpa ge at:  http:// www.cmmcp.org or  calling the 
Board of Health office. 
 
Along with our Nashoba Nursing and Hospice partners, we provide in-home visits to residents recovering 
from illness and hospice care and counseling to those in need of this service.  
 
Please remember that our Board m embers volunteer their time and efforts on behalf of you, the c itizens of 
Lunenburg. If you have something that you think we can help you with, we are at your service. Contact the 
Board of Health office at 582-4146 ext. 430.    
 
Board of Health Members 
George Emond, Chairman 
Perry Jewell 
David Passios 
Paul Fortin 
 
Andrea Schnepf, Administrative Assistant 
===PAGE 76===
 
76 
 
 
NASHOBA ASSOCIATED BOARDS OF HEALTH 
 
 
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the local Board of Health in meeting the  
challenges of environmental and public health needs in Lunenburg.  In addition to the day to day  
 public health work conducted for Lunenburg we also provide the following services. 
 
 Maintaining Nashoba’s Internet web site to provide information for the public. (See nashoba.org) 
 
 Response to health related impacts of beavers through coordination with the local Board of Health in the issu-
ance of the necessary permits. 
 
 Response to state mandated changes in regulations requiring more frequent beach sampling through sample 
collection, submittal for analysis, and follow-up when results were obtained. 
 
We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenburg's Board of Health. Included in the day- 
to-day work of Nashoba in 2015 were the follow-ing:  
  
 Through membership in the Association Lunenburg benefited from the services of Nashoba staff including: 
Registered Sanitarians, Certified Health Officers, Registered Nurses, Nutritionists, Registered Physical & Oc-
cupational Therapists, Licensed Social Workers, Certified Home Health Aides, and Registered Dental Hygien-
ists 
 
 Provided health education programs in collaboration with the Lunenburg Council on Aging. 
 
 Collaborated with Montachusett Home Care around elders at risk and other safety issues. 
 
 Reviewed 98 Title 5 state mandated private Septic System Inspections for Lunenburg Board of Health. Re-
ceived, reviewed, and filed these state mandated (but unfunded) Title 5 inspections. Corresponded with in-
spectors regarding deficiencies; referred deficient inspections to Lunenburg Board of Health for enforcement 
action 
 
 By the Lunenburg Board of Health’s continued participation in the Association you can shape  
            your future local public health programs and share in the benefits of quality service at a reason-able  

===PAGE 77===
 
77 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
 
              Environmental Health Department 
 
 Environmental Information Responses  
 
 Lunenburg Office (days).......................................80 
                   The Nashoba sanitarian is generally scheduled to be available for the public twice a  
                          week on Monday and Wednesday mornings at the Lunenburg Board of Health Office.  
                          Other meetings occur informally. 
  This does not reflect the daily calls handled by the three Nashoba secretaries during  
                          daily business hours. 
 
Food Service Licenses & Inspections.....................………49 
Nashoba annually mails out and receives application from both restaurants and retail food 
businesses.  Licenses are renewed for existing facilities.  Plans are submitted and reviewed 
prior to initial licensing. Most licensees are inspected at a minimum twice a year. Where 
deficiencies are found, a re-inspection is scheduled to insure compliance.  When a com-
plaint from the public is received an inspection is also conducted. During this inspection 
health factors of food handlers is also investigated, and where appropriate medical consul-
tation and laboratory testing may be required. 
  
 Beach/Camp Inspections.................................................. 23 
 Camps are inspected at least annually at opening for compliance with State Sanitary Code, 
Chapter IV, 105 CMR. 430.00. Public swimming beaches are sampled for water quality every 
week during the summer and more often if a problem is suspected.   
 
 Housing & Nuisance Investigations...................................38 
 Nashoba, as agent for the local Board of Health, inspects dwellings for conformance with 
State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.00, issues orders for correction, and re-inspect for com-
pliance.  Similarly, complaints from residents concerning unsanitary conditions or pollution 
events are investigated.  
 
 Septic System Test Applications.......................................78 
 Applications from residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic system are accepted, a file 
created, and testing dates are coordinated with the applicants engineer. 
 
 Septic System Lot Tests........................................234 
              Nashoba sanitarian witnesses soil evaluations, deep hole tests, and, usually on a separate 
date, percolation tests conducted by the applicant’s engineer which serve as the basis of 
the design of the septic system. 
===PAGE 78===
 
78 
               Septic System Plan Applications…………………………78 
 Detailed plans created by engineers hired by residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic 
system are received, filed, and routed to the Nashoba sanitarian for review. 
 
  Septic System Plan Reviews .........................……..76 
                           Engineered plans are reviewed according to state code, Title 5, and local Board of Health   
                           regulations and review forms are created and sent to engineer for revision.  Subsequent re- 
                           submittals by the engineer are also reviewed. 
  
             Septic System Permit Applications (new lots)..........….32 
  
             Septic System Permit Applications (upgrades)............ 33 
Applicants’ approved plan submittals and Board of Health requirements are incorporated into a 
permit to construct the septic system. 
 
 Septic System Construction Inspections...........110 
             Nashoba Sanitarian is called to construction site at various phases of construction to witness &   
             verify that system is built according to plans. 
 
 Septic System Consultations...............................19 
                          During all phases of application, design, and construction the Nashoba Sanitarian is called   
                           upon  or legal details and interpretation 
     . 
 Well Permits.......................................................................14 
 
              Water Quality/Well Consultations..................................14 
               Private wells are regulated solely by local Board of Health regulations, The Nashoba Sanitarian 
assist the Board of Health by reviewing well plans, securing well water samples, and interpret-
ing water quality test results. 
 
               Rabies Clinics - Animals Immunized .........................................9 
 
 Nashoba arranges for local clinics with cooperating veterinarians, arranging for dates and loca-
tion, placing ads in local newspapers, and sending home flyers through local schools.   
   
  
  
===PAGE 79===
 
79 
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice 
  
 Home Health 
 
 Nursing Visits ..................................................................... 590 
   
  Nashoba’s Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visits provide skilled services 
to patients in their home under physician’s orders.  These services include assessment of 
physical, ps ychological, and nutritional needs. Skills include teaching/supervision of 
medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24 hour basis, catheter care, case 
management and referral to other services as needed. 
 
 Home Health Aide Visits  ................................................. 247 
  Nashoba’s Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities of 
daily living including bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation. 
 
  
 
 
Rehabilitative Therapy Visit .......................................................... 360 
 
  Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, a nd dietary 
therapeutic interventions through assessment, treatment and education.  Their integration of 
client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attaining maximum functional dependence. 
 
Medical Social Service Visits ............................................ 44 
  Nashoba Social Workers provide short-term assistance to  patients at home 
for counseling and referral to community  resources. 
 
  Hospice Volunteer and Spiritual Care Visits……13 
 Nashoba’s Volunteers and Clergy provide patients with emotional and 
spiritual support, companionship and guidance. 
 
Community Health Nursing  
 
 Nashoba’s Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health service to it 
member communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA) 16 Standards of 
Public Nursing Practice.  
 
Our staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns from the 
public on a variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice, chronic disease 
management, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways. 
 
 We conduct regular well-being clinics for health assessment, screenings and education 
to all, especially the underserved and at-risk populations. 
 We report and investigate communicable diseases to formulate and implement control 
guidelines and strategies that protect the hea lth of individual and the community at 
large (mandated by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health). 
===PAGE 80===
 
80 
 We make we ll-being visits to assess needs, coordinate appropriate care and services 
and provide case management as needed (health promotion). 
 We provide public health education. 
 We address psych -social issues that may impact general health and safety (i.e. 
hoarding). 
 We are available to collaborate with all municipal staff to address public health nursing 
questions, work closely with Councils on Aging to assist elders in the communities and 
are available for consultation with school nurses caring for children and families.  The 
nursing staff also works with the Sanitarian for your community, as needed, to address 
issues of unhealthy living conditions. 
 
 Listed below is summary of the activities of the Community Health Nursing program. 
 
 Nashoba conducted 12 clinics and those clinics offered your citizens: blood pressure screening, 
annual sugar and eye screenings, flu shots and an opportunity to consult wi th the nurse to 
address questions. 
 Our staff conducted 85 health promotion/well-being/social worker visits in your communities. 
 We administered 106 flu shots through our annual clinics. 
 Nashoba reviewed, investigated and reported on the following cases of communicable diseases 
from your community.  Though the daily reporting and investigating work is not always visible 
it is vital to protect the public from the spread of disease. 
              Investigated………………………………………………63 
 Confirmed ............................................................................ 32 
 
 Communicable Disease Number of Cases 
 Anaplasmosis ........................................... 1 
 Campylobacter ......................................... 1 
 Haemophilus Influenzae .......................... 2 
 Hepatitis C ................................................ 4 
 Influenza ................................................... 13 
 Lyme Disease ........................................... 6 
 Strep B ...................................................... 3 
 Salmonella ................................................ 1 
 Shigellosis ................................................ 1 
 
Dental Health Department 
Examination, Cleaning & Fluoride - Grades K, 2 & 4 
Nashoba’s Registered Dental Hygienists, operating out of the school nurse’s office 
and records, provide these services to those children whose parents have given 
written consent. 
  Students Eligible.............................................. 351 
   Students Participating....................................185 
  Referred to Dentist.............................................23 
 
  Instruction - Grades K, 1 & 5 
 Nashoba’s Registered Dental Hygienists also provide classroom instruction 
of cleaning and maintaining health teeth to all children in these grades. 
  Number of Programs......................................10 
===PAGE 81===
 
81 
                                             FIRE DEPARTMENT 
                                                      655 Massachusetts Ave 
 
       CHIEF 
 Patrick A. Sullivan 
 TEL: (978) 582-4155 
 FAX: (978) 582-4033 
 
 
 
 
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are dedicated to 
providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to the citizens of the 
Town of Lunenburg. 
In 2015 your Fire Department responded to 1985 calls for service, broken down as follows: 
 
Fires & Hazardous Conditions      483                Emergency Medical      967 
 
Inspections    493                                             Other                         37 
 
     Fire Department staffing today is five Career Staff and forty to forty-five On Call Firefighters and Emergency 
Medical Technicians.  The station is staffed 7 days per week from 6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.  The career staff man the 
station Monday through Friday.  On Saturday and Sunday the station is manned by two of our On Call 
Firefighter/EMTs on an hourly “per diem” basis.  At night however, all of our personnel respond from home on 
an “on call” basis.   This adds several minutes or more to our response time as personnel must respond to the 
station, pick up the appropriate equipment and then respond the call. 
 
     The addition of the Weekend Day coverage began on July 1, 2015 and has significantly decreased response 
times during the time the station is manned.  This is the first significant change to our staffing in nearly 15 years, 
even though we have seen an almost 48% increase in our call volume during that same time period.  We still rely 
on our On Call Personnel to be the primary responders 50% of the week.  
  
     2015 was our busiest year to date, with a 1.5% overall increase in activity from 2014 and a 5.5% increase in 
EMS related calls.  As our community continues to grow I can only expect the demand for emergency services to 
grow along with it.  While our Call Force continues to do an amazing job, the ever increasing call volume is 
straining our ability to provide the high level of service townspeople have come to expect.  This leads me to 
continue to call for 24 hour staffing in the station.  Funding to maintain 2 Firefighter/EMT’s in the station 24 
hours a day, 7 days a week would allow either the first ambulance or first piece of fire apparatus to respond 
immediately.  Not only would this reduce our response times to critical emergencies, it would also reduce the 
“wear and tear” on our Call Staff.   This coverage would in no way reduce the need for our On Call personnel; it 
would only supplement their response and reduce response times. 
 
      Our firefighters continue to train for the myriad of situations which can be encountered even in a town such as 
ours.  Today’s firefighter must be skilled in not only firefighting, but medical care, hazardous materials mitigation 
and technical rescue.  Our EMT’s must continue to stay abreast of the latest treatment protocols and advances in 
lifesaving skills.  Personnel train regularly both here at the station and at classes sponsored by other agencies.  
While they are compensated for some of the training, the vast majority is done on their own time.   
 
 

===PAGE 82===
 
82 
As an example, a new Firefighter/EMT must attend ove r 340 hours of basic firefighting and Emergen cy 
Medical Technician training.  Once they are certif ied, they must complete over 4 0 hours of continuing education 
and refresher training every two years, just for their EMT.  Operators of Fire Apparatus must complete an 
additional 65 hours of training in Driver training, pump and aerial operation and hydraulics calculations.   
 
Several of our  personnel are members of Regional Technical Rescue units, providing services for 
Confined Space and Cave in Rescue, as well as Underwater Search and Recovery.  They stand ready to respond as 
needed throughout Northern Worcester County. 
 
2015 continued to be an active year for our Fire Prevention efforts.   By law we are required to inspect 
smoke and carbon monoxide detector installations when a home is sold, as well as  all new oil burner and propane 
gas installations.  A ny business hol ding a liquor license is also required to be inspected  for fire safety issues. In 
addition, all new construction projects must have their plans reviewed for proper fire protection, as well  as 
ongoing inspections during the construction process.   Personnel also continue to provide fire safety education to 
not only children in our schools but adults as well.     
Other Fire Safety Initiatives undertaken during 2015 include: 
- Continuation of a D epartment of Fire Se rvices Grant in the amount of $6953 . to assist with Fir e 
Safety Education in both the schools and with senior c itizens.  This grant provides funding for both 
materials and personnel to bring fire safety education to our most vulnerable populations.  Highlights 
of activity through this grant include: 
o Educational programs in basic fire safety in Grades K -3, including use of the Regional Fire  
Safety Trailer.   
o Educational programs in conjunction with the Council on Aging.  These included co oking 
and heating safety, a CPR Demonstration and ice safety. 
- Participation in the Senior Center’s “Sand for Seniors” Program.  This program provid es buckets of 
walkway sand for senior c itizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter mont hs.  
In partnership with this program, our Fire Prevention Officer Captain James Ricci delivers the sand to 
the residents and when possible, inspects their homes for smoke and carbon monoxide d etectors.  If 
the resident was lacking detectors, Capt. Ricci w ould install free detectors obtained through the 
Senior SAFE Grant.    
- The Department also partnered with the American Red Cross to install free smoke detectors  in 
sections of town.  Combined with the “Sand of Seniors” program, 93 homes were visited and over 70 
smoke and carbon monoxide detectors were installed.   
- It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent 
smoke detectors. 
 
Several members are also Certified First Aid and CPR Instructors and provide training to both citizens 
and town employees.   
 
Our d epartment continues to actively pursue grant f unding opportunities as they occur, though those 
opportunities are becoming scarcer. 
 
The new Engine 1 , approved in the FY ’15 Capital Plan was placed in se rvice in July of 2015 and is 
providing outstanding service as our primary pumper.  It replaced a 1991 model. 
 
Apparatus replacement continues to be a concern.  FY’15 saw a significant increase in vehicle maintenance costs, 
particularly with the older apparatus.  The timely replacement of our older apparatus will hopefully decrease some 
of those costs.  Two of our front line units (Engine 4 and Ladder 1) are over 20 years old and showing their age 
through increasing maintenance costs and “out of service” time.  Engine 4 in particular has seen over $50,000 in 
repairs over the last 3 years, and has averaged a month per year out of service.  The new Engine 1 is handing a 
higher volume of responses to decrease the wear and tear on Engine 4, hopefully prolonging its lifespan.  These 
units are included the department’s 5 Year Capital Plan for replacement in FY ’17 and FY ’18 respectively and it 
is hoped that due consideration will be given for their timely replacement.   
===PAGE 83===
 
83 
Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2015 
 
 
  Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department*   
     
  Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief   
 
James Ricci, Captain/EMT    Kenneth Jones,Captain/AEMT* 
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT I*    Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT* 
J. Gregory Massak, 
Lieutenant/EMT 
   Shawn McKenna, Lieutenant/EMT 
Rev. Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain    Karen Weller, EMS Coordinator* 
 
Matthew Benoit, FF/EMT    Kristen Hirsch, EMT 
Richard Bishop, EMT*    Richard Howard, II, Firefighter* 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT    Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT*    Christos Lekaditis, FF/EMT* 
Frank Byrne, FF/EMT    Peter Lekaditis, FF/EMT 
Michael Byrne, FF/EMT    Charles Lowe, FF/EMT 
Traci Camelo, EMT    Ryan Major, FF/Paramedic* 
Joseph Cardone, FF/EMT    Kevin Martin, FF/EMT-I 
Charles Colburn, FF/EMT    Thomas J. McCormack, Firefighter 
Matthew Cormier, Firefighter    Timothy Paton, Firefighter 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT    Tyler Pelkey, FF/EMT 
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*    Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT    James Reynolds, FF/EMT 
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT*    Lori Roy, Paramedic* 
Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT    Charles Sampson, EMT 
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT*    Jamieson Shea, FF/Paramedic 
Patrick Hakey, FF/EMT*    Robert Szocik, FF/EMT 
James Hamilton, Firefighter*    Kelly Szocik, EMT 
Jamie Hawkins, FF/EMT    Thomas Wilson, FF/EMT* 
Alan Herget, EMT     
     
 
*Indicates member of Specialized Rescue Teams including Dive, Cave In and Confined Space Rescue Teams 
The high reliability required of front line em ergency apparatus becomes increasingly expensive and 
difficult to maintain as these units reach the end of their life span.    
 
Firefighters Benjamin Boudreau, Charles Colburn, Skyler Kosloski and Tyler Pelkey graduated from the 
Massachusetts Firefighting Academy’s Call/Volunteer Training Program.  This intensive 4 month program 
provides the basic skills firefighters need to operate in today’s challenging environments.   All newly hired 
firefighters are required to complete this program within one year of hi re.  In addition, Firefighter Colburn and 
Firefighter Carl Gamberdella obtained their certification as Emergency Medical Technicians. 
 
Firefighters Boudreau, Kosloski and Pelkey are also the first members of our “Live -In” Partnership with 
Mount Wachusett Community College’s Fire Science Program.  Th is program allows Fire Science s tudents who 
are Emergency Medical Technician s to obtain real world experience as firefighters while completing their 
education.  It also provides the department with additional assistance as these members cover some On Call shifts 
from the station.  
 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their  outstanding 
commitment to the Town.  Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to impress me every day.  I 
would also like to thank the other department heads, board s and commissions for their continuing help.  Most 
people do not realize the level of interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business.  
My thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing support of public safety .  It is that support 
that allows us to continue providing the services you expect from us. 
===PAGE 84===
 
84 
POLICE DEPARTMENT 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Police Department 
2015 Annual Report 
Chief James P. Marino 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative  
Chief James P. Marino 
Public Safety Coordinator Linda Carrier 
Lieutenant Michael Luth 
                        CHIEF 
               James P. Marino 
                  TEL: (978) 582-4150 
                  FAX: (978) 582-4159 
 
              
 655 Massachusetts Ave. 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
===PAGE 85===
 
85 
Patrol Supervisors 
Sergeant Thomas Gammel 
  Sergeant Sean Connery 
Sergeant Jack Hebert  
 
Detectives 
Detective Sergent Jeffrey Thibodeau 
Detective (Vacancy) 
 
Community Outreach 
Officer Sean Zrate 
 
Traffic/ K-9 
Officer Joshua Tocci 
 
Patrol Officers 
Officer Robert Diconza, Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc, Officer Peter Lekaditis,  
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Deven O’Brien 
 
Desk 
Officer Lisa Melnicki 
 
Reserve Intermittent Officers 
Officer Stan Barney, Officer Donald Letarte,  Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Ben Campbell,  Officer Lisa 
Melnicki, Officer Julie Salas, Officer John Morreale, Officer Jacob Lachance, Dan Minichiello, Chad Stateler, 
Jonathan May, Todd, Lynch.   
Retirements 
Officer Paul Gruditz, Officer Linda Carrier 
Paul Gruditz retired after 38 years of service as a dedicated Reserve Police Officer.  Paul’s contributions 
to the community embodied the principles of commitment and service.  We wish Paul the same success 
and happiness in retirement that he experienced during his time here.  
 
Linda Carrier retired after 32 years as a Reserve Police Officer, and sexual assault investigator. Linda was 
first employed by the Town in 1981 and in 1982 accepted a position with the police department as the 
executive assistant to the Chief of Police. In 1984 Linda was appointed as a Reserve Police officer and 
subsequently certified as a sexual assault investigator. She was later promoted to public safety 
coordinator, a position she still maintains today. We commend Linda for her ability to command two 
converging professions within the police department for more than 30 years. It saddens us that we’ll no 
longer find Linda in a police uniform, but we take solace in that we know she’s still part of the support 
staff. 
 
Felicitation 
Congratulations to Quinn Smith, Dan Minichiello, and Julie Salas were appointed as full time Police 
Officers with the Fitchburg Police Department. Quinn has been with us for 3 years as a Reserve Police 
Officer.  Quinn will graduate from the Full time police academy in February of 2016. Julie interned for a 
short time and was subsequently appointed as a reserve officer in Lunenburg on July 22nd 2014. Dan 
Minichiello also interned for a short time and was appointed as a reserve officer on May 12, 2015. Both 
Dan and Julie will be attending the Mass. Police Training Committee Police Academy at Reading In 
March of 2016.  Quinn, Julie, and Dan are well trained, highly motivated individuals. They will be sorely  
===PAGE 86===
 
86 
missed by the Lunenburg Police Department, but we wish them the best of luck with their careers in Law 
Enforcement.  
 
Animal Control 
Animal Control has recently partnered with the Police Department. Kathleen Comeau is and will remain 
the Director of Animal Control. As a partnership Kathleen will be able to utilize the Police Records 
management system to enhance her ability to maintain and record animal complaints, 
lost/missing/abducted and abuse investigations as well as licensing, and kenneling issues. The public is 
asked to call in any animal control related complaints to the Regional Call Center, Nashoba Valley 
Regional Dispatch, at (978) 582-4531. The Animal Control Web-Site, lunenburgma.gov. Remember, 
dogs must be licensed by April 1st annually. Dogs must have a current Rabies vaccination certificate to 
qualify for licensing. This can be done at the Town Clerk's office in Town Hall, 17 Main Street. 
Unspayed Female/Unaltered Male $20 fee. Spayed Female/Altered Male $5 fee.  Late Fee: $25. 
  
State of the Police Department 
The Police Department is in operation 24 hours a day 7 days a week.  Two patrol officers are assigned to 
each shift with support from the Traffic Enforcement/K-9 Officer and the Community Outreach Officer 
who each work two day shifts and two evening shifts.  A Reserve Officer is assigned to the desk on a full 
time basis from 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The desk is extended from 3:00 p.m. to 
7:00 p.m. during the week on a per-diem basis.  
 
The Police were dispatched to approximately 5600 calls for service and self-initiated another 7800 calls, 
responded to 278 motor vehicle accidents, investigated 1253 incidents, conducted 4039 motor vehicle 
stops, wrote 2440 motor vehicle citations, arrested 371 people, summonsed 259, and placed 12 people in 
protective custody.   
 
In addition to the calls dispatched by the regional call center, the desk officer answered some 7000 phone 
calls, took approximately 3200 lobby inquiries and complaints, and wrote, roughly, 153 reports in 2015.  
This year the desk watch officer was responsible for the suicide watch of 146 detainees either taken into 
custody overnight or during the daytime hours.  
 
In the past five years the police department has realized a 180.1 percent increase in arrests, a 61.9% 
increase in reportable incidents, incidents that require a follow-up investigation and/ or court complaint, 
and a 20% increase in motor vehicle accidents. I don’t anticipate that these figures are going to decline as 
the Town continues to grow and the level of traffic in and around Lunenburg increases.  
 
Arrests and Incidents: A Five Year look back 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
2010 2015
Incidents
Arrests
===PAGE 87===
 
87 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
ARRESTS INCIDENTS NO. OF OFFICERS
636
1305
14
214
614
19
289
1066
18
350
500
20
184
557
22
468
904
21
376
742
22
464
1026
18
244
683
18
149
547
18
263
914
17
243
582
19
Lunenburg 10,086
Hanson 10,209 Brockton,East
Bridgewater
Freetown 8,870 ( Fall River, New
Bedford)
Acushnet 10,303 (New Bedford)
Norwell  10,506
(Weymouth,Quincy, Braintree)
Maynard 10,106 (Marlborough,
Sudbury, Framingham)
Holbrook 10,791 (Brockton)
Leicester 10,970  (Worcester)
Ayer 7,427
Pepperell  11,497
Littleton  8,924
Groton 10,646
This is a comparison of towns with similar demographics and similar bordering communities as 
well as a few communities that border Lunenburg: 
 
 
The workload has once again fueled the request for additional Police Officers... The work load will 
exceed 23,000 hours this year. With 14 officers, including the Police Chief, staffing deployment would 
have to be adjusted over 100 times to effectively allocate resources and meet daily needs. The FBI 
Uniform Crime Report, Table 71 indicates that the average number of police officers in a New England 
town with a population between 10,000 and 24, 999 should be 1.8 per 1000 inhabitants. We are presently 
at 1.4 per 1000 inhabitants. 
 
In this comparison Lunenburg has the highest number of arrests and incidents with the lowest number of 
officer employed. The range is from 17 officers to 22 officers.  
 
Request for staffing is an old story. The Police Department has been asking for a staff increase for over 20 
years. Here are some statements taken from previous town reports as far back as 1996: 
 
1996 12 Officers  As a result of obtaining a COPS MORE grant from the Federal Government in the 
amount of 75,000, we were able to hire on additional police officer, bringing our police force up to twelve 
(12) full time officers.  
2004 13 officers:  Low staffing levels continue to be an issue for our Police Department. The number of 
full-time officers is significantly lower than recommended levels for a community our size.  As our 
community grows, and as the communities around grow, so do the number of calls for service.   
===PAGE 88===
 
88 
2005 13 officers:  This combination of residential growth, projected growth and an over 100% increase in 
incidents/calls for service over the past five years has proved to be quite a challenge for our patrol staff.  
Once again this year, I stress the importance of investing in proper patrol and office staffing to 
accommodate this increasing demand for police services and administrative office responsibilities. The 
number of full time officers (12). 
2006 13 officers:   I continue to work with town officia ls as part of a concerted effort to address our 
department’s staffing and capital needs in order to keep pace with rapid town and regional 
population/commercial growth and the resulting increased demands for services made on our department.   
2007 13 officers:  The department continues to operate understaffed while at the same time we are faced 
with increased responsibilities within the office as well patrol and investigative calls for service.  The 
police department remains well below the local, state and national recommended staffing levels for a 
community our size and location. 
2008 13 officers:   We continue to work with town officials to retain and hopefully increase our staff to 
handle the increasing calls for service as our economy struggles.    We re main cautiously optimistic that 
national economic stimulus plans will include funding to help local government hire and train more police 
officers. 
2009 13 officers: Low staffing levels within this department continues to be an issue for us. The present 
number of full-time officers is significantly lower than recommended levels for a community our size. 
2010 13 officers:  Low staffing levels within this department continues to be an issue for us. The present 
number of full-time officers is significantly lower than recommended levels for a community our size. 
2011 13 officers 14 budgeted :  We continue to work with town officials as part of a concerted effort to 
address our department’s staffing and capital needs.   
2012 13 officers, 14 budgeted.  
2013 13 offi cers 14 budgeted :  Growth has and will continue to bridge the gap between staffing levels 
and the work load. This issue is cause for concern presently and going forward.  The level of service will 
continue to decay and the police department will eventually  be viewed by the community as ineffective. 
As I stated in this year’s budget, “Police services in this Town will never rise to an adequate level without 
a meaningful infusion of personnel.”    
2014 14 officers :   Staffing issues never seem to go away. The  Town has far outgrown its police 
department. The increased demand for service with inadequate staffing has a direct effect on our ability to 
decrease overtime, reduces officer initiated activities, and compromises our crime clearance rate. 
I repeat again this year: growth will continue to bridge the gap between staffing levels and the workload.   
Services will never rise to an acceptable level without a meaningful increase in the amount of police 
officers we employ.   
Despite this on-going issue with public  safety, the men and women of the Lunenburg Police Department 
stay committed to their core values: 
Courage—we, the men and women of the Lunenburg Police Department, accept as our primary 
obligation to be physically, morally, and mentally strong against the challenges we bear as law 
enforcement officers; always standing firm in the face of danger, confronting threats without 
apprehension, placing the safety and security of others before our own with honor. 
 
Integrity—we possess an uncompromising sense of rectitude with undying respect and concern for 
humanity while safeguarding the dignity of all people; we are committed to the highest level of moral 
principles and ethics in our actions and appearance worthy of the public trust; never placing ourselves 
above the law and always inspiring the confidence of our community whether on or off duty. 
===PAGE 89===
 
89 
Commitment—we will work together as a team, promoting leadership within the organization, among 
our peers and throughout the community; we are committed to faithfully mee ting the demands of our 
profession, achieving organizational goals that serve the public, and performing  all of our duties to the 
best of our abilities with dedication and determination; preserving the reputation and morale of the 
police department; always accepting responsibility for our actions, always consistent, fair and impartial; 
treating all citizens with dignity and respect, and always concerned with the welfare and quality of life for 
all people. 
Without any consideration of fiscal challenges: the men and women of the Lunenburg Police Department 
promise to carry out their mission: to provide uncompromised safety and security for all those who reside, 
visit, or merely pass through our community.  
 
Thank you for allowing me to serve as your Police Ch ief for another year.  I appreciate the support the 
people of this community have  shown the Police Department. I again, humbly ask for your commitment 
and support to public safety going forward as I move to provide the citizens of Lunenburg with the 
service they need and deserve.  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Chief James P. Marino 
Chief James P. Marino 
===PAGE 90===
 
90 
===PAGE 91===
 
91 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 92===
 
92 
===PAGE 93===
 
93 
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE 
 
Lunenburg’s Charter specifically mandates that a Capital Planning Committee prepare a Fiscal Year (FY) 
Plan and a Capital Improvement Plan. These Plans are to be presented to the Town Manager.  
 
As noted in the past reports, the criterion for any capital request includes Mandates, Safety, Need, Crisis, 
Cost Effectiveness and Ability to Fund. The Committee has to review each request under these six 
elements. Not only do they have to determine that the request fits within the criteria, but they have to 
prioritize the level that meets the criteria. Therefore, not all requests are included in the FY Plans, mostly 
due to funding. The result of the proposed FY Plans provides the needed service for safety and protection 
of the public, the upkeep to our schools and the management of government.  
 
At the Annual Town Meeting May 2015, the following items, totaling $ 1,051,578, were presented in the 
FY16 Plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee meets each year after the Capital Budget is presented to the Town Manager and 
considers improvement to the methodology of creating the budget. In future preparation the 
Committee will conduct more meetings on site.  
 
Jamie Toale, Board of Selectmen, Chair  
Dennis Mannone Jr., Citizens’ Representative, Vice Chair 
John Henshaw, Finance Committee, Clerk 
Heather Sroka, School Committee Representative 
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Planning Board Representative 
 
Kerry A. Lafleur, Town Manager – Ex Officio Member   
Capital Planning Committee Recommendation
Funding Source Cash Outlay Debt Total
1 Pavement Management 250,000.00$       Operating Budget
2 6-Wheel Dump & Sander 190,000.00$       Capital Budget, Debt 82,282.00$         107,718.00$       190,000.00$       
3 Backhoe 120,000.00$       Capital Budget, Cash 120,000.00$       -$                   120,000.00$       
4 Police Vehicles, Marked 96,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 96,000.00$         -$                   96,000.00$         
5 Drainage Culvert Repair, 2-Phases 43,728.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 43,728.00$         -$                   43,728.00$         
6 Municipal Buildings, Feasibility Study 28,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 28,000.00$         -$                   28,000.00$         
7 Intersection Reconfiguration, Plan & Implementation 40,850.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 40,850.00$         -$                   40,850.00$         
8 Technology, Town Departments 34,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 34,000.00$         -$                   34,000.00$         
9 DPW, Street Sweeper 180,000.00$       Capital Budget, Debt 64,950.00$         115,050.00$       180,000.00$       
10 Police, Speed Sign 12,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 12,000.00$         -$                   12,000.00$         
11 Technology, School Department 30,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 30,000.00$         -$                   30,000.00$         
12 Replace Gas Burner, Library 15,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 15,000.00$         -$                   15,000.00$         
13 HVAC Management System 12,000.00$         Capital Budget Cash 12,000.00$         -$                   12,000.00$         
Total: 1,051,578.00$    578,810.00$       222,768.00$       801,578.00$       
Sources of Funding
Prior Year Unspent Capital 67,284.64$         
Cash Outlay 511,525.36$       
Borrowing 222,768.00$       801,578.00$                
Operating Budget, Department of Public Works 250,000.00$       *** funded in Article 15, FY2016 Operating Budget
1,051,578.00$    
===PAGE 94===
 
94 
PLANNING BOARD  
FY2014-2015 
 
The Planning Board welcomed new member s David Prokowiew and Gregory Bittner.   Joanna Bilotta-Simeone 
and Nathan Lockwood departed from the Board after serving a number of years.   
 
Six ANR plans (subdivision of lots for separate building lots)  were approved. Approved residential subdivisions 
were in various stages of completion .  The following continued to build:  Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, Stone 
Farm Estates  off Massachusetts Avenue , Seq uoia Drive off Howard Street, and a nine -lot subdivision at 50 
Elmwood Road. 
 
Tri-Town Landing  off Youngs Road  began construction on Building 4  with anticipation of spring 2016 
occupancy.  Highfield V illage off Northfield Road was in review .  Whites Woods Phase III was built to 
completion.   
 
Whitetail Crossing  off Burrage Street  received Town acceptance of the roadway interior at May 2015 Town 
Meeting. 
 
The Board completed site plan reviews for construction of a combined middle/high school, a landscaping facility 
on Massachusetts Avenue, and a consignment shop on Massachusetts Avenue.   
 
With the assistance of MRPC , a public forum and a walking tour  of the Center were held in August; this would 
assist the Board in its creation of the Village Center District Bylaw.  Numerous public workshops were held and 
the Planning Board and the Historical Commission spent many months working together on the creation of a 
Village Center District Zoning Bylaw and an Architectural Preservation District General Bylaw , both of which 
passed at Town Meeting.  The creation of the Village Center District is intended to encourage growth that creates 
a dynamic active environment while retaining the area's existing character.   The intent of the  Architectural 
Preservation District Bylaw will be to protect historically and/or architecturally significant buildings. 
 
790-792 Massachusetts Avenue was rezoned from Commercial to Limited Business/Residential.  The rezoning of 
this site  (well known as Doc’s), placed these two parcels into the surrounding zoning.  Also of note was the 
residents’ voting at Town Meeting to designate both Flat Hill Road and Northfield Road as scenic roads. 
 
The Town received approval from the Department of Housing & Community Development for its Housing 
Production Plan .  This p lan will aid Lunenburg in guiding housing development and can influence the type, 
amount, and location of affordable housing.    
 
The meeting room in the Ritter Memorial Building was named in honor of Marion M. Benson for her many years 
of service to the Town. 
 
Board members served as representatives to the following committees:  Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Capital Planning 
Committee and Montac husett Regional Planning Commission; Nathan Lockwood, School Building Committee; 
Damon McQuaid, Building ReUse C ommittee; Kenneth Chenis, Montachusett  Joint Transportation Committee ; 
and Matthew Allison, liaison to the Agricultural Commission. 
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be reached at 
978-582-4147 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at http://lunenburgma.gov/  on the Planning 
Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Protective Bylaws for the Town, and the Rules and Regulations Governing 
the Subdivision of Land are available online. 
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair   Kenneth Chenis, Member 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice Chair   Matthew Allison, Member 
Damon McQuaid, Clerk     Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director 
===PAGE 95===
 
95 
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS  
The Zoning Board of Appeals conducted fourteen hearings during calendar year 2015, all for special permits. Thirteen of the 
requested special permits were granted and one was denied. There were no applications for variances. 
The Zoning Board meets on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month on an "as needed" basis. The members are: 
Raymond E. Beal, Chairman, Donald F. Bowen, Vice Chairman, James Besarkarski, Alfred Gravelle, Hans Wentrup and 
associate members, David Blatt, Paul Doherty and Sheila Lumi. Lisa Normandin is the Administrative Assistant to the 
Zoning Board. 
The functions of the Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statutes are as follows: 
1. To hear and decide applications for Variances from the Town's Protective Bylaws as authorized in 
the Bylaws. 
 
2. To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town's Protective Bylaws. 
 
3. To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts 
General Laws, as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain 
a permit or enforcement action from the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the 
Regional Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or other Administrative Official. 
 
4. To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General 
Laws, Chapter 40B. The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits 
submitted to the Board under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing. 
These requests can by law, circumvent local zoning ordinances. 
The Office of the Zoning Board of Appeals is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts 
Avenue. If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals, please contact Lisa Normandin at 978-582-4146 X 
421 during regular business hours. Zoning Board applications (with instructions) are available from the office.  
 
Raymond E. Beal, Chair 
Donald F Bowen, Vice Chair 
Alfred Gravelle, Member 
James Besarkarski, Member 
Hans Wentrup, Member 
Paul Doherty, Assoc. Member 
David Blatt, Assoc. Member 
Shelia Lumi, Assoc. Member 
 
===PAGE 96===
 
96 
===PAGE 97===
 
97 
EDUCATION  
===PAGE 98===
 
98 
===PAGE 99===
 
99 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
2015-2016 
 
Our Vision:  The Lunenburg Public Schools prides itself on excellence.  We provide a child -centered 
environment that challenges all learners to achieve their highest potential.  This is accomplished through a 
partnership with a supportive community.   
 
Our Mission:  We prepare our students for life-long learning and responsible community membership. 
 
Our Guiding Beliefs:   
 Education is a community partnership. 
 Learning is reflective, creative, ongoing, and takes place in all environments. 
 A successful school actively engages students and staff. 
 All students have talents and can excel. 
 Professional growth is fundamental to instructional excellence. 
 All students are capable of learning and are entitled to instructional excellence. 
 Staff and students are entitled to a safe, healthy and positive learning environment. 
 An atmosphere of mutual respect is essential for learning. 
 
Lunenburg School Committee 
Chairperson:  Gregory Berthiaume, Term Expires: 2016 
Vice-Chairperson:  Michael Mackin, Term Expires: 2017 
Secretary: Wendy Bertrand, Term Expires: 2018 
Member: Colleen Shapiro, Term Expires: 2016 
Member:  Heather Sroka, Term Expires, 2017 
Regular Meetings 
First Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall - Televised 
Third Wednesday of each month - 7:00 p.m. at Thomas C. Passios 
Special meetings or changes in meetings are posted at Town Hall 
 
Central Office Personnel 
 
Superintendent of Schools  Special Services 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent  Julianna Hanscom, Director 
Elizabeth Petersen, Executive Secretary  Fran McCluskey, Admin. Secretary          
Emily Lehto, Secretary (part-time) 
 
School Personnel/Business Services  Facilities & Grounds 
Sandra Curley, Manager  John J. Londa, Director 
Kerry Cooper, Accounting/Data Reporting  Robert Roy, Maintenance 
  Charles Swift, District-wide                                                                                                                                                                                          
  Brian Sanders, District-wide                                                                                                                                                      
                                                                                          Utility/Custodial 
Technology/Network Service                                       
Steve Malandrinos, IT Director                                        Cafeteria Services 
Daniel Nadareski, Network Administrator                      Patricia Pichnarcik, Lunenburg High Café Manager  
Jordan Pochini, Tech Support Specialist                      Judy Haley, Turkey Hill Middle School Café Manager 
                                                                                  Nadine Lorenzen, Primary School Café Manager  
 
Transportation Services           Dee Bus Service  
===PAGE 100===
 
100 
Superintendent’s Message  
 
What a joy it has been to participate in the construction of the middle -high school.   Every Wednesday after the construction 
meeting, I had the opportunity to tour the site and building with our project manag er and architect.  A year ago that meant 
walking around large concrete pads and steel beams.  Now it is walking through a high school classroom wing that will be 
complete within days including the installation of student lockers in the hallways.  As of Feb ruary 19, 2016, the school 
building construction is over 80% complete with 70 to 80 workers on site on any given work day.  Occupancy C ertificate 
receipt is expected to be on hand late May 2016.  Furniture delive ries and the move are scheduled for May and June 2016. 
The startup of equipment in the building including boilers, roof top units and unit heaters is well underway eliminating the 
need for the temporary heating equipment. Heating through the fin tube radiation is in place in all of the building. By the end 
of this month all temporary electrical systems in the building will be removed with permanent lighting and power operational 
throughout. The elevator installations are complete with the exception of call button and lanterns installation.  The 
installation of interior glass in hollow metal frames is underway with areas “A” and “D” complete as of mid -February 2016.  
  
Exterior Envelope – The installation of window 
and curtainwall assemblies including vestibule 
areas are complete and water tight except  for one 
window and two exterior doors. These are left 
open intentionally for construction material 
loading. Roof top equipment has been started. 
During February the equipment will be turned on 
for the start of air balancing. Exterior masonry 
veneer installation is complete with the exception 
of one location which is being used as a loading 
zone for the 2nd floor.  Metal panel installations 
are expected to be complete in February. 
Remaining roofing metal trim which follows 
metal panels should be completed b y the end of 
February 2016. 
In Area “A” where High School classrooms are 
located, installation of casework and millwork is 
now nearly complete in all spaces. Flooring in 
most locations is installed except for carpeted 
areas. Carpet will be installed later this spring. 
Installation of toilet partitions and accessories is 
underway. Lab hoods & white boards are the 
only remaining items in the labs to be installed.  
For Area “B” where auditorium, music and art 
classes are located, installation of lighting and 
ceilings is expected to be complete February 
2016. Railing installation at stairs 2 and 3 is 
scheduled to be complete in February 2016. Final 
painting and casework  installation in 
aministration and second floor classrooms will 
also be complete in February 2 016, except for 
carpeting. Art and music area will see completion 
of ceilings, placement of kiln, and flooring 
installation this month. Auditorium scaffold has 
been removed. Rigging systems have been 
powered, house lights are in use.  Wall par tition 
installations, drywall, metal railing installation 
and catwalk access are ongoing.         
In Area “C” gym and locker rooms are located 
along with the boiler and main electrical rooms. 
Duct drops, sprinkler head placement  
 
and lights into ceiling grid is underway along with the 
last of the ceiling grid installations in the north 
vestibule and the alternate PE space. The locker 
rooms have the ceilings completed, the wall painted 
and the tile installations along with the plumbing 
fixture installations underway. In the gym the work in 
the ceiling is completed, the installation of the paint 
and acoustical panels along with the gym equipment 
are now complete. Auditorium bathroom work is 
underway, with toilet partition and doors being 
installed during February and March 2016.  
 
 
 
Finally, in Area “D”, where the middle school  
classrooms and cafeteria are located, the last of the 
casework installations will be complete beginning of 
March 2016. Floor and wall tile installation is 
underway in the cafeteria along with the installation 
of the toilet partitions. Kitchen equipment 
installations are ongoing. Wood door installation is 
underway in the classroom wing.    
 

===PAGE 101===
 
101 
The building project has its own website at our district website www.lunenburgschools.net and Facebook page -
Lunenburg Middle/High School Building Project.  The District will return to a four school configuration with the 
opening of the new co -located middle/high school in August, 2016.  Each building will have a smaller student 
population than the current configuration.   The Primary School will serve students PK -2.  Grades 3-5 will be at 
Turkey Hill Elementary School.  Grades 6-12 will be in the new co-located middle/high school.    
 
The new school was designed to operate as two separate educational programs.  The new building has a classroom 
wing for the middle school an d another classroom wing for high school.   The 6th grade students will be located 
on the first floor of the middle school wing.  Classrooms for grades 7 and 8 are located on the second floor of the 
middle school wing. Middle school and high school student s will enter the building via separate entrances.  
Located behind the classroom wings are the cafeteria, gym, auditorium, central offices, health services, and 
library/media center.  There are an appropriate number of art, music, and technology classrooms for both middle 
and high school programs which are clustered together in the central core of the building near the auditorium.   On 
the second floor above the school offices there are foreign language classrooms. The gymnasium can be divided at 
center court by a curtain to accommodate two large physical education classes.  There is also a weight room and 
an alternate physical education room with a substantial dance/yoga area, exercise bikes and treadmills.  There are 
two locker rooms for the middle school s tudents and two locker rooms for the high school students.  A health 
education classroom is also located near the gym.  
    
Lauren Drury Basque is the 2015 Superintendent's Award recipient.  She is the daughter of Kenneth and Suzanne 
Basque.  At LHS Lauren focused her studies on the sciences including numerous honors and advanced placement 
courses.  She is ranked first in her class.  Lauren was honored at the Worcester County Superintendent's 
Roundtable Scholars' ceremony in January.  She selected a quote f rom Eleanor Roosevelt for that ceremony's 
program.  The quote certainly captures the essence of this remarkable young woman.  "The purpose of life is to 
live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experience."  
Ms. Basque personifies our mission for lifelong learning and responsible community membership; constantly 
learning, growing, achieving and giving.  She inspires us with her joy of learning and service to her community. 
Enrollment – February 19, 2016 
Grade Level Lunenburg 
Students 
School Choice 
Students 
Shirley Students Total 
PK 42  0  0  42 
K 105  0  0  105 
1 114  0 0 114  
2 134   0 0 134  
3 121  0  0 121  
Primary Total 516 0 0 516 
4 138 2  0 140 
5 113 4 0 117  
6 140  1  0 141  
7 115  7  0  122 
THMS Total 506   14  0  520   
8  110 6  0 116  
9 105   12 0 117  
10  109  1 0 110  
11 101    9 0 110  
12   88  10 2 100  
Ungraded  6  0 0 6  
LHS Total 519   38   2   559   
All Schools 
Total 
1541 52 2 1595 
 
===PAGE 102===
 
102 
Lunenburg students continue to excel both in and outside the classroom.  Our students continue to perform well 
on state and national assessments.  They distinguish themselves with their various talents.  Our athletic teams 
competed successfully at the district and state levels.   Our student musicians performed at S ymphony Hall with 
the Handel and Haydn Society Period Orchestra.  School thespians entertained and overwhelmed us with their 
performances at the fiftieth annual competitive class plays.  The marching band captivated us with their half -time 
show again this fall, and the middle and high school music concerts have been most enjoyable and uplifting.  
Lunenburg students’ work in the visual arts was exhibited locally and at state competitions.  
This past year our schools bid farewell to retirees who devoted many years to public service.  Retiring this past 
year were Suzanne Saven, School Psychologist; Mary Ann Weisman, Primary School Special Education Teacher; 
Kristin Mackay, School Social Worker;  Annette Kelly, Cafeteria Monitor; Joanne Deming, THMS Teacher;  
Marlene Wiita,  Paraprofessional; Vivian Butler, Paraprofessional; Sandra Laserte, THMS Physical Education 
Teacher; Sharon Kimball, LHS Foreign Language Teacher; and Phil McMurray,  Guidance Counselor.    We 
appreciate the many contributions of these dedicat ed and committed professionals and extend our best wishes to 
them in their retirement.   
 
I am grateful for the large number of positive role models who serve in our community.  It is a significant strength 
for which Lunenburg can be proud.  Our children and youth have available to them many caring adults who serve 
others every day.  They share their time and talents for the greater good.  Students, parents, community 
volunteers, elected officials, town personnel, and civic organizations are actively engaged in addressing the 
challenges we confronted locally and beyond.  We are a community of doers and our school curriculum reflects 
that action-oriented, problem-solving approach.  The faculty, staff, and students of the Lunenburg Public Schools 
share with the community this tradition of promoting service to others.    
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Loxi Jo Calmes, Superintendent of Schools 
 
School Facilities 
2015-2016 
Construction of the new Middle School/High School continued throughout the year with completion of the 
building expected by late May 2016. Shawmut Construction Management continues to execute the building 
project with NV5, having acquired Joslin, Lesser, & Associates, providing owner’s project management services. 
The School Building Committee continues to provide construction and financial oversight. The exterior envelope 
was completed by the fall of 2015 which allowed for interior finish work to continue throughout the following 
winter. The project continued on time and budget despite the challenges of substantial snowfall in February 2015. 
Phase 2, which includes construction of the new greenhouse, removal of asbestos in the high school as well as 
demolition, construction of two athletic fields, modifying the student parking lot, tennis courts, cons truction of an 
outdoor basketball court and remaining site work will commence in June 2016. Phase 2 is expected to be 
complete by late December 2016. 
 
The FY 16 capital plan approved funding of the district technology plan at $36,200. The FY 15 capital pla n 
funded $138,000 for asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill Middle School which had been unable to be  completed 
during the summer of 2014. In July 2015, four classrooms had abatement work (removal of tile ceilings, 
abatement of spray-on fireproofing and vinyl asbestos tiles) completed and returned to a usable condition for the 
school year at a cost of $119,803. Montachusett  Contracting Company Inc. completed the work by August 1, 
2015. Unexpended funds are expected to be utilized to continue asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill Middle School. 
 
The focus of school maintenance for FY16 continues to be preventative maintenance of heating, 
ventilation systems and energy conservation measures particularly of the schools that will operate in FY 
17. Conversion of existing lighting to LED remains a high priority for Lunenburg Primary School and 
Turkey Hill Middle School. Preparations for the reorganization of the district in June 2016 were also a 
focus area throughout the year. Identifying materials that need to move as part of the reorganization and 
determining the disposition of furniture and equipment that will be surplus once the new school building 
opens has been ongoing since July 2015. This  
===PAGE 103===
 
103 
will culminate with a contractor move of teaching supplies to the new building  in June 2016 and the removal of 
all non-fixed items from the current high school by the end of June 2016. 
 
During the year, we have continued to fine tune plans for two LED conversion projects using Green Community 
Funds. The project for Turkey Hill Middl e School is to convert all 28 Watt florescent lamps to 18 Watt LED 
lamps at a cost of $36,253 with a resultant 6.7 year payback in energy savings. At Lunenburg Primary School, 
conversion of high bay fixtures in the gym and media center to LED are also plan ned as well as conversion of 28 
Watt fluorescent lamps at a cost of $44,145 with a 6.4 year pay back. 
 
For the FY 17 Capital Program, the School Department has requested an additional $145,000 in funding for 
continued asbestos removal at Turkey Hill as its highest priority.  Two unfunded  
FY 16 requests to replace the Turkey Hill phone system and intercom system at $22,000 each were priorities 2 
and 3. The school department request to fund HVAC upgrades for the district office relocation to Turkey Hill 
Middle school was withdrawn following a decision to hold district offices at the Passios Elementary School until 
the town is prepared to have the Passios undergo renovations to become offices for town government.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
John Londa, Director of Facilities and Grounds 
 
Special Services Department 
FY15 (data taken from 2014-2015 school year) 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 
From the March 1, 2015 report, there are two hundred and seventy students with disabilities receiving 
special education or related services in Lunenburg.  This represents 17.2% of our total student population of 1,567 
students (it was 17.8% last year).  The state average from the 2015 school report card is 17.1%.  As of March 1, 
2015, the total number of studen ts receiving services outside the district was thirty.  Of the thirty students, nine 
are placed in Collaborative Placements, fifteen are in Day Placements and six are in Residential Placements.  
Additionally, one hundred sixteen students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in 
Lunenburg.   
This year as a district, our Accountability and Assistance Level is Level 2 with Turkey Hill Middle 
School listed as Level 2 and Lunenburg High School listed as Level 1 (LHS was Level 2 last year).  The state 
report card lists Students with Disabilities in Lunenburg as “Did Not Meet Target”.  The district’s Students with 
Disabilities progress towards narrowing proficiency gaps [Cumulative Progress and Performance Index (CPI): 1-
100)] is listed at 46 (it was 50 last year, and 54 the year prior) with the target set for 75.  Students with Disabilities 
participated in MCAS this year with the following rates:  English Language Arts = 99% (it was 97% last year), 
Mathematics = 99% (It was 98% last year), and Science = 100% (It was 96% last year).  This data can be found at 
the DESE website: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5& 
 
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole  Special 
Services Department.  DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.  For our 
Indicators, the following information is available below and also can be found at: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2013 -2014 school year, the state target for Students with Disabilities was 
80.0%. Lunenburg’s rate was 66.7% and the overall state rate was 69.1% for Students with Disabilities.   
 
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2013 -2014 school year, the state target for Students with Disabilities was 
3.3%. Lunenburg rate was 2.2% and the overall state rate was 2.1% for Students with Disabilities.   
 
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS.  For th e 2014 MCAS, Lunenburg Students 
with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows: 
 
===PAGE 104===
 
104 
Grade 3 – Reading:               Lunenburg = 62.5  State = 62.6  
 Grade 3 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 68.2  State = 66.8 
  Grade 4 – Reading:               Lunenburg = 66.3  State = 55.9  
 Grade 4 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 64.9  State = 60.1 
  Grade 5 – ELA:    Lunenburg = 66.7  State = 62.9  
 Grade 5 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 48.9  State = 56.2 
  Grade 5 – Science:               Lunenburg = 64.1  State = 60.7  
  Grade 6 – ELA:    Lunenburg = 66.3  State = 63.0  
 Grade 6 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 56.5  State = 54.9 
  Grade 7 – ELA:    Lunenburg = 63.6  State = 68.0  
 Grade 7 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 53.3  State = 45.5 
  Grade 8 – ELA:    Lunenburg = 79.3  State = 69.9  
 Grade 8 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 44.3  State = 48.0 
  Grade 8 – Science:               Lunenburg = 54.5  State = 50.5  
Grade 10 – ELA:    Lunenburg = 77.4  State = 86.0  
 Grade 10 – Mathematics:   Lunenburg = 60.2  State = 70.8 
  Grade 10 – Science:               Lunenburg = 73.6  State = 70.0   
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our rate was 
only .7%.  The state rate was 1.2%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant discrepanc ies with the 
Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2014, Lunenburg was not found to have any significant 
discrepancies due to these factors.  
 
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6-21 with IEPs. For 2013-2014, the state’s target rates 
are as follows:  for Full Inclusion of students = 60.5%, Partial Inclusion = “not identified”, Substantially Separate 
Placements = 14.5%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 5.5%.  In 
Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 73.8, Partial = 8.9%, Substantially Separate = 6.9% 
and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 10.5%.  
 
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs.  The 2013-2014 state rates showed the 
percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion early 
childhood program was 39.0%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was “not identified”, a Substantially Separate 
Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was 13.8%, and students not attending 
an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. speech, OT, PT) was “not identified”.  In 
Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 34.3%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 48.6%, Substantially 
Separate rate was 2.9%, and Related Services was 14.3%. 
 
Indicator 9 & 10  - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special 
Education Categories.  In Lunenburg, the stat e determined that there was no disproportionality found in either 
case.  
 
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   T his indicator measures the % of children with parental consent to 
evaluate, who were evaluated within the State established timeline. Data is reported for all initial evaluations 
initiated in October, November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance 
and the state average for this Indicator was 98.8%.  
 
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  T his indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, found 
eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third birthdays. 
The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppresse d”.  Data is suppressed if the 
number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is fewer than 10.  In 
Lunenburg, only 2 students were referred during 2012 -2013 (we have not been reviewed since 2012 -2013 for 
updated data in this area).  
 
===PAGE 105===
 
105 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  This indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with 
an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon an age 
appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably enable the 
student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition services needs. 
Lunenburg was rated 100% in compliance  and the state average for this Indicator was 99.2% (we have not been 
reviewed since 2011-2012 for updated data in this area).  
 
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with 
IEPs who exited hig h school during the 2012 -13 school year and self -reported post -school engagement in 
education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:  
 Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
 Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high 
school. 
 Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training 
program; or competitivel y employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high 
school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -
secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2013 -2014 school year, state targets for the three 
measurements of Post -School Outcomes are Measurement A: 45%; Measurement B: 80%; and Measurement C: 
87%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows:  Measurement A = 71.4%, Measurement B = 100%, and Measurement C = 
100%.   
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support group 
for parents, teachers and administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, which currently 
consists of parents of students receiving T itle I services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are 
typically held the first Friday of each month, 11:00AM, at the Thomas C. Passios Building, room 13.  The 
executive board is made up of Chairperson: Kelly Harvey. Several events and presentations were organized by the 
PACSAL for both parents and teachers in Lunenburg this year. For more information, go to: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/pacsal. 
  
In conclusion, the Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to 
meet the varying needs of our students in the least restrictive environment.  We have an experienced, hard 
working staff that works together with parents to provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in 
our efforts to develop challenging and focused educational programs for children.  We remain committed to the 
Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “We prepa re our students for lifelong learning and responsible community 
membership.”  This is a total community effort and we encourage ALL Lunenburg residents to join with us to 
create positive experiences and futures for our children.   
    
For additional inform ation, please visit our website at: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/special-services/, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of 
Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 305. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services  
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
2015-2016 
 
The Lunenburg Primary School is devoted to providing quality early childhood educat ion for students 
Preschool to 3 rd grade.  Our students range from three years old to nine years old. Our community is made up of 
students, parents, teachers and support staff, working together to create an educationally rich and safe learning 
environment for our children.  
The October 1, 2015 student count reported to the department of Elementary and Secondary Education was five 
hundred and three students.  Our Preschool program services thirty-eight three and four year old  
===PAGE 106===
 
106 
students. We have five Kindergart en classes servicing ninety -nine students. Class sizes in our 
Kindergartens are 20 students.  First grade has one hundred and fifteen students with class sizes ranging from 22 -
23. Second grade has one hundred and thirty -three students with class sizes ran ging from 26-27 students and the 
third grade has one hundred and twenty -two students with class sizes ranging from 24 -25.  We are utilizing all 
available space in the building to provide a child-centered educational program for all our students.   
We const antly strive to find better ways to meet the collective as well as the individual needs of our 
students.  Our Professional Development focused on Teacher Evaluation, Reading, Behavioral Intervention 
strategies and our new Everyday Math program materials. A ll of our classroom teachers continued to use 
Responsive Classroom strategies as part of our Academic/Social/Emotional Learning Curriculum which includes 
morning meetings, guided discovery, rules and logical consequences and academic choice.  Teachers this  past 
year completed curriculum maps and served on committees to revise and improve our ELA Curriculum and our 
Social Studies Curriculum. 
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to insure 
that all stud ents have the services they need to be successful. Common assessments are completed in the fall, 
winter, and spring for all children in grades K -3 in the areas of reading, writing, and math.  These common 
assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of t eacher instruction and drive individual student instruction.  
Struggling students are identified quickly and additional resources and instruction are provided to address the 
areas of concern identified.  Tiered instructional services are provided in the ar ea of Language Arts and Math.  
The tiered instructional model requires that the teachers not only meet the needs of the students who may be 
struggling with learning but those students who are doing well and need to achieve higher levels of learning.  
Learning is becoming more personalized and students are being challenged to be confident, independent learners 
and problem solvers. 
Our third graders participated in the Spring 2015 MCAS Assessment in the areas of ELA and Math.  We 
work to make sure that students feel confident and prepared to take this assessment for the first time.  All teachers 
have worked over the last several years to prepare them to be independent confident learners.    
MCAS 
2015 
Grade and 
Subject 
Proficient 
or Higher Advanced Proficient 
Needs 
Improvemen
t 
Warning/ 
Failing Included CPI SGP 
Includ
ed in 
SGP LP
S 
STAT
E 
LPS STAT
E 
LPS STAT
E 
LPS STATE LPS STAT
E 
GRADE 03 
- 
READING 
60 60 10 11 50 49 34 32 6 9 125  85.0 N/A N/A  
GRADE 03 
- MATH 66 70 21 32 45 39 20 18 14 11 124  81.3 N/A N/A  
Percentage score of students in each category. 
 
In the area of English Language Arts there were 60% who scored in the advanced and proficient range of 
functioning. (10 % Advanced and 50% Proficient) 34% were in the needs improvement range. 6% were in the 
warning range. Compared to last year, fewer students in this cohort of students scored in the proficient and 
advanced ranges of functioning in the area of ELA.  In the area of Math, 66% of our 3rd graders scored in the 
Advanced and Proficient range of functioning (21%-in the advanced range of functioning and 45% in the 
proficient range of functioning. 20% scored in the needs improvement range of functioning.  14% were in the 
warning range on the Math Assessment.   More information about the MCAS assessment can be found at the 
DESE website: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_level.aspx?linkid=32&orgcode=01620010&orgtypecode=6& 
Our staff works hard to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive of each of our 
members. We have high expectations, insist on respectful behavior, and recognize the importance of building a 
community where members feel a sense of belonging and responsibility to contribute.  Our students have 
maintained a high level of community engagement and civic learning, which is fostered through service learning 
projects at each grade level.  The Kindergarten students learn about our local food bank and gift mart and sponsor 
a school wide can and gift drive at Thanksgiving and Christmas.  Our 1st graders and Kindergarten classes have 
supported our local animal shelters by collecting food and toys.  Our 2nd grade students have learned about our  
===PAGE 107===
 
107 
local veterans and organized Valentines to go to area Veteran’s Hospitals.  Third graders are involved 
with Empty Bowls, an event that raised funds for our local food bank last year.  
The Primary School Parent/Teacher Advisory Council meets each month to disc uss school issues, review 
the annual budget for the school and to develop the School Improvement Plan as well as make revisions to the 
school’s handbook. 
 
Members of the Council for the 2015-2016 school year were as follows: 
 
Principal:    Elaine E. Blaisdell 
Assistant Principal  Chad Adams 
Teachers:     Sherrie Flynn, Justin Sparks, Brian Chartand, MJ Davis 
Parents:        Jennifer Begley, Kristen Burns, John Eberly, Amy Perreault 
Community Representative:  B.J. Carbone 
School Committee Rep:    Heather Sroka  
 
In closing, the faculty and staff of the Primary School are extremely proud of the work they do with 
young children.  We are deeply committed to student learning, our own life -long learning and efforts to improve 
the craft of teaching.  Only through working with parents as partners are we able to accomplish our goals.   
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Elaine E. Blaisdell, Principal 
 
Lunenburg Primary School 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2015-2016 
 
Central Office Second Grade 
Elaine Blaisdell, Principal 2A - Vickie Barbier 
Chad Adams, Asst. Principal 2B - Justin Sparks 
Denise Galloway, Secretary   2C - Sara Kenney 
Lisa Lavery, Nurse 2D - Maria Courtemanche 
Samantha Dorsey-Guid./Psych. 2F - Nancy Chapdelaine 
  
Pre- School Third Grade 
Sherrie Flynn 3A - Leslie Spuria 
Jeanette Biery 3B - Janet Marshall 
Ita Murphy 3C - Susan Diamantopoulos 
Susie Barney  3D - Nicholette Dumont 
Patti McColl  3E - Danielle Celona 
Marie Martin  
   
Achieve Physical Education/Health 
Christine DeFelice  Gen Nass 
Terri Green  
 
Music 
Laurene Broden Deborah Smith 
Jen Leroux Art/Library  
Laurie Xarras Lori MacDougall 
Kathy Cordeiro Special Education 
Julie Drake Karen Rash 
===PAGE 108===
 
108 
Carrie Arciprete Michelle Withers 
Kindergarten Kristin Anthony 
K1 - Kirsten Snape Lynn Wolf 
        Pat Siciliano Lauren King 
K2 - Maribeth Ford Paraprofessionals 
        Cindy Mobley  Patti Kilcommins 
K3 - Sheila Bilotta Sue Ahearn 
        Julie Drake Shelly Muth 
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic   Megan Rodrick 
        Monique Mola  Terrie Klingler 
K5 - Nancy Murray  Kristen Sauvageau 
        Amy Raffaele Mary Jean Davis 
  
First Grade 
 1A - Michael Courtemanche Specialists 
1B - Nicole Bienvenu Cathy Zayka 
1C - Joanne Londa Mary Sieling 
1E  Jackie Favreau Sue Richards  
1D-Christa Palma Jayne Dusek 
 
Maggie Porpora 
  Cafeteria Custodians 
Nadine Lorenzen Rich Krafve 
Claudette LaChance Ken Corbett  
Cheryl Ewen 
 Karolyn Braman  
 
 
 
 
 
TURKEY HILL MIDDLE SCHOOL 
2015-2016 
 
Turkey Hill Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong progra ms that support 
students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self -motivated, creative, 
lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest communication.   
The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of educating the 
whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by which all students become 
positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in high school. Turkey Hill Middle School is 
in its fourth and final year of servicing students in grades four through seven. We look forward to the 
opportunities a new middle high school will have for students in the community as we move  to a co-located state 
of the art school building in August of 2016.  
===PAGE 109===
 
109 
PERCENT OF STUDENTS SCORING IN THE 
ADVANCED/PROFICIENT RANGE 
Grade Subject THMS State 
4 ELA 57% 53% 
4 Math 46% 47% 
5 ELA 73% 71% 
5 Math 71% 67% 
5 Science/Tech 63% 51% 
6 ELA 74% 71% 
6 Math 67% 62% 
7 ELA 70% 51% 
7 Math 70% 50% 
 
In reviewing the results of the 2015 Spring M.C.A.S. tests, in all tested content areas at all grade levels, we 
consistently produced scores that are at or above the state average in percentage of students  who fall in the 
advanced and proficient range, in some cases, 19% over the state average. Although we are proud of our students’ 
performance, we continue to analyze data in our monthly results faculty meetings designed to improve our 
instruction for all students. Our faculty has identified areas of improvement based upon the data and implemented 
strategies to improve their instructional practices that will help students succeed.   
For the third straight year, Turkey Hill Middle School fourth grade teachers  continue to utilize and acknowledge 
the benefits of an interdisciplinary teaming model.  This model permits teachers to work together in teams of three 
in order to provide focused instruction in the areas of reading and mathematics. Our specially designed  teaming 
model allows students to remain with their homeroom teacher for the majority of the day, but designates a 
reading, writing, and mathematics teacher on each team. Teachers can develop expertise as content area 
specialists and the administration tea m provides specific professional development in each focus area for 
continuous improvement and growth. This form of teaming also allows us to create more common experiences at 
the grade level through unit planning and shared assessments. 
Additionally, teaming helps prepare students for an increased level of expectations in reading, math, and writing 
when entering the fourth grade, while continuing to be sensitive to the social and emotional needs of this 
population. 
We continue to utilize intervention and p ower blocks during the school day to meet the needs of each individual 
student. These blocks of instructional time that have been built into our master schedule allow teachers time to 
work with students at their own individual skill level.  The philosophy is to challenge students who are high 
academic achievers as well as strengthen skills for students who have identified weaknesses. Teachers are able to 
work with students in a small group to answer individual questions or provide more individualized suppor t.  We 
design this support model to allow students to feel more confident, thus, perform better in the classroom.  We will 
continue to refine our intervention block times to best meet the needs of our students.  
Turkey Hill Middle School continues to offer  enrichment blocks for all students. Enrichment classes provide 
students a block of time in which they receive instruction in the areas of developmental health and guidance. Our 
Second step developmental guidance program is now consistent in grades four th rough seven and units focus on 
healthy decision making, empathy and communication as well bullying prevention to meet the intricate social 
needs of our middle school students.  
===PAGE 110===
 
110 
Students also receive instruction in physical education, art, library media, a nd music classes that allows them to 
explore their strengths and talents. This year, fourth and fifth grade students have been participating in a word 
processing enrichment class to improve their keyboarding skills. Students also have the opportunity to si gn up for 
and participate in band and chorus during this block. This enrichment block is in addition to the traditional special 
area classes students receive, and this block offers students additional physical movement throughout the day, 
additional opportunities for hands on activities and more exposure to the arts, theatre and technology throughout 
the school day.  
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different programs developed to 
promote social and emotional growt h, self -awareness, and community service. We will continue to utilize 
responsive classroom and Developmental Design programs to deliver our social emotional curriculum. Students 
meet with teachers in small groups to teach social responsibility and problem solving, as well as developing 
empathy and promoting positive self -esteem. Our seventh grade students are participating in themes such as 
embracing and respecting diversity and grades four and five students were experiencing themes developed 
through our se cond step guidance curriculum. We also incorporated an academic choice time for students in 
grades four and five. This is a time developed for students to explore different interests or experiences or utilize 
time to complete assignments that required additional time.  
We also utilize best practices such as peer mediation and the Big Sibs program to foster and develop positive peer 
leadership skills and effective peer mentoring.  All of the social emotional programs have been developed to 
allow students to showcase their talents and abilities, grow and improve as individuals, and promote community 
outreach for the younger generation. 
Turkey Hill Middle school continues to provide educational services and support that ensures student success and 
promotes lifelong learning and responsible community membership. The key components to our success is our 
talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who support our 
teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning. 
Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Timothy Santry, Principal 
 
Turkey Hill Middle School 
Faculty Staff/Roster 
2015-2016 
 Administration/Office/Nurse 
 
Grade 4 Team 
Timothy Santry Principal Erin Blanchette White 
Heidi Champagne Asst. Principal Gina Cote White 
Laurie Cooney Adm. Secretary Amy Harrington White 
Megan Marrone Nurse Lynn Marabello Blue 
Katie McGuire Nurse (Achieve) Heather Witham Blue 
 
Guidance 
 
Charlotte Letendre Blue 
Gail Okerman Grades 4 & 5 Grade 5 Team 
Cheryl Nelson Grades 6 & 7 Lynn Major Blue 
  
Jeff Cournoyer Blue 
Special Areas 
 
Lisa Bakaysa Blue 
Steve Archambault Music, 118 Sherri Borreson White 
Steve Kyajohnian PE Rhonda Connery White 
Abby Anderson PE 
  Robin Warren Art, 114 Grade 6 Team 
Victoria Whipple Library, 108 Kristine Bassett White 
  
Melanie Pouliot White 
===PAGE 111===
 
111 
 Learning Center/Special 
Education 
 
Lisa Leblanc White 
Elena Oksanish SLP Beth Arsenault Red 
Amy Jones Gr. 4 Teacher Susan Reardon Red 
Maura Lizek Gr. 5 Teacher Emily Clarke Red 
Linda Papadopoulos Gr. 6 Teacher 
  Melanie Mobley Gr. 7 Teacher Grade 7 Team 
Sue Charpentier Title One Natalie Davulis White 
Maggie Porpora Occupational Therapist Dawn Grebinar White 
  
Timothy Sheasgreen Red 
Paraprofessionals 
 
Krista 
Diamantopoulos Red 
Debra Hitchcock Gr. 4/5 Para Annica Scott Red 
Sandra Sheehy 1:1 Para   
Amanda Morrow Gr. 4 Para 
  Kerry Roder Gr. 5 Para 
  Judy Barone Gr. 6  Para Achieve Programs 
 Kathy Hyatt Gr. 6 Para Jaime Lyons Teacher 
Judith Pierce Wilson Para Brittany McGuirl Teacher 
Darlene Caron 1:1 Para Lauren King Teacher 
Kelly Waterman 1:1 Para Darlene Wagner Para 
  
Karen Smith Para 
 
 
 
Custodians 
 
 
 
 
Elizabeth Marple 
 
 
 
Para 
Jeri Sampson Senior Custodian Nina Sobecky 1:1 Para 
Howard Hargreaves Custodian Tina Stateler Para 
Shawn Renda Custodian Ann Marie Beaudoin Para 
  
Matthew Buma 1:1 Para 
 Cafeteria 
    Judy Haley 
 
 
  Sarah Rucker 
 
 
  Donna Cameron 
    Joan Newell 
 
 
  
 
 
 
===PAGE 112===
 
112 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
2015-2016 
 
Lunenburg High School has been a hub for academic and social activity in 2015 -2016. We have begun 
transitioning from our current building to the new Lunenburg Middle High School.  The transition process is far 
bigger than just moving from one building to another.  With the middle and high school in the same building, 
there are some challenges, but many opportunities to enhance the educational experiences of our students.   A lot 
of planning and decisions have been made t o ensure that we will be moving into a state -of-the-art school which 
will support 21 st century learning.  The building process has gone very smoothly and our students and educators 
are already looking forward to the start of school in August.   
 
 As time h as gone on, there is much more of a comfort level and stability in our grade 8 -12 community.  This 
year, we oriented 116 eighth grade students, four teachers, and six staff members to our building and school 
culture.  With the assistance of 40 student lead ers, we successfully transitioned the eighth grade students into the 
LHS culture by having an eighth grade orientation on the first day of school.  We opened the year, as we do every 
year, with the District Attorney and Assistant District Attorney from Wor cester County to discuss responsible 
Internet use, Facebook, cyber-bullying, Internet safety, drug use, and the power of making good choices with our 
incoming students and parents.   
 
NEASC ACCREDITATION 
Lunenburg High School completed a Five Year Report for the Commission on Public Secondary Schools of the 
New England Association of Schools and Colleges.  In 2010, the Commission recommended that the school 
receive continued accreditation in the Association. The Commission's decision was based upon review of an 
evaluation report prepared by a visiting committee in April 2010.  The Two Year Progress Report, submitted in 
January, 2013 received high marks from the Commission reviewing our submission.  The Mid -Cycle Progress 
Report was reviewed and accepted by the Commission.  One more Special Progress Report needs to be filed with 
the Commission in September.  It will certify that the building project is complete and LHS will be taken off of 
“Warning” status and given full accreditation. 
 
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS 
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising and collection 
endeavors. In the fall, three staff members were involved in a fundraiser to raise money for the Lunenburg Food 
Pantry.  Money was collected during lunch and the staff member who raised the most money, got a pie in the face 
from a student at the Thanksgiving Academic Achievement Rally.  Fun was had by all, and all of the proceeds 
were donated for the holiday season. 
 
Lunenburg High School received a generous donation in the amount of $500 from Mr. Mike’s Mobil in 
Lunenburg, MA.  The grant is to be used toward STEM initiatives at the high school.  We are in the process of 
purchasing a new robot for our Robotics class.  
 
Hannaford Helps Schools made a donation of $1,000 last spring, which was earmarked for student activities.  In 
addition, Hannaford donated an additional $500 from their receipt sales, which will benefit other activities at 
LHS.    
 
In March, the National Honor Society will be having its annual Blood Drive.  Students sixteen and over (and staff 
members) will be able to participate in the Blood Drive with parent permission. 
 
The Media 2.0 Club has launched the Knightly News, which is an online newspaper.  Students report on school 
activities, post film reviews, write political commentaries, and upload pictures of things going on inside and 
outside of LHS.   
 
LHS has held evening presentations for parents/guardians on the following topics: 
 Planning for High School (grade 8) 
===PAGE 113===
 
113 
 Early College Planning (grades 9-10) 
 Post-Secondary Education Planning (grade 11) 
 College Application Process (grade 12) 
 Financing your Education/Financial Aid (grades 8-12) 
 
LHS hosted 40 college admissions counselors in the school counseling office to visit wi th LHS students.  In 
addition, we held two “Decision Day” programs with Fitchburg State University and Mount Wachusett 
Community College. 
 
MCAS RESULTS 
We are pleased to announce that Lunenburg High School is now recognized by the Department of Elementary and 
Secondary Education as a Level 1 school.  As a Level 1 school, we are among the highest performing schools in 
the Commonwealth and shows that we are meeting our gap narrowing goals.  This is a tribute to all of the hard 
work of our students, teachers, and the strong adult influences in our students’ lives. 
 
Lunenburg High School – 2015 MCAS Results (Grade 8) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 88% 80% 
Math 71% 60% 
Science/Technology 58% 42% 
 
Lunenburg High School - 2015 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
Subject Test Advanced/Proficient State Average (Adv/Pro) 
ELA 98% 91% 
Math 89% 78% 
Science/Technology 86% 71% 
 
When you combine the percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, eighth grade students scored 88% 
on t he ELA test.  In Mathematics, 71% of eighth grade students scored advanced/proficient.  In 
Science/Technology, 58% of eighth grade students scored advanced/proficient.  Curriculum and instruction were 
a focus for us last year in the area of Science in the eighth grade and scores rose by 20%. 
 
When you combine the percentage bands of the advanced and proficient range, LHS tenth grade students scored 
98% on the ELA test.  In Mathematics, tenth grade students scored 89% advanced/proficient. In 
Science/Technology/Engineering, tenth grade students scored 86% advanced/proficient.  We are extremely proud 
of our students and teachers for their continued improvement, and we will work to move all students to the level 
of proficiency as measured by MCAS and our goal of  college and career ready as they move through our 
curriculum.   
 
We were also very pleased to learn that 32 seniors at Lunenburg High School received the state’s John and 
Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose  MCAS performance puts 
them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam and 
Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.     
 
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming was once again a great town-wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful parade complete with 
floats representing all four high school classes.  While the eighth grade did not have a float in the parade, they did 
participate in the Homecoming celebration.  Many of our sports teams qualified for tournament and district play.  
The LHS Mock trial team has advanced to the regionals this year after going 3-0 in local trials.  The Latin club, 
marching band, jazz band and the math team represented LHS in numerous competitions; the 50th annual 
Competitive Class Plays delighted the audience, and the school-wide play, A Date With Judy, was well received.   
===PAGE 114===
 
114 
The Mr. LHS talent show, a hypnotist (sponsored by the Class of 2018), a Lock -In (sponsored by the Class of 
2017), and the Pops and Senior Showcase are scheduled for the spring.    
COMMUNITY BUILDING 
National Honor Society successfully supported the “Giftmart” drive during the holidays, helping to provide joy to 
needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies.  The World Hunger Task Force will be raising 
money through Penny Wars this spring.  The money will be donated toward the fight against hunger.  Also, this 
winter, one of our eighth grade students participated in Project 351.  She spent the day in Boston with hundreds of 
eighth grade students, giving back to the community.   
 
In October, we brought Survive the Drive, to LHS.   Survive the Drive highlighted the dangers that our students 
(and society face) with distracted driving.  There was a big emphasis on the dangers of texting while driving.  The 
presentation was made possible by a donation from North End Subaru.  A crashed car was located in the back 
parking lot of the school.  The car was placed at the school by Qualit y Towing and Recovery.  SADD provided 
the students with information about distracted driving during the course of the week and had students and staff 
pledge to not text and drive.  During an Advisory period, SADD showed the short video, The Last Text.   
 
We have started an Advisory program at LHS.  One goal of Advisory is to have students have at least one adult 
who will get to know him/her over the course of four years.  Students were randomly distributed into small grade-
level groups  who they  will stay wi th during the four year period.  Another goal of Advisory is to develop 
relationships with students of different backgrounds and social groups so that students can get to know each other 
and develop an appreciation of the diversity that we do have in Lunenburg. 
CURRICULUM 
The staff at Lunenburg High School focused their professional development activities in 2015 -2016 working on 
curriculum development, curriculum mapping, District -Determined Measures, vertical teaming, and preparing to 
move into the new building. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Brian Spadafino, Principal 
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL 
Faculty/Staff Roster 
2015-2016 
 
Principal Brian Spadafino Adm. Assistant Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Robert McGrath Secretary Debra Aro 
Nurse Carolyn Finch   
 
Math   Language Arts  
Sarah Sabatini Dept. Liaison Mary Foyle Dept. Liaison 
Andrew Cantatore  Erinanne Burroughs  
Jennifer Miller  Timothy Macuga  
Eric Short  Michael Hannigan  
Robert Truax  Paul Harmon  
    
Science  Social Studies  
Robert Hill Dept Liaison Anna Keegan Dept. Liaison 
Mitchel Friedman  Warren Stevenson  
Craig Pingsterhaus  Timothy Normandin  
Jennifer Biery  Hailee Martin  
Dawn Gearin  Timothy Macuga  
Richard Cohen    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 115===
 
115 
 
 
Joanne Poirier 
 
 
Greenhouse Asst. 
 
 
 
Unified Arts 
 
Foreign Language  Alexis Pukaite Dept Liaison 
Peggy Proctor Dept. Liaison Steven Boone  
Jessica Beardmore  Dana Belair  
Tamara Yourk  Caryn Wardwell  
Jimena Punales-Santiago  Rhonda Malatos 
 
 
Jessica Cormier  Karyn Giuliani  
Lynn Radford  Nathan Diperri  
  Steven Kyajohnian  
    
 
Special Services 
  
Peter McCauliff 
 
AD 
Nicole Kromer 
 
Dept. Liaison Darlene Steele Athletic Sec. 
Joshua Koziol 
Brianna Lively 
Virginia Tedesco                              
  
Media Specialist 
Pamela Vallee 
 
Kimberly Jones    
Erica Hardy 
Meagan Ackerman 
Jaime Millett 
Speech/Lang. 
 
  
  Guidance  
  Karma Tousignant Dept Liaison 
  Susan Cavaioli  
  David Babine  
Paraprofessionals 
Milton Link 
 Penney Borneman 
Lori Shea 
Guidance Sec.  
School Psych. 
Lizabeth Johnson    
Alex Moore  Cafeteria  
Dawn McGuirl  Patti Pichnarcik Café Manager 
John McGuirk  Carol deBettencourt  
Joseph Adamowicz  Stella Carlson  
Maribeth Ulf 
Robin VanAmburg 
Lisa Szocik-Maillet 
Donna Lavoie 
Dawne Euvrard 
Kimberly Monsini 
 
 Eleni Tsiakalos  
    
8th Grade Teachers  Custodians  
Sharon McCullah  Timothy  deBettencourt Head Custodian 
Linda Collette  Marc St. Jean  
Meredith Cormier  James Vaillancourt  
Amy Raboin    
Martha Sullivan    
 
===PAGE 116===
 
116 

===PAGE 117===
 
117 
The 2014 -2015 school year was my first year as Superintendent -Director of Montachusett Regional 
Vocational Technical School District, and it seemed to come and go in a minute ; I would be remiss if I did 
not take time to reflect upon the numerous achievements our talented students, faculty and staff 
accomplished throughout the school year.  These awards, recognitions, and distinctions are the result of years 
of high quality education and vocational -technical training.  They are the hallmark of a Monty Tech 
education, earned by both individuals’ and team efforts.  While they are, in deed, an honor, they are simply a 
snapshot of the wonderful experiences happening on a day -to-day basis here at Monty Tech.  I am delighted 
to present the D istrict’s 2014 -2015 annual report to you, highligh ting some of the year’s most notable 
achievements, including: 
  
 A talented team of three Monty Tech Engineering students won the gold medal for Engineering 
Technology and Design at the SkillsUSA national competitions held in Louisville, KY.  Nic olas Wicker 
of Fitchburg, Leon Gaulin of Winchendon and Devan Kumar, also of Winchendon, led by instructor 
Dennis Cormier, created a portable game console designed with retro gaming in mind.  The team has 
developed patents on their prize-winning efforts, and continues to expand their business and engineering 
acumen. 
 The Machine Technology program aligned curriculum t o MASSMEP (Massachusetts Manufacturing 
Extension Partnership) standards, and as a result students are now able to earn Level 1 and Level 2 
Applied Manufac turing Technology Pathway Certifications.  Having these certifications will ensure 
program graduates stand -out when they enter the workforce upon graduation, as employers are better 
able to verify technical skills and expertise with this widely accepted tr aining model.  Also, our 
instructors are now able to access the  manufacturing curriculum developed through W orcester 
Polytechnic Institute, adding rigor and relevance to our very popular Machine Technology program. 
 The Monty Tech Auto Body/ Collision Repai r Department was featured in the April 2015 edition of the 
New England Automotive Report, applauded for  its dedication to excellence.  Molly Brodeur, President 
of the Alliance of Automotive Service Providers, Massachusetts cited the program’s innovative 
technologies, spacious facilities, and specialized equipment as among the best in New England.   
 Outpacing more than 1,000 teams across the United State s, and competing in three categories:  network 
security, digital forensics, and Cisco networking, a team of six talented students captured first place at 
the CyberPatriot event, a national high school cyber defense competition, founded by the Air Force 
Association.   
 Students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate high 
academic achievement.  In the spring of 2015, Monty Tech’s passing rate on the MCAS English 
Language Arts exam was 100%, Mathematics 98%, and Biology 98%.  
 
We are so proud of the educational programs offered here at Monty Tech, yet we continually strive to  
improve upon them.  Collaborating with area colleges and universities, we are ensuring o ur curriculum and 
instruction are rigorous and relevant.  Sharing best practices with vocational-technical colleagues from across 
the state – and nation – we give and take some of the best ideas, with one thing in mind – what is best for our 
students.  And what is best, I believe, is preparing students for both college and career.  
 
We hope you will find this report a comprehensive review of the quality education you have come to know 
and expect from Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.  You may notice that each of the 
eighteen member cities and towns are reflected in this report, and that students performed services in almost 
every community last year.  Providing our students with an opportunity to give back to the communities that 
support them – and support our school – is a pleasure.   
 
 
        Respectfully submitted, 
 
        __________________________________ 
        Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D. 
Superintendent-Director 
===PAGE 118===
 
118 
Our Mission 
 
Every student will graduate from M ontachusett Regional Vocational  Technical School with the skills,  
knowledge, and abilities to be a productive and effective member of an ever-changing society. 
 
 
Our District 
 
Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is a four -year career and technical high school serving 
the member towns of: 
 
Ashburnham 
Ashby 
Athol 
Barre 
Fitchburg 
Gardner 
 
Harvard 
Holden 
Hubbardston 
Lunenburg 
Petersham 
Phillipston 
 
Princeton 
Royalston 
Sterling 
Templeton 
Westminster 
Winchendon 
 
Leadership 
 
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten talented 
administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and areas of expertise 
contribute to the success of the school.  Working co llaboratively, and under the direction of the 
Superintendent and Principal, the team has been able to transform the school into one of the most sought -
after high schools in North Central Massachusetts.  
 
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director  
Tom Browne, Principal     
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal 
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager 
Francine Duncan, Director of Technology            
 
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs           
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs  
Richard Ikonen, Director of Facilities 
Katy Whitaker, Development Coordinator  
Victoria Zarozinski, Director of Student Support Services 
 
Enrollment 
 
On June 1, 2015, student enrollment at Monty Tech included 1,418 students in grades nine through twelve. 
Students are represented from every community in the district: Ashburnham (61), Ashby (35), Athol (88), 
Barre (37), Fitchburg (368), Gardner (146), Har vard (5), Holden (71), Hubbardston (62), Lunenburg (78), 
Petersham (4), Phillipston (18), Princeton (20), Royalston (18), Sterling (61), Templeton (93), Westminster 
(81), and Winchendon (146). The remaining 26 students were from out -of-district towns, incl uding Ayer, 
Clinton, Lancaster, Leominster, Orange, Shirley, Webster and Worcester.  
 
Throughout 2014-2015, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents, and community 
members to learn about and visit the school.  In October 2014, app roximately 1,000 district eighth graders 
participated in the annual “Tour Day” event.   Students toured our twenty vocational-technical areas and 
learned about the school’s challenging academic offerings and exciting athletic and extracurricular 
programs. Career Awareness Night offered interested students the opportunity to return in the evening with 
their family members, to further explore the facilities and talk with staff members.  
  
Each year, the Dean of Admissions conducts school visits, student interviews, and accepts applications for 
admissions.  2014-2015 proved to be an exceptionally busy year for her, as the school received 631 
applications for admission.  Of those, 575 were from students hoping to enter our incoming freshman class.  
===PAGE 119===
 
119 
The balance of the applications came from students hoping to enter the school as upperclassmen.   Because 
there are only a limited number of students the school can accept each year, 338 freshmen and 3 
upperclassmen were admitted. 
  
The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P. ) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance to visit 
Monty Tech after school, and participate in hands -on learning experiences across a variety of 
vocational/technical areas. The program continued to attract a large number of students during the 2014-2015 
school year, serving approximately 600 area students. 
 
Class of 2015 Awards 
Members of the Class of 2015 were awarded approximately $55,000 in scholarships.   The Monty Tech 
Foundation generously provided $35,000 in scholarships to graduating seniors, ranging in amounts of $200 
to $2,000.  The Foundation also awarded $6,000 to the Practical Nursing graduates.  Once again, local and 
state organizations, as well as generous individuals, continue to recognize the ability and potential of Monty 
Tech graduates in the form of financial donations. The School Committee, administration, facu lty, and 
graduates themselves, are grateful for this support. 
  
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost of higher 
education.  Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits t hrough a number of 
articulation agreements with public and private colleges across the country.   Approximately 54% of the 
graduating class of 2015 reported plans to enroll at either a 2 -year college, 4 -year college/university, or a 
technical/trade school upon graduation.  By earning college credits while still in high school, these students 
will benefit by saving both time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs. 
   
Financial Report 
In an effort to develop a cost -effective budget for the fi scal year 2014 -2015, a great deal of effort was put 
forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff.   The final fiscal year 2014 -2015 Educational Plan 
totaled $25,640,833, which represents a 3.5% increase over the 2013 -2014 Educational Plan.  The District’s 
FY15 budget, once again, only meets the minimum spending required by Massachusetts General Law 
Chapter 70. 
 
The District was audited in August 2015 as part of the yearly financial audit by the accounting firm of 
Melanson, Heath and Co. from Greenfield, MA and a very good report is anticipated. 
 
Grants and Contracts 
Monty Tech continues to pursue grant funding on an annual basis.   These funds assist in providing many 
educational and social services to the student population.   For fiscal year 2015, state and federal grant 
sources provided the school with $866,668.   Programs funded by these grants include:   Essential Health 
Services, Social Intervention and Mediation, Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services and 
Program Improvement,  Title I Support, Perkins Occupational Education, and Perkins Postsecondary 
Education.  Using these allocation funds, the school was able to purchase a variety of instructional 
technology, equipment and supplies to enhance the learning experience across bo th academic and vocational 
programs. 
 
Academic Achievement 
In 2014 -2015, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued to demonstrate 
high academic achievement, earning commendable MCAS scores in English Language Arts, Mathematics 
and Biology.  For Spring 2015, Monty Tech’s passing rate o n the English Language Arts was 100%, 
Mathematics 98%, Biology 98%.   
The district is particularly proud of the number of students earning Advanced scores, and is pleased to report 
significant increases in this category.  On the English Language Arts  exam, students scoring Advanced 
===PAGE 120===
 
120 
increased by 16% from 2014.  On the Math exam, we saw a 10% increase in Advanced from 2014, and on 
the Grade 10 Biology exam, there was a 3% increase in students scoring Advanced.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
English Language 
Arts 2013 2014 2015 
Students Tested 352 364 374 
Passing 99% 100% 100% 
Advanced/ Proficient 95% 95% 96% 
Needs Improvement 5% 5% 4% 
Failing 1% 0% 0% 
Mathematics 2013 2014 2015 
Students Tested 352 366 375 
Passing 98% 98% 98% 
Advanced/Proficient 80% 84% 87% 
Needs Improvement 18% 14% 11% 
Failing 2% 2% 2% 
Biology 2013 2014 2015 
Students Tested 398 351 347 
Passing 97% 99% 98% 
Advanced/ Proficient 73% 74% 77% 
Needs Improvement 24% 25% 21% 
Failing 3% 1% 2% 
The district continues to make progress toward narrowing proficiency gaps.  Students in all subgroups have 
met their progress and performance targets, securing the school’s Level 1 Status distinction. 
 
 
Vocational Projects in the District Communities 
 
Unlike students in traditional, comprehensive high schools, students at Monty Tech are asked to put their 
education into practice on a daily basis.  Students across the twenty different vocational -technical education 
programs are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service vehicles, making 
walkways more accessible, and performing countless community services.   
 
The 2014-2015 school year was a busy one for our vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide 
practical, hands -on learning experiences for our students, while helping to impr ove each of the eighteen 
member communities.   
 
Auto Body:  C ollision Repair Technology :  A highlight of the 2014 -2015 school year was the addition of 
new instructor, Michael Forhan, who brings wonderful industry experience and expertise to the popular Auto 
Body program.  The program received an I -CAR Education Foundation Grant, and as a result, sophomores 
and juniors will receive a Level I I -CAR certification.  Students detailed, repaired, and repainted more than 
eighty automobiles and trucks, including a dump truck for the  Winchendon Housing Authority.  Six ski 
chairs were coated for the Johnny Appleseed Trail Association , a nd trail brackets were painted for 
Baldwinville Department of Conservation. A state -of-the-art fresh -air system was installed in the spray 
booth, providing our students with clean air while working in the booth, eliminating the need for respirators.  
(Total enrollment: 62; 34 males, 28 females) 
===PAGE 121===
 
121 
Automotive Technology : As in past years, the Automotive Technology program continues to serv ice a 
variety of vehicles for faculty, staff, municipalities, and district residents.  2014-2015 proved to be a very 
busy year for the program, as more than 400 vehicles were serviced by talented students and instructors.  The 
Automotive Technology program continues to work to align instruction to the 2014 CVTE frameworks, as 
well as the recently revised NATEF standards.  Instructors are pleased to report an increase in student 
enrollment, and offer congratulations to Senior student, Cody Caley, who placed third at the State SkillsUSA 
competition.  A total of seve n students participated in the Co -Op program, applying their technical skills in 
real work settings.  (Total enrollment: 67; 54 males, 13 females) 
 
Business Technology:  Students graduating from Mon ty Tech’s Business Technology program may qualify 
for up to nine college credits, taking advantage of articulation agreements with either Mount Wachusett 
Community College or New England Institute of Technology.  Recognizing the work that these students 
have done throughout their high school year, college officials have agreed to provide qualified Business 
Technology students with college credits, at no charge, saving the students time and money as they pursue 
higher education.  During the 2014 -2015 school year, four students partic ipated in the school’s popular Co -
Operative Education P rogram.  Additionally, Business Technology stand -out Rebecca Parker was named 
SkillsUSA National Voting Delegate, and traveled to Louisville in June 2015.  Business Technology students 
continue to post the daily menu on the Monty Tech website for the Mountain Room , distribute, collect, and 
maintain the Community Service database for all shops , and run a successful school store, the Gear House, 
refining their skills in cash ha ndling, customer service, organization, and marketing.  (Total enrollment: 66; 
15 males, 51 females) 
 
Cabinetmaking:  Throughout 2014 -2015, Monty Tech’s Cabinetmaking instructors and students built and 
installed custom cabinetry and casework in t he Westminster Senior and Community Center, the City of 
Gardner Mayor's Office, and in each of the school’s three house-building projects.  At the Westminster 
Senior Center, the talented Cabinetmaking students were charged with finishing all i nterior architectural 
woodworking, and did a beautiful job on that project.  More than $20,000 in materials and five months of 
labor was devoted to that job, saving the Town of Westminster a substantial amount of money.  The students 
also built a beautiful podium and hepplewhit e table, and personally delivered the furniture with historical 
significance to Governor Baker at the Massachusetts State House.  Incorporating antique designs into today’s 
Cabinetmaking curriculum has been challenging and has also provided students with a dditional career 
opportunities within the trade.  Finally, eleven Cabinetmaking student s participated in the school’s Co -Op 
program. (Total enrollment: 70; 51 males, 19 females) 
 
Cosmetology:  The Monty Tech Cosmetology program introduced students to a tal ented new instructor,  
Lirazol Alie, who brings tremendous industry experience, expertise, and enthusiasm to the popular program.  
2014-2015 also brought new educational initiatives, including computer literacy objectives.  Programs such 
as Quizlet, Remind, and Google Classroom were introduced, and have been providing additional avenues for 
students and instructors to communicate and share ideas .  The program accepted twenty -four Freshmen, all 
first choice students.  In addition to serving more than 1,500 cl ients throughout the 2014 -2015 school year, 
students provided mothers from Head Start in Athol with a complimentary "Day of Beauty" in honor of 
Mother’s Day.  Also in line with the program’s commitment to community service, a portion of all fees 
collected from October through March were donated to support Horizons for Homeless.  More than half of 
the graduates from the Cosmetology program reported plans to work in the trade, while the remaining 
graduates went on to pursue higher education.  (Total enrollment: 91, 0 males, 91 females) 
 
Culinary Arts: Students and instructors in the Monty Tech Culinary Arts program are among the busiest in 
our school.  In addition to operating a full-service dining room and bakery, serving more than one hundred 
patrons daily, culinary students showcase their talents throughout the year at various catering events and 
trade shows in our sending districts, and at meetings and workshops within the school.  Throughout the 
2014-2015 school year, Culinary Arts students and staff prepared food for: United Way Day of Caring (150 
people), Advisory Dinner/Meetings (Over 600 people), Monty Tech Homecoming Dance (500 people), 
===PAGE 122===
 
122 
Monty Tech R etirees Holiday Buffet (90 people), Women in Technology Event (150 people), Graduation 
reception (125 people), Department of Elementary and Secondary Education  meeting (25 people), four 
Monty Tech Foundation breakfast meetings, the annual Superintendent’s Dinner, and all school committee 
and subcommittee meetings. Additionally, we participated in the Great er Gardner Chamber of Commerce 
Chowder & Chili fest, and hosted private events for Gardner AARP, Chairtown Lumber, and Montachusett 
Home Care.  (Total enrollment: 101; 34 males, 67 females) 
 
Dental Assisting :  During 2014 -2015, t he Dental Assisting program introduced t wenty-one students to 
industry experience through externships, while seven students participated in affiliation , and one student 
earned a co-operative educational placement, working with an area dentist. All sophomore, junior, and senior 
students attended the Yankee Dental Convention in Boston, and learned about the most current trends and 
practices in the field.  While national passing averages for D ental Assisting National Board (DANB) exams 
range from 69% - 78%, the Monty Tech dental students earned a 100% passing rate on the Infection Control 
exam and an outstanding 100% passing rate on the Radiology exam.  For the fifth consecutive year, Monty 
Tech welcomed Community Health Connections, a school -based dental hygiene program , whose goal is to 
provide dental services to students in need.  Through this initiative, more than thirty students were examined 
by a dentist, had their teeth cleaned, and had sealants or temporary fillings applied as needed.  Monty Tech 
Dental Assisting students were given hands -on, practical experience, as they assisted the staff from CHC 
during each dental procedure that was performed. (Total enrollment: 57; 5 males, 52 females) 
 
Drafting Technology:  The 2014-2015 school year was a busy one for Drafting Technology students and 
instructors.  A total of five students (three Juniors and two Seniors) participat ed in the school’s Co - 
Operative Education program, and ten students advanced to the SkillsUSA state competitions.  Instructors 
are pleased to report that a majority of the graduating seniors intend to pursue careers in t he field of 
drafting.  Like most pr ograms in the school, the Drafting Technology program is committed to community 
service, and throughout the year worked to provide food and household products for a family in the 
community.  The students and instructors also ga thered items to donate for Project Shoebox, which provides 
personal care items to children in the foster care system, offered design services to the Lunenburg Cemetery 
Building project, and designed landscape and general layout for Railroad Park in Fitchburg .  Students also 
created countless banners and signage for area community organizations and Monty Tech’s graduation, 
college fair, greenhouse, JROTC, and Drama Club, to name a few. (Total enrollment: 56; 33 males, 23 
females) 
 
Early Childhood Education:  The Early Childhood Education program began the 2014-2015 school year with 
a dynamic new instructor, Karla Boudreau.   The program received three new Baby Care Parent Simulatio n 
dolls, each with car seat detections, as well as temperature detectors.  Also, two new cameras were purchased 
to document student s’ work for individual professional portfolios.  The program participated in the 
Massachusetts Association for the Education of Young Children's Recognition Dinner, and in preparation for 
the event, students created thirty games for this recognition dinner.  Students and instructors worked to raise 
critical funds for Lucy's Love Bus, an agency that provide s grants for children with cancer who are n ot 
covered by health insurance, and contributed to a number of other child -centered ca uses, including: 
SkillsUSA Change for Children, Salvation Army Christmas Angel, and the school’s National Honor Society 
food and  supplies drive.  All of the program’s graduating seniors are college bound and report plans to 
continue in the field of education.  (Total enrollment: 62; 2 males, 60 females) 
===PAGE 123===
 
123 
 
Electrical:  The Electrical program continues to be one of the busiest trades in the school.  During 2014-
2015, students completed more than 90 work orders throughout the building, including wiring the following: 
a new CNC milling machine in C abinetmaking, new milling machines  in machine shop, new lifts in Auto 
Technology, a new grinder in HVAC & Property Maintenance, a new smart board in Drafting, a new shear in 
Welding/ Metal Fabrication , new shapers and chop saws in  Cabinetmaking, a new scoreboard in the gym, 
new office space for both the Vice Principal and the Dean of Admissions, and new charger  outlets for 
calculators in an academic room .  Students also rewired the Engineering department’s storage room and 
relocated much of their equipment, and a new Prototrak machine in Machine Technology.  In addition to 
wiring equipment, students performed numerous repairs and installations throughout the school as needed, 
including lights, outlets, computers, sensors, and CATV jacks.  The Electrical program was instrumental in 
ensuring the school responded to all aspects in the most recent Coordinated Program  Review’s safety audit, 
and completed each of the recommended findings in a very timely manner.  Students and instructors 
participated in the two house building projects in 2014-2015, again ensuring their work was done in a timely 
and efficient manner.  Th e program’s instructional space was updated to create a more conducive learning 
environment.  Finally twelve students were awarded co -op positions, and more than half of the graduating 
senior class entered the workforce upon graduation, continuing into the  electrical apprenticeship. (Total 
enrollment: 92; 76 males, 16 females) 
 
Engineering Technology:  The Monty Tech Engineering Technology program continued to enhance their 
curriculum and instruction by embedding four Project Lead the Way courses into the already rigorous 
vocational-technical curriculum.  Students performed well on the end of course asse ssments affiliated with 
the Project Lead the Way coursework, with four students earning college credit in Principles of Engineering, 
eleven students earning college credit in Introduction to Engineering Design, and six students earning credit 
in Computer I ntegrated Manufacturing.  These students may apply these credits at colleges and universities 
across the country.   The exploratory program during the 2014 -2015 school year yielded positive results for 
the program, with 12 students selecting Engineering Tec hnology as their first choice and one as second 
choice.  All sixteen seniors graduated, and a majority reported plans to continue their education or continue 
working in the engineering field.  The instructors are pleased with the work done in their instruc tional space, 
citing better organization and increased safety.  Some of the major improvements included a dropped ceiling, 
new work benches and stools, insulated front wall and fresh paint and the installation of a second SMART 
board.  The Junior class wen t on a field trip to EASTEC, in Springfield to see the latest technology in 
manufacturing technologies and techniques.  All Freshmen and S ophomores completed OSHA 10 hour 
training, and earned an OSHA 10 card.  Six Seniors presented c apstone projects to spo nsors, parents and 
fellow students, demonstrating individual creativity and a deep understanding of engineering principles.  
Finally, the Monty Tech Engineering students were top performers at SkillsUSA contests throughout the 
year.  At the district compet itions, students earned two gold, two silver, and six bronze medals.  At the state 
competitions, three g old and two b ronze medals were captured.  And at the national competitions held in 
Louisville, KY, a tal ented team of three Monty Tech E ngineering stude nts won the g old medal for 
Engineering Technology and Design.  (Total enrollment: 55; 42 males, 13 females) 
 
Graphic Communications:  Instructors in Monty Tech’s Graphic Communications program are pleased to 
report that all graduating seniors had plans to attend college, and many expected to pursue advanced degrees 
in the field.  Throughout the 2014-2015 school year, the shop continued to produce large quantities of print 
projects for district towns and co mmunity service organizations, completing more than 300 print projects .  
Because Graphic Communications provides print and design services at deep discounts to local agencies, 
instructors report saving these offices more than $100,000 this school year.    Students and instructors also 
completed numerous in-house jobs, resulting in a savings to the school district of more than $220,000 from 
black and white copies, wide format printing, yearbook print and production.  Three students were placed in 
co-op experiences, applying and refining their technical skills in local businesses.  The program also received 
six new iMac computers with CS6 Software, and the computer lab was reconfigured and equipped with n ew 
desks and a new SMART board.  (Total enrollment: 86; 32 males, 54 females) 
===PAGE 124===
 
124 
Health Occupations:  The Health Occupations program at Monty Tech continues to educate a large number 
of students, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and practice.   During the 
2014-2015 school year, students and instructors organized a large baby shower, benefiting Battered 
Womens’ Resources, Inc.  All items collected through that event were donated to expectant mothers living in 
the shelter.  Students and instructors also participated in Pediatric Day, in conjunction with the school’s Early 
Childhood Education program.  The Health Occupations program was awarded a grant of $42,400, which 
was used to purchase simulation devices for advanced training and simulated patient scenarios and case 
studies.  Fifteen s eniors passed the National Hea lthcare Association (CCMA) exam, while th e program 
continues to offer students opportunities to earn an array of industry-recognized credentials, including: 
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 10 -hour certification; Cardiopulmonary 
Resuscitation (CPR) and First Aid Certificate through the American Heart Association; and Certified 
Nursing Assistant License through the American Red Cross.  Finally, Health Occupations students performed 
quite well through out the year at various SkillsUSA competitions, earning a s ilver medal in Medical 
Assisting and a bronze medal in Freshman Commentary .  Two students were also named S tate Officer Elect 
and National Voting Delegate, representing the school and program well.   Twenty-three of the graduating 
seniors in 2015 reported plans to enroll in college, and a majority intend to stay close to the medical field.  
(Total enrollment: 106; 7 males, 99 females) 
 
House Carpentry:  Unlike other vocational-technical programs at M onty Tech, a majority of the work done 
by students and instructors in the House Carpentry program is completed off-campus, completing renovation, 
building, and repair work for member communities.  Last year was no exception, as students and instructors 
worked together to complete the following projects:  a duplex in Fitchburg for Habitat for Humanity, a two-
story colonial home in Ashburnham for Montachusett Enterprise Center, Inc. (MEC), and a set of stairs in the 
school’s Plumbing department.  Mr. Morrison, the most recent addition to the House Carpentry staff, and Mr. 
Pearson, a Monty Tech sc ience teacher, completed an Academic/Vocational Integration project , in an effort 
to further connect academic elements to practical, real -world applications.  The result of the unique lesson 
was twenty-five bluebird houses, handcrafted by each student, and taken home to share with families and 
friends.  (Total enrollment: 57; 40 males, 17 females) 
 
HVAC & Property Maintenance :  The 2014 -2015 school year saw some changes in the HVAC & Property 
Maintenance Program.  For many years this program had been named Industrial Technology, but when the 
Department of Elementary and Secondary Education outlined changes in the program’s curriculum 
frameworks in 2014, it seemed an appropriate time to update the name of the program and refine curriculum 
so that students and graduates will be better prepared to pursue a variety of career pathways in the Building 
& Property Maintenance and HVAC fields.  Combining elements from both programs, the instructors have 
developed a broad curriculum that continues to engage students and impress area business owners.   
Throughout the year, students and instructors collaborated with other Monty Tech programs to complete a 
number of “outside jobs”, including: installing sheetrock and vinyl siding on a duplex home for Habitat for 
Humanity in Fitchburg, installing siding and wood molding products in a single family home in 
Ashburnham, and installing brackets for the Holden Recreation Department  snowmobile trail.  The program 
was proud to have thirteen students (6 seniors and 7 juniors) participate in the school’s popular Co-Operative 
Education program – more students than in any other program at Monty Tech!  (Total enrollment: 64; 57 
males, 7 females) 
