===PAGE 125===
 
125 
Information Technology:   As with any school, Information Technology provides key services to the 
educational community.  In addition to the critical in -house Help Desk services offered by the program, 
students and instructors performed in excess of 400 hours of repair, upgrading, and troubleshooting computer 
problems for Monty Tech community members.  Competing in the Cyber Patriot event, a national high 
school cyber defense competition, founded by the Air Force Association, Information Technology  and 
Engineering students, led by program instructor Richard Duncan, captured first place at the March 
competition.  A team of twelve Information Technology students participated in the Fitchburg State 
University Programming Competition, and there our students placed 13th, 24th, and 25th from the 32 teams in 
attendance.  To ensure program graduates are armed with valuable industry -recognized certifications, 
program instructors offer students the following certification opportunities: TestOut PC Pro certification, IC3 
Certification, Cisco IT Essential Course for Computer Repair and Maintenance, and Cisco Introduction to 
Networking. (100% passing rate for Sophomores).  Instructors are proud to report a 98% passing rate for the 
juniors who took the first test o f the CIW Web Foundation certification  exams.  Two students applied their 
skills, working with area non -profit agencies, building user -friendly websites for the following: Big Cheese 
5K Road Race for the T own of Athol, Community Health Connections website,  and Fitchburg East Rotary 
website.  Two talented students, Derick Kay and Ryan Perenzin, earned gold medals at the SkillsUSA 
District competitions, traveled to the state event and continued their winning streak with another gold medal.  
The pair earned the right to travel and compete on the national level in June 2015, for the third time in their 
high school career. (Total enrollment: 61; 60 males, 1 female) 
 
Machine Technology :  Machine Technology students and instructors had the opportunity to take part in 
several field trips  throughout 2014-2015, including:  MTD in Charlton, NyproMold in Clinton, Rocheleau 
Tool & Die  in Fitchburg, LS Starrett  in Athol, and the EASTEC show in Sprin gfield.  These field trips 
provided students with opportunities to see how their education connects to local industry, as well as some of 
the emerging technologies in the machining field.  Students were also fortunate to hear from local experts, 
including a guest speaker from LS Starrett, who discussed proper band saw blade selec tion.  Perhaps one of 
the program’s greatest accomplishments was aligning curriculum to MASSMEP (Massachusetts 
Manufacturing Extension Partnership)  training efforts .  This exciting new relationship will provide our 
students opportunities to earn level 1 and level 2 machinist certifications, and will grant the instructors access 
to manufacturing curriculum developed through W orcester Polytechnic Institute.  Finally, students 
successfully completed a number of machining jobs to benefit the school and communit y offices, which 
included: plaques for the “Ride of your Life” suicide prevention fundraiser, plaques for the school’s space 
shuttle mission, gifts for various visitors and guests, memorial tile engraving, parts for engineering 
technology projects, dental base components, for plumbing projects , and parts needed to repair the district’s 
field lawn mowers.  (Total enrollment: 60; 57 males, 3 females) 
 
Masonry:  The Masonry program introduced a new instructor, Christopher Giardina to the program in 2014-
2015.  Students and instructors continued to focus on a number of community p rojects, including:  b rick 
steps and tiles for Habitat for Humanity House in Fitchburg ; tile and concrete floor for Montachusett 
Enterprise Center, Inc. (MEC) house in Ashburnham ; brick step repairs and concrete floor for Sterling 
Municipal Light; stone veneer and tile for the Westminster Senior Center ; block dug outs for Gardner Little 
League; stone wall repair for St. Bernard’s Elementary School; and, repointed brick for Winchendon Se nior 
Center.  When the students weren’t busy in our district communities, they were preparing for and competing 
in the Massachusetts Trowel Trades Association (MTTA) competition , where they earned top recognitions 
and awards. (Total enrollment: 68; 57 males, 11 females) 
 
===PAGE 126===
 
126 
Plumbing: The Monty Tech Plumbing program, like other trades throughout the school, is committed to 
community service.  As a result, students and instructors worked throughout the year to complete a duplex 
house in Fitc hburg for Habitat for Humanity and a single -family home in Ashburnham for Montachusett 
Enterprise Center, Inc. (MEC).  Both projects included lessons in high efficiency heating and cooling 
systems. The students successfully installed gas piping for the homes , as well.  A senior student was named 
Vocational Tech nical All-Star from the Plumbing, Heating and Cooling Contractors Association of 
Massachusetts, and as a result , he re ceived tools and a scholarship for continuing his education in the 
plumbing licensure program.   Another stand -out student was recognized by the Central Massachusetts 
Plumbing & Gas Fitting Inspectors Association, and was also awarded a scholarship to continue his 
education in the field.  Instructors are proud to partner with a number of local compani es that have 
committed to hiring program graduates, and throughout the 2014 -2015 school year, the program saw eight 
students (5 seniors and 3 juniors) earn co-op jobs, where they were challenged to take their technical skills to 
a new level.  On campus, students repaired leaks, cleaned drains, replaced a hot water heater, worked on 
water coolers, and repaired and maintained the plumbing system throughout the school.  The teachers’ area 
within the shop was improved with custom made desks and a counter top, designed and crafted by Monty 
Tech's Cabinetmaking students.  (Total enrollment: 71; 69 males, 2 females) 
 
Welding/Metal Fabrication:  Throughout the 2014-2015 school year, the Welding/Metal Fabrication program 
successfully completed numerous projects on th e Monty Tech campus, and more than eighty projects for 
residents of our community.  Some of the more notable community service projects included:  fabricating 
and welding a twenty -one foot tall, multi -section statue for the Fitchburg Art Museum, which is now the 
focal point to their main entrance ; repairing a band cart for Fitchburg High school ; fabricating and welding 
panels for Winchendon Housing Authority's dump truck ; fabricating and welding trail marking brackets for 
the Department of Conservation & Re creation of Winchendon ; fabricating and weld ing stainless steel 
counter tops and trim at the Westminster Senior Center; and repairing net for Templeton, Narragansett Youth 
Baseball.  In addition, the program benefited from added technology, including a portable fume e xtractor 
donated by industry partner Airgas East, and various portable power hand tools donated by Tractor Supply , 
Inc.  The program’s hydraulic p ower sh ear b lades were also rotated and adjusted to spec ifications.  Two 
juniors and eight seniors participated in the school’s popular Co-Operative Education program, applying and 
refining their technical skills in area businesses. (Total enrollment: 64; 55 males, 9 females) 
 
 
Student Support Services 
During the 201 4-2015 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District provided 
special services to approximately three hundred and fifteen students – measuring progress of over two 
hundred students on Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and just under one  hundred students adhering to 
individualized Section 504 plans.   While the Student Support Services (SSS) Department encompasses 
special education, the department provides support and is available to all Monty Tech students. 
  
The department includes a ful l-time nursing staff that administers medications, performs state -mandated 
health screening exams, and provides, when necessary, health information to the special education team for a 
student’s IEP meeting.   The department benefits from a full -time school social worker who participates in 
departmental meetings and assists students who have needs concerning finances, family issues, 
homelessness, maternity, health issues, and proper food and clothing.  The school is also fortunate to have on 
staff a full-time psychologist, whose role it is to evaluate all students referred for an initial evaluation or who 
require a three -year re -evaluation. In addition, we have a full -time speech language pathologist, who is 
available to assist students with disabilities, asses s these students and consult with teachers.   Our students 
also have access to the services of a full -time adjustment counselor and part-time school psychologist. All of 
these individuals are available for scheduled counseling sessions and mental health eme rgency treatment, as 
well as crisis intervention. 
  
===PAGE 127===
 
127 
The school’s Director of Student Support Services oversees the District’s Special Education Program, which 
is reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The comprehensive review  and 
evaluation are done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the results of the evaluation are 
used to improve the special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett Regional 
Vocational Technical School. 
  
 
Technology 
In 2014-2015 Monty Tech continued the process of improving our network infrastructure to meet future 
needs.  Additional access points were added to our wireless network to broaden connectivity.  Internet 
bandwidth was increased, and multiple carriers were co ntracted to reduce the possibility of Internet 
downtime.  A back up generator was installed and connected to our network servers to decrease the 
possibility of unexpected shutdown of vital equipment.   
 
Monty Tech successfully completed two Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
initiatives involving technology.  Pilot testing for PARCC, an online student assessment program, was 
conducted in Spring 2015, and state reporting of SIMS (student data) and SCS (student course schedule data) 
via SIF  (Schools Interoperability Framework) commenced in March 2015. 
 
Monty Tech continued the process of enhancing and automating procedures.  Teachers began using x2 
Aspen’s Teacher Recommendations to enter student course requests, and the school imp roved parent 
communication by including email addresses as part of our parent/student notification system.  The school 
also initiated improvements to technical support through the automation of computer builds and updates. 
 
Monty Tech began the transition of becoming a Google for Education school by changing our email system 
to Gmail for staff and students.   Three Chromebook mobile labs were purchased late in the school year and 
will be ready for classroom use in 2015 -2016.  Monty Tech will plan profession al development and support 
for additional Google apps as they are introduced during 2015 -2016, and will consider a Chromebook 1:1 
initiative. 
SkillsUSA 
 
SkillsUSA is a partnership of students, teachers and industry working together to ensure America ha s a 
skilled workforce.  Thro ugh our association with Skills USA, our students develop job skills, leadership and 
professional skills, as well as provide community service. 
 
The 2014-2015 school year was an extraordinary one for the Monty Tech chapter of SkillsUSA. The students 
met the challenges of the district competitions, performed well at the state level, and winners advanced to the 
coveted National Conference in June 2015.  Co-advisors Kelsey Moskowitz (English Instructor), Anne Marie 
Cataldo (Early Chil dhood Education Instructor), and Brad Pelletier (Special Education Instructor), helped 
students successfully complete several community service projects, raising money for selected charitable 
organizations.  Highlights of the year include: 
 
 In November, fifteen students, consisting of chapter officers and Leadership Team members , 
attended  a  three-day Annual Fall State Leadership Conference, developed leadership skills and 
performed community service at an area YMCA Day Camp. They also donated nonperishable food 
items for the local food bank, as well as hats, mittens, and books for underprivileged children.  
 
 The local competition was held in December 2014, and spanned three weeks consisting of a variety 
of skill and leadership events.  
===PAGE 128===
 
128 
 In March 2015, qualified Monty Tech students traveled to Bay Path Regional Vocational Technical 
School to c ompete at the SkillsUSA District Competition .  There, Monty Tech students were 
awarded 44 medals, including:  1 2 gold, 11 silver and 21 bronze medals.  Additionally, Grace 
Kirrane qualified to run for the State Executive Council.  
 
 Rebecca Parker, a Class of 2015 Business T echnology student, and Cassandra Campbell, a Class of 
2016 Drafting Technology student, served on the State Advisory Committee to help aid in the 
planning of the State Conference. 
 
 Twenty-three d istrict medalists and qualifiers , sixteen l ocal leadership and skill-related event 
contestants, one state officer candidate , and twenty -three voting delegates - a total of 63 students - 
attended the State Leadership and Skills Conference, held April 30 – May 2, 2015, at Blackstone 
Valley Vocational  Technical School and the Best Western Royal Plaza (Marlboro). Monty Tech 
finished the competition with fourteen medals.  Seven students were awarded gold medals and 
earned the right to compete at the National Leadership & Skills Conference held in Louisvi lle, 
Kentucky in late June. Grace Kirrane was elected to the State Executive Council and will serve as a 
National Voting Delegate in Louisville along with Alyanna Giuliano, Cassandra Campbell, and 
Rebecca Parker who were also selected to serve. 
 
 Twelve stu dents and five instructors attended the National Leadership & Skills Conference in 
Louisville, KY. from June 22 – 27, 2015.  
 
 A team of three talented Engineering Technology students received a Gold Medal for their 
performance at the National Engineering T echnology/Design Contest.  Working closely with their 
instructor, Dennis Cormier, Nicolas Wicker  (Class of 2015), Leon Gaulin  (Class of 2017), and 
Devan Kumar (Class of 2017) brought home this well-deserved honor. 
 
 Taryne Swan and Cassandra Campbell were also recognized at the National Conference, receiving 
the President’s Volunteer Service Award, Gold Standard 
 
 Throughout the year, students participated in a number of community service projects, including: a 
“Change for Children” Campaign; a holiday party and celebration for children in the Fitchburg area; 
Salvation Army “Christmas Angels” were distributed to collect toys and gifts for underprivileged 
children; Raffle to benefit Be Like Brit Foundation and The Doug Flutie Jr. Foundation for Autism. 
 
Marine Corps JROTC 
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) had a sensational school 
year.  All program objectives for the 2014 -2015 school year were achieved, most notable was the JROTC 
Cyber Security Team, led by First  Sergeant Paul Jornet and Information Technology Instructor Richard 
Duncan, once again capturing national recognition by placing first in the Air Force Association’s National 
Cyber Security Competition held in Washington, DC. 
 
The 2014-2015 Corps of Cadets  completed over eighty-eight hundred hours (8800+) of community service 
throughout the district. The corps conducted a major canned food drive, worked side-by-side with the Marine 
Corps Reserve in a national Toys 4 Tots campaign, and spent four weekends wo rking with the local 
Salvation Army helping to raise over $26,000 for needy families.  The cadets conducted their annual 10 mile 
“March-A-Thon” to support NEADS (National Education of Assistance Dogs Services) from Princeton, MA, 
raising $25,000 for their Service Dogs for Veterans program. 
 
Sixty Monty Tech cadets attended a leadership camp at the Citadel in Charleston, SC.  The camp provided 
===PAGE 129===
 
129 
cadets with individual and team development opportunities, as well as the opportunity to visit many 
historical sites. 
  
During the summer of 2015, our Cadet Cyber Team was again asked to support a Cyber STEM camp for the 
National Marine Corps JROTC program. The Cyber Team coordinated the 12 -day camp that focused on 
defending cyber networks from attacks. The camp also of fered an introduction to robotics programming 
using the VEX Robotics System.  The camp was attended by 200 students, representing thirty-five states.   
 
The Cyber team along with community financial support and a group of Monty Tech staff volunteers also 
conducted a week-long Cyber Security camp for 50 middle school students. The camp, which was offered at 
no cost to the students, focused on computer operating systems, security and cyber ethics.  In partnership 
with Fitchburg State University and Mount Wach usett Community College, the students also had an 
opportunity to visit both campuses to explore STEM pathways. 
 
The Monty Tech JROTC program received an incredible honor, having been named a Marine Corps Honor 
School by the Commanding General Marine Corps Training & Education Command.  Only ten percent of 
Marine Corps JROTC programs nationwide receive this recognition.  The selection was based on several 
criteria, including cadet citizenship, the percentage of cadets involved in student government organizat ions, 
the number of cadets active in school activities and clubs, the number of community service hours for the 
unit as a whole and per cadet, the number of organizations assisted by the unit, and scholastic achievements 
including the number of academic awards and scholarships given to cadets.  The units were also measured by 
participation in public affairs events, drill team competitions, rifle team competitions, physical fitness team 
competitions, and field trips.  
  
Because of this prestigious status, we  are pleased to announce that the Monty Tech JROTC instructors unit 
will now have the opportunity to make nomination recommendations to the U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air 
Force Academy, and the Military Academy at West Point under the Honor School Category. 
  
 
Women in Technology 
 
Monty Tech is one of the original members of the North Central Massachusetts Women In Technology 
Program and the 2014 -2015 school year marked the school’s 13 th year in this innovative school -to-business 
partnership.  The highly successful collaborative program continues to grow with membership including 
students from six area high schools, introducing female students to well -paying careers in business and 
technology.  Participants spend two days a month working on real -world work projects under the mentorship 
of company managers at SimplexGrinnell and Tyco Safety Products in Westminster, subsidiaries of Tyco 
International, a Fortune 500 company.  
 
The program has been so successful in its mission of providing a proven pathway to corporate America, that 
it was recently recognized as one of the region’s premier experience -based educational programs of its kind. 
Affiliation with the program, and skills acquired through participation, open doors to career opportunities not 
otherwise available to high school students. Graduates of the program are also equipped with a foundation to 
better meet the challenges of an ever-changing and demanding work force. 
 
Each year, graduates of the program go on to rewarding and well -paying careers, made possible by this 
unique experience. 
 
===PAGE 130===
 
130 
Student Athletics 
The Monty Tech athletic program continues to expand in scope and skill each year.  More students and teams 
compete every seas on.  In fact, during the 2014 -2015 school year, the Monty Tech Athletic program saw a 
record number of student athletes participating in competitive sports programs, more than 614 participants!   
During the fall of 2014, Monty Tech was well -represented by seventeen teams.  In the winter months, there 
were fourteen teams, and wrapping up the year, spring saw another fourteen teams come together at Monty 
Tech.   
In the Fall of 2014, the Monty Tech Varsity Football team finished with a record of 2 – 9, but with a lot of 
younger players , the coaches expect a rebound in 2015.  The JV Football te am was 2 – 6 - 1 and the 
Freshman Football team was 2 – 4.  The Varsity Boys Soccer team finished at 11 – 5 – 2 and qualified for the 
post-season tournament.  They finished third in the Colonial Athletic League with a 6 – 4 – 2 record.  The JV 
Boys Soccer team was 7 – 4 – 2. The Varsity Golf team was 4 – 12, and t he JV Golf team played in three 
tournaments getting much valuable experience on the links.  The Varsity Field H ockey team was 13 - 3 - 3, 
qualifying for the Central Mass Tournament for the fifth consecutive year.  They lost to Grafton, 1 – 0 in an 
exciting match.  The JV Field Hockey team finished at 5 – 3 – 1. The Boys Cross Country team was 7 - 8 and 
finished 3rd in the C olonial Athletic League with a 4 – 3 record.  The Girls Cross Country team was 6 – 5 
overall and 2 – 2 in the Colonial Athletic League, finishing 2nd. The Varsity Girls Volleyball team went 8 – 
12.  The team hosted its annual Bump-Set-Spike competition, to fight Breast Cancer, in October  2014, and 
raised over $3,000. The JV Girls Volleyball team was 18 - 1 and the Freshmen Girls team continued to 
improve with a 6 – 6 record.  The Varsity Girls Soccer team was 11 – 6 – 1 and qualified for the post-season, 
where they lost to Northbridge 6 – 0.  The JV Girls Soccer team finished at 12 – 2 and will send some fine 
players to the varsity next year.  
The Girls Varsity Basketball finished at 7 – 13 on the season, while the Junior Varity Girls were 12 - 4 and 
the Freshman Girls finished with a record of 8 – 3. The Varsity Boys Basketball team finished at 14 – 9 and 
qualified for both the State Vocational Tournament and the Districts.  They lost to Worcester Tech in the first 
round of the Voc ational Tournament and beat Ayer in the first game of the Districts before losing to  
Hopedale in the quarterfinals.  The JV Boys Basketball team was 16 – 2, and the Freshman Boys were 2 – 
16.  The Co -Op Wrestling team , a group of student -athletes from Fitchburg, Oakm ont and Murdock, 
participated in many dual meets and tournaments finishing at 3 – 11.  The Co-Op Boys Ice Hockey  team, a 
partnership with Fitchburg High School, finished at 11 – 9 and qualified for the Districts , where they beat 
Littleton in the first roun d and lost t o Worcester in the semi -finals.  The Junior Varsity Ice Hockey team 
played very well , and is expected to send some talent up to the varsity  in 2015 -2016.  Monty Tech also 
participated in a Co -op Swim team with Leominster, North Middlesex and Oa kmont (in partnership with 
Fitchburg State University) and had 7 swimmers participating.  Indoor Track & Field for both boys and girls 
participated in the Dual Valley Conference t his year, as a guest.  Both teams finished with a record of 2  – 3 
on the season. 
 
In the spring of 2015, the Monty Tech Varsity Softball team qualified for the Central Mass Tournament for 
the 22nd consecutive year with an 11 - 9 record.  There, they lost a tight match against Maynard 7 - 6.  Coach 
Reid is just 6 wins shy of 60 0 for his career at Monty Tech.  The JV Softball team was 6 – 8.  The Varsity 
Boys Volleyball team was 15 – 8 and 8 – 2 in the Colonial Athletic League.  They beat Assabet 3 - 1  in the 
first round of the State Voc ational Tournament before losing to Greate r New Bedford Regional Vocational 
Technical High School 3 – 0 in the finals.  The boys also lost to Wachusett 3 – 1 in the District Tournament.  
The JV Boys Volleyball team played strong all year and finished with a record of 8 – 8.  The Varsity 
Baseball team finished at 5 – 15, while t he JV Baseball  team was 10 – 4 and the Freshma n Baseball team 
was 3 – 9.  Both the Varsity and JV teams played a majority of their home games on the Fitchburg State 
University and Oakmont fields, while the freshmen played a number of their games at the Westminster Babe 
Ruth field, as the conditions of our baseball fields were not acceptable due to the very wet spring.  The Boys 
Track & Field team was 6 - 2, finishing 3rd in the Colonial Athletic league, and the Girls Track & Field team 
was 5 – 3, with a 4th place finish in the Colonial Athletic League.  The Varsity Boys Lacrosse team played in 
16 games going 7 – 9, missing the playoffs by only one win.  The JV Boys Lacrosse was 7 – 4 – 3,  and are 
expecting improved results in the coming years.  The Girls Lacrosse team was a Co -Op with N orth Central 
===PAGE 131===
 
131 
Charter Essential School (Sizer).  There were fifteen girls from Monty Tech on the team, and the district hopes to 
form its own team by 2017.  Finally, there were seven total students (2 boys and 5 girls) playing in a Co -Op 
Tennis program with Fitchburg High School.  
 
Congratulations to the Outstanding Male and Female athletes for 2014 -2015, Kyle Morris and Kaitlyn 
MacAlister.  
 
Postgraduate and Continuing Studies 
The Post Graduate and Continuing Studies Program, also known as Monty Tech Nites, continues to update and 
add courses that emphasize a commitment to excellence by offering affordable, quality, and enjoyable educational 
experiences.  For the f all of 2014, M onty Tech offered 78 in -house classes with 626 registrations.  We also 
offered a number of online course options, with a total  of 27 registrations.  For the s pring 2015 semester, we 
offered 73 in-house courses with 568 registrations and an additional 47 registrations for online programs.    
 
In March 201 5 the postgraduate program successfully graduated our third class of nine Emergency Medical 
Technicians.  The very successful EMT program is pleased to report increased acceptance/ enrollment numbers, 
as the program accepted a class of 16 students for the 2015-2016 school year. 
 
The Director of the Postgraduate & Continuing Studies Program actively seeks information to develop new (and 
expand existing) certificate and licensure programs that align with region al workforce needs and employment 
trends.  
Practical Nursing Program 
The Practical Nursing Program is designed to prepare graduates to practice safely, ethically and in a caring 
manner for patients who are experiencing common variations in health status  in diverse health care settings.  This 
mission,which is consistent with the philosophy and goals of the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical 
School District, accomplishes the following:  
 
· Identifies a strong relationship between academic and vocational preparation 
· Stresses the importance of developing critical thinking skills to function safely, effectively, and 
productively in an ever-changing technical and diverse society 
· Supports the maintenance of a positive and caring learning and practice environment 
On June 18, 2015, the Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program saw one of its largest graduating classes - forty (40) 
students - complete the Practical Nursing Program and enter the nursing profession.  The class achieved an initial 
NCLEX pass rate of 88%, and just over 75% of the 2015 graduates are currently working i n the North Central 
area, in various health care settings including long-term care, sub -acute care, clinics, medical offices, and prison 
health care. 
 
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Prog ram continues to develop the “LPN to BSN Bridge” relationship with 
Fitchburg State University.  Both institutions were awarded a grant from the Massachusetts Department of Higher 
Education, supporting the "Nurse of the Future" initiative. The grant funding  will assist veterans hoping to 
transition from military to civilian healthcare fields, granting academic credits for previous military training and 
experience in related military specialties.  
 
In January, the program added a technology component called Shadow Health, a virtual patient-centered clinical 
experience software package.  Students were asked to complete assignments at home, and were assessed 
according to their patient/student interaction and clinical practice interactions.  The 
===PAGE 132===
 
132 
added technology proved to be beneficial, allowing the educational program to continue despite the 
challenging weather and school closings.   
 
Finally, the Monty Tech PN Class of 2015 completed a meaningful community service project , adopting a 
Monty Tech family in need re ferred by the school’s Student Support Services  Department. The nursing 
students purchased holiday gifts and food for the family, making sure they were consistent with the family 
requests and needs.  
Looking Ahead 
 
While the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District educational community is certainly 
proud of the achievements of our talented st udents, faculty, and staff, we continue to have an eye toward the 
future, always committed to improving our vocational and academic programm ing, strengthening key 
partnerships, and maintaining facilities that contribute to student success and achievement.  As we look 
ahead, there are a number of programs and initiatives that we expect will have a positive impact on our 
school and students for years to come. 
 
Expand partnerships with area businesses:  To support the school’s popular Business Technology program, 
specifically addressing the financial elements found within the program’s frameworks, s chool leaders began 
exploring opportunities to br ing banking to Monty Tech students.  In collaboration with Workers’ Credit 
Union, school officials are pleased to announce a developing partnership that will result in a full -service 
branch located on the school’s campus, offering students opportunities to develop authentic financial literacy 
skills and experience while still in high school.  Additionally, students studying in the school’s Business  
 
Technology program will be trained as bank tellers, effectively preparing them for entry -level jobs in 
banking institutions across North Central Massachusetts. 
 
Expand partnerships with area colleges and universities :  Students in Monty Tech’s very busy Health 
Occupations program may just be getting busier in the coming years.  While the program already off ered a 
number of industry -recognized credentials, school leaders began working with college partner, Mount 
Wachusett Community College, to determine if a college -level Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) 
training program could be embedded into the senior ye ar of study.  We are pleased to announce  that this 
collaboration has resulted in an agreement that will effectively allow seniors to earn 8 college credits, at no 
charge, and the opportunity to sit for the certification exam in June 2016.  By providing additional career 
pathways in the medical field, and access to college level coursework while still enrolled in high school, 
school administrators and teachers are confident that program gra duates will not only be more qualified for  
entry level positions, they will be more apt to find an area of interest within the medical field, and continue to 
refine the technical skills they developed while at Monty Tech. 
 
Expand Access to Instructional Technology:  A Monty Tech education is effective because efforts are ma de 
to continually access our programming, instructional equipment, and our educational resources.  Through 
this assessment, it has become clear that while so many students have access to technology away from the 
school, many do not. It is important, then, to arm every student with the tools necessary to succeed not only 
in the workplace, but in the classroom , as well.  The district is pleased to announce a large -scale technology 
initiative that began in August 2015, when every educator at Monty Tech was provided with a Chromebook 
and individualized professi onal development on how to best incorporate this added technology into daily 
instruction.  So many teachers have embraced the concept, and continued to explore learning opportunities 
that have resulted in classroom instruction that better reflects our 21 st Century school.  The Monty Tech 
technology initiative continues, and in August 2016, every student at Monty Tech will also be provided with 
a Chromeb ook to support his/her learning, more efficiently commu nicate with teachers, and to promote 
collaboration among student peers. 
===PAGE 133===
 
133 
Expand vocational-technical educational opportunities:  As you know, Montachusett Regional Vocational 
Technical School is home to twenty vocational -technical programs, and currently serves over 1,400 students 
from eighteen cities and towns in North Central Massachusetts.  We are so proud of our students and 
accomplishments, and every year we strive to provide only the best educational programs, both academic and 
vocational, to each an d every student.  As we review our student demographic, the regional workforce data, 
and feedback we have received from students interested in attending our school, we consider the benefits of 
adding new vocational programs.  We are pleased to announce that Monty Tech is in the development stages 
of bringing a new program – our 21 st program – to the school  – Animal/Veterinary Science.  The new 
program will r espond to much -needed workforce training and community services, and will effectively 
prepare students to enter both college and career pathways upon graduation .  Students and instructors, in 
collaboration with program partner, Becker College, will effectively learn concepts associated with a high 
school veterinary assisting program, while running a fully -functioning veterinary clinic, designed to provide 
care for pets  in low -income families.  Students will have access to college level coursework, and earn 
industry-recognized credentials, so that they may either advance to related post-secondary programs, or enter 
into the workforce  to fill the projected 25.32% growth in veterinary technician  opportunities through 2022.  
While this program is only in its development stages, a great deal of work has already been done to assure its 
success.  Student surveys h ave been collected, collaborative working groups have been established, and 
industry experts across North Central Massachusetts have been called upon to offer expertise to help ensure 
the innovative facility is designed with both education and service in m ind, and that all equipment and 
services align with industry standards. 
 
The Monty Tech School Committee 
 
The Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District Committee is comprised of twenty -two 
dedicated individuals, whose expertise proves invaluable in advising the district’s operations, policies, and 
procedures.  
 
Our students continue to benefit  from the broad scope of their experience s and varying perspectives, and we are 
thankful to the following members of the 2014-2015 School Committee for their outstanding service.   
 
Eric Olson, Phillipston 
Chair 
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg 
Vice Chair 
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham 
Peter Capone, Ashby 
Toni L. Phillips, Athol 
John Scott, Barre 
Claudia Holbert, Fitchburg 
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg 
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg 
LeRoy Clark, Fitchburg 
Helen Lepkowski, Gardner 
Eric D. Commodore, Gardner 
TBD, Harvard 
James Cournoyer, Holden 
Kathleen Airoldi, Hubbardston 
Edward Simms, Petersham 
John P. Mollica, Princeton 
Mary C. Barclay, Royalston 
Dr. Kenneth I.H. Williams, Sterling 
James M. Gilbert, Templeton 
Walter Taylor/Ross Barber, Westminster 
Burton E. Gould, Jr., Winchendon
 
Terri Hillman, Winchendon 
Secretary 
 
Norman J. LeBlanc 
District Treasurer 
 
 
===PAGE 134===
 
134 
===PAGE 135===
 
135 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 136===
 
136 
VITALS REPORT 
 
 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND U .S. DEPARTMENT 
OF STATE AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF 
INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURANCES OF 
EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR.  
 
DURING 2015THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTH – 93  DEATHS – 94  MARRIAGES - 28 
===PAGE 137===
 
137 
TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS 
Annual Town Meeting May 2, 2015 
The Annual Town Meeting was called to order in the Lunenburg High School Auditorium by the Moderator at 9:01 
AM a quorum was declared.  We pledged allegiance, thanked all elected and appointed officials  and volunteers for 
their service, reviewed rules of parliamentary procedure and then action was taken as follows:     
ARTICLE 1.  CC To see if the Town will vote  to re re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½ the 
Ambulance Billing revolving fu nd.  The purpose of this fund will be to cover the cost associated with compensating third 
party advanced life support companies and third party billing companies that contract and supply services to the town.  Five 
per cent (5%) of the total revenue gener ated by ambulance services rendered and 100% of the revenue generated by 
Advanced Life Support services rendered shall be deposited into said revolving fund.  The proceeds of said Revolving Fund 
shall be expended by the Fire Department without further appr opriation for the sole purpose of reimbursing the 
aforementioned companies for services rendered to the town; expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed $ 60,000 
during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Comm ittee or take any other action 
relative thereto. . [Submitted by the Fire Chief]  Board of Selectmen Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee 
Recommends Approval, 5 - 0.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
ARTICLE  2.  CC To see if the Town will vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½ the Timber 
Rights revolving fund,  such fund to be credited with the proceeds of sale by the Conservation Commission of the rights to 
harvest timber; funds in the account to be expended for the acquisition of la nd for conservation purposes and associated costs 
of such acquisitions, including but not limited to appraisals and payment of accrued taxes; such funds may also be expended 
for improvements on land already under the custody and control of the Conservation  Commission; the Conservation 
Commission may expend such funds without further appropriation; expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed 
$10,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take a ny other 
action relative thereto.  [Submitted by the Conservation Commission ]  Board of Selectmen Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  
Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 - 0. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT  
ARTICLE 3. CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½, the 
Custodial Special Detail Revolving Fund,  for the purpose of paying special detail salaries for outside functions.  Charges 
and money received from outside organizations in connection with this program are to b e deposited in said revolving fund 
and expended by the Lunenburg School Committee without further appropriation for the sole purpose of paying personnel for 
hours worked.  Said revolving account expenditures shall not exceed $25,000 per year without the ap proval of the Board of 
Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. [Submitted by the School Committee]  Board of 
Selectmen Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 - 0.VOTED UNANIMOUS 
CONSENT   
ARTICLE 4.CC To see if the Town will vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½, the Green  
Thumb Revolving Fund,  to support the Green  Thumb Program at Lunenburg High School.  Fees, charges, and money 
received from sales of items in connec tion with this program are to be deposited in this Revolving Fund Account and 
expended for the operation of this program by the Lunenburg School Committee without further appropriation; said revolving 
account expenditures shall not exceed $ 20,000 per year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee; or take any other action relative thereto.  [Submitted by the School Committee ]  Board of Selectmen 
Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 - 0.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
ARTICLE 5 .CC To see if T own will vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½, the Library 
Revolving Fund, to receive funds from library fines and penalties, donations and bequests up to $12,000, said funds to be 
expended by the Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library for the purchase of library and information materials and document 
information and electronic data delivery. Charges expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed $12,000 during the 
fiscal year without the app roval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto.  
[Submitted by the Library Director ]  Board of Selectmen Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee Recommends 
Approval, 5 - 0. VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT  
ARTICLE 6.  CC To see if the will Town vote to re-authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E½, the 
Council on Aging\Montachusett Area Regional Transit (MART) Elderly Transportation Revolving Fund ; the 
operation of said account shall be conducted by the Council on Aging, and the Senior Center Director; funds in this account 
shall be spent on the dispatch, operation, maintenance and record keeping of the MART vehicles for the elderly  
===PAGE 138===
 
138 
transportation program; all receipts resulting from MART reimbursement s shall be credited to this account; said revolving 
account expenditures shall not exceed $ 45,000 per year without the prior approval of the Board of Selectmen and the Finance 
Committee; or take any other action relative thereto.  [Submitted by the Council  on Aging ]  Board of Selectmen 
Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee Recommends Approval, 5 - 0.  VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
ARTICLE 7.To see if the T own will vote to hear and/ or accept the regular written reports of the Town Officers and 
Committees; or take any other action relative thereto.   [Submitted by Board of Selectmen]  Board of Selectmen 
Recommends Approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact .  Planning Board and Town Meeting 
honored Marion Benson for her years of service to the Town of Lunenburg and dedicated the meeting room in the Planning 
Board office as the Marion Benson Meeting Room.  PACC made a presentation of their budget.    
ARTICLE 8.   To see if the Town will vote  to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available finds the sum of $1,782 
for payment of Prior Year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto.   [Submitted by the Town Accountant] Board 
of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends approval 5 - 0.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds, all sums to money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2015 Budget, under Article 19 of the May 3, 2014 Annual 
Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee to make recommendations at Town M eeting. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to transfer from Free Cash the sum of 
$250,000, transfer from Line 19, Selectmen’s Administrat ion, the sum of $9,000, and from Line 16, Finance Committee 
Expenses, the sum of $250, and from Line 13, Reserve Fund, the sum of $50,000, and from Line 17, Annual Audit, the sum 
of $1,650, and from Line 24, Treasurer’s Administration, the sum of $22,900, and from Line 26, Tax Collector’s 
Administration, the sum of $7,005, and from Line 29, Technology Director, the sum of $3,000, and from Line 30, Legal 
Expenses, the sum of $12,500, and from Line 35, Planning Board, the sum of $12,955, and from Line 9, Town  Reports, the 
sum of $1,000, and from Line 38, Central Purchasing, the sum of $2,950, and from Line 41, Injury Leave, the sum of $3,000, 
and from Line 61, General Highway Maintenance, the sum of $41,917, and from Line 67, Park Department, the sum of 
$6,781, and from Line 73, Recycling Program, the sum of $53,754, and from Line 42, Police/Fire Medical Expenses, the sum 
of $2,500, and from Line 14, Unemployment Expense, the sum of $11,000, and from Line 4, Liability Insurance, the sum of 
$22,499; and to trans fer to Line 32, Town Clerk’s Administration, the sum of $2,500, and to Line 40, Police Lock Up, the 
sum of $20,093, and to Line 43, Fire Department, the sum of $28,000, and to Line 46, Radio Watch, the sum of $5,000, and 
to Line 52, Plumbing/Gas Inspector,  the sum of $2,500, and to Line 49, Wiring Inspector, the sum of $10,500, and to Line 
70, Snow Removal, the sum of $259,300, and to Line 65, Vehicle Maintenance -Police, the sum of $6,539, and to Line 66, 
Vehicle Maintenance -Fire, the sum of $8,000, and to Line 74, Council on Aging, the sum of $2,000, and to Line 75, 
Veterans’ Benefits, the sum of $60,376, and to Line 82, Lunenburg Public Library, the sum of $16,200, and to increase 
Cherry Sheet Choice Tuition Assessments by $93,653; to amend amounts voted u nder Article 18 of the May 3, 2014 Annual 
Town Meeting. [Submitted by the Town Manager]  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval.   
ARTICLE 10.To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum  of money to fund 
the first year of the FY’15, FY’16 & FY’17 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, Local 4358A Collective Bargaining 
Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – June 30, 2017; or take any action relative thereto.  [Submitted by the Town Manager]  Board 
of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendations at Town Meeting.  ARTICLE 10 WAS PASSED OVER 
ARTICLE 11.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money 
to fund the first year of the FY’13, FY’14 & FY’15 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2012 – June 30, 
2015 with Public Employees Local Union 39 of the Laborers’ International Union of North America; or take any other 
action there to. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Committee recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer from Article 18 of the 5/3/14 Annual Town 
Meeting, Line 13A, Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $10,338, and transfer to Line 71, Facilities & Grounds the sum of 
$5,225, transfer to Line 69, Tree Removal, the sum of $68, transfer to Line 60, Highway O vertime, the sum of $236, and 
transfer to Line 68, Cemetery Department, the sum of $4,809; to fund the Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 
2012-June 30, 2015 with Public Employees Local Union 39 of the Laborers’ International Union of America.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
 
ARTICLE 12. To see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate  or transfer from available funds, a sum of money 
to fund the first year of the FY’14m FY’15 & FY’16 Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 
2014 – June 30, 2016 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen recommends and Finance Committee recommends approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer 
from Article 18 of the 5/3/14 Annual Town Meeting, Line 13A, Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $3,000, and transfer to Line  
===PAGE 139===
 
139 
 
39, Police Department, the sum of $3, 000; to fund the Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 
1, 2013-June 30, 2016.   
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund the first year of the FY’15, FY’16 & FY’17 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 
2014 – June 30, 2017 with AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager ) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 4 -0, 1 abstain (Bertram); 
Finance Committee recommends approval.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to transfer from Article 18 of the 5/3/14  
Annual Town Meeting, Line 13A, Salary Reserve Fund, the sum of $8,852, and transfer to Line 19, Selectmen’s 
Administration, the sum of $12, transfer to Line 23, Town Accountant, the sum of $426, transfer to Line 28, 
Assessor’s Administration, the sum of $ 859, transfer to Line 24, Treasurer’s Administration, the sum of $319, 
transfer to Line 26, Tax Collector’s Administration, the sum of $434, transfer to Line 32, Town Clerk’s 
Administration, the sum of $374, transfer to Line 37, Conservation Commission, th e sum of $463, transfer to Line 
35, Planning Board, the sum of $604, transfer to Line 36, Zoning Board of Appeals, the sum of $12, transfer to Line 
39, Police Department, the sum of $738, transfer to Line 50, Building Inspection, the sum of $658, transfer to Line 
59, Highway Labor, the sum of $600, transfer to Line 54, Board of Health, the sum of $463, transfer to Line 74, 
Council on Aging, the sum of $580, and transfer to Line 82, Lunenburg Public Library, the sum of $2,310; to fund 
the first year of the F Y’15, FY’16, FY’17 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 -June 30, 2017 with 
AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union. 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of 
money of t he FY 2016 Capital Plan, as appe aring in the Capital Planning Committee Report , or take any 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Capital Planning Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval of 
$1,051,578, 5-0. Finance Committee recommends appro val of $801,578, 5 -0.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise 
and appropriate the sum of $511,525.36 and to transfer the sum of $43,624.00 from Article 14 of the May 3, 2014 
Annual Town Meeting; and $7,036.86 from Article 4 of the November 15, 2005 Special Town Meeting; and 
$4,411.88 from Article 3 of the M ay 1, 2010 Annual Town Meeting; and $346.00 from Article 19 of the May 7, 
2011 Annual Town Meeting; and $7,304.47 from Article 16 of the May 5, 2012 Annual Town Meeting; and 
$4,561.43 from Article 14 of the May 4, 2013 Annual Town Meeting; and borrow the s um of $222,768.00 for a total 
appropriation of $801,578 to fund the FY16 Capital Plan, as follows: 6-Wheel Dump & Sander  borrow $190,000; 
Backhoe, $ 120,000; Police Vehicles, Marked, $96,000; Drainage Culvert Repair, 2 -Phases, $43,728; Municipal 
Buildings, Feasibility Study, $28,000; Intersection Reconfiguration, Plan & Implementation, $40,850; Technology, 
Town Departments, $34,000; DPW, Street Sweeper, borrow $180,000; Police, Speed Sign, $12,000; Technology, 
School Department, $30,000; Replace Gas Burner, Library, $15,000; HVAC Management System, $12,000. 
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2016 and to fix the salaries and c ompensation 
of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budge t of the Town Manager,  or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval of 
$32,025,894, 5 -0, Finance Committee recommends approval of $32,025,894, 5 -0.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to 
raise and appropriate $30,941,718.12, transfer $10,868.00 from Septic Receipts Reserved for Appropriation, transfer 
$794,909.88 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, transfer $32,000 from the Student Transportation Offset Receipt 
Fund, transfer from Free Cash the sum of $183,618.00, and transfer $62,781 from the Water Betterment Revenue to 
defray the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2016 of $32,025,895.00, and to fix the sal aries and 
compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager . 
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen recommends approval of $98,231, 5 -0, Finance Committee recommends approval of $98,231, 
5-0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise and appropriate the sum of $48,231 and appropriate from free cash the sum 
of $50,000 for a total of $98,231 to be transferred to the Stabilization Fund.   
 
===PAGE 140===
 
140 

===PAGE 141===
 
141 

===PAGE 142===
 
142 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds $810,317 
to operate the Sewer Enterpris e Fund for FY2016;  or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0. Finance Committee recommends approval 5 -0. 
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of $732,915.33 and appropriate 
from Sewer Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $77,401.80, for a total appropriation of $810,317.13 to operate 
the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY16; and further that $7 94,909.88 be inclu ded in appropriations from the General 
Fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sewer Enterprise Fund.    
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds 
$265,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY2016 , or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, finance 
Committee recommends approval 5 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal  
Enterprise Revenues $265,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program.   
 
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, $25,000 
to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Ente rprise Fund for FY2016 , or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance Committee 
recommends approval 5 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to appropriate from Water En terprise Revenues $25,000 to 
operate the Water Department.  
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the T own will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds $10,000 
in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, Section 53C for the Police Detail Special Fund, for the purposes of 
paying special detail salaries for off duty details (outside functions) of members of the Police Department.  
Charges and money received from outside organizations in connection with this program are to be deposited in said 
special fund and expended by the Lunenburg Police Department without further appropriation of the sole purpose of 
paying personnel for hours worked; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectm en) Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to 
raise and a ppropriate the sum of $ 10,000 in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, Section 53C for the Police Detail 
Special Fund for the purposes of paying special detail salaries for off duty  details of members of the Police 
Department.   
 
ARTICLE 21.   To see if the T own will vote, pursuant to General Laws Chapter 40, Section 5B, to cr eate a 
Reserve Capacity Stabilization F und and further to raise and appropriate from available funds the sum of 
$617.10 into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto (Submitted by 
Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5 -0.  
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY , pursuant to General Laws Chapter 40, Section 5B, to create a Reserve Capacity 
Stabilization Fund and further to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings, the sum of $617.10 into the 
Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund.   
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see is the Town will vote to establish a revolving loan program unde r the jurisdiction of the 
Board of Selectmen for purposes in assisting income qualified town residents to r eplace or upgrade septic 
systems or connect to town’s se wer system; and to a uthorize the Board of Selectmen  to enter into an agreem ent 
with Montachusett Regional Planning Commission to administer said fund; and to provide funds for such purpose to 
transfer the funds re corded in Account 2575 of the t own accountan t’s books, which funds represent the repaid 
monies from a grant program provided by the former Massachusetts Executive Office of Communities and 
Development (EOCD) for a revolving fund for septic sys tems upgrades, or to take any other action thereto. 
(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Finance Committee will report at town meeting.  Article 22 was PASSED 
OVER  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 143===
 
143 
ARTICLE 23.   To s ee if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody and control from the Board of 
Selectmen for the purpose for which it is currently held to the School Committee for school purposes, the 
property at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, for the purpose  of granting a non -exclusive, perpetual 
easement to Boston Gas Company to construct, install and maintain gas  facilities upon said property shown on a 
plan entitled “C200 and C210 dated 11/14/14 Conformance Set and As Built of the Gas Line Installation,” which 
plan is on file with the Town Clerk, on such terms and conditions which the Board of  Selectmen/School Committee 
may determine, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by School Committee)  Board of Se lectmen 
recommends approval 5-0. Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
 
ARTICLE 24.   To see if the T own will vote to transfer the care, custody and control from the Board of 
Selectmen for the purpose for which it is currently held to the School Committee for scho ol purposes, the 
property at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg,  for the purpose of granting a non -exclusive, perpetual 
easement to UNITIL Corpor ation, to  construct, install and maintain  electric facilities upon the portion of said 
property shown on a pl an entitled “C200 dated 11/14/2014 Conformance Set,” which plan is on file with the Town 
Clerk, on such terms and conditions which the Board of Sel ectmen/School Committee may dete rmine, or take any 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by School Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, finance 
Committee reports no direct impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  
 
ARTICLE 25.  To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of amount of $105,975.36, the premium 
paid to the Town upon the sale of bonds or no tes issued for the construction of a new Middle School/High 
School, which are subject of a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclusion, to pays costs of the project being financed by such 
bonds or notes and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for such projec t, but not yet issued by the town, 
by the same amount. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance 
Committee recommends approval 5 -0. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  to appropriate the sum of $105,975.36, the 
premium paid to the Town upon the sale of bonds or notes issued for the construction of a new Middle School/ High 
School, which are the subject of a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclusion, to pay costs of the project bein g financed by such 
bonds or notes and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for such project, under Article 1 of the January 
7, 2014 STM, but not yet issued by the Town, by the same amount.    
===PAGE 144===
 
144 
ARTICLE 26.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws of the Town by adding Section 
XXXII, entitled Architectural Preservation District, as follows: 
 
Section XXXII ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT  
Section 1: Purpose 
This bylaw is enacted under the Home Rule Amendment of the Massachusetts Constitution for the purposes of:  
(a)  Preserving, restoring and protecting groups of historically and/or architecturally significant buildings and the 
characteristics of their neighborhoods that are important to the town’s architectural, cultural, economic, political 
and/or social history;  
(b)  Fostering wider public knowledge and appreciation of such neighborhoods and Contributing Properties;  
(c)  Limiting the detrimental effect of alterations (substantial & minor), additions, and demolitions on the character 
of such Contributing Properties and their neighborhood settings;  
(d) Reviewing proposed alterations (substantial and minor) including demolition of or to any Contributing Pro perty 
located within the APD, for appropriateness and compatibility with the existing buildings, setting and neighborhood 
character; and  
(e) Facilitating the protection of the APD through a regulatory review.  
To achieve these purposes, the Town of Lunenburg may designate APDs to be administered as set forth in this 
bylaw.  
 
Section 2: Definitions  
For the purpose of this bylaw, the terms and words listed below shall have the following meaning:  
 
ADDITION: Any addition to a principal or accessory Contributing Property that is enclosed by walls and which 
increases the existing gross floor area. 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW/DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY: Pursuant to Section 7 of this 
bylaw, a process to review proposed alterations to Contributing Properties and iden tify the need for Binding Review.  
AGGRIEVED PARTY: The owner of the subject property or an owner of real property located within the APD or 
within three hundred feet of the subject property. 
ALTERATION, MINOR: Replacement, modification or material change to existing architectural features on a 
Contributing Property, which retains the character of the property as determined by the Architectural Preservation 
District Commission. Examples include, but are not limited to windows, doors, roof material and trim work.  
ALTERATION, SUBSTANTIAL: A change to a Contributing Property or part thereof, such as removal, 
reconstruction, restoration, replication, rehabilitation, addition, or demolition; and/or a change to a site that includes, 
enlarging or moving a building and other similar activities.  
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT (“APD”): An area of historic and /or architectural 
significance determined by the Town’s residents to be worthy of preservation. 
BINDING REVIEW: Pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw, a mandatory process which applies to substantial 
alterations of contributing properties, including demolition, in the APD.  
BUILDING: A combination of materials having a roof, the purpose of which is the shelter of persons, animals, 
property, or processes, including any other permanent structure.  
CERTIFICATE TO ALTER: A document issued by the APDC allowing Alterations pursuant to Section 8 of this 
bylaw.  
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: Any building or stone wall within an APD, which is older than 75 years and 
contributes to the Architectural Preservation District’s historical character as determined by the Architectural 
Preservation District Commission. 
 
===PAGE 145===
 
145 
DEMOLITION: The act of removing or razing structures or significant parts of structures, or commencing the work of total 
or substantial destruction with the intent of completing the same.  
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Destruction by failure to maintain roof, siding, foundation or any other aspect that requires 
upkeep, which could ultimately result in the Contributing Property being condemned. These include but are not limited to:  
1. Facades which may fall and injure members of the public or property. 
2. Deteriorated or inadequate foundation, deteriorated flooring or floor supports, deteriorated  walls or other vertical 
structural supports. 
3. Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to 
deterioration. 
4. Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or 
doors. 
5. Improper or insufficient waterproofing or exterior wall covering, including lack of paint or weathering due to lack of 
paint or other protective covering. 
6. Any fault or defect in the Contributing Property caused by alteration or neglect of maintenance, which renders it not 
properly watertight or structurally unsafe. 
7. Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to deterioration. 
DESIGN GUIDELINES: A public document which provides further detail and illustration of the design standards 
established in Section 9 of this bylaw. Such guidelines, by facilitating the APDC’s determination as to whether proposed 
alterations are appropriate and compatible with the existing Contributing Property’s, setting and neigh borhood character of 
the APD, will ensure fair, reasonable and objective preservation practices by the APDC.  
 
DRAFT MAP 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 146===
 
146 
Section 3: Designation of Architectural Preservation District (APD)  
The APD shall, by Town Meeting vote, encompass the areas shown on the map entitled “Town of Lunenburg, Architectural 
Preservation District,” and appended to this bylaw. Amendments to the district boundaries may be made only by vote of 
Town Meeting.  
 
Section 4: Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC)  
The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a five-member APDC to oversee the APD pursuant to this bylaw. Initially, two 
members shall be appointed for one year, two for two years, and one for three years; each successive appointmen t shall be 
made for three years. The Board of Selectmen may also appoint up to two alternate members, initially for terms of one, two 
and three years, and for three-year terms thereafter. If members are absent, unable to act, or recused from voting due to a 
conflict of interest, the APDC chair may designate one or both of the alternate members to serve in their place. To the exten t 
achievable, the APDC shall be comprised of the following persons: a member of the Lunenburg Historical Commission; a 
design professional; a craftsperson or building contractor familiar with historic restoration; and two residents of the APD and 
one resident at large. Members and alternates of the APDC shall by reason of experience and/or education have 
demonstrable knowledge, interest, and ability to effectively carry out the APDC’s responsibilities.  
 
Section 5: APDC Powers and Duties  
The APDC shall exercise its powers in reviewing the alteration (substantial or minor) , including demolition of contributing 
properties within the APD as set forth in this bylaw, and in accordance with the standards described in Section 9. Within 180 
days of its establishment, the APDC shall adopt design guidelines to assist the APDC in determining whether the proposal 
satisfies the standards described in Section 9, as well as to facilitate owner understanding of, and compliance with, those 
standards. The APDC may also promulgate rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this bylaw, or set forth 
such forms and procedures as it deems appropriate for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of its business, including 
requirements for the contents and form of applications for certificates, hearing procedures and other matters. In adopting 
design guidelines and rules and regulations, including any subsequent amendments, the APDC shall first hold a duly posted 
public hearing advertised at least fourteen (14) days in advance within a newspaper of local circulation.  
The APDC shall not adopt or amend any design guidelines or rules and regula tions until at least 35 days after the APDC has 
provided a copy of those proposed guidelines or rules and regulations to the Board of Selectmen.  
 
Section 6: Exemptions  
The following are exempt from the requirements of this bylaw:  
a) Routine maintenance of Contributing Properties. 
b) Repairs or improvements which do not require a building permit from the Building Inspector.  
c) Temporary buildings (subject to time and size limits imposed by the APDC).  
d) Interior building alterations.  
e) Exterior building colors.  
f) Installation, removal or replacement of storm windows and storm doors, screen windows and screen doors.  
g) Installation, removal or replacement of gutters, downspouts, window shutters and door shutters.  
h) Structures not defined as Contributing Properties.  
 
Section 7: Administrative Review/Determination of Applicability  
Minor alterations such as like for like replacement of architectural features and other minor work (as outlined in the APDC 
regulations) shall be reviewed through this process to ensure consistency of the property’s character and appropriateness of 
the proposed materials. The APDC shall make a determination that the proposed work is exempt or that it does not retain the 
character of the Contributing Property. In the case where the work does not retain the character of the Contributing Property 
it shall be determined to equate to a substantial alteration and require a binding review per Section 8 of this Bylaw.  
Property owners considering substantial alterations to a Contributing Property are strongly encouraged, but not required, to 
request an Administrative Review from the APDC. This review would focus on directing the applicant toward developing a 
proposal that would be compliant with the Binding Review Process in Section 8 .  
Administrative Review does not require a public hearing and can be requested electronically. In providing Administrative 
Review for a proposed Alteration, the APDC shall make a finding as to whether or not the proposed Alteration is compatible 
with the standards in Section 9 and the associated design guidelines. The APDC shall provide its finding in writing, as a 
Negative Determination or a Requirement of Binding Review, and within 45 days of receiving a request for Administrative 
Review. The Requirement of Binding Review may include recommendations on how the proposed Alteration could be made 
more consistent with the standards and the design guidelines. 
 
Section 8: Binding Review  
The following Alterations require the submittal of an application for binding review by the APDC:  
(a) Demolition of all or a part of a Contributing Property.  
===PAGE 147===
 
147 
(b) Substantial Alterations to a Contributing Property.  
Applications should include a completed application form and photographs showing existing buildings and site cond itions. 
For substantial alteration, including additions and demolition, applicants should also provide building elevations showing th e 
proposed configuration and building materials; a plan showing the approximate footprint and relationships of buildings to  
other structures, exterior circulation, and points of entry; and any other plans which may help to demonstrate the proposed 
building design. Applications can be submitted electronically, but applicants shall also provide one hard copy of the 
application to the Planning Office. If appropriate, the APDC may waive any or all of the requirements for design submittal 
and review.  
Within forty-five (45) days of the application submittal, a copy of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk, the APDC shall 
hold a public hearing on the application, said hearing to be noticed by an ad published at least once in a newspaper with local 
circulation fourteen (14) days or more before the hearing. Following the hearing, the APDC shall determine whether or not 
the proposed Alteration is consistent with the standards set forth in Section 9 and the associated design guidelines. If the 
APDC determines by majority vote that the Alteration adheres to the standards and the design guidelines, it shall issue a 
Certificate to Alter, which may be subject to reasonable conditions that the APDC deems necessary and appropriate. If the 
APDC does not achieve a majority vote that the Alteration is compatible with the standards and the design guidelines, it shal l 
make a negative determination. The APDC’s written determination shall be submitted to the property owner within twenty 
(20) days of the close of the public hearing, and no later than ninety (90) days after the submittal of an application, unles s 
granted a time extension by the owner. In making its determination, the APDC shall provide a rationale for its action, 
including a description of how the alteration does or does not meet the standards set forth in Section 9 and the design 
guidelines. If the APDC denies a Certificate to Alter, it may include non- binding advisory only, recommendations on how 
the proposed Alterations may be modified to satisfy the APDC. Once the applicant modifies the Alterations in a manner that 
the APDC finds acceptable, the APDC shall issue a Certificate to Alter. The determinations of the APDC relative to 
Alterations described in this Section 8, whether positive or negative, shall be binding on the applicant.  
 
Section 9: Design Standards When reviewing an application, the APDC shall consider the following standards, which are 
intended to guide the property owner in the site development and building design, as well as the APDC in its review of 
proposed actions as described in Section 8 above:  
(a) Height and Proportions – The height, proportions, and relationship of height to width between windows, doors, signs 
and other architectural elements should be compatible with the architectural style and character of the building or structure .  
(b) Relation of Structures and Spaces – The relation of a structure to the open space between it and adjoining structures 
should be compatible with such relationships in the district.  
(c) Shape – The shape of roofs, windows, doors and other design elements should be compatible with the architectural style 
and character of the building.  
(d) Scale – The scale of a structure alteration should be compatible with its architectural design style and character and that of 
the district.  
(e) Directional Expression – Building facades and other architectural design elements should be compatible with those of 
others in the district with regard to the dominant vertical or horizontal expression or direction related to use and historic al or 
cultural character, as appropriate.  
(f) Garages and Accessory Buildings – Garages and accessory buildings shall be sensitively integrated into the overall 
development, and should not be the predominant design feature when viewed from the street.  
(g) Materials & Methods of Construction – Materials used shall be consistent with the appearance and character of the  
surrounding properties and contribute to historic nature of the area. Construction methods shall meet Building Code 
requirements and visually resemble historic patterns but may use contemporary technology.  
Section 10: Procedures for Issuance and Filing of APDC Determinations: Each Certificate to Alter or negative 
determination issued by the APDC shall be dated and signed by its chair or such other person designated by the APDC to 
sign certificates on its behalf. The APDC shall send a written copy of its actions to the property owner and shall file other 
copies with the office of the Town Clerk and the Building Inspector. The date of issuance of a certificate or negative 
determination shall be the date of its filing of other said copy with the office of the  Town Clerk. If the APDC should fail to 
submit a written determination within twenty (20) days of closing its public hearing, or within ninety (90) days of the 
submittal of a Certificate, or within such further time as the applicant may allow in writing, a  Certificate to Alter shall be 
waived in favor of the property owner.  
Section 11: Enforcement In addition to the duties previously set forth in this Bylaw, the APDC or the Building Inspector 
shall issue enforcement orders, with an immediate cease and desist order directing compliance with this Bylaw and shall 
undertake any other enforcement authorized by law. 
Upon request of APDC, and with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, the Town Counsel shall take legal action on behalf 
of the Town for enforcement of this Bylaw, or any order issued hereunder, in any court of competent jurisdiction.  
===PAGE 148===
 
148 
In the case of demolition, including demolition by neglect, without approval of the APDC no building permit shall be issued 
with respect to any Contributing Property within the APD that caused a demolition of its building, structure or Contributing 
Property for a period of up to two (2) years after the date of the violation.  
The APDC or its designee may use any and all of the aforementioned enforcement methods to address the contributing 
factors of demolition by neglect for purposes of preventing a Contributing Property from becoming structurally deficient or 
economically infeasible to repair.  
 
Section 12: Coordination with Other Town Boards and Bylaws  
(a) Except as stated in “(b)” below, the APDC’s authority as established in this bylaw shall not supersede or interfere with the 
regulatory authority of other local or state boards or APDCs.  
(b) By exercise of this bylaw, the APDC assumes the authority of the Lunenburg His torical Commission pursuant to Chapter 
XVI of these General Bylaws, relative to the proposed demolition (including demolition by neglect) of buildings that are over  
75 years of age and located within the APD.  
(c) The APDC shall coordinate its review with that of other Town Boards.  
(d) The APDC shall be included as an advisory review entity in new construction projects that move through the Planning 
Board Development Plan Review and/or Special Permit processes.  
  
Section 13: Appeal Procedure  
Any aggrieved party may appeal the action of the APDC in accordance with the General Laws.  
Section 14: Validity and Separability  
The provisions of this bylaw shall be deemed to be separable. If any of its provisions, sections, subsections, sentences or 
clauses shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this bylaw 
shall continue to be in full force and effect.  
 
Section 15: Appendices  
Appendix A: The location and boundaries of the Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation District are defined and 
shown on the Town of Lunenburg Village Center District Map and the Town of Lunenburg Historic District Map, which is a 
part of this bylaw.” or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Historical Commission and the Planning 
Board) Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no 
direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 26.   VOTED (with amendments italicized) to amend the General Bylaws of the Town by adding 
Section XXXII, entitled Architectural Preservation District, as follows: 
Section XXXII ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT  
Section 1: Purpose 
This bylaw is enacted under the Home Rule Amendment of the Massachusetts Constitution for the pu rposes of:  
(a)  Preserving, restoring and protecting groups of historically and/or architecturally significant buildings and the 
characteristics of their neighborhoods that are important to the town’s architectural, cultural, economic, political and/or s ocial 
history;  
(b)  Fostering wider public knowledge and appreciation of such neighborhoods and Contributing Properties;  
(c)  Limiting the detrimental effect of alterations (substantial & minor), additions, and demolitions on the character of such 
Contributing Properties and their neighborhood settings;  
(d) Reviewing proposed alterations (substantial and minor) including demolition of or to any Contributing Property located 
within the APD, for appropriateness and compatibility with the existing buildings, setting and neighborhood character; and  
(e) Facilitating the protection of the APD through a regulatory review.  
To achieve these purposes, the Town of Lunenburg may designate APDs to be administered as set forth in this bylaw.  
Section 2: Definitions  
For the purpose of this bylaw, the terms and words listed below shall have the following meaning:  
 
ADDITION: Any addition to a principal or accessory Contributing Property that is enclosed by walls and which increases 
the existing gross floor area. 
===PAGE 149===
 
149 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW/DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY: Pursuant to Section 7 of this bylaw, a 
process to review proposed alterations to Contributing Properties and identify the need for Binding Review.  
 Remove AGGRIEVED PARTY: The owner of the subject property or an owner of real property located within the APD or 
within three hundred feet of the subject property. 
ALTERATION, MINOR: Replacement, modification or material change to existing architectural features on a Contributing 
Property, which retains the character of the property as determined by the Architectural Preservation District Commission. 
Examples include, but are not limited to windows, doors, roof material and trim work.  
ALTERATION, SUBSTANTIAL: A change to a Contributing Property or part thereof, such as removal, reconstruction, 
restoration, replication, rehabilitation, addition, or demolition; and/or a change to a site that includes, enlarging or movi ng a 
building and other similar activities.  
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT (“APD”):  An area of historic and /or architectural significance 
determined by the Town’s residents to be worthy of preservation. 
BINDING REVIEW: Pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw, a mandatory process which applies to substantial alterations of 
contributing properties, including demolition, in the APD.  
BUILDING: A combination of materials having a roof, the purpose of which is the shelter of persons, animals, property, or 
processes, including any other permanent structure.  
CERTIFICATE TO ALTER: A document issued by the APDC allowing Alterations pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw.  
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: Any building or stone wall within an APD, which is older than 75 years and contributes to 
the Architectural Preservation District’s historical character as determined by the  Architectural Preservation District 
Commission. 
DEMOLITION: The act of removing or razing structures or significant parts of structures, or commencing the work of total 
or substantial destruction with the intent of completing the same.  
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Destruction by failure to maintain roof, siding, foundation or any other aspect that requires 
upkeep, which could ultimately result in the Contributing Property being condemned. These include but are not limited to:  
1. Facades which may fall and injure members of the public or property. 
2. Deteriorated or inadequate foundation, deteriorated flooring or floor supports, deteriorated walls or other vertical 
structural supports. 
3. Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members wh ich sag, split or buckle due to 
deterioration. 
4. Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or 
doors. 
5. Improper or insufficient waterproofing or exterior wall covering, including lack of paint or weathering due to lack of 
paint or other protective covering. 
6. Any fault or defect in the Contributing Property caused by alteration or neglect of maintenance, which renders it not 
properly watertight or structurally unsafe. 
7. Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to deterioration. 
DESIGN GUIDELINES: A public document which provides further detail and illustration of the design standards 
established in Section 9 of this bylaw. Such guidelines, by facilitating the APDC’s determination as to whether proposed 
alterations are appropriate and compatible with the existing Contributing Property’s, setting and neighborhood character of 
the APD, will ensure fair, reasonable and objective preservation practices by the APDC.  
 
===PAGE 150===
 
150 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW/DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY: Pursuant to Section 7 of this bylaw, a 
process to review proposed alterations to Contributing Properties and identify the need for Binding Review.  
 Remove AGGRIEVED PARTY: The owner of the subject property or an owner of real property located within the APD or 
within three hundred feet of the subject property. 
ALTERATION, MINOR: Replacement, modification or material change to existing architectural features on a Contributing 
Property, which retains the character of the property as determined by the Architectural Preservation District Commission. 
Examples include, but are not limited to windows, doors, roof material and trim work.  
ALTERATION, SUBSTANTIAL: A change to a Contributing Property or part thereof, such as removal, reconstruction, 
restoration, replication, rehabilitation, addition, or demolition; and/or a change to a site that includes, enlarging or movi ng a 
building and other similar activities.  
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT (“APD”):  An area of historic and /or architectural significance 
determined by the Town’s residents to be worthy of preservation. 
BINDING REVIEW: Pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw, a mandatory process which applies to substantial alterations of 
contributing properties, including demolition, in the APD.  
BUILDING: A combination of materials having a roof, the purpose of which is the shelter of persons, animals, property, or 
processes, including any other permanent structure.  
CERTIFICATE TO ALTER: A document issued by the APDC allowing Alterations pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw.  
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: Any building or stone wall within an APD, which is older than 75 years and contributes to 
the Architectural Preservation District’s historical character as determined by the  Architectural Preservation District 
Commission. 
DEMOLITION: The act of removing or razing structures or significant parts of structures, or commencing the work of total 
or substantial destruction with the intent of completing the same.  
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Destruction by failure to maintain roof, siding, foundation or any other aspect that requires 
upkeep, which could ultimately result in the Contributing Property being condemned. These include but are not limited to:  
1. Facades which may fall and injure members of the public or property. 
2. Deteriorated or inadequate foundation, deteriorated flooring or floor supports, deteriorated walls or other vertical 
structural supports. 
3. Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members wh ich sag, split or buckle due to 
deterioration. 
4. Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or 
doors. 
5. Improper or insufficient waterproofing or exterior wall covering, including lack of paint or weathering due to lack of 
paint or other protective covering. 
6. Any fault or defect in the Contributing Property caused by alteration or neglect of maintenance, which renders it not 
properly watertight or structurally unsafe. 
7. Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to deterioration. 
DESIGN GUIDELINES: A public document which provides further detail and illustration of the design standards 
established in Section 9 of this bylaw. Such guidelines, by facilitating the APDC’s determination as to whether proposed 
alterations are appropriate and compatible with the existing Contributing Property’s, setting and neighborhood character of 
the APD, will ensure fair, reasonable and objective preservation practices by the APDC.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 151===
 
151 
DRAFT MAP 
 
 
 
Section 3: Designation of Architectural Preservation District (APD)  
The APD shall, by Town Meeting vote, encompass the areas shown on the map entitled “Town of Lunenburg  Historic 
District and the Lunenburg Village District,” and appended to this bylaw. Amendments to the district boundaries may be 
made only by vote of Town Meeting.  
 
Section 4: Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC)  
The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a five-member APDC to oversee the APD pursuant to this bylaw. Initially, two 
members shall be appointed for one year, two for two years, and one for three years; each successive appointment shall be 
made for three years. The Board of Selectmen may also appoint up to two alternate members, initially for terms of o ne, two 
and three years, and for three-year terms thereafter. If members are absent, unable to act, or recused from voting due to a 
conflict of interest, the APDC chair may designate one or both of the alternate members to serve in their place. To the exte nt 
achievable, the APDC shall be comprised of the following persons: a member of the Lunenburg Historical Commission; a 
design professional; a craftsperson or building contractor familiar with historic restoration; and two residents of the APD  and 
one resident at large. Members and alternates of the APDC shall by reason of experience and/or education have 
demonstrable knowledge, interest, and ability to effectively carry out the APDC’s responsibilities.  
 
Section 5: APDC Powers and Duties  
The APDC shall exercise its powers in reviewing the alteration (substantial or minor) , including demolition of contributing 
properties within the APD as set forth in this bylaw, and in accordance with the standards described in Section 9. Within 180  
days of its establishment, the APDC shall adopt design guidelines to assist the APDC in determining whether the proposal 
satisfies the standards described in Section 9, as well as to facilitate owner understanding of, and compliance with, those 
standards. The APDC may also promulgate rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this bylaw, or set forth 
such forms and procedures as it deems appropriate for the regulation of its affairs and the conduct of its business, includin g 
requirements for the contents and form of applications for certificates, hearing procedures and other matters. In adopting  

===PAGE 152===
 
152 
design guidelines and rules and regulations, including any subsequent amendments, the APDC shall first hold a duly posted 
public hearing advertised at least fourteen (14) days in advance within a newspaper of local circulation.  
The APDC shall not adopt or amend any design guidelines or rules and regulations until at least 35 days after the APDC has 
provided a copy of those proposed guidelines or rules and regulations to the B oard of Selectmen.  
 
Section 6: Exemptions  
The following are exempt from the requirements of this bylaw:  
a) Routine maintenance of Contributing Properties. 
b) Repairs or improvements which do not require a building permit from the Building Inspector.  
c) Temporary buildings (subject to time and size limits imposed by the APDC).  
d) Interior building alterations.  
e) Exterior building colors.  
f) Installation, removal or replacement of storm windows and storm doors, screen windows and screen doors.  
g) Installation, removal or replacement of gutters, downspouts, window shutters and door shutters.  
h) Structures not defined as Contributing Properties.  
 
Section 7: Administrative Review/Determination of Applicability  
Minor alterations such as like for like replacement of architectural features and other minor work (as outlined in the APDC 
regulations) shall be reviewed through this process to ensure consistency of the property’s character and appropriateness of 
the proposed materials. The APDC shall make a determination that the proposed work is exempt or that it does not retain the 
character of the Contributing Property. In the case where the work does not retain the character of the Contributing Property  
it shall be determined to equate to a substantial alteration and require a binding review per Section 8 of this Bylaw.  
Property owners considering substantial alterations to a Contributing Property are strongly encouraged, but not required, to 
request an Administrative Review from the APDC. This review would focus on directing the applicant toward developing a 
proposal that would be compliant with the Binding Review Process in Section 8.  Administrative Review does not require a 
public hearing and can be requested electronically. In providing Administrative Re view for a proposed Alteration, the APDC 
shall make a finding as to whether or not the proposed Alteration is compatible with the standards in Section 9 and the 
associated design guidelines. The APDC shall provide its finding in writing, as a Negative Dete rmination or a Requirement 
of Binding Review, and within 45 days of receiving a request for Administrative Review. The Requirement of Binding 
Review may include recommendations on how the proposed Alteration could be made more consistent with the standards  and 
the design guidelines. 
 
Section 8: Binding Review  
The following Alterations require the submittal of an application for binding review by the APDC:  
(a) Demolition of all or a part of a Contributing Property.  
(b) Substantial Alterations to a Contributing Property.  
Applications should include a completed application form and photographs showing existing buildings and site conditions. 
For substantial alteration, including additions and demolition, applicants should also provide building elevations sho wing the 
proposed configuration and building materials; a plan showing the approximate footprint and relationships of buildings to 
other structures, exterior circulation, and points of entry; and any other plans which may help to demonstrate the proposed 
building design. Applications can be submitted electronically, but applicants shall also provide one hard copy of the 
application to the Planning Office. If appropriate, the APDC may waive any or all of the requirements for design submittal 
and review.  
Within thirty (45) days of the application submittal, a copy of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk, the APDC shall hold 
a public hearing on the application, said hearing to be noticed by an ad published at least once in a newspaper with local 
circulation fourteen (14) days or more before the hearing. Following the hearing, the APDC shall determine whether or not 
the proposed Alteration is consistent with the standards set forth in Section 9 and the associated design guidelines. If the 
APDC determines by majority vote that the Alteration adheres to the standards and the design guidelines, it shall issue a 
Certificate to Alter, which may be subject to reasonable conditions that the APDC deems necessary and appropriate. If the 
APDC does not achieve a majority vote that the Alteration is compatible with the standards and the design guidelines, it shall 
make a negative determination. The APDC’s written determination shall be submitted to the property owner within twenty 
(20) days of the close of the public hearing, and no later than ninety (90) days after the submittal of an application, unless 
granted a time extension by the owner. In making its determination, the APDC shall provide a rationale for its action, 
including a description of how the alteration does or does not meet the standards set forth in Section 9 and the design 
guidelines. If the APDC denies a Certificate to Alter, it may include non - binding advisory only, recommendations on how 
the proposed Alterations may be modified to satisfy the APDC. Once the applicant modifies the Alterations in a manner that 
the APDC finds acceptable, the APDC shall issue a Certificate to Alter. The determinations of the APDC relative to 
Alterations described in this Section 8, whether positive or negative, shall be bind ing on the applicant.  
===PAGE 153===
 
153 
Section 9: Design Standards When reviewing an application, the APDC shall consider the following standards, which are 
intended to guide the property owner in the site development and building design, as well as the APDC in its revie w of 
proposed actions as described in Section 8 above:  
(a) Height and Proportions – The height, proportions, and relationship of height to width between windows, doors, signs 
and other architectural elements should be compatible with the architectural style and character of the building or structure.  
(b) Relation of Structures and Spaces – The relation of a structure to the open space between it and adjoining structures 
should be compatible with such relationships in the district.  
(c) Shape – The shape of roofs, windows, doors and other design elements should be compatible with the architectural style 
and character of the building.  
(d) Scale – The scale of a structure alteration should be compatible with its architectural design style and character and t hat of 
the district.  
(e) Directional Expression – Building facades and other architectural design elements should be compatible with those of 
others in the district with regard to the dominant vertical or horizontal expression or direction related to use and historical or 
cultural character, as appropriate.  
(f) Garages and Accessory Buildings – Garages and accessory buildings shall be sensitively integrated into the overall 
development, and should not be the predominant design feature when viewed from the  street. 
(g) Materials & Methods of Construction – Materials used shall be consistent with the appearance and character of the 
surrounding properties and contribute to historic nature of the area. Construction methods shall meet Building Code 
requirements and visually resemble historic patterns but may use contemporary technology.  
Section 10: Procedures for Issuance and Filing of APDC Determinations: Each Certificate to Alter or negative 
determination issued by the APDC shall be dated and signed by its chair or such other person designated by the APDC to 
sign certificates on its behalf. The APDC shall send a written copy of its actions to the property owner and shall file other  
copies with the office of the Town Clerk and the Building Inspector. The date of  issuance of a certificate or negative 
determination shall be the date of its filing of other said copy with the office of the Town Clerk. If the APDC should fail t o 
submit a written determination within twenty (20) days of closing its public hearing, or w ithin ninety (90) days of the 
submittal of a Certificate, or within such further time as the applicant may allow in writing, a Certificate to Alter shall b e 
waived in favor of the property owner.  
Section 11: Enforcement In addition to the duties previously set forth in this Bylaw, the APDC or the Building Inspector 
shall issue enforcement orders, with an immediate cease and desist order directing compliance with this Bylaw and shall 
undertake any other enforcement authorized by law. 
Upon request of APDC, and with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, the Town Counsel shall take legal action on behalf 
of the Town for enforcement of this Bylaw, or any order issued hereunder, in any court of competent jurisdiction.  
In the case of demolition, including demolition by neglect, without approval of the APDC no building permit shall be issued 
with respect to any Contributing Property within the APD that caused a demolition of its building, structure or Contributing 
Property for a period of up to two (2) years after the date of the violation. 
The APDC or its designee may use any and all of the aforementioned enforcement methods to address the contributing 
factors of demolition by neglect for purposes of preventing a Contributing Property from becoming structurally de ficient or 
economically infeasible to repair.  
 
Section 12: Coordination with Other Town Boards and Bylaws  
(a) Except as stated in “(b)” below, the APDC’s authority as established in this bylaw shall not supersede or interfere with the 
regulatory authority of other local or state boards or APDCs.  
(b) By exercise of this bylaw, the APDC assumes the authority of the Lunenburg Historical Commission pursuant to Chapter 
XVI of these General Bylaws, relative to the proposed demolition (including demolition by n eglect) of buildings that are over 
75 years of age and located within the APD.  
(c) The APDC shall coordinate its review with that of other Town Boards.  
(d) The APDC shall be included as an advisory review entity in new construction projects that move thr ough the Planning 
Board Development Plan Review and/or Special Permit processes.  
  
Section 13: Appeal Procedure  
Any aggrieved party may appeal the action of the APDC in accordance with the General Laws.  
Section 14: Validity and Separability  
The provisions of this bylaw shall be deemed to be separable. If any of its provisions, sections, subsections, sentences or 
clauses shall be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this bylaw 
shall continue to be in full force and effect.  
 
===PAGE 154===
 
154 
Section 15: Appendices  
Appendix A: The location and boundaries of the Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation District are defined and 
shown on the Town of Lunenburg Village Center District Map and the Town of Lunenburg H istoric District Map, which is a 
part of this bylaw.”  
 
ARTICLE 27.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding Section 4.17, Village Center 
District as follows: 
 
4.17. VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT 
PREAMBLE 
The Lunenburg Town Center region has tremendous importance in symbolizing the unique character and heritage of 
Lunenburg.  As residents engage with the historic buildings and streetscape of this area in the course of their routine daily  
business, be it school related, recreational, commercial, or even just driving through, the experience greatly reinforces a 
profound bond with the town’s present community and past heritage.   
There is an opportunity to significantly improve the quality of this already poignant civic experience and increas e the number 
of people who will be drawn to share in it by expanding the businesses and other attractions in the area.  There is also a ke y 
challenge to preserving this critical embodiment of our town. Appropriate new uses or remedies must be found to the 
increasing number of underutilized buildings located about the town center.    
Town planning experience and best practices, as exemplified in the state’s model bylaw for Village Center Districts, 
demonstrates some key ingredients to sustaining and enriching this type of environment in small towns.  One of these is 
careful stewardship through clear guidelines for development consistent with what the area means to the community.  
Another is encouraging a level of intensive mixed use development, so that the c ritical mass of social and economic activity 
can be reached that will naturally provide the resources and inspiration required to maintain and organically adapt the area 
landmarks, buildings, and infrastructure without excessive burden on the Town’s public  finances. 
4.17.1. Purpose 
In pursuit of this opportunity and to address this challenge, the Town implements this bylaw and designates this zoning 
district as Village Center District in order to encourage economic and residential growth that fits the chara cter of the Town. 
The purposes of the Village Center District are to: 
a. Build upon the historic development patterns in the existing village centers to create attractive, walkable neighborhoods;  
b. Encourage adaptive reuse of abandoned, vacant or underutilized buildings or structures where appropriate; 
c. Allow for a mix of new land uses that are appropriate to both the needs of the community and the scale of surrounding 
neighborhoods; 
d. Provide incentives to develop larger parcels at higher densities and in a coordinated, planned approach; 
e. Maintain a consistently high level of design quality throughout the district;  
f. Encourage the development of mixed use buildings and campuses that are designed and constructed in a manner that is 
contextually sensitive to the existing structures and facilities.  
4.17.2. Establishment 
The Village Center District is hereby established as of 1 January 2016 and consists of the area shown as the Village Center 
District on Town of Lunenburg Zoning Map on file with the Town /City Clerk and dated 2 May 2015 as may be amended 
from time to time by Town Meeting.  
4.17.3. Definitions 
Artist Space: A shop for the creation and/or sale of goods made by a potter, ceramicist, silversmith, jewelry maker, painter, 
photographer or other fine artist. This space may also serve as a living space for the artist provided there is adequate 
separation between uses per the governing Building and Health Codes. 
Banner: A strip of cloth or other man made fabric on which a sign is painted, silk -screened or printed. The display area shall 
be defined as the area of one face of the banner. The banner shall not exceed (40) square feet and shall not be displayed for  
more than fourteen (14) consecutive days.  
Bed & Breakfast:  Bed and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast Establishment provided that: 
a) The dwelling is owner occupied. 
b) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Bylaw.  
c) Parking for each room available for rent is provided in the side yard behind the setback line or in the rea r yard, but not 
nearer than ten (10) feet to any property line. One (1) parking place shall be provided for each bedroom.  
d) The outside appearance of the building is not altered from that of a residence, except to comply with the Building Code.  
===PAGE 155===
 
155 
Civic Use: A land use that provides a public, cultural, or institutional benefit to the community. Specific uses may include, 
but shall not be limited to, government offices, religious institutions, educational institutions, and medical facilities (no t 
including veterinary operations). For the purposes of this bylaw, civic uses shall not include open space as defined below.  
Multiple Commercial Use: A combination of commercial uses within a single building or lot.  In the case of uses that fall 
under the Special Permit requirements of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use 
prior to the filing for Development Plan Review. 
Mixed Use: A combination of commercial and residential uses within a single building or lot. In the case of uses that fall 
under the Special Permit requirements of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use 
prior to the filing for Development Plan Review.  
Personal Service: An establishment engaged in the provision of services to the general public which are conducted within the 
structure. This includes, but is not limited to, barbers, hair salons, massage therapists, chiropractors and nail salons.  
Professional Office: An office primarily devoted to professional activities, including, but not limited to, banks, real estate, 
insurance or other agency offices; an office of an accountant, physician, teacher, dentist, engineer, lawyer, homebuilder, 
photographer, or other recognized professional for which specific training and/or l icensing is required. Drive-thru service 
shall be limited to banks and shall require a Special Permit. 
Open Space: In the context of an application for a Village Center District Special Permit, this term denotes open areas set 
aside for public use as part of a coordinated site development process. Specific requirements for ownership and maintenance 
are provided in Section 4.17.9. and shall not include areas covered with impervious surface treatments.  
Transparency: The amount of transparent space that occupies a building façade including standard street-level windows and 
doorway windows. 
Restaurant: A place serving food and beverage within a structure or patio, primarily for consumption on the premises. Drive -
thru windows shall be prohibited for this use. 
Retail: An establishment engaged in displaying and selling goods or merchandise within a building to the general public or 
to business establishments where the goods or merchandise are not intended for resale. There shall be no outdoor display of 
goods without the granting of Special Permit from the Board of Appeals.  
4.17.4. Authority 
The Planning Board shall act as the administering authority for any Development Plan Review procedure associated with this 
bylaw Section 8.4. The Board of Appeals shall serve as the Special Permit Granting Authority for any use that requires a 
Special Permit in the district, any use requiring a Special Permit pursuant to Section 4.17.5.  
4.17.5. Use Provisions 
a. The following uses are allowed by-right subject to any Development Plan Review requirements listed in Section 8.4 and all 
applicable density and design provisions listed in this bylaw. 
1) Retail, with maximum 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area 
2) Professional Office Space 
3) Personal Service 
4) Artist space  
5) Restaurant 
6) Bed & Breakfast 
7) Mixed Use containing less than  5,000 sq. ft. per individual proposed use 
8) Multiple Commercial Use containing less than 5,000 sq. ft.  per individual proposed use  
9) Civic Uses 
b. The following uses are allowed only through the granting of a Special Permit by the Bo ard of Appeals pursuant to the 
procedures outlined in Section 8.3. 
1) Single and Two-Family Homes 
2) Multi-Family Homes 
3) Apartment Complexes 
4) Movie House/ Theatre (maximum of two screens) 
5) Liquor Stores 
6) Outdoor Markets subject to applicable licensing requirements 
7) Private Club 
8) Drive Through Use for Banks 
9) Retail Use greater than 5,000 sq. ft.  
10) Uses allowed by -right with a floor area greater than 5,000 sq. ft. included in a Multiple Commercial Use or Mixed 
Use development.  
c. Special Permit Approval Criteria – The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act upon all applications a fter notice and public 
hearing, and after due consideration may grant such a special permit provided that it finds the proposed use:  
===PAGE 156===
 
156 
a. Is in harmony with the purpose and intent of the Bylaw and will promote the purposes of the Village Center District. 
b. The use is in harmony with those of the abutting properties and the Village Center District as a whole.  
c. All applicable standards for use, parking, and dimensional requirements are met;  
d. All applicable design standards listed in Section 8 are met. 
e. Where multiple structures are proposed, the site design reflects a thoughtful arrangement of elements that will facilitate th e 
movement of pedestrians between structures through the use of sidewalks, in ternal walkways, alleys or open space features. 
d. The following uses are prohibited in the Village Center District 
1) Newly constructed one-story buildings on lots of less than 5 acres.  
2) Retail operations with more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross floor area on any individual floor, except for  
     reuse of buildings existing prior to 1 May 2015.  
3) Drive through establishments, excluding those expressly allowed by Special Permit.  
4.17.6. Dimensional Requirements 
a.  
Building Type 
Mixed Use with 
Commercial 1st 
Floor 
Other Mixed-Use 
or Residential Only 
Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
(Gross Floor Area/Lot Size) 
2.0 1.5 
Minimum Lot Frontage 75 feet 
Maximum Lot Coverage 85% 
Minimum Lot Area N/A 
Number of Buildings Per Lot See Section 4.17.9 
Maximum Building Frontage 300 feet 
Minimum Front Setback  5 feet 
Maximum Front Setback w/o street furniture 15 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback abutting a Residential 
Zone 
10 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback in VCD 5 feet 
Interior Setback (Between Buildings on the Same 
Lot) 
10 feet 
 
b. Height Limitations for Non -residential and Mixed Use: Building height for mixed use or non -residential use shall not 
exceed thirty-eight (38) feet and no building shall have more than three (3) stories.  
4.17.7. Parking Requirements 
Use Parking Requirement 
Retail/Personal Service/Liquor Store  1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net floor area, plus 1 
space per employee on the largest shift 
Professional Office/Civic Uses 1 parking space per 300 sq. ft. of net floor area 
 
===PAGE 157===
 
157 
Artists Space 1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net retail/gallery floor 
area, plus 2 parking space per dwelling unit 
Restaurant/Private Club 1 parking space per 4 seats, plus one for each employee 
on the largest shift 
Bed & Breakfast 1 parking space per accommodation room, plus 2 
parking spaces for the primary residence, plus 1 per non-
resident employee on the largest shift. 
Mixed Use/Multiple Commercial Parking to be Provided per the Individual Uses 
All Residential Uses 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit 
Movie House 1 parking space per 4 occupants, plus 1 parking space 
per 2 employees on the largest shift 
Outdoor Market 1 parking space per 500 sq. ft. 
  
 
As part of a Development Plan approval or Special Permit process within this district, the applicant may request reductions to 
minimum requirements or alternative methods for meeting the required parking. Available innovative parking strategies 
include: 
a. Shared On-Site Parking 
1) Non-competing Uses. In mixed -use developments, applicants may pr opose a reduction in parking requirements 
based on an analysis of peak demands for noncompeting uses. Up to 50% of the requirements for the predominant 
use may be waived by the Planning Board or the Board of Appeals if the applicant can demonstrate that th e peak 
demands for two uses do not overlap. An additional 25% may be waived with the addition of bicycle parking 
facilities.  
b. Off-Site Parking 
Separate from, or in conjunction with Shared Parking provisions, an applicant may use off -site parking to sati sfy their 
parking requirements in accordance with the following conditions: 
1) Off-site parking shall be within one-thousand (1000) feet of the property for which it is being requested. 
2) Off -site parking spaces provided by a separate private property own er shall be subject to a legally binding 
agreement that will be presented to the Permit Granting Authority as a condition of either the Development Plan 
Review or the Special Permit. Where an agreement shall expire within a specified timeline, the applican t or current 
property owner shall continue to provide evidence to the Zoning Enforcement Agent that the agreement has been 
extended. The Permit Granting Authority will verify with the Zoning Enforcement Officer that there are no existing 
parking agreements during the permitting process. 
4.17.8. Design Standards 
The Design Standards in this section shall be applied to development within the Village Center District where applicable.  
a. Occupied Lot Area. 
     1) The total lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display and other impervious surfaces may occupy up to    
         eighty-five (85%) percent of the total lot area. 
b. Buildings 
    1) All buildings shall have a principal façade and entry (with operable doors) facing a stree t or open space. Buildings may    
        have more than one principal façade and/or entry. 
    2) Building finish materials shall be appropriate to traditional New England architecture.  
    3) Building facades, materials and roof lines shall be reviewed under the permit granting authority to ensure consistency  
===PAGE 158===
 
158 
        and compatibility with other structures. 
    4) Blank walls adjacent to streets, alleys or open spaces shall not be permitted. Whe re windows are not possible or   
        appropriate to the intended use, vertical articulation in the form of raised or recessed surfaces shall be used to break up   
        blank walls. 
    5) New retail buildings shall have one of the following features along the front entrances to pedestrians: awning, marquee,  
        arcade and/ or colonnade. 
    6) Flat roofs that are visible from the street are prohibited unless an appropriate façade is included in the design.  
    7) Larger buildings with multiple non-residential tenants on the first floor shall articulate the façade in a manner that  
        distinguishes the location of these tenants through the use of decorative raised or depressed vertical surfaces, variations    
        of acceptable signage, awnings, marquees, colonnades or arcades. 
    8) Mixed Use buildings shall have no more than twenty five (25%) percent of the first floor dedicated to residential use.  
    Conversion or partial conversion of residential uses existing before 1 May 2015 are exempt from this provision.  
    9) All new utility service connections shall be placed underground. 
    10) Lighting, signage and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the District and reviewed under the  
          Permit Granting Authority. 
      
c. Signs 
1) Primary signs shall be flat against the façade, or mounted projecting from the façade. 
2) Signs that project from buildings shall have at least ten (10) feet of clearance from the ground level.  
3) Signs shall be externally lit from the front; lighting shall be provided using a gooseneck fixture. Back li ghting of signs 
shall not be used. 
4) Neon, flashing signs, moving signs, electric message signs, and roof signs shall not be used, except for barber poles.  
5) Banners with a specific date of expiration, shall be allowed, after approval by the Zoning Enfor cement Officer. 
6) Signs shall be made of attractive materials consistent with the character of the district. Materials may include wood  
    (painted or natural), stone, copper, brass, galvanized steel, painted canvas or paint/engraved on façade surface.  
7) Signs may only be incorporated into the skirt of awnings and not on the primary angled surface.  
8) Each building façade facing a street or parking area is permitted to have signs that equal a maximum square footage of fiv e  
    (5%) percent of the respective façade. 
9) A building with multiple businesses shall have signs of equal size on the façade, signs shall be either rectangular or ova l   
    shaped. 
10) Free standing signs shall be prohibited except for municipal use, portable and temporary signs.  
11) Sandwich board signs, flags and other portable signs are permitted only within the property lines, as long as they are   
      properly weighted. 
12) Window signs, comprising no more than ten (10%) percent of the transparent surface, shall be allowed. Window signs  
       shall not be lighted or animated in any manner, with the exception of the standard lighting fixtures within the building.   
 
d. Site Design 
    1)  Interior Streets, Drives, Walkways and Access. 
         a) Site access shall be a single divided way (one way in and one way out) where and when appropriate as determined by  
             the Permit Granting Authority. 
         b) Surfaces shall be pervious when possible and practical. 
         c) Street level frontage shall be devoted to entrances, shop windows or other displays. 
         d) Primary entrances to proposed and existing buildings shall be situated on pedestrian amenities (e.g., sidewalks,   
             plazas or open space) with a minimum width of 10 feet. 
         e) Setbacks shall be consistent with the fabric of the existing street and do not preclude pedestrian access.  
  2) Parking and Loading Area. 
       a) Parking shall be in the rear or side of building(s) and shall not be visible from the street line when possible. Par king  
           will be reviewed by the Permit Granting Authority. 
       b) All loading docks shall be to the rear of the building(s) and shall not be visible from the street. Adequate access for  
            loading and emergency vehicles is maintained on one side of the building. 
  3) Sidewalks. 
       a) Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable, and from the parking areas to building(s).  
  4) Landscaping. 
      a) There shall be a minimum of a four (4) foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along the front and side of  
          the principal building(s) and plantings of indigenous materials along the façades of the building(s) and between the  
          building(s) if there is more than one principal building on site. 
      b) Additional landscaping and screening may be required during the Development Plan Review or by the permitting  
          authority. 
      c) Such landscape shall be a type and height that does not interfere with sight lines of drivers.  
===PAGE 159===
 
159 
      d) Natural features shall be retained to the extent possible. 
      e) A landscape plan shall be provided and reviewed. 
      f) Where residential neighborhoods abut commercial, office or mixed use developments, appropriate transitional features   
         shall be used and may include landscaping, open space or parks, or streets with clearly designed pedestrian features.  
5) Street Furniture. 
     a) Light fixtures shall be designed to be of number and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such lighting shall  shine  
         downwards as to not affect adjacent properties and be dark sky compliant. 
     b)  Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building. 
     c) A Lighting Plan may be required if the Permitting Granting Authority deems the pr oject is of such a scale that the  
         impacts to the neighborhood are adverse; such plan will show where all light fixtures are being proposed within the site,  
         as well as a narrative as to the type of light and height of all fixtures.  
     d) Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a style consistent with the principal use(s) of the site.  
      e) The location, number and style of exterior trash receptacles shall be reviewed under Permit Granting Authority.  
 
4.17.9. Village Center District Campus Developments 
Developments that contain multiple buildings and uses on a single lot are encouraged as long as they are sensitive to the 
context of the surrounding area and meet the purposes outlined above. These developments are subjec t to the provisions of 
Section 8.4 Development Plan Review of the Protective Bylaw as well as the additional design guidelines outlined in Section 
4.17.8. of this Bylaw and below.  
a. Additional Design Standards: In addition to those design standards liste d in Section 4.17.8. of this bylaw, applications 
for a Village Center District Campus shall also meet the following standards:  
1) Buildings 
i. Newly constructed building façades for non -residential first floor uses shall have a transparency of at least twenty 
(20%) percent and no more than sixty (60%) percent for all facades that, wholly or partially, address street frontage, 
sidewalks, or other public space.  
ii. Buildings in Village Center District Campus Developments shall meet the following criteria:  
a) No more t han ten (10%) percent of the first floor of newly constructed buildings shall be occupied by 
residential use. 
b) No more than sixty (60%) percent of the total gross floor area of the development shall be occupied by 
residential use.  
2) Signs 
i. Freestanding directory signs may be permitted as part of a Village Center District Campus application where several 
non-residential operations are accessed through a common vehicular entrance. Such freestanding signs shall not 
exceed eight (8) feet in height, six (6) feet  in width and each tenant shall be allowed a maximum of four and a half 
(4.5) square feet to display the company or agency name. 
3) Site Design  
i. Buildings shall be arranged in a manner that optimizes the ability of residents and consumers to access public spaces 
and pedestrian amenities. 
(ii) Buildings shall be oriented toward each other in a way that minimizes conflicts between pedestrians and 
automobiles. 
               (iii) Open space provided pursuant to Section 4.17.9.b. of this bylaw shall be designed as a public gathering place.  
               Arcades, courtyards, parks, greens or other common areas shall be located in a manner that connects buildings to   
               each other and to public sidewalks without interruption from parking areas or automobile travel lanes to the greatest  
               practicable extent. 
        (iv) Features that may be used to create open space areas acceptable to the Planning Board or the Board of Appeals 
may include, without limitation, fixed benches, fixed tabl es, fountains, pathways, bikeways, bicycle racks, period 
lighting, shade trees, perennial gardens, picnic areas, and/or trash receptacles.  
4.17.10 Severability 
If any provision of this bylaw is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaind er of the bylaw shall not be 
affected thereby, or take any other action relative thereto    (Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial 
impact..    
VOTED (2/3rds DECLARED) (with amendments italicized) that the Town vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding 
Section 4.17, Village Center District as follows: 
===PAGE 160===
 
160 
 
4.17. VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT 
PREAMBLE 
The Lunenburg Town Center region has tremendou s importance in symbolizing the unique character and heritage of 
Lunenburg.  As residents engage with the historic buildings and streetscape of this area in the course of their routine daily  
business, be it school related, recreational, commercial, or even  just driving through, the experience greatly reinforces a 
profound bond with the town’s present community and past heritage.   
There is an opportunity to significantly improve the quality of this already poignant civic experience and increase the numbe r 
of people who will be drawn to share in it by expanding the businesses and other attractions in the area.  There is also a key  
challenge to preserving this critical embodiment of our town. Appropriate new uses or remedies must be found to the 
increasing number of underutilized buildings located about the town center.    
Town planning experience and best practices, as exemplified in the state’s model bylaw for Village Center Districts, 
demonstrates some key ingredients to sustaining and enriching this type of  environment in small towns.  One of these is 
careful stewardship through clear guidelines for development consistent with what the area means to the community.  
Another is encouraging a level of intensive mixed use development, so that the critical mass o f social and economic activity 
can be reached that will naturally provide the resources and inspiration required to maintain and organically adapt the area 
landmarks, buildings, and infrastructure without excessive burden on the Town’s public finances.  
4.17.1. Purpose 
In pursuit of this opportunity and to address this challenge, the Town implements this bylaw and designates this zoning 
district as Village Center District in order to encourage economic and residential growth that fits the character of the To wn. 
The purposes of the Village Center District are to: 
a. Build upon the historic development patterns in the existing village centers to create attractive, walkable neighborhoods;  
b. Encourage adaptive reuse of abandoned, vacant or underutilized buildings or structures where appropriate; 
c. Allow for a mix of new land uses that are appropriate to both the needs of the community and the scale of surrounding 
neighborhoods; 
d. Provide incentives to develop larger parcels at higher densities and in a coordina ted, planned approach; 
e. Maintain a consistently high level of design quality throughout the district;  
f. Encourage the development of mixed use buildings and campuses that are designed and constructed in a manner that is 
contextually sensitive to the existing structures and facilities.  
4.17.2. Establishment 
The Village Center District is hereby established as of 1 January 2016 and consists of the area shown as the Village Center 
District on Town of Lunenburg Zoning Map on file with the Town/City Clerk an d dated 2 May 2015 as may be amended 
from time to time by Town Meeting.  
4.17.3. Definitions 
Artist Space: A shop for the creation and/or sale of goods made by a potter, ceramicist, silversmith, jewelry maker, painter, 
photographer or other fine artist. Th is space may also serve as a living space for the artist provided there is adequate 
separation between uses per the governing Building and Health Codes. 
Banner: A strip of cloth or other man made fabric on which a sign is painted, silk -screened or printed. The display area shall 
be defined as the area of one face of the banner. The banner shall not exceed (40) square feet and shall not be displayed for  
more than fourteen (14) consecutive days.  
Bed & Breakfast:  Bed and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast Establishment provided that: 
a) The dwelling is owner occupied. 
===PAGE 161===
 
161 
b) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Bylaw.  
c) Parking for each room available for rent is provided in the side yard behind the setback line or in the rear yard, but no t 
nearer than ten (10) feet to any property line. One (1) parking place shall be provided for each bedroom.  
d) The outside appearance of the building is not altered from that of a residence, except to comply with the Building Code.  
Civic Use: A land use th at provides a public, cultural, or institutional benefit to the community. Specific uses may include, 
but shall not be limited to, government offices, religious institutions, educational institutions, and medical facilities (no t 
including veterinary operations). For the purposes of this bylaw, civic uses shall not include open space as defined below.  
Multiple Commercial Use : A combination of commercial uses within a single building or lot.  In the case of uses that fall 
under the Special Permit requirements  of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use 
prior to the filing for Development Plan Review. 
Mixed Use: A combination of commercial and residential uses within a single building or lot. In the case of uses that fall  
under the Special Permit requirements of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use 
prior to the filing for Development Plan Review.  
Personal Service: An establishment engaged in the provision of services to the gene ral public which are conducted within the 
structure. This includes, but is not limited to, barbers, hair salons, massage therapists, chiropractors and nail salons.  
Professional Office: An office primarily devoted to professional activities, including, but not limited to, banks, real estate, 
insurance or other agency offices; an office of an accountant, physician, teacher, dentist, engineer, lawyer, homebuilder, 
photographer, or other recognized professional for which specific training and/or licensing is re quired. Drive -thru service 
shall be limited to banks and shall require a Special Permit. 
Open Space: In the context of an application for a Village Center District Special Permit, this term denotes open areas set 
aside for public use as part of a coordinat ed site development process. Specific requirements for ownership and maintenance 
are provided in Section 4.17.9. and shall not include areas covered with impervious surface treatments.  
Transparency: The amount of transparent space that occupies a building façade including standard street -level windows and 
doorway windows. 
Restaurant: A place serving food and beverage within a structure or patio, primarily for consumption on the premises. Drive -
thru windows shall be prohibited for this use. 
Retail: An establishment engaged in displaying and selling goods or merchandise within a building to the general public or 
to business establishments where the goods or merchandise are not intended for resale. There shall be no outdoor display of 
goods without the granting of Special Permit from the Board of Appeals.  
4.17.4. Authority 
The Planning Board shall act as the administering authority for any Development Plan Review procedure associated with this 
bylaw Section 8.4. The Board of Appeals shall serve as the Special P ermit Granting Authority for any use that requires a 
Special Permit in the district, any use requiring a Special Permit pursuant to Section 4.17.5.  
4.17.5. Use Provisions 
a. The following uses are allowed by-right subject to any Development Plan Review requirements listed in Section 8.4 and all 
applicable density and design provisions listed in this bylaw. 
1) Retail, with maximum 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area 
2) Professional Office Space 
3) Personal Service 
4) Artist space  
5) Restaurant 
6) Bed & Breakfast 
7) Mixed Use containing less than  5,000 sq. ft. per individual proposed use 
8) Multiple Commercial Use containing less than 5,000 sq. ft.  per individual proposed use  
9) Civic Uses 
===PAGE 162===
 
162 
b. The following uses are allowed only through the granting of a Special Permit by the Board of Appeals  pursuant to the 
procedures outlined in Section 8.3. 
1) Single and Two-Family Homes 
2) Multi-Family Homes 
3) Apartment Complexes 
4) Movie House/ Theatre (maximum of two screens) 
5) Liquor Stores 
6) Outdoor Markets subject to applicable licensing requirements 
7) Private Club 
8) Drive Through Use for Banks 
9) Retail Use greater than 5,000 sq. ft.  
10) Uses allowed by -right with a floor area greater than 5,000 sq. ft. included in a Multiple Commercial Use or Mixed 
Use development.  
c. Special Permit Approval Criteria – The Zoning Board of A ppeals shall act upon all applications a fter notice and public 
hearing, and after due consideration may grant such a special permit provided that it finds the proposed use:  
a. Is in harmony with the purpose and intent of the Bylaw and will promote the purp oses of the Village Center District. 
b. The use is in harmony with those of the abutting properties and the Village Center District as a whole.  
c. All applicable standards for use, parking, and dimensional requirements are met;  
d. All applicable design standards listed in Section 8 are met. 
e. Where multiple structures are proposed, the site design reflects a thoughtful arrangement of elements that will 
facilitate the movement of pedestrians between structures through the use of sidewalks, internal walkway s, alleys or 
open space features. 
d. The following uses are prohibited in the Village Center District 
1) Newly constructed one-story buildings on lots of less than 5 acres.  
2) Retail operations with more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross flo or area on any individual floor, except 
for reuse of buildings existing prior to 1 May 2015.  
3) Drive through establishments, excluding those expressly allowed by Special Permit.  
4.17.6. Dimensional Requirements 
a.  
Building Type 
Mixed Use with 
Commercial 1st 
Floor 
Other Mixed-Use 
or Residential Only 
Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
(Gross Floor Area/Lot Size) 
2.0 1.5 
Minimum Lot Frontage 75 feet 
Maximum Lot Coverage 85% 
Minimum Lot Area N/A 
Number of Buildings Per Lot See Section 4.17.9 
Maximum Building Frontage 300 feet 
 
===PAGE 163===
 
163 
Minimum Front Setback  5 feet 
Maximum Front Setback w/o street furniture 15 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback abutting a Residential 
Zone 
10 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback in VCD 5 feet 
Interior Setback (Between Buildings on the Same 
Lot) 
10 feet 
 
b. Height Limitations for Non -residential and Mixed Use: Building height for mixed use or non -residential use shall not 
exceed thirty-eight (38) feet and no building shall have more than three (3) stories.  
 
 
 
4.17.7. Parking Requirements 
Use Parking Requirement 
Retail/Personal Service/Liquor Store  1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net floor area, plus 1 
space per employee on the largest shift 
Professional Office/Civic Uses 1 parking space per 300 sq. ft. of net floor area 
Artists Space 1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net retail/gallery floor 
area, plus 2 parking space per dwelling unit 
Restaurant/Private Club 1 parking space per 4 seats, plus one for each employee 
on the largest shift 
Bed & Breakfast 1 parking space per accommodation room, plus 2 
parking spaces for the primary residence, plus 1 per non-
resident employee on the largest shift. 
Mixed Use/Multiple Commercial Parking to be Provided per the Individual Uses 
All Residential Uses 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit 
Movie House 1 parking space per 4 occupants, plus 1 parking space 
per 2 employees on the largest shift 
Outdoor Market 1 parking space per 500 sq. ft. 
  
 
As part of a Development Plan approval or Special Permit process within this district, the applicant may req uest reductions to 
minimum requirements or alternative methods for meeting the required parking. Available innovative parking strategies 
include: 
a. Shared On-Site Parking 
