===PAGE 164===
 
164 
1) Non-competing Uses. In mixed -use developments, applicants may propose a reduction  in parking requirements 
based on an analysis of peak demands for noncompeting uses. Up to 50% of the requirements for the predominant 
use may be waived by the Planning Board or the Board of Appeals if the applicant can demonstrate that the peak 
demands fo r two uses do not overlap. An additional 25% may be waived with the addition of bicycle parking 
facilities.  
b. Off-Site Parking 
Separate from, or in conjunction with Shared Parking provisions, an applicant may use off -site parking to satisfy their 
parking requirements in accordance with the following conditions: 
1) Off-site parking shall be within one-thousand (1000) feet of the property for which it is being requested. 
2) Off -site parking spaces provided by a separate private property owner shall be subje ct to a legally binding 
agreement that will be presented to the Permit Granting Authority as a condition of either the Development Plan 
Review or the Special Permit. Where an agreement shall expire within a specified timeline, the applicant or current 
property owner shall continue to provide evidence to the Zoning Enforcement Agent that the agreement has been 
extended. The Permit Granting Authority will verify with the Zoning Enforcement Officer that there are no existing 
parking agreements during the permitting process. 
 
4.17.8. Design Standards 
The Design Standards in this section shall be applied to development within the Village Center District where applicable.  
a. Occupied Lot Area. 
1) The total lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display an d other impervious surfaces may 
occupy up to eighty-five (85%) percent of the total lot area. 
b. Buildings 
     1) All buildings shall have a principal façade and entry (with operable doors) facing a stree t or open space. Buildings  
         may have more than one principal façade and/or entry. 
      2) Building finish materials shall be appropriate to traditional New England architecture.  
      3) Building facades, materials and roof lines shall be reviewed under the permit granting autho rity to ensure consistency    
           and compatibility with other structures. 
      4) Blank walls adjacent to streets, alleys or open spaces shall not be permitted. Where windows are not possible or   
           appropriate to the intended use, vertical articulation in the form of raised or recessed surfaces shall be used to break up   
           blank walls. 
      5) New retail buildings shall have one of the following features along the front entrances to pedestrians: awning,   
            marquee, arcade and/ or colonnade. 
      6) Flat roofs that are visible from the street are prohibited unless an appropriate façade is included in the design.  
      7) Larger buildings with multiple non-residential tenants on the first floor shall articulate the façade in a manner that       
          distinguishes the location of these tenants through the use of decorative raised or depressed ve rtical surfaces, variations  
          of acceptable signage, awnings, marquees, colonnades or arcades. 
      8) Mixed Use buildings shall have no more than twenty five (25%) percent of the first floor dedicated to residential use  
          Conversion or partial conversion of residential uses existing before 1 May 2015 are exempt from this provision.  
      9) All new utility service connections shall be placed underground. 
     10) Lighting, signage and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the District and reviewed under the  
             Permit Granting Authority. 
c. Signs 
1) Primary signs shall be flat against the façade, or mounted projecting from the façade. 
2) Signs that project from buildings shall have at least ten (10) feet of clearance from the ground level.  
3) Signs shall be externally lit from the front; lighting shall be provided using a gooseneck fixture . Back lighting of signs 
shall not be used. 
4) Neon, flashing signs, moving signs, electric message signs, and roof signs shall not be used, except for barber poles.  
5) Banners with a specific date of expiration, shall be allowed, after approval by the Zoning En forcement Officer. 
6) Signs shall be made of attractive materials consistent with the character of the district. Materials may include wood 
(painted or natural), stone, copper, brass, galvanized steel, painted canvas or paint/engraved on façade surface.  
7) Signs may only be incorporated into the skirt of awnings and not on the primary angled surface.  
===PAGE 165===
 
165 
8) Each building façade facing a street or parking area is permitted to have signs that equal a maximum square footage of five 
(5%) percent of the respective façade. 
Removed 9) A building with multiple businesses shall have signs of equal size on the façade, signs shall be either 
rectangular or oval shaped. 
Removed 10) Free standing signs shall be prohibited except for municipal use, portable and temporary sign s. 
Renumbered 9) Sandwich board signs, flags and other portable signs are permitted only within the property lines, as long as  
they are properly weighted. 
Renumbered 10) Window signs, comprising no more than ten (10%) percent of the transparent surface, shall be allowed. 
Window signs shall not be lighted or animated in any manner, with the exception of the standard lighting fixtures within the 
building. 
   
d. Site Design 
1)  Interior Streets, Drives, Walkways and Access. 
                  a) Site access shall be a single divided way (one way in and one way out) where and when appropriate as   
                      determined by the Permit Granting Authority. 
                  b) Surfaces shall be pervious when possible and practical. 
                  c) Street level frontage shall be devoted to entrances, shop windows or other displays.  
                  d) Primary entrances to proposed and existing buildings shall be situated on pedestrian amenities (e.g., sidewalks,  
                   plazas or open space) with a minimum width of 10 feet. 
                e) Setbacks shall be consistent with the fabric of the existing street and do not preclude pedestrian access.  
 
2) Parking and Loading Area. 
                   a) Parking shall be in the rear or side of building(s) and shall not be visible from the street line when possible.  
                       Parking will be reviewed by the Permit Granting Authority. 
                   b) All loading docks shall be to the rear of the building(s) and shall not be visibl e from the street. Adequate  
                       access for loading and emergency vehicles is maintained on one side of the building.  
 
               3) Sidewalks. 
                    a) Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable, and from the parking areas to building(s). 
 
4) Landscaping. 
                  a) There shall be a minimum of a four (4) foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along the front and  
                        side of the principal building(s) and plantings of indigenous materials along the façades of the building(s) and  
                        between the building(s) if there is more than one principal building on site. 
                  b) Additional landscaping and screening may be required during the Development Plan Review or by the  
                      permitting authority. 
                  c) Such landscape shall be a type and height that does not interfere with sight lines of drivers.  
                  d) Natural features shall be retained to the extent possible. 
                  e) A landscape plan shall be provided and reviewed. 
                  f) Where residential neighborhoods abut commercial, office or mixed use developments, appropriate transitional  
                      features shall be used and may include landscaping, open space or parks, or streets with clearly designed  
                      pedestrian features. 
 
5) Street Furniture. 
                    a) Light fixtures shall be designed to be of number and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such lighting shall  
                        shine downwards as to not affect adjacent properties and be dark sky compliant.  
                    b)  Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building. 
                    c) A Lighting Plan may be required if the Permitting Granting Authority deems the project is of such a scale that  
                        the impacts to the neighborhood are adverse; such plan will show where all light fixtures are being proposed  
                        within the site, as well as a narrative as to the type of light and height of all fixtures.  
                    d) Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a style consistent with the principal use(s) of the site.  
                    e) The location, number and style of exterior trash receptacles shall be reviewed under Permit Granting  
                        Authority. 
 
4.17.9. Village Center District Campus Developments 
===PAGE 166===
 
166 
Developments that contain multiple buildings and uses on a single lot are encouraged as long as they are sensitive to the 
context of the surrounding area and meet the purposes outlined above. These developments are subject to the provisions of 
Section 8.4 Development Plan Review of the Protective Bylaw as well as the additional design guidelines outlined in Section 
4.17.8. of this Bylaw and below.  
a. Additional Design Standards: In addition to those design standards listed in Section 4.17.8. of this bylaw, applications 
for a Village Center District Campus shall also meet the following standards: 
1) Buildings 
i. Newly constructed building façades for non -residential first floor uses shall have a transparency of at least twenty 
(20%) percent and no more than sixty (60%) percent for all facades that, wholly or pa rtially, address street frontage, 
sidewalks, or other public space.  
ii. Buildings in Village Center District Campus Developments shall meet the following criteria:  
a) No more than ten (10%) percent of the first floor of newly constructed buildings shall be occup ied by 
residential use. 
b) No more than sixty (60%) percent of the total gross floor area of the development shall be occupied by 
residential use.  
2) Signs 
i. Freestanding directory signs may be permitted as part of a Village Center District Campus application where several 
non-residential operations are accessed through a common vehicular entrance. Such freestanding signs shall not 
exceed eight (8)  
feet in height, six (6) feet in width and each tenant shall be allowed a maximum of four and a half (4.5) square feet to 
display the company or agency name. 
3) Site Design  
i. Buildings shall be arranged in a manner that optimizes the ability of residents and consumers to access public spaces 
and pedestrian amenities. 
(ii) Buildings shall be oriented toward each other i n a way that minimizes conflicts between pedestrians and 
automobiles. 
(iii) Open space provided pursuant to Section 4.17.9.b. of this bylaw shall be designed as a public gathering place. 
Arcades, courtyards, parks, greens or other common areas shall be loc ated in a manner that connects buildings to 
each other and to public sidewalks without interruption from parking areas or automobile travel lanes to the greatest 
practicable extent. 
(iv) Features that may be used to create open space areas acceptable to the Planning Board or the Board of Appeals may 
include, without limitation, fixed benches, fixed tables, fountains, pathways, bikeways, bicycle racks, period lighting, 
shade trees, perennial gardens, picnic areas, and/or trash receptacles. 
4.17.10 Severability 
If any provision of this bylaw is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the bylaw shall not be 
affected thereby. 
 
ARTICLE 2 8.  To see if the Town will vote  to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to Section 3.1, a new subsectio n 
3.1.o, “ Village Center District” .   [Submitted by the Planning Board ]  Board of Selectmen recommend approval, 5 -0.  
Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY   
 
ARTICLE 29. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by deleting the words “May 3, 2008” in Section 
3.2.1 and replacing with the words “May 2, 2015.”.  [Submitted by the Planning Board]  Board of Selectmen recommends 
approval 5 – 0.  Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
 
ARTICLE 30. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw, Section 4.16, “Registered Marijuana 
Dispensaries” to correct the numbering sequence by renumbering “4.16.9.1” as “4.16.7.1”;   “4.16.9.2” as “4.16.7.2”; 
and “4.16.10” and “4.16.8.”.  [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
===PAGE 167===
 
167 
ARTICLE 31. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to Section 5.2, “Setbacks and Yards,” 
a new Subsection 5.2.5.1.e, “Village Center District,” as printed in the warrant. [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  
ARTICLE 32. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by amending Section 8.4, Development Plan 
Review Subsection 8.4.2.1.a, to add after ”Retail Commercial District, “ the words “and Village Center District.”  
[Submitted the Planning Board].    Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance Committee reports no direct 
financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  
ARTICLE 33. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Map to show the new delineation of the Village Center 
District of the Town.   [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
ARTICLE 34. To see if the Town will vote to designate Flat Hill Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL 
Chapter 40, Section 15C.   [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY  
ARTICLE 35. To see if the Town will vote to designate Northfield Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL 
Chapter 40, Section 15C.   [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.   Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY   
ARTICLE 36. To see if the Town will vote to accept White Tail Crossing as a public way.   [Submitted the Planning 
Board].  Board of Selectmen recommend approval.   Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY 
ARTICLE 37. To see if the Town will vote to approve a zoning change from “Commercial” to “Limited Business/ 
Residential” land described as parcels currently designated Parcel 8 on Assessor’s Map 59, and Parcel 9 on Assessor’s 
Map 59.   [Submitted the Planning Board].  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 3 –2.   Finance Committee reports no 
direct financial impact. VOTED 2/3rds DECLARED 
ARTICLE 38.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, transfer from available funds, or 
borrow $300,000 for the purpose of financing the design, bidding, permitting and construction, including 
the acquisition of land or interests in land relating thereto, a sewer collection system as described in the 
Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan, prepared by Wright- Pierce (Town’s Engineering 
Consultants) dated March 2010, including without limitation, all costs thereof as defined in Section 1 of 
Chapter 29C of the General Laws, in the area of Pleasant View Avenue with connection to the sewer pipe 
on Graham Street; and to fund this appropriation, to authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of 
the Board of Selectmen to borrow up to $300,000; and further to issue bonds and notes therefor under Chapter 
44, and/ or Chapter 29C of the General Laws; and further that the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board 
of Selectmen is authorized to borrow all or a portion of said amount from the Water Pollution Abatement Trust 
established pursuant to said Chapter 29C and in connection therewith the Town Treasurer, the Board of Selectmen 
and/ or the Sewer Commission is authorized to enter into a financing agreement and/ or security agreement with 
the Trust and otherwise to contract with the Trust and the department of Environmental Protection with respect to 
such financing and for any federal or state aid available for the project or for the financing thereof and to take any 
and all other action including without limitation the acquisition of land or interests therein by purchase or taking 
by eminent domain pursuant to General Laws Chapter 79, deemed necessary or advisable for such purposes; that 
such bonds or notes shall be general obligations of the Town, provided, however, that it is the intent of the Town 
that the principal and interest on such bonds or notes shall be paid, without further appropriation by the Town to 
the extent permitted by law, from fund received by the Town through betterment and/ or privilege fees imposed 
on abutters who benefit from the project.  [Submitted by the Sewer Commission].  Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends approval, 5 – 0.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to 
borrow the sum of $300,000 for the purpose of financing the design, bidding, permitting and construction, 
including the acquisition of land or interests in land relating thereto, a sewer collection system as described in the 
Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan, prepared by Wright- Pierce (Town’s Engineering Consultants) 
dated March 2010, including without limitation, all costs thereof as defined in Section 1 of Chapter 29C of the 
General Laws, in the area of Pleasant View Avenue with connection to the sewer pipe on Graham Street; and to 
fund this appropriation, to authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of Selectmen to borrow 
===PAGE 168===
 
168 
up to $300,000; and further to issue bonds and notes therefor under Chapter 44, and/ or Chapter 29C of the General 
Laws; and further that the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of Selectmen is authorized to borrow all 
or a portion of said amount from the Water Pollution Abatement Trust established pursuant to said Chapter 29C and 
in connection therewith the Town Treasurer, the Board of Selectmen and/ or the Sewer Commission is authorized to 
enter into a financing agreement and/ or security agreement with the Trust and otherwise t o contract with the Trust 
and the department of Environmental Protection with respect to such financing and for any federal or state aid 
available for the project or for the financing thereof and to take any and all other action including without limitatio n 
the acquisition of land or interests therein by purchase or taking by eminent domain pursuant to General Laws 
Chapter 79, deemed necessary or advisable for such purposes; that such bonds or notes shall be general obligations 
of the Town, provided, however, that it is the intent of the Town that the principal and interest on such bonds or 
notes shall be paid, without further appropriation by the Town to the extent permitted by law, from fund received by 
the Town through betterment and/ or privilege fees imposed on abutters who benefit from the project.  [Submitted 
by the Sewer Commission]  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends 
approval, 5 – 0.   VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to borrow the sum of $300,000 for the purpose of financing the design, 
bidding, permitting and construction, including the acquisition of land or interests in land relating thereto, a sewer 
collection system as described in the Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan, prepared by Wright - Pierce 
(Town’s Engineering Consultants) dated March 2010, including without limitation, all costs thereof as defined in 
Section 1 of Chapter 29C of the General Laws, in the area of Pleasant View Avenue with connection to the sewer 
pipe on Graham Street; and to fund this appropriation, to authorize the Town Treasurer with the approval of the 
Board of Selectmen to borrow up to $300,000; and further to issue bonds and notes therefor under Chapter 44, and/ 
or Chapter 29C of the General Laws; and further that the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of 
Selectmen is authorized to borrow all or a portion of said amount from the Water Pollution Abatement Trust 
established pursuant to said Chapter 29C and in connection therewith the Town Treasurer, the Board of Selectmen 
and/ or the Sewer Commission is authorized to enter into a financing agreement and/ or security agreement with the 
Trust and otherwise to contract with the Trust and the department of Environmental Protection with respect to such 
financing and for any federal or state aid available for the project or for the financing thereof and to take any and all 
other action including without limitation the acquisition of land or interests therein by purchase or taking by eminent 
domain pursuant to General Laws Chapter 79, deemed necessary or advisable for such purposes; that such bonds or 
notes shall be general obligations of the Town, provided, however, that it is the intent of the Town that the principal 
and interest on such bonds or notes shall be paid, without further appr opriation by the Town to the extent permitted 
by law, from fund received by the Town through betterment and/ or privilege fees imposed on abutters who b enefit 
from the project.  
 
ARTICLE 39.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the enactment of a bylaw regulating the use of vehicles 
on Whalom Lake.   
Table of Contents 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
Section 2. Definitions 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles prohibited 
Section 5. Public Access Only 
Section 6. Penalties 
 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
The Purpose and scope of this bylaw is to protect the safety of the public to prevent the destruction of aquatic life, 
waterfowl and other wildlife, the decay of water quality and damage to abutting private and public lands by the 
inappropriate use of motor vehicles, recreation vehicles or snow vehicles on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom 
Lake; to promote voluntary compliance with all applicable laws relating to the operation of motor vehicles and when 
necessary to deter noncompliance through fines and penalties. 
 
Section 2. Definitions 
a) Motor Vehicle: any motor vehicle as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 90, § 1. 
===PAGE 169===
 
169 
a) All-terrain vehicle: means a motorized recreational vehicle designed or modified for travel on three or 
four low pressure tires and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for 
steering control, and recreational vehicle or off-highway vehicle as defined in CMA 323, § 3.02 and 
governed by M.G.L.Chapter 90B. 
b) Snow vehicle: a motor vehicle designed to travel over ice or snow, having a curb we ight of not more 
than 453 kilograms or 21000 pounds, driven by track or tracks in contact with the snow or ice and 
steered by a ski or skis in contact with the snow or ice as defined in CMA 323, § 302 and governed by 
M.G.L. Chapter 90B. 
c) Operation: (1) to ride in or on and control the operation of, or to maintain, suffer, supervise, or permit 
the operation of, or to push a snow vehicle or a recreational vehicle, or, (2) In the case of a motor 
vehicle, any person who makes use of any mechanical or electrical agency, which alone or in sequence 
will set in motion the motive power of the vehicle, whether or not the engine is not running; or (3) any 
person who utilizes any combination of actions that would set the vehicle in motion.  
d) Public Access: shall mean the public access located in the City of Leominster or any other place where 
Whalom Lake can be accessed by the public. 
e) Law Enforcement Officer: any police officer, constable or other officer authorized to make arrests or 
serve process provided hi is in uniform or displays his/her bade of office. 
f) Board: Town of Lunenburg, Board of Selectmen 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
A. No person, or group of persons shall operate, or cause to be operated on the waters or frozen waters of 
Whalom Lake, any snow vehicles that are not in compliance with Massachusetts CMR 323 § 2.01 to 
3.09 & MGL c. 90 § 21 to 35. 
B. When the Town of Lunenburg or any other agency or state agency duly authorized by law has posted 
the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake to prohibit access for or use of snow vehicles or all- 
terrain vehicles, no person, or group of persons shall operate any snow vehicle or all -terrain vehicle 
upon such waters or frozen waters. In the absence of such a posting, persons utilizing water or t he 
frozen water of Whalom Lake do so at their own risk and the Town of Lunenburg assumes no 
responsibility either implied or expressed for the safety of any person who voluntarily assumes a 
known and obvious risk inherent in such activities. No person shall operate a snow vehicle or all-
terrain vehicle upon any frozen waters of Whalom Lake under any circumstance unless a minimum of 
five inches of solid ice cover is present. The operator shall determine the thickness of the ice, and 
assumes all responsibility in undertaking an activity with an inherent and known risk. 
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles Prohibited 
A. No person, group of persons or organizations shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle, 
as defined in MGL c. 90 § 1 on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake. 
Section 5. Public Access Only 
B. No Snow Vehicle or All-terrain vehicle shall enter upon Whalom Lake except by public access or by 
written permission by the landowner. 
Section 6. Penalties 
This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited, to, 
enforcement by criminal complaint or fines pursuant to G.L. D.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectman, the Town 
Manager or their duly authorized agents, or any police officer. Whether enforce d through criminal or civil process, 
the fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300.) for each offense. Board of Selectmen to 
make recommendation at ATM, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
Motion made and seconded on Article 39 – Point of Order made regarding a quorum being present.  The 
meeting recessed for ten minutes and then a count was made – no quorum – meeting dissolved at 3:23PM 
  
===PAGE 170===
 
170 
ARTICLE 40.  To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw that restricts the public consumption of 
Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol.  The bylaw shall consist of two sections: 
Section 1: No person shall ingest or otherwise use or consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol, (as defined in 
G.L. c.94C§ 1, as amended) other than a qualified patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating 
condition, all as defined under state law, while in or upon a street, sidewalk, public way, footway, or pathway, 
passageway, stairs, bridge, park, playground, beach, recreation area, boa t landing, public building, schoolhouse, 
school grounds, cemetery, parking lot, or any area owned by or under the control of the town; or in or upon any bus 
or other passenger conveyance operated by a common carrier; or in any town owned vehicle; or in any  place 
accessible to the public. No person, including a qualifying patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating 
condition, as defined under state law, shall smoke marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol in any public place set forth 
herein.  
Section 2: This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, 
enforcement by criminal complaint of fines pursuant to G.L. c.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectmen, the Town 
Manager, or their duly authorized agents or any police officer. The fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three 
hundred dollars ($300) for each offense. Any penalty imposed under this bylaw shall be in addition to any civil 
penalty imposed under G.L. c. 94C, § 32L.  (Submitted by Police Chief)  Board of Selectmen recommendation at 
ATM, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. 
. 
ARTICLE 41.    To see if the Town would vote to enact a bylaw authorizing the Board of Selectmen to license 
suitable persons to carry on the business of pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers, or dealers in metal, as provided 
by M.G.L. c.140  as amended.  . 
Table of Contents 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Section II. Interest Rates 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention  
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
Section II. Definitions 
Section III. License Required 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
Section V. Waiting Period 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Section IX. Violations and Penalties 
Section X. License and Administration Fees 
Amendments 
 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Subsection A.  
The Board of Selectmen may license suitable persons to be pawnbrokers or buyer s of goods pursuant to law. 
Licenses shall expire on the last day of December annually no matter when obtained during the preceding year. Such 
licenses shall not be valid to protect the holders thereof in a building or place other than that designated in the  
===PAGE 171===
 
171 
license, unless consent to removal is granted by the Board of Selectmen. Applications f or new licenses under the 
rule may be filed at any time with the Board of Selectmen. Applications for the reissue of licenses already existing 
should be filed at least 30 days before the expiration of such licenses. Persons whose licenses have expired and have 
not been reissued will be liable to prosecution if carrying on business for which the license is required. Every person 
so licensed shall, at the time of receiving such license, file a bond as provided by M.G.L. c. 140 § 77 as amended.  
 
Subsection B.  
Persons who engage in or carry on the business of lending money on mortgages, deposits or pledges of wearing 
apparel, jewelry, ornaments, household goods or other personal property, or of purchasing such property on 
condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated price, when the property so mo rtgaged, pledged or purchased 
is deposited with the lender, must be licensed as pawnbrokers. This provision, however, does not apply to loans 
made on stocks, bonds, notes or other written or printed evidence of ownership of property or of indebtedness to t he 
holder or owner of such securities. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 70 – 85) 
 
Section II. Interest Rates 
A. Licensed pawnbrokers may charge interest at the rate of 3% per month, and in no event may they charge 
more than the rate allowed by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. 
B. No such pawnbrokers shall charge or receive any greater rate of interest, and interest shall be determined 
on the precise sum advanced by the lender. 
C. No pawnbroker shall make or receive any extra charge or fee for storage, care or safekeeping of  any goods, 
articles or things pawned with him. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 78) 
D.  
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Any officer of the Lunenburg Police may at any time enter upon any premises used by a licensed pawnbroker or 
buyer for the purposes of his or her business, ascertain how he or she conducts his or her business and examine all 
articles taken in pawn or bought, or kept or stored in or upon said premises and all books and inventories shall be 
exhibited to any above name whenever a demand shall be made for such exhibition. (M.G.L. c. 140, §74) (Penalty 
for refusal, M.G.L. c. 140, §74) 
 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall at the time of making any loan, attach a number to the article taken in 
pawn or bought and shall make entry of such number in the book provided for in Section V. of this article. Section 
V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall keep a book of style and size in which shall be legibly written in 
ink in the English language at the time of making each loan, an account and description, including all 
distinguishing marks and numbers and serial numbers of the goods, articles or things pledged or pawned, 
the amount of money loaned or paid thereon, the day and hour when it was pawned, the rate of i nterest to 
be paid on such loan and the number of such article as same. No entry made in said book shall be erased, 
obliterated or defaced.  Electronic record keeping by the pawnbroker or buyer is acceptable as long as the 
records meet all the bylaw requirements.  
B. Every pawnbroker or buyer shall photograph any person pawning or pledging articles and keep such 
photographs with said books as part of his or her records. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 79).  
C. For all transactions, every pawnbroker or buyer shall also require positive identification and shall record 
the type of identification presented and record the date of birth from any person pawning, pledging or 
selling any article. Positive identification shall mean any picture identification card issued by a 
governmental agency. 
D.  
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention 
Each pledger shall be required by the pawnbroker to sign his/her name and age and address on a card. In the event 
that the pledger is unable to write, the pawnbroker shall fill in the name, age and address on such card, together with 
a notation stating that the pledger was unable to do so. Such card shall be retained seven years in an alphabetical 
index file by the licensed pawnbrokers.  
 
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Every pawnbroker or buyer shall at the time of making such loan deliver to the person who pawns or pledges any 
goods, articles or things, a memorandum or note signed by him, containing the subst ance of the entry required to be 
made in his book by the provisions of Section V. and no charge shall be made or required by any pawnbroker or 
buyer for any such entry, memorandum or note. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 80) 
 
===PAGE 172===
 
172 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall make out and deliver a report of transactions to the 
Lunenburg Police Chief or his designee every day before the hour of 10:00 a.m., a legible and correct list containing 
an accurate description, including all distinguishable marks, numbers and serial numbers of all articles taken in 
pawn or bought during the preceding business day, the respective numbers of such articles as provided by Section 
IV of this bylaw, the amount loaned or paid thereon and the time when such articles were pawned or bought. This 
report can be done electronically, via the Internet, or faxed to the Lunenburg Police Chief or his designee. If during 
the preceding day no articles have been taken in by such pawnbroker or buyer, he or she is required to report 
affirmatively. This report can be done both electronically via the Internet and by fax.  
   Subsection B. If any goods or articles pawned or pledged and in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer are 
subsequently determined to be stolen property by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or the 
Massachusetts State Police, or if the rightful owner identifies property in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer 
and the property so identified is confirmed to be stolen goods by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or 
Massachusetts State Police, said property shall be returned to the rightful owner at no cost to such owner.  
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
   Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall post in a conspicuous place in his or her shop or office a 
copy of the statutes, ordinances and police regulations relating to pawnbrokers/buyers, to be furnished by the 
Lunenburg Police Department’s Police Chief or designee, and shall put in some suitable and conspicuous  place in 
his shop a sign having his/her name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon in large lettering.  
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall place or maintain any signs or devices upon or in connection with his 
or her licensed premises indicating or tending to indicate that any form of business is conducted therein which he or 
she is not legally authorized to pursue. 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Pawnbroker or buyer may have his/her shop open for transactions between sunrise and 10:00 p.m. in the evening of 
any weekday and weekend. Under no circumstances can a pawnbroker or buyer operate after the hour of 10:00 p.m. 
to sunrise. 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A. Articles deposited in pawn with a licensed pawnbroker shall unless redeemed, be retained by 
him/her on the premises occupied by him/her for their business for at least four months after the date of deposit. 
   Subsection B. After the expiration of the applicable period of time he/she may sell the article by public auction, 
apply the proceeds thereof in satisfaction of the debt or demand and the expense of the notice and sale and pay any 
surplus to the person entitled thereto on demand. 
   Subsection C. No such sale of any article which is not of a perishable nature shall be made unless not less than 10 
days prior to the sale a written notice of the intended sale shall have been sent by registered mail to the person 
entitled to the payment of any surplus as aforesaid, addressed to his residence as appearing in the records of such 
pawnbrokers. Proof of registered mail shall be kept on file for one year after the date of sale.  
   Subsection D. No article taken in pawn by such pawnbroker or buyer shall be disposed of otherwise than as above 
provided, any agreement or contract between the parties thereto to the contrary notwithstanding. 
   Subsection E.  Articles of personal apparel shall not be deemed to be of a perishable nature within the meaning of 
this section. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 71) 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A. No pawnbroker or buyer shall make a loan, directly or indirectly, to a person under the age of 18, 
knowing or having reason to believe him or her to be such. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall loan money secured by deposit or pledge of a firearm, rifle, shotgun 
or machine gun. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 131B) 
   Subsection C. No pawnbroker or buyer shall hold a license to sell, rent, or lease a firearm, rifle, shotgun, or 
machine gun. 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A. Complaints concerning licensed pawnbrokers or buyers shall be investigated by the Lunenburg 
Police Department under the direction of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his designee will provide a 
disciplinary request to the Board of Selectmen for actionable complaints lodged against licensees.   
   Subsection B. In the event the Chief of Police determines that disciplinary action should be instituted against a 
licensed pawnbroker or buyer, the Chief of Police shall cause to be served upon  the licensed pawnbroker or buyer 
notice as to the time, date and place of hearing and of the charge with a statement of the reasons for the proposed 
disciplinary action. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with law.  
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
===PAGE 173===
 
173 
The Board of Selectmen may suspend or revoke licenses provided for by this article for any cause which the Board 
of Selectmen deems sufficient. Offenses which may result in the suspension or revocation of a pawnbroker's or 
buyer’s license include but are not limited to the following: 
a) A violation of any section of this article. 
b) A violation of any provision of any statute or applicable law. 
 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
The Town of Lunenburg finds that there is a cognizable risk for stolen metals to end up in the possession of even 
legitimate businesses which trade in metals, including precious metals. Certain criminals bring stolen metals, 
including precious metals to dealers in jewelry and scrap metal. The victims of theft have only small hope of 
recovering their property unless the people and entities who receive scrap metals and jewelry are regulated in a 
manner which identifies both the metal received by the dealers and the persons who deliver the me tal to these 
dealers. There is an Internet alert system used by the Lunenburg Police Department which reports stolen metals. 
Monitoring transactions within the town and identifying both the metals and the persons selling or delivering these 
metals will serve both to deter theft and to enable the Lunenburg Police Department to trace and recover stolen 
property and return it to the rightful owners. 
Section II. Definitions 
As used in Article II, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
ARTICLE: Any metal which is subject to Article II and is exchanged, sold, collected, bartered or received by a 
person dealing in metals. 
CHIEF OF POLICE:  The Chief of the Lunenburg Police Department or his designee. 
EXCHANGE: Receiving, purchasing, selling or bartering metals, including precious metals and industrial scrap 
metals. 
METAL: A chemical element that is malleable, opaque and ductile, usually solid, which has a characteristic luster, 
is a good conductor of heat and electricity, and can be melted or fused, hammered into thin sheets, or drawn into 
wires, e.g., copper, aluminum, gold, silver or iron or other metals. 
PRECIOUS METAL(S): Any metal which is considered valuable, such as silver, gold, platinum and copper 
without regard to the form or amount of such precious metal. 
BOARD:  Board of Selectmen 
Section III. License Required  
a) No person shall collect, deal in, exchange, buy, or keep a shop or place for the exchange, purchase, sale or barter 
of metals, including precious metals and industrial metals, in any building or place within the limits of the town 
without having a license issued by the Board of Selectman. The license requirement and the other requirements of 
this Article II shall not apply to commercial haulers having valid, current United States Department of 
Transportation stickers affixed to their vehicles. 
b) Board of Selectmen may for a fee set by said board and based upon an application devised by said board, license 
suitable persons to be dealers in and keepers of shops or locations for the purchase, sale or barter of precious metals 
at such places within the town as may be designated in such license. The Board of Selectmen may place reasonable 
conditions on such licenses which shall be inscribed on the face of the license. A license shall be limited to a 
specific address stated thereon. Subject to the notice and appeal provisions contained in Section IX (E), (2), (3) of 
this Article II, the Board of Selectmen may deny a license to any person who in the exercise of his reasonable 
discretion is unsuitable. 
c) All metal dealer licenses shall expire annually on the last day in December. The license holders shall be 
responsible for submitting an application for license renewal with the license fee to the Board of Selectmen at least 
30 days prior to the last day in December. Upon receipt of an application for renewal, the Board shall consider the 
performance of the licensee during the previous year and shall determine whether the licensee had been found in 
violation of this Article II and other ordinances and regulations of the town applicable to metal dealers.  
d) The Board of Selectmen may promulgate reasonable regulations not inconsistent with this Article II which shall 
be binding upon all licensees. No regulation shall take effect until the expiration of 30 days from the date the 
regulation(s) is delivered or mailed to the person(s) then licensed. The Board of Selectmen shall deliver a complete 
set of regulations and any amendments thereto to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall maintain the complete set 
of all regulations in a book available to the public. 
e) The obligation to obtain a license as required by this section will take effect 45 days after it is finally enacted. 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
No licensee shall, directly or indirectly, exchange any metals with a person under the age of 18.  
===PAGE 174===
 
174 
Section V. Waiting Period 
No article exchanged, purchased or received shall be sold, or altered in appearance, form or substance until a peri od 
of at least twenty-one (21) days have elapsed from the date of its purchase or receipt. All articles exchanged, 
purchased or received must be made available to the Lunenburg Police Department upon request within 24 hours of 
such request, and the Police Department may investigate to determine if any article is or may be stolen property. 
This waiting period does not apply to scrap metal yards which are exempt from any waiting period.  
 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Every licensee shall electronically create and send to the Police Chief or his designee on a form, in the manner and 
at the time prescribed by the Police Chief or his designee, a legible complete list containing an accurate description 
of all metal articles received by the licensee during the previous 24 hours. The description must include: the type of 
metal, the size and/or quantity, whether the article is or may be a precious metal, if applicable; whether the article is 
typically used by or associated with a male or female, the wording of any engraving, whether the article has any 
gems or precious stones, any identifying number and every other identifiable trait. 
 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
A. Every licensee shall, at the time of making any exchange or receipt of any article, assign and atta ch a number to 
each article received and shall make entry of such number in the book described in Subsection B.  
B. Every licensee shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in ink, in the English language, at the time the 
licensee receives any article, the following information: 
1) An account and description, including all distinguishing or identifying marks and numbers of every article 
received by the licensee. 
2) The amount of money, if any, paid for the article. 
3) The date and hour when it was received. 
4) The name, age, permanent address and telephone number of the person from who purchased or received.  
5) A copy of the document used to identify the person giving the article to the licensee.  
C. Every licensee shall require positive identification from any person selling or exchanging any article. The 
licensee shall copy and record the type of identification presented and the date of birth from any person giving or 
exchanging any article. Positive identification means only a government-issued document with the person's name 
and photograph. The licensee shall photograph any person exchanging any article(s). A copy of the identification 
and the photograph shall be kept with the book required by this section as part of his records.  
D. No entry made in the book required by this section shall be erased, obliterated or defaced in any manner 
whatsoever. The book shall at all times be open for the inspection by the Police Chief or any police officer. The 
licensee shall keep and maintain all the records required by this Article II for a period of three years from the date of 
the last entry in any book. 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Every licensee shall post in some suitable and conspicuous place where he or she receives or exchanges articles, a 
sign having his/ her full legal name, and his/her business name, if different, and his/her occupation legibly described 
thereon in large letters. The current license shall also be so posted. The location where transactions occur, the store 
or shop and all articles exchanged and or kept therein or received therein and the book and documents required by 
this Article II, may at all times be examined by the Police Chief or any police officer  at their request. 
Section IX. Violations and Penalties 
A. Whoever not having a valid license as required by this Article II, exchanges, collects, deals in or barters metals in 
any place or manner other than that designated in his license, or after notice to him that his license has been revoked, 
or whoever violates this Article II or any rule, regulation or restriction contained in his license, or any regulation 
promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg shall be subject to the fines and sanctions described in t his section. Each 
day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense. 
B. The fine for breach of the duty imposed by this Article II is three hundred dollars ($300). Each day on which the 
person continues in violation shall be considered as a separate violation. 
C. This Article II may at the discretion of the Chief of Police be enforced by civil process or by noncriminal 
disposition as provided in M.G.L. c. 40, § 21D. The Chief of Police or any Lunenburg police officer may issue 
tickets to enforce this Article II. If enforced civilly by ticket each day on which a violation exists shall be d eemed to 
be a separate offense and the violator shall be subject to the following fines: 
       1) First violation: $150. 
       2) Second violation: $200. 
       3) Third violation: $300. 
       4) Fourth and each subsequent violation: $300. 
===PAGE 175===
 
175 
D.  In addition to the penalties set forth above, the enforcing authority may seek an injunction from an appropriate 
court to restrain any violation of this Article II, any regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any 
condition inscribed on a license. 
E. The Board of Selectmen may terminate any license or refuse to renew any license for violation of this Article II, a 
regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on the license. The Board of 
Selectmen shall use the procedure described in this section. 
     1) Notice of violation. Whenever it comes to the attention of the Board of Selectmen that a violation of this 
Article II, a regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or a condition inscribed on a license, the Board shall 
by written notice, deliver personally or send by certified mail to the licensee notifying him of the violation and order 
the person to cease and desist. Depending on the severity of the violation as determined by him, the Board of 
Selectmen may terminate the license. The Board shall also provide notice described herein if it denies an application 
for a license stating the reasons therefor.  
      2) Contents of notice. The written notice to the licensee shall contain a description of the violation(s) and the 
date(s) of occurrence and a citation to the section of the ordinance, regulation or license condition which the licensee 
is alleged to have violated. The notice will, if applicable, describe what the licensee must do to comply, whether the 
Board of Selectmen intends to terminate the license and the effective date of the termination which shall afford th e 
licensee at least seven days to file an appeal of the proposed termination with the Board. In the case of denial of a 
license, the notice shall state the reasons for the denial. 
     3) Appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of license termination, or denial, the licensee may, within seven days of 
receipt of the notice, file a written appeal by delivery or certified mail to the Board of Selectmen's office during the 
hours of 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on days when Town Hall is open for business. When the Board of Selectme n 
receives an appeal, they shall appoint a neutral hearing officer who will take testimony from any persons with 
knowledge of the facts including any police officer and the appellant. The appellant may be represented by counsel 
and any person so testifying will be subject to cross examination. The proceedings wil l be governed by the rules of 
evidence applicable to an informal administrative hearing. The hearing officer will assure that an appropriate record, 
including any documents submitted, is made and kept. The decision of the hearing officer will be written an d final. 
F. The Board of Selectmen, subject to the process described in this section, may refuse to renew any license. The 
Board shall not issue a license to any person convicted of a felony. 
Section X. License and Administration Fees 
            1) Second Hand Buyer of Goods and Electronics Annually $250.00 
            2) Second Buyer of Metal and Precious Metals Annually $250.00 
            3) Pawnbroker License Annually $100.00      
Amendments 
(Submitted by Police Chief) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee reports no direct 
financial impact.  
ARTICLE 42.   To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw to restrict Sexual Offender Residency and create 
Sex Offender Safety Zones 
 
Table of Contents 
Section 1 Findings and Intent 
Section 2 Definitions 
Section 3 Sex Offender Residence Prohibition 
Section 4 Evidentiary Matters; Measurements 
Section 5 Notice to Move 
Section 6 Exceptions 
Section 7 Forfeiture of Exception 
Section 8 Penalties 
Section 9 Safety Zone 
Section 10 Maps and List of Safety Zones 
Section 11 Severability 
 
Section 1. Findings and Intent 
A. It is the intent of this bylaw to serve and to protect the Town's compelling interest to promote, protect 
and improve the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town by creating areas around 
locations where children, or the elderly regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain 
sex offenders are prohibited from loitering and establishing temporary or permanent residence.  
===PAGE 176===
 
176 
A. After careful consideration, the Town finds that this bylaw is the most narrowly tailored means of 
limiting, to the fullest extent possible, the opportunity for certain sex offenders to approach or otherwise 
come in contact with children or the elderly in places where children or the elderly would natural ly 
congregate, and that the protection of the health and safety of our children and elderly is a compelling 
governmental interest. 
B. By the enactment of this or any other bylaw, the Town understands that it cannot remove the t hreat 
posed to or guarantee the safety of children or the elderly or assure the public that sex offenders will 
comply with the mandates of this bylaw. This legislation is intended to create a civil, non -punitive 
regulatory scheme in order to protect children and the elderly to the extent possible under the 
circumstances and not as a punitive measure of any kind.  
C. Certain sex offenders pose a clear threat to the children and the elderly residing or visiting in the 
community. Because certain sex offenders are more likely than any other type of offender to reoffend by 
another sexual offense, the Town desires to impose safety precautions in furtherance of the goal of 
protecting the children and elderly. The purpose of this bylaw is to reduce the potential risk of harm to 
children and the elderly in the community by limiting the ability of certain classified levels of sex 
offenders to be in contact with unsuspecting children and the elderly in locations that are primarily 
designed for use by or are primarily used by children and the elderly, the grounds of a public or private 
school for children, a center of facility that provides day care or children's services, a park, other public 
recreational facility, elderly housing facilities or the Senior Citizen’s Center. The Town desires to add 
location restrictions to such offenders to the extent state law is silent. 
Section 2.  Definitions 
1) “Camp Bus Stop” Any area designated by a private/public youth camp as a camp bus stop whic h has been 
designated in a list maintained by the Town and available to the public. 
2) “Day Care Center” means an establishment, whether public or private, which provides care for children and 
is registered with and licensed pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts by the 
Department of Early Education and Care. 
3) “Elder” or “Elderly” means a person or persons over 60 years of age. “Elderly Housing Facility” or “Senior 
Citizens Center” or “Over 55 Community” means any building or buildings which provide a group 
residence for the elderly or a location where the elderly gather and/or reside that is located within the Town 
of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  
4) “Establishing a Residence” means to set up or bring into being a dwelling place or an abode where a person 
sleeps, which may include more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory, or by means of 
purchasing real property or entering into a lease or rental agreement for real property.  
5)  “Loitering” means to remain for more than fifteen (15) minutes within a five hundred (500) foot distance 
of the location in question. 
6) “Park” means active and passive public land designated for recreational or athletic use by the Town of 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts and located within the Town of Lunenburg Massachusetts.  
7) “Permanent Residence” means a place where a person lives, abides, lodges, or resides for five (5) or more 
consecutive days or fourteen (14) or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year.  
8) “Recreational Facility” means a playground, a forest preserve, conservation area, jogging trail or running 
track, hiking or biking trail, beach, water park, swimming pool, wading pool, soccer field, baseball field, 
football field, basketball court or hockey rink, whether publicly or privately owned, to which the public has 
a right of access as an   invitee and which is located within the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  
9) “School” means any public or private educational facility that provides services to children in grades 
Kindergarten - 12, or any one or more of such grades. 
10) “School Bus Stop” means any area designated by the public school district or by a private or parochial 
school within the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts as a school bus stop, which school bus stop has been 
designated in a list maintained by the Town and available to the public. 
11) “Sex Offender” and “Sex offense” shall have the same meaning for purposes of this bylaw as provided for 
in G.L. c. 6, § 178C. 
12) “Sex Offense Involving a Child” shall have the same meaning for purposes of this bylaw as provided for in 
G.L. c. 6, § 178C. 
13) “Temporary Residence” means a place where a person lives, abides, lodges or resides for a period of less 
than five (5) consecutive days or fourteen (14) days in the aggregate during any calendar year.  
Section 3. Sex Offender Residence Prohibition 
It is unlawful for any sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the 
guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, for as long as so classified, to establish a permanent residence or 
temporary residence in the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts within one  tho usand (1,000) feet of the property on  
===PAGE 177===
 
177 
which any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly 
housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center,  or licensed day-care center is located. 
Section 4.  Evidentiary Matters; Measurements 
For purposes of determining the minimum distance requirement, the separation shall be measured by following a 
straight line from the outer property line of the permanent residence to the nearest outer propert y line of any public 
or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, 
over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day-care center. 
Section 5.  Notice to Move 
Any sex offender who has  been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex 
Offender Registry Board, for as  long as so classified, who establishes a permanent residence or temporary residence 
in the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts within one thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private school, park,  
playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior 
citizens center,  or licensed day-care center shall be in violation of this bylaw and shall, within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of written notice of the sex offender’s noncompliance with this bylaw, move from said location to a new 
location, but said location may not be within one thousand (1,000) feet of any public o r private school, park, 
playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior 
citizens center,  or licensed day-care center within the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  Furthermore it shal l be a 
separate violation each day that a sex offender shall move from one location in the Town of Lunenburg to another 
that is within one thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, 
other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care 
center.   
Section 6.  Exceptions 
A sex offender residing within 1,000 feet of any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking 
trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 communities, senior citizens center, or licensed day -
care center does not commit a violation of this bylaw if any of the following apply:  
1) The person established the permanent residence and reported and registered the residence, as required by 
the Sex Offender Registry Law and any applicable regulations of the Massachusetts Sex Offender 
Registry Board, prior to the effective date of this  bylaw, and: 
a) Permanent residence was established by purchasing the real property where the residence is established, 
as long as the registered sex offender continues to reside in and does not move to another restricted 
location in Lunenburg different from the permanent residence established prior to the effective  date of 
this bylaw;  
b) Permanent residence was established through a valid, fixed-term, written and/or oral lease or rental 
agreement, executed prior to the effective date of this bylaw, as long as the registered sex offender 
continues to reside within and does not move to another restricted location in Lunenburg different from 
the permanent residence established prior to the effective date of this bylaw; or  
c) Permanent residence was established through a written and/or oral lease or rental agreement at the will 
of the landlord, as long as the registered sex offender continues to reside within and does not move to 
another restricted location in Lunenburg different from the permanent residence established prior to the 
effective date of this bylaw.  
            2)   The person was a minor when the relevant crime was committed and was not convicted as an adult.  
            3)   The person is a minor. 
4)  The public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, 
elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center was 
established after such person established the permanent residence and reported and registered the residence 
pursuant to the Sex Offender Registry Law and any applicable regulations of the Massachusetts Sex 
Offender Registry Board. 
5) The person is required to serve a sentence at a jail, prison, juvenile facility, or other correctional 
institution or facility located within the aforementioned 1,000 foot area. 
6) The person is admitted to and/or subject to an order of commitment at a public or private facility for the 
care and treatment of mentally ill persons pursuant to G.L. c. 123 located within the aforementioned 1,000 
foot area. 
7) The person is a mentally ill person subject to guardianship pursuant to order or supervision of the 
Probate and Family Court or a mentally retarded person subject to guardianship pursuant to G.L. c. 201 
§6A, residing with his or her guardian or residing within a group residence that is professionally staffed and 
supervised 24 hours a day and located within the aforementioned 1,000 foot area.   
Section 7. Forfeiture of Exception 
If, either after the effective date of this bylaw or after a new public or private school, park, playground, beach, 
biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior  
===PAGE 178===
 
178 
citizens center, or licensed day-care center opens, an indictment or conviction of another sex offense is 
issued by a court against a Level 2 or 3 Sex Offender otherwise enjoying an exception under this bylaw, he 
or she shall immediately forfeit that exception and be required to comply with this bylaw.  
Section 8. Penalties 
1) Criminal Complaint.  Violation of the residency provisions of this bylaw may be enforced by criminal 
complaint filed by any police officer of the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  Each day a violation 
exists shall constitute a separate violation.  The fine for each violation upon conviction shall be three 
hundred dollars ($300). 
2) Noncriminal Disposition.  In addition to enforcement by criminal complaint, violation of the residency 
provisions of this bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity by any police 
officer of the Town of Lunenburg including, but not limited to, enforcement by non-criminal 
disposition pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate 
violation. The penalties for noncriminal disposition shall be as follows: 
a) First offense: Notification to offender that he/she has thirty (30) days to move. 
b) Subsequent offense: noncriminal fine of three hundred dollars ($300), enforceable by a 
police officer, and written notification to the property owner, if other than the offender, the 
offender’s landlord, parole officer and/or probation officer, and the Commonwealth's Sex 
Offender Registry Board that the sex offender has violated a town bylaw. 
Section 9. Safety Zone 
A. Prohibitions 
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex 
Offender Registry Board, and for as  long as so classified, is prohibited from entering upon the premises of a school 
or day-care center unless previously authorized specifically in writing by the school  administration or day-care 
center owner.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex 
Offender Registry Board, and for as long as so classified, is prohibited from entering upon the premis es of an elderly 
housing facility, over 55 Community or Senior Citizens Center, unless previously authorized in writing by the on -
site manager of the elderly housing facility, over 55 Community or Senior Citizen Center.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex 
Offender Registry Board, and for as  long as so classified, is prohibited from entering upon the premises of a park or 
any recreational facility. A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the 
guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, and for as  long as so classified, after having received notice from 
the Lunenburg Police Department that he/she is loitering by having remained for more than fifteen (15) minutes 
within five hundred (500) feet of a public or private school, park,  playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other 
recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center, 
is prohibited from continuing to so loiter. For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation under this 
section, the distance shall be measured by following a straight line from the registered sex offender to the outer 
property line of the public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, 
elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex 
Offender Registry Board, and for as  long as so classified after having received notice from the Lunenburg Police 
Department that he/she is loitering by having remained for more than fifteen (15) minutes within five hundred (500) 
feet of a school and/or camp bus stop which has been designated in a list maintained by the Town and available to 
the public is prohibited from continuing to so loiter; provided, however, that this prohibition shall no t apply on days 
when the schools and/or camps within the Town of Lunenburg are not in session.  
A. Exceptions 
1) The prohibitions defined in this bylaw shall not be construed or enforced so as to prohibit a sex offender 
from exercising his or her right to vote in any federal, state or municipal election, conducting town and/or 
police business or from attending any religious service.  
2) The prohibitions defined in this bylaw do not apply to a sex offender's place of residence when such 
residence is accepted under this bylaw.  
B. Penalties 
1) Criminal Complaint.  Violation of the safety zone provisions of this bylaw may be enforced by 
criminal complaint filed by any police officer of the Town of Lunenburg.  Each day a violation exists 
shall constitute a separate violation.  The fine for each violation, upon conviction, shall be three 
hundred dollars ($300). 
===PAGE 179===
 
179 
2) Noncriminal Disposition.  In addition to enforcement by criminal complaint, violation of the safety zone 
provisions of this bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity by any police 
officer of the Town of Lunenburg including, but not limited to, enforcement by non -criminal disposition 
pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.  The 
penalties for noncriminal disposition shall be as follows: 
a) First offense: noncriminal fine of one hundred and fifty dollars ($150), enforceable by a Lunenburg police officer.  
b) Subsequent offense: noncriminal fine of three hundred dollars ($300), enforceable  by a Lunenburg police officer, 
and written notification to the offender’s parole officer and/or probation officer, and the Commonwealth's Sex 
Offender Registry Board that the sex offender has violated a Town Bylaw.  
 
Section 10. Maps and List of Safety Zones 
One or more maps depicting the prohibited residency restriction areas defined by this bylaw and depicting the safety 
zone areas defined by this bylaw shall be created by the Town and maintained by the Lunenburg Police Department.  
A written list describing the prohibited areas defined by this bylaw, including school and/or camp bus stops, shall be 
created by the Town and maintained by the Lunenburg Police Department.  As to school and/or camps bus stops, the 
list shall govern over the maps. The list, maps and a copy of this bylaw shall be available to the public at the 
Lunenburg Police Department, the Lunenburg Town Clerk’s office and on the Town of Lunenburg’s website.  The 
Town shall review the list and maps annually for changes.   
 
Section 11. Severability 
If any portion of this bylaw is deemed by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or otherwise 
invalid or unenforceable, such judgment shall not impair or invalidate or render unenforceable the remaining 
portions of this bylaw. (Submitted by Police Chief) Board of Selectmen to make recommendation at ATM, Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 43.   To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $284,263.59, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 2 of the 11/6/2001 STM for engineering and construction of sewers.   [Submitted by 
the Town Accountant]  Board o f Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends 
approval, 5 – 0. 
ARTICLE 44.   To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $28,708, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 4 of the 5/7/2005 STM for engineering and co nstruction of sewers.   [Submitted by 
the Town Accountant]  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends 
approval, 5 – 0.  
ARTICLE 45.   To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $125,000, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 5 of the 10/1/2002 STM for the renovation of the Turkey Hill Middle School 
heating system.  [Submitted by the Town Accountant]  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance 
Committee recommends approval, 5 – 0.   
ARTICLE 46.  To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $56,550, the remaining borrowing 
authorization, from Article 4 of the 5/3/2003 STM for the construction and/ or renovation of the heating 
system at Thomas Passios Elementary School.  [Submitted by the  Town Accountant]  Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval, 5 – 0.  Finance Committee recommends approval, 5 – 0.   
ARTICLE 47.   To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XXIX, Section 1 of the General Bylaws , as 
printed in the warrant.  [Submitted by the Board of Selectmen]  Board of Selectmen recommends approval, 5 – 0.  
Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact. 
Meeting Dissolved at 3:23 PM – Last Article acted on was Article 38. 
===PAGE 180===
 
180 
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING  
November 16, 2015 
 
The Special Town Meeting was called to order at 7:00 P.M. in the Lunenburg High School Auditorium by Moderator 
Timothy Murphy. A quorum was declared and it was noted that the notice of meeting was properly served.  We 
pledged allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America followed by a moment of silence for the passing of 
Senator Mary L. Padula who served as Lunenburg’s Treasurer, Tax Collector and Town Clerk for 30 years, State 
Senator for 8 years and finished her public service as a member of Governor Weld’s cabinet as DHCD Secretary.  The 
Moderator advised of the many committee vacancies available for anyone interested in serving, went over the rules 
governing actions at the meeting and at 7:08 PM action was taken on Article 1.  
 
ARTICLE 1.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to 
fund the first year of the FY’15, FY’16 and FY’17 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, Local 4358A  
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – June 30, 2017, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted By 
Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will recommend at Town Meeting .  (No contract settlement at 
the time of printing).                               ARTICLE 1 WAS PASSED OVER. 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of money 
for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of 
Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend passing over this article.  ARTICLE 2 WAS PASSED OVER  
 
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds, all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY2016 Budget, under Article 15 of the May 2, 2015 Annual 
Town Meeting, or take any other action relative thereto.   (Submitted by Town Manager)  Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee recommend approval.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise and appropriate the sum of $87,110. as follows: 
transfer to Line 13, Reserve Fund, the sum of $39,116; transfer to Line 75, Veterans’ Benefits, the sum of $50,000; and 
transfer from Line 80, Monty Tech Assessment, the sum of $2,006.   
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $284,263.59, the remaining borrowing authorization, 
from Article 2 of the 11/06/2001 STM for engineering and construction of sewers;  or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval.  VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the sum of $284,263.59. 
 
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $28,708, the remaining borrowing authorization, from 
Article 4 of the 05/07/2005 STM for engineering and construction of sewers; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval.  VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the sum of $28,708. 
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $125,000, the remaining borrowing authorization, from 
Article 5 of the 10/01/2002 STM for the renovation of the Turkey Hill Middle School heating system; or take any other 
action relative thereto.    (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend 
approval.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the amount of $125,000. 
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $56,550, the remaining borrowing authorization, from 
Article 4 of the 05/03/2003 STM for the construction and/or renovations of the heating system at the Thomas Passios 
Elementary School; or take any other action relative thereto.   (Submitted by Town Accountant)  Board of Selectmen and 
Finance Committee recommend approval.  VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to rescind the amount of $56,550.  
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the enactment of a bylaw regulating the use of vehicles on 
Whalom Lake. 
Table of Contents 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
Section 2. Definitions 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles prohibited 
Section 5. Access 
Section 6. Penalties 
===PAGE 181===
 
181 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
The purpose and scope of this bylaw is to protect the safety of the public, to prevent the dest ruction of  aquatic life, waterfowl 
or other wildlife, the decay of water quality and damage to abutting  private and public lands by the inappropriate use of 
motor vehicles, recreation vehicles or snow vehicles on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lak e; to promote voluntary 
compliance with all applicable laws relating to the operation of motor vehicles and when necessary to deter noncompliance 
through fines and penalties.  
Section 2.  Definitions 
a) Motor Vehicle: any motor vehicle as defined in M.G.L Chapter 90, § 1. 
b) All-terrain vehicle: means a motorized recreational vehicle designed or modified for travel on four low pressure 
tires and having a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control, and recreational 
vehicle or off-highway vehicle as defined in CMR 323, § 3.02 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B.  
c) Snow vehicle: a motor vehicle designed to travel over ice or snow, having a curb weight of not more than 453 
kilograms or 1000 pounds, driven by track or tracks in contact with the snow or ice and steered by a ski or skis in 
contact with the snow or ice as defined in CMR 323, § 302 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B.  
d) Operation: to ride in or on and control the operation of, or to maintain, suffer, supervise, or permit the o peration of, 
or to push a snow vehicle or an all- terrain vehicle, or in the case of a motor vehicle, any person who makes use of 
any mechanical or electrical agency, which alone or in sequence will set in motion the motive power  of the vehicle, 
or if the engine is not running, any person who utilizes any combination of actions that would set the vehicle in 
motion. 
e) Public Access: shall mean the public access located in the City of Leominster or any other place where Whalom 
Lake can be accessed by the public.  
f) Law Enforcement Officer: any police officer, constable or other officer authorized to make arrests or serve process 
provided he is in uniform or displays his/her badge of office.  
g) Board: Town of Lunenburg, Board of Selectmen 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
A. No person, or group of persons shall operate, or cause to be operated on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom 
Lake, any snow vehicles that are not in compliance with Massachusetts CMR 323 § 2.01 to 3.09 & M .G.L. c. 90  
§ 21 to 35.  
B. When the Town of Lunenburg or any other agency or state agency duly authorized by law has posted the waters or 
frozen waters of Whalom Lake to prohibit access for or use of snow vehicles or all-terrain vehicles, no person, or 
group of persons shall operate any snow vehicle or all-terrain vehicle upon such waters or frozen waters. In the 
absence of such a posting, persons utilizing water or the frozen water of Whalom Lake do so at their own risk and 
the Town of Lunenburg assumes no responsibility either implied or expressed for the safety of any person who 
voluntarily assumes a known and obvious risk inherent in such activities. No person shall operate a snow vehicle or 
all-terrain vehicle upon any frozen waters of Whalom Lake under any circumstan ce unless a minimum of five inches 
of solid ice cover is present. The operator shall determine the thickness of the ice and assumes all responsibility in 
undertaking an activity with an inherent and known risk.  
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles Prohibited 
A. No person, group of persons or organizations shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle as defined in 
M.G.L. c. 90 § 1 on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake.  
Section 5. Access  
B. No snow vehicle or all-terrain vehicle shall enter upon Whalom Lake except by public access or by written 
permission by the landowner. 
Section 6. Penalties 
This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, enforcement  by 
criminal complaint pursuant to G.L. c.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectmen, the Town Manager, or their duly authorized 
agents, or any police officer. The fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300.) for each offense. 
(Submitted by Police Chief) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee reports no direct financial 
impact.  VOTED with amendment to Section 3.B adding the words “In the absence of such a posting,” to the beginning 
of the second sentence. 
 
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw that restricts the public consumption of Marijuana or 
Tetrahydrocannabinol.  The bylaw shall consist of two sections: 
Section 1: No person shall ingest or otherwise use or consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol, (as defined in G .L. c.94C§ 
1, as amended) other than a qualified patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, all as defined under 
state law, while in or upon a street, sidewalk, public way, footway, or pathway, passageway, stairs, bridge, park, playgroun d, 
beach, recreation area, boat landing, public building, schoolhouse, school grounds, cemetery, parking lot, or any area owned 
by or under the control of the town; or in or upon any bus or other passenger conveyance operated by a common carrier; or in 
any town owned vehicle; or in any place accessible to the public. No person, including a qualifying patient with a valid   
===PAGE 182===
 
182 
medical certification of a debilitating condition, all as defined under state law, while in or upon a street, sidewalk, publi c 
way, footway, or pathway, passageway, stairs, bridge, park, playground, beach, recreation area, boat landing, public building, 
schoolhouse, school grounds, cemetery, parking lot, or any area owned by or under the control of the town; or in or upon any 
bus or other passenger conveyance operated by a common carrier; or in any  town owned vehicle; or in any place accessible to 
the public. No person, including a qualifying patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, as defined 
under state law, shall smoke marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol in any public  place set forth herein.  
Section 2: This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, 
enforcement by criminal complaint of fines pursuant to G.L. c.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectmen, the Town Manager, or 
their duly authorized agents or any police officer. The fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300) 
for each offense. Any penalty imposed under this bylaw shall be in addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c. 9 4C, § 
32L.  (Submitted by Police Chief)     Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee reports no direct 
financial impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY 
 
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town would vote to enact a bylaw authorizing the Board of Selectmen to license suitable 
persons to carry on the business of pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers, or dealers in metal, as provided by M .G.L. c.140 
as amended.  
 
Table of Contents 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Section II. Interest Rates 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention  
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
Section II. Definitions 
Section III. License Required 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
Section V. Waiting Period 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Section IX. Violations and Penalties 
Section X. License and Administration Fees 
Amendments 
 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Subsection A.  
The Board of Selectmen may license suitable persons to be pawnbrokers or buyer s of goods pursuant to law. Licenses shall 
expire on the last day of December annually no matter when obtained during the preceding year. Such licenses shall not be 
valid to protect the holders thereof in a building or place other than that designated in the license, unless consent to remo val 
is granted by the Board of Selectmen. Applications for new licenses under the rule may be filed at any time with the Board of 
Selectmen. Applications for the reissue of licenses already existing should be filed at least 30 days before the expiration o f 
such licenses. Persons whose licenses have expired and have not been reissued will be liable to prosecution if carrying on 
business for which the license is required. Every person so licensed shall, at the time of receiving such license, file a bon d as 
provided by M.G.L. c. 140 § 77 as amended.  
===PAGE 183===
 
183 
Subsection B.  
Persons who engage in or carry on the business of lending money on mortgages, deposits or pledges of wearing apparel, 
jewelry, ornaments, household goods or other personal property, or of purchasing such property on condition of selling the 
same back again at a stipulated price, when the property so mortgaged, pledged or purchased is deposited with the lender, 
must be licensed as pawnbrokers. This provision, however, does not apply to loans made on stocks, bonds, notes or other 
written or printed evidence of ownership of property or of indebtedness to the holder or owner of such securities. (M .G.L. c. 
140, § 70 – 85) 
 
Section II. Interest Rates 
A. Licensed pawnbrokers may charge interest at the rate of 3% per month, and in no event may they charge more than 
the rate allowed by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. 
B. No such pawnbrokers shall charge or receive any greater rate of interest, and interest shall be determined on the 
precise sum advanced by the lender. 
C. No pawnbroker shall make or receive any extra charge or fee for storage, care or safekeeping of any goods, articles 
or things pawned with him. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 78) 
 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Any officer of the Lunenburg Police may at any time enter upon any premises used by a licensed pawnbroker or buyer for the 
purposes of his or her business, ascertain how he or she conducts his or her business and examine all articles taken in pawn or 
bought, or kept or stored in or upon said premises and all books and inventories shall be exhibited to any above name 
whenever a demand shall be made for such exhibition. (M.G.L. c. 140, §74) (Penalty for refusal, M.G.L. c. 140, §74) 
 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall at the time of making any loan, attach a number to the article taken in pawn or 
bought and shall make entry of such number in the book provided for in Section V. of this article.  
 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall keep a book of style and size in which shall be legibly written in ink in 
the English language at the time of making each loan, an account and description, including all distinguishing 
marks and numbers and serial numbers of the goods, articles or things pledged or pawned, the amount of money 
loaned or paid thereon, the day and hour when it was pawned, the rate of i nterest to be paid on such loan and the 
number of such article as same. No entry made in said book shall be erased, oblit erated or defaced.  Electronic 
record keeping by the pawnbroker or buyer is acceptable as long as the records meet all the bylaw requirements.  
B. Every pawnbroker or buyer shall photograph any person pawning or pledging articles and keep such photographs 
with said books as part of his or her records. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 79).  
C. For all transactions, every pawnbroker or buyer shall also require positive identification and shall record the type of 
identification presented and record the date of birth from any person pawning, pledgin g or selling any article. 
Positive identification shall mean any picture identification card issued by a governmental agency.  
 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention 
Each pledger shall be required by the pawnbroker to sign his/her name and age and address on a card. In the event that the 
pledger is unable to write, the pawnbroker shall fill in the name, age and address on such card, together with a notation 
stating that the pledger was unable to do so. Such card shall be retained seven years in an al phabetical index file by the 
licensed pawnbrokers.  
 
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Every pawnbroker or buyer shall at the time of making such loan deliver to the person who pawns or pledges any goods, 
articles or things, a memorandum or note signed by him, containing the substance of the entry required to be made in  his 
book by the provisions of Section V. and no charge shall be made or required by any pawnbroker or buyer for any such entry, 
memorandum or note. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 80) 
 
===PAGE 184===
 
184 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall make out and deliver a report of transactions to the Lunenbur g 
Police Chief or his designee every day before the hour of 10:00 a.m., a legible and correct list containing an accurate 
description, including all distinguishable marks, numbers and serial numbers of all articles taken in pawn or bought during 
the preceding business day, the respective numbers of such articles as provided by Section IV . of this bylaw, the amount 
loaned or paid thereon and the time when such articles were pawned or bought. This report can be done electronically , via the 
Internet, or faxed to the Lunenburg Police Chief or his designee. If during the preceding day no articles have been taken i n by 
such pawnbroker or buyer, he or she is required to report affirmatively. This report can be done both electronically via the 
Internet and by fax. 
   Subsection B. If any goods or articles pawned or pledged and in the possession of a pawnbroker or buye r are subsequently 
determined to be stolen property by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or the Massachusetts State Police, or if 
the rightful owner identifies property in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer and the property so identified is confirmed 
to be stolen goods by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or Massachusetts State Police, said property shall be 
returned to the rightful owner at no cost to such owner.  
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
   Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall post in a conspicuous place in his or her shop or office a copy of 
the statutes, ordinances and police regulations relating to pawnbrokers/buyers, to be furnished by the Lunenburg Police 
Department’s Police Chief or designee, and shall put in some suitable and conspicuous place in his shop a sign having his/her 
name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon in large lettering. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall place or maintain any signs or devices upon or in connection wit h his or her 
licensed premises indicating or tending to indicate that any form of business is conducted therein which he or she is not 
legally authorized to pursue. 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Pawnbroker or buyer may have his/her shop open for transactions between sunrise and 10:00 p.m. in the evening of any 
weekday and weekend. Under no circumstances can a pawnbroker or buyer operate after the hour of 10:00 p.m. to sunrise.  
 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A. Articles deposited in pawn with a licensed pawnbroker shall unless redeemed, be retained by him /her on the 
premises occupied by him/her for their business for at least four months after the date of deposit. 
   Subsection B. After the expiration of the applicable period of time he/she may sell the article by public auction, apply the 
proceeds thereof in satisfaction of the debt or demand and the expense of the notice and sale and pay any surplus to the 
person entitled thereto on demand. 
   Subsection C. No such sale of any article which is not of a perishable nature shall be made unless not less than 10 days 
prior to the sale a written notice of the intended sale shall have been sent by registered mail to the person entitled to the  
payment of any surplus as aforesaid, addressed to his residence as appearing in the records of such pawnbrokers. Proof of 
registered mail shall be kept on file for one year after the date of sale. 
   Subsection D. No article taken in pawn by such pawnbroker or buyer shall be disposed of otherwise than  as above 
provided, any agreement or contract between the parties thereto to the contrary notwithstanding.  
   Subsection E.  Articles of personal apparel shall not be deemed to be of a perishable nature within the meaning of this 
section. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 71) 
 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A. No pawnbroker or buyer shall make a loan, directly or indirectly, to a person under the age of 18, knowing 
or having reason to believe him or her to be such. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall loan money secured by deposit or pledge of a firearm, rifle, shotgun or 
machine gun. (M.G.L. c. 140, § 131B) 
   Subsection C. No pawnbroker or buyer shall hold a license to sell, rent, or lease a firearm, rifle, shotgun, or machine gun.  
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A. Complaints concerning licensed pawnbrokers or buyers shall be investigated by the Lunenburg Police 
Department under the direction of the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his designee will provide a disciplinary request 
to the Board of Selectmen for actionable complaints lodged against licensees.   
   Subsection B. In the event the Chief of Police determines that disciplinary action should be instituted against a licensed 
pawnbroker or buyer, the Chief of Police shall cause to be served upon the licensed pawnbroker or buyer notice as to the 
time, date and place of hearing and of the charge with a statement of the reasons for the proposed disciplinary action. 
Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with law.  
===PAGE 185===
 
185 
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
The Board of Selectmen may suspend or revoke licenses provided for by this article for any cause which the Board of 
Selectmen deems sufficient. Offenses which may result in the suspension or revocati on of a pawnbroker's or buyer’s license 
include but are not limited to the following: 
a) A violation of any section of this article. 
b) A violation of any provision of any statute or applicable law. 
 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
The Town of Lunenburg finds that there is a cognizable risk for stolen metals to end up in the possession of even legitimate 
businesses which trade in metals, including precious metals. Certain criminals bring stolen met als, including precious metals 
to dealers in jewelry and scrap metal. The victims of theft have only small hope of recovering their property unless the people 
and entities who receive scrap metals and jewelry are regulated in a manner which identifies both the metal received by the 
dealers and the persons who deliver the metal to these dealers. There is an Internet alert system used by t he Lunenburg Police 
Department which reports stolen metals. Monitoring transactions within the town and identifying both the metals and the 
persons selling or delivering these metals will serve both to deter theft and to enable the Lunenburg Police Department to 
trace and recover stolen property and return it to the rightful owners. 
 
Section II. Definitions 
As used in Article II, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
ARTICLE: Any metal which is subject to Article II and is exchanged, sold, collected, bartered or received by a person 
dealing in metals. 
CHIEF OF POLICE:  The Chief of the Lunenburg Police Department or his designee. 
EXCHANGE: Receiving, purchasing, selling or bartering metals, including precious metals and industrial scrap metals.  
METAL: A chemical element that is malleable, opaque and ductile, usually solid, which has a characteristic luster, is a good 
conductor of heat and electricity, and can be melted or fused, hammered into thin sheets, or drawn into wires, e.g., copper, 
aluminum, gold, silver or iron or other metals. 
PRECIOUS METAL(S): Any metal which is considered valuable, such as silver, gold, platinum and copper without regard 
to the form or amount of such precious metal. 
BOARD:  Board of Selectmen 
 
Section III. License Required 
a) No person shall collect, deal in, exchange, buy, or keep a shop or place for th e exchange, purchase, sale or barter of metals, 
including precious metals and industrial metals, in any building or place within the limits of the town without having a 
license issued by the Board of Selectman. The license requirement and the other require ments of this Article II shall not 
apply to commercial haulers having valid, current United States Department of Transportation stickers affixed to their 
vehicles. 
b) Board of Selectmen may for a fee set by said board and based upon an application devised by said board, license suitable 
persons to be dealers in and keepers of shops or locations for the purchase, sale or barter of precious metals at such places  
within the town as may be designated in such license. The Board of Selectmen may place reasonable conditions on such 
licenses which shall be inscribed on the face of the license. A license shall be limited to a specific address stated thereon . 
Subject to the notice and appeal provisions contained in Section IX (E),(2),(3) of this Article II, the Board of Selectmen may 
deny a license to any person who in the exercise of his reasonable discretion is unsuitable. 
c) All metal dealer licenses shall expire annually on the last day in December. The license holders shall be responsible for 
submitting an application for license renewal with the license fee to the Board of Selectmen at least 30 days prior to the last 
day in December. Upon receipt of an application for renewal, the Board shall consider the performance of the licensee during 
the previous year and shall determine whether the licensee had been found in violation of this Article II  and other ordinances 
and regulations of the town applicable to metal dealers. 
d) The Board of Selectmen may promulgate reasonable regulations not inconsistent with this Artic le II which shall be binding 
upon all licensees. No regulation shall take effect until the expiration of 30 days from the date the regulation(s) is delive red or 
mailed to the person(s) then licensed. The Board of Selectmen shall deliver a complete set of r egulations and any 
amendments thereto to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall maintain the complete set of all regulations in a book available 
to the public. 
e) The obligation to obtain a license as required by this section will take effect 45 days after it is finally enacted. 
 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
No licensee shall, directly or indirectly, exchange any metals with a person under the age of 18.  
 
===PAGE 186===
 
186 
Section V. Waiting Period 
No article exchanged, purchased or received shall be sold, or altered i n appearance, form or substance until a period of at 
least twenty-one (21) days have elapsed from the date of its purchase or receipt. All articles exchanged, purchased or received 
must be made available to the Lunenburg Police Department upon request with in 24 hours of such request, and the Police 
Department may investigate to determine if any article is or may be stolen property. This waiting period does not apply to 
scrap metal yards which are exempt from any waiting period. 
 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Every licensee shall electronically create and send to the Police Chief or his designee on a form, in the manner and at the time 
prescribed by the Police Chief or his designee, a legible complete list containing an accurate description of all metal articles 
received by the licensee during the previous 24 hours. The description must include: the type of metal, the size and/or 
quantity, whether the article is or may be a precious metal, if applicable; whether the article is typically used by or associated 
with a male or female, the wording of any engraving, whether the article has any gems or precious stones, any identifying 
number and every other identifiable trait. 
 
 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
A. Every licensee shall, at the time of making any exchange or receipt of any article, assign and attach a number    
     to each article received and shall make entry of such number in the book described in Subsection B. 
B. Every licensee shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in ink, in the English lang uage, at the time  
     the licensee receives any article, the following information: 
  1) An account and description, including all distinguishing or identifying marks and numbers of every article  
     received by the licensee. 
  2) The amount of money, if any, paid for the article. 
  3) The date and hour when it was received. 
  4) The name, age, permanent address and telephone number of the person from who purchased or received.  
  5) A copy of the document used to identify the person giving the article to the licensee.  
  C. Every licensee shall require positive identification from any person selling or exchanging any article. The   
      licensee shall copy and record the type of identification presented and the date of birth from any person giving  
      or exchanging any article. Positive identification means only a government-issued document with the person's   
      name and photograph. The licensee shall photograph any person exchanging any article(s). A copy of the  
      identification and the photograph shall be kept with the book required by this section as part of his records. 
  D. No entry made in the book required by this section shall be erased, obliterated or defaced in any manner  
      whatsoever. The book shall at all times be open for the inspection by the Police Chief or any police officer.  
      The licensee shall keep and maintain all the records required by this Article II for a period of three years from  
      the date of the last entry in any book. 
 
  Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Every licensee shall post in some suitable and conspicuous place where he or she receives or exchanges articles, a sign 
having his/ her full legal name, and his/her business name, if different, and his/her occupation legibly described thereon in  
large letters. The current license shall also be so posted. The location where transactions occur, the store or shop and all 
articles exchanged and or kept therein or received therein and the book and documents required by this Article II, may at all  
times be examined by the Police Chief or any police officer at their request. 
 
Section IX. Violations and Penalties 
A. Whoever not having a valid license as required by this Article II, exchanges, collects, deals in or barters metals in any 
place or manner other than that designated in his license, or after notice to him that his license has been revoked, or whoever 
violates this Article II or any rule, regulation or restriction contained in his license, or any regulation promulgated by th e 
Town of Lunenburg shall be subject to the fines and sanctions described in this section. Each day of such violation shall 
constitute a separate offense. 
B. The fine for breach of the duty imposed by this Article II is three hundred dollars ($300). Each day on which the person 
continues in violation shall be considered as a separate violation. 
C. This Article II may at the discretion of the Chief of Police be enforced by civil process or by noncriminal disposition as 
provided in M.G.L. c. 40, § 21D. The Chief of Police or any Lunenburg police officer may issue tickets to enforce this 
Article II. If enforced civilly by ticket each day on which a violation exists shall be d eemed to be a separate offense and the 
violator shall be subject to the following fines: 
===PAGE 187===
 
187 
1) First violation: $150. 
       2) Second violation: $200. 
       3) Third violation: $300. 
       4) Fourth and each subsequent violation: $300. 
D.  In addition to the penalties set forth above, the enforcing authority may seek an injunction from an appropriate court to  
restrain any violation of this Article II, any regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on 
a license. 
E. The Board of Selectmen may terminate any license or refuse to renew any license for violation of this Article II, a 
regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on the license. The Boa rd of Selectmen shall 
use the procedure described in this section. 
     1) Notice of violation. Whenever it comes to the attention of the Board of Selectmen that a  violation of this Article II, a 
regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or a condition inscribed on a license, th e Board shall by written notice, 
deliver personally or send by certified mail to the licensee notifying him of the violation and order the person to cease and 
desist. Depending on the severity of the violation as determined by him, the Bo ard of Selectmen may terminate the license. 
The Board shall also provide notice described herein if it denies an application for a license stating the r easons therefor.  
      2) Contents of notice. The written notice to the licensee shall contain a description of the v iolation(s) and the date(s) of 
occurrence and a citation to the section of the ordinance, regulation or license condition which the licen see is alleged to have 
violated. The notice will, if applicable, describe what the licensee must do to comply, whether the Board of Selectmen 
intends to terminate the license and the effective date of the termination which shall afford th e licensee at least seven days to 
file an appeal of the proposed termination with the Board. In the case of denial of a license, the notice shall state the reasons 
for the denial. 
     3) Appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of license termination, or denial, the licensee may, within seven days of receipt of the 
notice, file a written appeal by delivery or certified mail to the Board of Selectmen's office during the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. on days when Town Hall is open for business. When the Board of Selectme n receives an appeal, they shall appoint 
a neutral hearing officer who will take testimony from any persons with knowledge of the facts including any police officer 
and the appellant. The appellant may be represented by counsel and any person so testifying will be s ubject to cross 
examination. The proceedings will be governed by the rules of evidence applicable to an informal administrative hearing. The 
hearing officer will assure that an appropriate record, including any documents submitted, is made and kept. The de cision of 
the hearing officer will be written and final. 
F. The Board of Selectmen, subject to the process described in this section, may refuse to renew any license. The Board shall 
not issue a license to any person convicted of a felony. 
 
Section X. License and Administration Fees 
            1) Second Hand Buyer of Goods and Electronics Annually $250.00 
            2) Second Buyer of Metal and Precious Metals Annually $250.00 
            3) Pawnbroker License Annually $100.00      
Amendments 
(Submitted by Police Chief) Board of Selectmen recommends approval. Finance Committee reports no direct financial 
impact. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY with amendment to Article II, Section III (e) adding “it is finally enacted” to read: e) 
The obligation to obtain a license as required by this section will take effect 45 days after it is finally enacted by bylaw is 
approved by the Attorney General. 
 
ARTICLE 11.  To see if the Town will vote to add the below bolded wording to Article XXIX Agricultural 
Commission,  
Section 1. Said Commission, once appointed shall develop a work plan to guide its activities. Such activities may include, but 
are limited to the following; encouraging the continued pursuit of agriculture in Lunenburg; promoting agricultural -based 
economic opportunities in Town; mediating, advocating, educating and/or negotiating on farming issues; working for the 
preservation of prime agricultural lands; to oversee, operate or run a Farmers’ Market; and pursuing all initiatives 
appropriate to retaining farming in Lunenburg, or take any action thereto.  
(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED 
UNANIMOUSLY to add the words “to oversee, operate or run a Farmers’ Market;” to Article XXIX Agricultural 
Commission, Section 1, at the end of the second sentence before the words “and pursuing all initiatives appropriate to 
retaining farming in Lunenburg. 
===PAGE 188===
 
188 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to enter into alternative energy power  
purchase and/or net metering credit purchase agreements, including solar and wind energy and related net electricity 
metering credits, for terms of more than three years, on such terms and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem in 
the best interest of the Town; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to take all actions necessary to administer and 
implement such agreements; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen/Town Manager) 
Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED 
 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to delete Article XV, Salary Administration Plan, of General Bylaws and 
replace with a new Article XV, Salary Administration Plan, as printed below, or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by Personnel Committee) 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
SALARY ADMINISTRATION PLAN 
 
     FEBRUARY 8, 1965 
     REVISED MARCH 5, 1966 
     REVISED MARCH 4, 1967 
     REVISED MARCH 2, 1968 
     REVISED MARCH 1, 1969 
     REVISED MARCH 7, 1970 
     REVISED MARCH 6, 1971 
     REVISED MARCH 4, 1972 
     REVISED MARCH 3, 1973 
     REVISED APRIL 6, 1974 
     REVISED NOVEMBER 25, 1974 
     REVISED APRIL 4, 1975 
     REVISED APRIL 3, 1976 
     REVISED NOVEMBER 16, 1976 
     REVISED APRIL 2, 1977 
     REVISED APRIL 1, 1978 
     REVISED APRIL 7, 1979 
     REVISED APRIL 5, 1980 
     REVISED APRIL 3, 1982 
     REVISED JUNE 13, 1983 
     REVISED MAY 12, 1984 
     REVISED MAY 11, 1985 
     REVISED APRIL 12, 1986 
     REVISED MAY 9, 1987 
     REVISED MAY 14, 1988 
     REVISED MAY 13, 1989 
     REVISED MAY 12, 1990 
     REVISED MAY 11, 1991 
     REVISED    1992 
     REVISED MAY 13, 1995 
     REVISED MAY 11, 1996 
     REVISED MAY 10, 1997 
     REVISED OCTOBER 21, 1997 
     REVISED MAY 9, 1998 
     REVISED MAY 8, 1999 
     REVISED NOVEMBER 30, 1999 
     REVISED 2003 
     REVISED MAY 1, 2004 
     REVISED MAY 7, 2005 
     REVISED MAY 2, 2009 
  REVISED MAY 1, 2010 
  REVISED OCTOBER 1, 2015 
===PAGE 189===
 
189 
TABLE OF CONTENTS    
                    Page 
Preamble         3. 
 
Sec.  1.  The Personnel Committee       3. 
  2.  Classification and Salary Schedule      4. 
  3.  Titles of Positions        4. 
  4.  New or Changed Positions       4. 
  5.  Reclassification of Employees       4. 
  6.  Job Descriptions and Interpretations      4. 
  7.  Salary Schedule        4. 
  8.  Salary Rates Above Maximum       5. 
  9.  Layoff Procedure – Recall Procedure      5. 
 10.  Transfers and Promotions       5. 
 11.  New Personnel        6. 
 12.  Grievance Procedure        6. 
 13.  Department Budgets        6.  
 14.  Severability Provision        6. 
 15.  Civil Service         6. 
 16.  Hours of Work        6. 
 17.  Paid Vacation        7. 
 18.  Paid Holidays        8. 
 19.  Sick Leave         9. 
          20.  Personal Leave      10. 
          21.  Family and Medical Leave Act     10.  
 22.  Bereavement Leave      10. 
 23.  Military Leave      10. 
 24.  Jury Duty       11. 
 25.  Longevity Pay      11. 
 26.  Travel Reimbursement     11. 
 27.  Discipline Policy      11. 
 28.  Definitions       12. 
 Job Classifications      13. 
 Salary Schedule       14. 
 
PREAMBLE 
This by-law establishes a Salary Administration Plan, hereinafter called the “Plan”, which classifies several positions of town 
services into groups, establishes salary schedules, establishes so called “fringe” benefits, or “indirect pay” provisions, such as 
holidays and vacations with pay, sick leave, and the like, and establishes a Personnel Committee to administer the Plan, as 
hereinafter provided, and to represent the interest of both taxpayers and town employees. 
 
SECTION 1.  THE PERSONNEL COMMITTEE 
There is hereby established a Personnel Committee consisting of five members, each residing in the Town of Lunenburg, to 
be appointed by the Selectmen and Town Manager, and each member shall serve for a t erm of three years; provided, 
however, that of the members originally appointed, one shall serve a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two 
for a term of three years, as designated by the Selectmen and Town Manager.  However, nothing herein s hall be deemed to 
prohibit the chairman of the Personnel Committee from designating a member of said committee to serve ex officio as 
representative of said Committee on a study committee of the Town Meeting, nor shall such service affect the tenure of sai d 
member of the Personnel Committee.  If any member of the Personnel Committee shall resign or otherwise vacate the office 
before the expiration of their term, the successor shall be appointed by the Selectmen and Town Manager, at their discretion,  
to serve for the balance of the unexpired term.  
 
A Town employee may serve as an ex officio member of the Personnel Committee and may be called upon from time to time 
to provide information requested by the Personnel Committee so that the Personnel Committee can  make well informed 
decisions and proposals.   
 
Said Committee shall elect its own chairman and vice-chairman by September 15th of each year; and in the absence or 
incapacity of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall act as chairman.  The Committee shall keep a record of its official 
proceedings and actions, may establish its own rule of procedure and may, subject to appropriation therefore, retain such  
===PAGE 190===
 
190 
clerical and other assistance, and make such other expenditures as may be necessary to the performance of its duties.  Three 
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the committee, and the affirmative vote of three 
members shall be necessary to any official act of the Committee. 
 
The Personnel Committee is hereby authorized to a dminister the provisions of this by -law, except for such duties as may be 
specifically assigned by statute or by -law to other Town officers, boards or committees.  Appeals for decisions of the 
Personnel Committee may be taken to the Town at the next Annual or Special Town Meeting. 
 
The Personnel Committee may from time to time issue, amend, or revoke Administrative Orders for the purpose of giving 
effect to the provisions of this by -law, and for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of such other b y-laws and votes 
of the Town, pertaining to personnel administration, as said Committee may be responsible for administering and/or 
enforcing.  Each such order shall be numbered in sequence, and said Committee shall maintain in the Town Office a file for 
all such orders issued, said file to be open to public inspection.  
 
Except as otherwise provided by law, the Committee shall have access to all facts, figures, records and other information 
relating to the personnel of Town departments other than the Schoo l Department, and the same shall be furnished forthwith 
by any such department whenever so requested by the Personnel Committee, in such a form as said Committee may require.  
 
In the event that the Personnel Committee does not have enough members to conduc t business, the Town Manager shall have 
the authority to administer the Salary Administration Plan. 
 
SECTION 2.  CLASSIFICATION AND SALARY SCHEDULE 
The positions of all officers except those part -time administrative positions required by statute, and emplo yees in the service 
of the Town, whether probationary, full -time, part -time, hourly, seasonal, intermittent, and any others, other than those 
positions filled by popular election, all contractual employees, all police officers under the rank of Police Chie f, and those 
under the direction and control of the School Committee, are hereby classified by titles in the groups listed in Schedule A, 
entitled “Classification and Salary Schedule”, as set forth in this by-law. 
 
SECTION 3.  TITLE OF POSITIONS 
No person shall be appointed, employed or paid as an employee in any position subject to the provision of the Salary 
Administration Plan under any title other than those of the Classification and Salary Schedule, or under any title other than  
that of the job the dut ies of which are actually performed.  The job title in the Classification and Salary Schedule of the Plan 
shall be the official title for all purposes having to do with the position and shall be used to designate the position in al l 
payrolls, budget estimates and official reports, and in every other connection involving personnel and fiscal processes.  
 
SECTION 4.  NEW OR CHANGED POSITIONS 
The Personnel Committee tentatively may add new job title and descriptions to this Plan, establishing grades with minimu m 
and maximum wage or salary brackets for the same, and reclassifying existing jobs, revising the description and the 
minimum and maximum wage and salary brackets therefore, and such addition or reclassification to be effective only for the 
period from the  date of such action by the Personnel Committee to the date of any vote with respect thereto adopted at a 
subsequent Town Meeting but in no case later than the next Annual Town Meeting unless such later date as may be specified 
by such vote.  Any increase in wages or salaries under this section shall be effective only if funds are available for the 
purpose, and approved by the Finance Committee and Board of Selectmen.  
 
SECTION 5.  RECLASSIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES 
No employee shall be reclassified to a job in a nother group, either higher or lower, until the Personnel Committee shall have 
determined that such a reclassification will be consistent with the provisions of the Salary Administration Plan.  
 
SECTION 6.  JOB DESCRIPTIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS  
The Personnel Committee shall maintain written job descriptions of the jobs or positions in the Plan, describing the essential 
functions, requirements and duties.  The descriptions shall not be interpreted as either complete or restrictive and employee s 
shall continue to perform any duties assigned by an employee’s supervisor. 
 
Every three (3) years, the Personnel committee shall review the wage and salary schedules of all positions in the Plan, and b e 
in a position to recommend to the Board of Selectmen any action deemed desirable to maintain a fair and equitable pay level.  
 
SECTION 7.  SALARY SCHEDULE 
===PAGE 191===
 
191 
The Classification and Salary Schedule of the Salary Administration Plan, set forth in Schedule A of this by -law, shall consist 
of the maximum and minimum salaries and s tep-rate salaries for the groups and positions in the Classification and Salary 
Schedule.  The salary range of a group shall be the salary range for all positions classified in such group.  
 
Irrespective of the period of time for which pay rates may be show n in the Salary Schedule, all employees shall continue to 
be paid on an hourly, weekly, monthly, or other basis, as at present, unless otherwise authorized by the Personnel Committee 
or by amendment of the Salary Administration Plan. 
 
SECTION 8.  SALARY RATES ABOVE MAXIMUM 
Any salary rate which is above the maximum rate for a job, as established by Salary Administration Plan, shall be deemed to 
be a personal rate, and apply only to the incumbent.  When such incumbent leaves the employ of the Town or is tran sferred to 
another job with a higher maximum rate than their personal rate or higher maximum rates are established, the personal rate 
shall disappear.  No other employee assigned to or hired for such job shall advance beyond the maximum of the job.  
 
SECTION 9.  LAYOFF PROCEDURE – RECALL PROCEDURE 
Layoff Procedure  – If the Town decides to lay  off employees, it shall determine from which classification(s) or job 
function(s) layoffs shall be made.  Layoffs shall then be made based on seniority within the class ification.  
 
“Seniority” shall be the length of an employee’s continuous service measured from the employee’s most recent appointment 
date; provided an employee’s seniority may be reduced for periods of unpaid leave, unless otherwise prohibited by law.  
 
If two or more employees in the same classification have the same seniority, the employee who has the shorter term of 
continuous employment with the Town shall be laid off.  If there are two or more employees in the same classification with 
the same seniority and the same term of continuous employment with the Town, a part -time employee shall be laid off before 
a full-time employee.  If there are still two or more employees in the same classification, the Town Manager shall determine 
which employee shall be laid off.   
 
An employee that is scheduled to be laid off shall have the right to bump other employees in lower classifications with less 
seniority, provided that the Town Manager, in his/her sole discretion, but with consultation of the Department Head, sh all 
make a determination that the employee retained is qualified and able to perform the duties of the lower classification, subj ect 
to disability discrimination laws. 
 
Employees who have been laid off from employment are responsible for keeping the Town a dvised of their current address 
for the purpose of potential recall from layoff. 
 
Recall Policy – If the town conducts a recall from layoff, recall shall be offered in reverse order of layoff by classification 
provided the laid off employee is qualified an d able to perform the duties of the classification to which the employee is being 
offered recall, subject to disability discrimination laws. 
Employees shall only be eligible for recall from layoff under the terms of this policy for one (1) year from the da te of the 
employee’s layoff. 
 
Any employee who is recalled from layoff under the terms of this policy shall retain his/her seniority, less the period of 
layoff. 
 
The Town will notify an employee of a recall opportunity by certified letter (or other verifia ble method of delivery) to the 
employee’s last known address.  An employee who has been offered an opportunity to be recalled from layoff must advise 
the Town of his/her intention to accept recall within five (5) working days. 
 
SECTION 10.  TRANSFERS AND PROMOTIONS 
(a)When an employee is promoted to a job with a higher rate range, or rate of pay, he/she shall enter it at the minimum of the 
job rate range or at their own rate, whichever is the higher, but in no event at a rate in excess of the maximum for s uch job.  
He/she may also receive at the time one or more step rate increases, provided the maximum for the job is not exceeded, if the  
Department Head recommends that qualification and performance warrant it, and the Personnel Committee approves.  If the 
Department Head should feel that there should be a trial period before  recommending the promotional step rate increase or 
increases, on recommendation of the Department Head, the Personnel Committee may approve any such deferred 
promotional increase at the conclusion of the trial period. 
(b)If an employee is transferred to a job with a lower rate range, or rate of pay, he/she shall enter it at their own rate or at  the 
maximum rate for the job, whichever is the lower. 
 
===PAGE 192===
 
192 
SECTION 11.  NEW PERSONNEL 
(a) The hiring rate shall be the minimum of the rate range of the job for which the new employee if hired, unless otherwise 
authorized by the Personnel Committee.  Department Heads shall notify the Personnel Committee of the hiring of all new 
personnel.  This notification shall be done in writing via the New Hire Personnel Form.  
(b)  Effective July 1, 2015, for new regular full -time, and new regular part -time personnel for whose position there is a rate 
range, eligibility for a step increase will depend on the employe e’s date of hire.  If hired between January 1 st and June 30 th, 
the employee is not eligible for a step increase until July 1 st of the following calendar year.  If hired between July 1 st and 
December 31st, the employee is eligible for their first step increase on the upcoming July 1st.   
 
SECTION 12.  GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE 
Any employee who believes that they have received inequitable treatment is encouraged to discuss the grievance initially 
with their supervisor within 10 working days of the occurrence or kno wledge of the event.  If the employee is not 
comfortable discussing the matter with their direct supervisor, or if the matter is not settled, the employee should submit t he 
said grievance to their Department Head.  The Department Head shall meet with the e mployee and will respond in writing to 
the employee within 14 days of the meeting.  
If the grievance is not resolved by the decision of the Department Head, the employee may file an appeal in writing with the 
Town Manager within 10 days of receipt of the d ecision.  The Town Manager will meet with the employee within a 
reasonable time after receipt of the appeal and will respond in writing to the employee’s grievance within 30 days after 
meeting with the employee.  
 
SECTION 13.  DEPARTMENT BUDGETS 
Each Department Head shall include in the annual budget request, a pay adjustment section to provide funds for anticipated 
pay adjustments during the ensuing year, expenditures to be made therefrom only in accordance with the Salary 
Administration Plan with approval of the Personnel Committee. 
 
SECTION 14.  SEVERABILITY PROVISION 
In the event any provision of this by -law or application thereof shall be held to be invalid by the proper authorities, this shall 
not be construed to affect the validity of any other provision, or application thereof, of this by-law. 
 
SECTION 15.  CIVIL SERVICE 
Nothing in this by -law of Salary Administration Plan shall be construed to conflict with Chapter 31 (Civil Service) of the 
General Laws. 
 
SECTION 16.  HOURS OF WORK 
The schedule of hours to be worked shall be determined by the appropriate Department Head.  
For positions entitled to overtime pay at one and one -half (1 1/2) times the regular rate for work actually performed in excess 
of forty (40) hours within a work week, the words “wor k actually performed” shall be construed to include all duly paid time 
off, including but not limited to holidays, sick leave, vacation, personal days and bereavement leave, and such leave shall b e 
included in the computation of forty (40) hours. 
Unauthorized leave or leave for which the employee is not entitled to compensation shall not be included in such 
computation. 
I. Industrial Trades and Service Occupations 
 A. Work Week 40 hours in 5 days. 
 B. One and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate will be paid for work actually performed in 
   excess of forty (40) hours within a work week. 
II. Office Occupations 
 A. Work Week - Forty (40) hours in five days and may be reduced administratively to 36 hours in  
   four or five days. 
 B. One and one-half (1 1/2) times the regular rate will be paid for work actually performed in 
   excess of forty (40) hours within a work week. 
III. Public Safety Occupations 
A. Fire Department - The hours of the Fire Department shall be determined by the Chief with the approval of  
the Personnel Committee provided, however, that all hours worked by any member  
of the Fire Department will be paid for at the regular rate then in force. 
IV. Administrative and Professional Occupations 
 A. Persons employed in these positions are not governed by hours of the positions under their  
  supervision or control.  Generally, such positions shall be for at least forty (40) hours per week  
  when full-time and not entitled to overtime. 
===PAGE 193===
 
193 
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing paragraphs, the appr opriate department head may, instead of paying the overtime 
rate, provide that the employee take compensatory time off at a rate of 1 1/2 times the hours worked that qualify for overtim e 
pay.  Compensatory time must be taken within 60 days. 
 
SECTION 17.  PAID VACATIONS 
All persons employed regularly by the Town full -time or part -time for a minimum of twenty (20) hours per week shall 
receive paid vacations according to the following schedule. Any persons working between 20 and 40 hours per week shall 
receive paid vacations, but it will be prorated accordingly.  The part -time compensation formula shall be used to determine 
the prorated part-time employee’s vacation day (See Section 28). 
 
 
Earned vacation time up to and including 80 hours must be used in the y ear granted.  No unused portion of this allowance 
shall be carried forward into a subsequent vacation year, nor shall any monetary compensation be given for such unused 
portion.  Earned vacation time in excess of 80 hours should be used in the year granted , and no portion of such excess shall 
be carried forward into a subsequent year.  If departmental scheduling or other serious extenuating circumstances preclude 
the use of all such excess in the year granted, the employee shall receive compensation equival ent to such unused portion in a 
lump sum payable on the last payroll warrant in June, in addition to their regular salary; provided, however, that such 
payment must be approved by the Department Head and written authorization signed by the Personnel Commit tee in advance 
of such payment. 
 
Employment Termination.  An employee whose employment ends, whether voluntary resignation, retirement or involuntary 
termination, shall receive compensation equivalent to earned vacation allowance, provided he/she has been in the continuous 
service of the Town for 10 months, as follows: 
(a) All currently available, unused vacation allowance up to a maximum of  200 hours; and (b) One twelfth (1/12) of the 
vacation allowance which would otherwise have been credited on the next suc ceeding July 1, for each full month 
worked since the preceding July 1.   
The vacation year shall begin July 1.  The assignment of vacation leave shall be arranged by the Department Head for such 
time or times as best serve the public interest, provided, ho wever, that each employee shall be entitled to use at least 40 hours 
of their vacation accrual during the period between June 1 and September 15 if desired, based on seniority.  
 
No vacation time may be used in advance of the July 1 date on which it would n ormally be credited; except that where such 
advance served the needs both of the employee and of the Town, it may be requested by the Department Head and authorized 
in writing by the Town Manager.  In no case shall any such advanced vacation exceed the num ber of days for which the 
employee would be entitled to compensation, were he/she to terminate their services in good standing on the first day of such  
vacation, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5, subparagraph (b), of this section.  
 
SECTION 18.  PAID HOLIDAYS 
The Town of Lunenburg shall observe the following holidays: 
New Year’s Day Columbus Day      
Martin Luther King Day Veterans’ Day 
After Completion of: Hours of Paid Vacation 
(Based on 40 hour week) 
10 Months 80 
1 Year 80 
5 Years 120 
10 Years 160 
11 Years 164 
12 Years 168 
13 Years 172 
14 Years 176 
15 Years 180 
16 Years 184 
17 Years 188 
18 Years 192 
19 Years 196 
20+ Years 200 
 
===PAGE 194===
 
194 
Washington’s Birthday Thanksgiving Day 
Patriots Day The Day after Thanksgiving 
Memorial Day The Day before Christmas 
Independence Day Christmas Day 
Labor Day        
 
It is the intent of this section that no employee, employed full -time or part -time for a minimum  of twenty (20) hours, shall 
lose pay by the observance of any of the listed holidays; provided, how ever, that part -time employees shall receive holiday 
benefits only for holidays falling within their regularly scheduled work week; and provided further that, except as specifica lly 
provided elsewhere in this section, no employee, full -time or part-time, shall receive, in any week in which a holiday occurs, 
compensation in excess of his or her normal week’s pay as a result of the payment of compensation for such holiday.  To 
these ends, this section shall be administered as follows: 
 
Full-Time Employees (36 -40 hours):  The employee is entitled to each of the scheduled holidays or the equivalent time off 
with pay, based on the hourly rate of the employee for the number of hours normally worked on the day of the week on 
which the holiday falls, or for the numb er of hours normally worked on the day of the week given as equivalent time off, as 
the case may be. 
 
Part-Time Employees (minimum 20 hours):  The employee is entitled to compensation for those holidays falling within his or 
her usual work schedule only, as follows: 
 
a. The number of hours normally scheduled for the day of week on which the holiday falls; or  
 
b. The number of hours normally scheduled for each week, divided by the number of days  normally  
scheduled to work in each week, whichever is applicable. 
 
Holiday time will be given on the holiday if possi ble.  If not, where applicable, equivalent time off with pay will be granted.  
However, if according to the needs of the Department, holiday time or equivalent time off cannot be granted, the employee  
shall receive payment at one and one -half times the regular hourly rate for all hours worked on the holiday, in addition to his 
or her holiday pay.  Whenever a holiday falls on Sunday, it will be observed on the Monday following.  Whenever a holiday 
falls on Saturday or on a full -time employee’s day off, holiday time will be scheduled by the Department Head or the 
employee will receive a Floating Holiday.  The Floating Holiday is equal to eight (8) hours for employees who regularly 
work 40 hours per week, and will be prorated according to the Part -time compensation formula for those who work less than 
40 hours.    Holiday time will not be cumulative and must be taken within either three (3) weeks before or three (3) weeks 
following the specified holiday. 
 
SECTION 19.  SICK LEAVE 
All persons employed, full-time or part-time who have completed the six (6) months probationary period by July 1 of any 
year, shall be entitled to sick leave of ninety-six (96) hours,  to be credited on July 1.  The part-time compensation formula 
shall be used to determine the employee’s prorated sick pay (See Section 28).  
 
New employees having completed the six (6) months probationary period shall be credited as of the end of said six (6) 
months, with sick leave in the amount of eight (8) hours for each full month intervening between the six months anniversary 
date and the next July 1, up to the maximum of ninety-six (96) hours.  Use of such leave must be occasioned by sickness or 
injury of the employee or their immediate family member. 
 
Unused sick leave shall be cumulative up to a maximum of 1,200 hours, and shall be carried forward on July 1 of each year, 
to be added to the sick leave credited as of July 1. Sick leave may be donated to another employee who has exhausted their 
accumulated sick leave at the discretion of the Town Manager. 
 
When an employee finds it necessary to be absent because of accident or illness, he/she shall report the fact to their 
immediate supervisor as soon as possible either in person or by agent.  Sick lea ve will not be granted unless such report is 
made.  For the protection of the Town, the Department Head or supervisor may require the presentation of a doctor’s 
certificate in connection with a claim for sick leave that exceeds, or is equal to 24 hours (or  three missed days of work), and 
may, if it is deemed advisable, send a doctor or nurse to investigate any absence alleged to be caused by illness.  Any 
employee who refuses to submit to a doctor’s examination shall not be entitled to sick leave.  
 
An employee who retires in good standing shall receive compensation based on a percentage of his/her accumulated unused 
sick leave, up to a maximum of 480 hours, as follows:  5 years continuous service 10%; 15 years continuous service 50%; 25  
