===PAGE 1===
Hurdles to Redeveloping the Brooks House 
 
• According to the 2004 site plan for the library expansion, the lawn on the right side 
of the house is used for both a drainage basin and a utility easement. Thus, this 
portion of the property is unusable for vehicle access, building and parking. If the 
Town splits off the lot and sells it, the buyer would need to grant a drainage 
easement to the Town and a utility easement to the utility company. 
 
 
Drainage basin to the right. 
 
• The left side of the house appears to be wetlands. Measuring the 30-foot no-touch 
buffer zone and the 50-foot no-build buffer zone leaves only a small strip of land 
that is not large enough for a new structure. 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
• If the Town were to split off the land around the Brooks House through the ANR 
(Approval Not Required) process, then the driveways for the library and the high 
school could not be used for vehicle access to the property because our zoning 
bylaw says that access must be from the lot’s road frontage.  
 
Perhaps the Zoning Board would grant a waiver for frontage, but a waiver would be 
best pursued by the Town as opposed to a private landowner. However, will the 
library want to allow a private business to use their driveway for access? Will the 
high school? Would someone be willing to buy the property if those are the only two 
options for vehicle access? 
 
 
 
• If the lot’s frontage on Mass Ave has to be used for lot access, there is no guarantee 
that MassHighway will grant a curb cut permit for the property. DOT will not issue an 
advisory opinion on this as they only entertain actual curb cut permit filings.  
 
• In order to use Mass Ave for vehicular access, a large tree will need to be taken 
down, and a utility pole relocated.  
 

===PAGE 3===
 
 
Initial Conclusion: This property has very little potential for redevelopment. It may be best 
suited as a drainage basin for whatever use/structure comes in to replace TC Pasos.  
 
 
 
