===PAGE 1===
 
 
        
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Green Communities Task Force 
Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2009 
6:30 p.m. Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
 
Present:  Chairman Steve Marsden, Jim Breault, Courtney Zivojinovic, Lisa Krowitz, David Blatt, Ernie Sund, Joanne McQuaid, 
John Londa, and Marion Benson 
Absent:  SteveDiCampo and Pat Slattery 
Guest: Carl Klempner 
 
Discussion: 
 Mr. Klempner requested some input about the work being conducted by the Green Communities Task Force. The 
Committee is researching data for the Town’s future decision on energy supply. He feels the two committees should be 
communicating. Noted the present system is old. Ashby and Townsend could be partners. 
 
Reports: 
Wind: Ernie Sund reported on possible wind sites. He located 11-12 sites. He listed the sites, several of which are on 
conservation land. He related his research and noted that an official wind study might be necessary. He has purchased a small  
unit for his home use. He feels the Wind Energy bylaw needs to be updated and made more user friendly. 
 
Solar:  David Blatt reported his findings on solar energy. He discussed hot water syste ms including the tube system. Discussion 
ensued with the combination of solar and photo voltaic. Noted buildings as recipients would be the Middle School, Public Safety 
Building. Noted also was technical assistance performance contracting for the Elementary and High School.   
 
Education:  Discussion ensued concerning school age children. Committee felt information and data should be given to all ages. 
Courtney will ask his wife, Deb, to set up a web site for submitting educational data on recycling, and energy and conservation 
procedures 
 
School:  John Londa reported on project entitled Energy Efficiency Lighting Upgrade for the Middl e school. John received a grant 
from Unitil for $17,755. 
Future timelines:  
Report to Board of Selectman-August 4, 2009 
Next meeting date: July 14, 2009 
  
 
 
 