===PAGE 1===
 
 
        
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Green Communities Task Force 
Minutes for October 14, 2009 
 
Meeting was opened at 6:30 p.m. 
 
Present: Chair Steve Marsden, John Londa, Courtney Zivojinovic., Joanne McQuaid, Steve 
DiCampo, Lisa Krowitz and Marion Benson. David Blatt arrived 7:30 p.m.  
 
Discussion: Mr. Marsden spoke on communication between Chair and members also functioning 
as a committee. Mr. Marsden noted his availability and willingness to work with each sub- 
committee. Ms. Krowitz requested more committee contact through meetings. Consensus was 
weekly mini meetings. Members will send needed discussion items to Mrs. Benson to add to the 
agenda. Meeting time will be 4:30 P.M. at the Ritter Planning Board conference room. 
 
Discussion: Massachusetts Technology Collaborative/Commonwealth Solar Initiative Grant:  
Mr. Marsden reported on the result of the presentation of the grant to the Board of Selectmen. 
The Board is fully supportive and will sign necessary papers. Mr. Londa briefed the committee 
on the application for the grant for solar roof panels. The four buildings being considered are the 
Middle School, Public Safety, Library, and Primary School. An Evaluation Committee was 
assigned. Members are Steve Marsden, Pat Slattery, Lisa Krowitz, and Steve DiCampo. (Marion 
Benson, advisory member). Bid will be opened at Town Hall at 2:00 P.M. on November 24, 
2009.  Meeting will follow at the Ritter at 4:00 P.M. 
Meeting will be held on December 1, 2009 at 4:30 P.M. at the Ritter to decide interview 
invitations from the bid results. 
Meeting will be held on December 3, 2009 at 4:30 P.M. at the Ritter with interviews scheduled at 
5:00, 6:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
 
Discussion: Wind Energy: Chair tasked David Blatt and Ernie Sund to research wind energy 
fields. Ensuing discussion noted small energy possibilities. 
 
Utility Task Force:  No report.  
  
By-Laws:  Mrs. Benson reported that proposed bylaws were in review by Town Counsel 
Kopelman & Paige. 
 
Minutes: 10.14.09 
===PAGE 2===
Green Communities Task Force 
Page 2 
 
Member comment:  Ms. Krowitz reported on meeting with the Deputy Director of the 
Commonwealth’s Green Communities Division, Meg Lusardi. Noted was the $10,000 in 
planning grant moneys received from the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resource/Green 
Communities Division to assist the Town in becoming a Green Community under criteria. 
Discussion ensued about the Stretch Code. Negative comments concerning this code were 
articulated. It was noted that there is an alterative that the committee will research. 
 
Educational Website Report: Mr. Zivojinovic reported on the website’s status. Discussions 
ensued on goals, content and design. Committee reviewed the website online. Directions based 
on consensus were given to Mr. Zivojinovic. Access to site was limited to: Derek Dufresne, Mr. 
Zivojinovic and his wife Deb, Ms. Krowitz and Planning Office clerk Lynne Klaft.  Joanne 
McQuaid requested access and was given permission. 
 
Next meeting: Tuesday, October 20. 2009 at 4:30 P.M. at the Ritter Memorial Building, Planning 
Board conference room. 
 
Motion to adjourn: Steve DiCampo, seconded by Mr. Blatt. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Green/Minutes2009 