===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes 
May 6, 2009 
 
Present:  Members:  S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, 
Lisa Krowitz, C.Zivojinovic, S.DiCampo, D. Blatt 
  Town Liaison: M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
  Alternate:  J. McQuaid 
  Invited Guests:W Vachon & W.R.Patterson – Vachon Assoc. 
 
1.  Previous meeting minutes were approved as submitted  
2.  Mssrs. Vachon & Patterson gave a comprehensive presentation on the potential 
for Wind Power in Lunenburg. They outlined background, experience and factors 
necessary for consideration of viability of potential wind energy for both private 
and municipal use.  
3.  P. Slattery left meeting at 6:45PM to attend another meeting and returned at 
7:30PM for balance of Vachon Assoc. presentation 
4.  S. Marsden left meeting at 7:40PM to attend another meeting and returned later. 
 P. Slattery chaired meeting in his absence. 
5.  M. Benson reported on the audio conference on Energy Efficiency & Block Grant  
Topics held 4/23/09 which Task Force members attended. 
6.  M. Benson & C. Zivojinovic reported on recent MMA seminar noting limited 
attendance. It was felt that although a valuable resource, future similar efforts 
should pick a less busy time to encourage more involvement by the public. 
7.  P. Slattery solicited reports from members on their individual topics previously 
assigned. 
  E. Sund- provided contact and presentation by Vachon Associates 
 P. Slattery – reported that Energy Mangement system on a campus wide 
basis for Town buildings was not a viable consideration at this time. He 
also advised of a seminar he is attending in New York City 6/4/09 on 
Green Design vs. Historic buildings as it was felt this would be a 
beneficial resource for the Task Force and Historical Commission. 
 S. DiCampo – reported on his photo-voltaic research and his attendance 
            at the Lakeview Nurseries open house. He also noted that John Carrol of 
Moss Hollow is a local resource for P/V systems and is available and 
interested in being available to discuss potentials for systems. 
 C. Zivojinovic – reported on MMA seminar results. Distributed Unitil 
energy saving resource brochure and advised of his interest and 
availability of his wife to help develop a web site similar in scale and 
scope to grotonlocal.org. 
 J. Londa- reported on status of Energy Audit initiative. Lunenburg is #84 
in line of Towns that applied and grant decision is due by April 2010. 
Lighting upgrades at middle school from T-12 bulbs to Super T-8 is 
scheduled for funding this year. 
===PAGE 2===
 
J. Breault- reported on the possibility of selling composting material with 
proceeds to go to Town. 
      D.Blatt – reported on viability and costs of solar hot water systems. 
Recommended further info gathering and analysis of potentials for use in 
private and public applications 
 J.McQuaid – reported on a suggested recycling survey of town Depts. She 
advised of lack of recycling at the Housing Authority complex on White 
St., also mentioned Middle School recycling initiative for cell phones and 
printer cartridges and recommended that recycling dumpsters be placed at 
the Eagle House  
 S. Marsden- reported on potential for methane capture from landfill as not 
being a viable project based on volume available and experience of 
surrounding cities. 
8. It was decided that M. Benson, S. Marsden and P. Slattery would meet next week 
to filter the information gathered to date and provide direction for future efforts of 
the Task Force       
9.   The Task Force will next meet on Wednesday, June 17th at 6:30 PM at the Ritter 
Administration Building.  
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
 
 
 