===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes 
July 14, 2009 
 
Present:  Members:  S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, 
Lisa Krowitz, D. Blatt 
  Town Liaison: M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
  Alternate:  J. McQuaid 
  Absent: C.Zivojinovic, S.DiCampo  
 
1.  Previous meeting minutes were approved as submitted  
2.  J. Londa reported on a meeting with Sunlight Solar and their review of a solar array for 
the Turkey Hill Middle School. He advised that the potential would be a system of 45 
KW for that facility. 
3.  PJS advised of his involvement on a project with Alteris Renewables, Inc. who are 
providing a large scale photo-voltaic installation at Phoenix Park in Shirley, MA which 
will in the end provide nearly all the electrical energy for the park 
4.  S. Marsden presented information on the potential for solar roof arrays for a company 
that rents roof area as a possible source of enhanced revenue for the Town. 
5.  A meeting with the Selectmen is scheduled for August 4th. Committee needs to be 
prepared to make recommendations for Town action. Committee needs to analyze and 
propose projects and identify funded versus non funded efforts. 
6.  Solar hot water, wind energy, photovoltaic and education are the most viable approaches 
toward Green Community goals for Lunenburg. 
7. PJS requested clarification of costs related to selling power back to the grid. S. Marsden 
advised that costs are related to what utilities pay to buy their power which is different 
from what they sell power for. 
8. J. McQuaid advised that a key component of savings is reduced demand  
9. E. Sund and S. Marsden discussed wind study costs at $100K 
10. M. Benson advised that streetlighting is not a viable project to pursue. The Town 
streetlights are owned by Unitil and not the Town. Parking lot lighting is not a practical 
project at this time. 
11. Solar hot water possibilities were discussed noting that the public Safety building and 
middle Schhool buildings offer potentials for same. 
12.  J. McQuaid noted that the Education component including brochures, web site with 
appropriate links and school initiatives provides the desired Town wide approach. 
13.  Brief discussions about paper retrievers and mercury thermostat replacements was held. 
14.  D. Blatt advised vthat the only true Town wide solution is wind energy. S. Marsden 
advised that the wind farm approach was viable noting that the wind farm area need not 
be necessarily located in Lunenburg. 
15.  E. Sund presented a listing of possible wind energy sites in Lunenburg  
16.  Web design is in process through the subcommittee for same. 
 
17.  M. Benson reported on DOER and stretch codes. S. Marsden advised of the difficulties 
with adopting the stretch code at this time. 
18.  S. Marsden requested that Committee members report any information for inclusion in 
the presentation before the Selectmen to him no later than July 24th. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 