===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Workshop Meeting Notes   
November  17, 2009 
  
Present:    Members:   S.Marsden, P.Slattery, L. Krowitz, E. Sund, C.Ziv ojinovic 
  Town Liaison:  M. Benson, J. Londa, J.Breault  
  Alternate:   J. McQuaid 
  Absent: D. Blatt, S.DiCampo,  
Guest:   Kelly Brown – MA Dept of Energy Resources   
 
1.   Website design and layout is being finalized and is online for Member review.  
Courtney discussed particular questions and details. Agenda, minutes and calendar were 
items that could be accessed through “Our Team” tab . Geo-thermal info is also being 
added as a tab item.   
2.   Minutes approval delayed pending receipt by all members. 
3.   Kelly Brown Worcester County regional Rep from DER reviewed Committee efforts to 
date. An involved discussion was held about the viability of adopting the “stretch code” 
and what benefit it brought to Lunenburg. It appears to be a redundant requirement given 
the pending Energy Code upgrade being readied by the BBRS as part of the Mass. 
Building Code and yet it is a requirement of program compliance.  We reviewed the 
Town’s Green Community Application noting complianc e with applicable criteria. At 
this time Lunenburg definitely meets 1 of the criteria and possibly could meet 2 
additional ones. This efforts is directed at being eligible for receipt of a portion of an $8 
million funding source. She noted that additional information is available on the DER 
website and and encouraged members to view same.   
4.   Briefly discussed Solar & Wind By-law articles for Dec. 1 
st  Town meeting. S. Marsden 
will speak on the article.    
5.   E. Sund reported on Wind Energy initiatives noting a lack of grant money available. He 
is also working on Data Logger efforts.  
6.   Future meeting schedule:  November 24, 2009 @4:30P M 
   (review solar panel bids) 
   December 1, 2009 @4:30PM 
   December 3, 2009 @ 5PM to 8PM 
   (Interview 3 low solar project bidders) 
   December 8, 2009 @ 6:30PM 
7.  PJS reported on Utility Task Force meeting he attended, noting that this will be a long 
process with undefined expectations of direction and success. 
8.  Meeting adjourned at 6:30PM 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
  