===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
February 2, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:           S.Marsden, P.Slattery, D. Blatt, S.DiCampo, L. Krowitz,   
C.Zivojinovic  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault  
   Alternate:   J. McQuaid 
   Absent:  E. Sund 
 
1.  M. Benson advised that she will be serving on t he MRPC Committee regarding energy reduction. 
More information to follow.    
2.  Group discussed the question of whether the designation of becoming a Green Community was 
achievable given the 5 required criteria for same. Specifically the stretch code requirements and 
the 20% energy reduction plan for municipal buildings. No Mass. cities or Towns have been able 
to do it yet. An opinion from Town Counsel seemed to further cloud the criteria as it relates to the 
stretch code.  L. Krowitz advised that she would like to have our consultant return to explain 
options available to the Town.  
3. D. Blatt made a motion which was seconded to hav e the consultant return to make another 
presentation with specific emphasis on the stretch code requirements which are in conflict with 
the pending Mass. Building Code Energy Code update due on July 1,2010 and the likelihood of 
achieving the 20% mandated reduction over 5 years given the new buildings in Lunenburg. 
Motion passed by majority vote. 
4.   M. Benson will contact consultant with directe d questions and set a meeting when consultant has 
a Tuesday evening available.  
5. J. McQuaid related her discussion with Unitil re ps on planned program concerning streetlight 
conversion to LED.   
6. Discussed the use of energy software available a nd its ability to track energy use on Town 
buildings.    
7.  J. McQuaid reported that there are 6 KW meters available for borrowing through the Lunenburg 
Public Library. Lunenburg is the first town in Mass. to have same available.   
8.  S. DiCampo advised that if the Green Community criteria are unable to be satisfied as presently 
legislated, the Task Force should be prepared to act proactively with our State representative to 
work on making it achievable for Lunenburg. 
       9.   P. Slattery reported on ongoing studies related to an expansion of  the Lunenburg DPW 
             building and items being considered for energy efficiency. 
10.   J. McQuaid spoke about the website and ongoing efforts to refine same.  
11.   J. Londa reported that he received a request for additional information related to the   
grant submittal currently under review. 
12.  A brief discussion on the current cardboard recycling methods being employed and what   
alternate options are available. Discussion is based on perceptions of costs to taxpayers of  
recycling program. J. McQuaid & J. Londa to report back to Committee. Information can be put  
on website once formulated. 
13.   Future meeting schedule: to be determined 
14.   Meeting adjourned at 7:25PM 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
===PAGE 2===
   