===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
July 19, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:           S.Marsden, P.Slattery, E. Sund, J. McQuai d, D. Blatt  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson  
       
1.  Amended minutes were reviewed and approved for 5/26/2010 meeting noting two spelling errors.  
2.  An update on the Stretch Code status was discussed. S. Marsden explained that in his review of 
area cities and towns, most are opting in for the short term understanding that they will fail to 
meet the other criteria for Green Community status and be dropped eventually.  It was also noted 
that none of the allocated money for being a Green Community has yet to be distributed. Current 
expectation is that the Stretch Code will be proposed for adoption at the Spring Town Meeting 
but further discussion is necessary and will be held at the August meeting.. 
3.  E. Sund reported on the proposal made to the Selectmen about power amalgamation.  Unitil has 
indicated no interest in Green Power proposals and N. Grid would be a better choice if available. 
No clear advantage to involving a middle-man  to act on behalf of the Town is apparent although 
the Selectmen continue to discuss the power amalgamation approach.  
4.  Power Provider contracts are the best approach for the Town per the opinions of S. Marsden  & 
D. Blatt. 
5.  S. Marsden reported on the possibility of utilizing the former landfill as a solar farm site. He has 
had discussions with various solar companies including Alteris, Inc.  There is renewed interest on 
the part of solar companies as the program enabling same expires at the end of 2010.  M. Benson 
will contact Town Manager about setting up a presentation before the Selecmen. S. Marsden will 
coordinate contact with solar companies. 
6.   A discussion of the possibility of moving forw ard with a wind study was held. Initial thoughts of 
finding funding, through the Town Manager has not been successful. S. Marsden will contact 
WPI to determine if it might be initiated as a student led project with professor certification and 
whether that approach would provide a validated wind study for funding through MEC. S. 
Marsden will report back at August meeting. Approval through the State is still a 2-3 year 
process.  
 7.  J. Londa has recommended to the Selectmen, acc epting the solar proposal provided by Broadway, 
Inc. in comparison to those submitted by Greenbridge as well as Ostrow. The analysis revealed 
cost and service benefits for the Town.  
        8.  Future meeting is scheduled 8/25/10  at 6:30PM. 
        9.  Meeting adjourned at 7:35 PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
 
 
 
 