===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
March 16, 2010 
  
Present:   Members:          S.Marsden, P.Slattery, D. Blatt, L. Krowitz, E. Sund,  
     S.DiCampo, C.Zivojinovic  
Town Liaison:  M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
   Alternate:  J. McQuaid 
   
1. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 3/2/2010 meeting.  
2. L. Krowitz has advised the Selecmen that she has resigned from the Task Force as of 3/11/10. 
The Selectmen have not acted on her resignation as of this date.  She was invited and encouraged 
to participate in the meeting. She advised that she would determine at the end of the meeting 
whether her resignation was still in effect. 
3. A lengthy discussion was held regarding Ms. Krowitz’s  accusatory transmittal directed at 
particular members of the Task Force.  It centered on her desire to have the Task Force place an 
article on the upcoming Town Meeting for adoption of the Stretch Code.  The concensus of the 
other 6 members is that there are still too many outstanding questions related to the adoption of 
an article, at this time, as no advisory has been received from the Building Commissioner and no 
follow up has been received from the Consultants. 
The majority of members agree with the schedule of placing an article before the Fall Town 
Meeting 
4. A review of the 5 criteria for becoming a Green Community was held with the following 
conclusions: 
#1-  by right zoning  is in place  
#2 - expedited permitting process is in place 
#3 – 20% energy savings over 5 years is viewed as unattainable without grant 
        monies to implement initiatives. 
#4 – fuel efficient vehicle purchase is viewed as attainable 
#5 – stretch code adoption is possible but its affect on the Town is not clear 
         especially if criteria #3  is unattainable..  
5.   J. Londa reported that progress to date with data entry into the energy use software program is 
slow due to the difficulty of retrieving the record data.  The Selectmen will be asked to direct 
Department Heads to gather the information required.  
6.  A discussion of Criteria #3 relative to the 20% energy reduction plan for municipal buildings was 
held.  The consultants had advised that the baseline starting point should probably be 2007 which 
would mandate compliance within 5 years, by 2012.  J. Londa feels that we should start the 5 
years when the energy audit is complete this year, making the 20% criteria extend to 2015 as 
compliance is not attainable without grant monies for municipal building upgrades.  
7.    The outstanding question of what would happen if by 2012 the Town demonstrated less than a 
20% saving but had received substantial grant monies to achieve the mandated reduction was 
discussed.  The Consultants assured the Committee that the Town would not be penalized or 
required to return grant monies if the threshold was not reached as it is a target. The desire of the 
Committee is to get an official opinion from DOER as to whether that is correct. P. Slattery and 
M.Benson will construct a question to be submitted to DOER through Kelly Brown. The question 
format will be distributed to members for input and approval prior to release. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
8.    There has been no response from E. Studer – Planning Consultant, relative to  a written submittal 
for criteria #3 related to the required baseline inventory and 20% reduction program.  
9.  L. Krowitz restated her intention to resign from the Task Force at the conclusion of the meeting   
     10.   Future meeting schedule will be either 3/24 or 3/29  to meet with of M. Sauvegeau. 
     11.   Meeting adjourned at 10:10PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 
  
 