===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes 
August 1, 2011 
 
   Present:   Members                 P.Slattery, D. Blatt, S. DiCampo, J.McQuaid, E.Sund, N.Sullivan, 
                   Town Liaisons      M. Benson, J. Breault, J. Londa 
 
1.  P.Slattery called the meeting to order at 7:03 P.M.  The minutes for 6/27/2011 were reviewed    
     and approved. 
2. Recycling update – The new Devens Regional Household Hazardous Products Collection    
    Center is now open the first week of the month.   More information can be found at the Town   
    webpage.   Styrofoam can be recycled at places that places that ship packages (like Pak-Mail or   
     UPS).   Refoamit, from Rhode Island, will take 50yds of Styrofoam for $200. No new   
     information about the  paper recycling. The solar trash compactor has been installed at   
     Emerald Place. 
3. School Projects – The THMS Solar project was online as of 6/20/11.  A commissioning report  
    and online access are still pending. The lighting upgrade at T.C. Passios is 70% done and should        
   be completed in one week. 
4. Town website- New information to be posted should be sent to M.Benson. It takes about 2-3  
    days for content approval after submittal. A suggestion was made to use the website, local TV   
    access  channel, the Senior Center and the Library to attract new members. 
5.  Landfill Solar Project- Another meeting was held on 6/30/11 with Borrego’s engineers and  
     Unitil  to discuss the 1.5 MW interconnection. Net metering should not be a problem with other  
     pending proposed solar projects in town. Unitil accepted the application on 7/25/11 but the  
    $2,500.00 fee has not been paid because the contract is still under review by Town Counsel. 
     A smaller proposal may result without utilizing the capped landfill area. It may reduce the   
    quote because less engineering is required, but also less energy production and we would have  
    to maintain the  landfill cap. 
6.  Other solar projects -EosolAmericas’ engineers are on site hoping to make a presentation in  
     late August/early September. They are interested in working with the Town to sell us  
    electricity. EPG Solar is in discussions with Unitil and Twin City Church while looking for    
    a feasible site. 
7. Stretch Code- The Special Town Meeting will probably be in November. P.Slattery stressed that 
    the GCTF needs to make a recommendation to the Board of Selectmen one way or another.     
    D.Blatt made a motion that we recommend to the Selectmen to adopt the Green Community   
   Act and thereby the Stretch Code by bringing it Town Meeting for a vote. Five voted in Favor,    
   one Opposed to let the Town decide. We will need someone from outside the Town to answer  
   questions raised at Town meeting.  
   Now that this decision was made P. Slattery raised the question – Is the Green Community Task   
    Force still charged with a task? The Selectmen will have to decide. 
8.   P.Slattery read his letter of resignation that will be submitted to the Board of Selectman. 
   He will recommend that the GCTF continue with Green Initiatives. D.Blatt was nominated as 
   Chairperson, S. DiCampo as Vice-Chair and J. McQuaid to remain as Secretary.  
9. Our next meeting will be September 7, 2011 at 7:00 P.M. to discuss an Energy Plan to achieve  
     the 20% reduction in use. 
10. Meeting adjourned at 8:37 P.M. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid 