===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
March  9, 2011 
  Present:   Members:          P. Slattery, J. McQuaid, D. Blatt, N. Sullivan, E. Sund,  
     S. DiCampo, Z. Cutting,   
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
Guest:    S. Marsden 
       
1. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 2/15/2011 meeting with one correction to change  
B. McQuaid to D. McQuaid. 
2. P. Slattery chaired the meeting and announced the recent resignation of Chairman, Steve Marsden 
from the Task Force and confirmed the resignation of C. Zivojinovic. Noting that the Committee 
needed to reorganize a discussion followed regarding member availability, meeting time 
preferences, direction and agendas. Elections were held with the roster as follows: 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Chairman   Marion Benson, Advisor 
David Blatt, Vice Chairman   John Londa, Advisor 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary   James Breault, Advisor 
Ernie Sund, Member 
Steve DiCampo, Member 
Neal Sullivan, Member 
Zachary Cutting, Member 
 
3. P. Slattery advised that it was his intention to serve on the Committee for another 6 months and 
then leave the Task Force in September due to increased time commitments in other areas.  
4. P.Slattery requested that J. McQuaid update the web page and the information on the cable 
channel listing to reflect the new roster.    
5. Zachary Cutting was welcomed as a new member of the Task Force.  
6. M. Benson announced that her research indicated that accepting the IEBC standards in lieu of the 
Stretch Code would not satisfy the requirements for becoming a Green Community. P. Slattery 
advised that the Task force should work on and expect to introduce a Green Community by-law 
for the Fall Town meeting. 
7. Recent Chairman S. Marsden was in attendance and explained the professional work related  
reasons for leaving. M. Benson and E. Sund commented on his expertise and untiring efforts on 
behalf of the Task Force over the last 2 years. Mr. Marsden was thanked by all present.  
8. J. Londa gave an update of progress on the proposed 1 ½ MW solar system planned on the Town 
owned Youngs Road site. Land layout was reviewed over the 22 acre site. Placement details on 
cap were discussed, questions about engineering costs to be borne by the Developer and grid 
connection details were reviewed.   DPW issues have been resolved and a conference call is 
scheduled with K. Speidel and Unitil to resolve net metering and distribution questions. 
Expectation is that the RFP will be out to bid before the end of March.   
9. Recycling RFP is ready for bidding. Separate quotes are being requested for recyclables and 
trash.  
10.   Z. Cutting was instructed to see L. Klaft at the Town Clerk’s office to sign documents relating to    
        Open Meeting laws and take the online ethics test as required.  
11.  Future meetings shall occur on the first Monday of each month. Next meeting April 4th, 6:30 PM. 
       12. Meeting adjourned at 7:50 PM 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 