===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes 
May 2, 2011 
 
   Present:   Members                 P.Slattery,  J.McQuaid, Z. Cutting, D. Blatt, S. DiCampo 
                   Town Liaisons      M. Benson, J. Londa, J. Breault 
 
1. P.Slattery called the meeting to order at 6:35P.M.  The minutes for 4/4/2011 were 
reviewed and approved. 
2. New Town website has not yet been launched.  M.Benson will correct the Planning Board’s 
webpage for the Task Force updating the current members. 
3. Several classes at the Primary School are looking for ways to make their building greener. 
Goals will be set after an impact study week. J. McQuaid will follow up with the teachers 
for ideas to incorporate into an educational brochure. 
4. Once the Town signs a new recycling contract D. Blatt said he could evaluate if a separate 
town wide paper recycling bin would be profitable as a certain tonnage has to be attained. 
A convenient location would also have to be found. 
5. The bid opening for the Landfill Solar Field is 5/5/11. Proposals were sent to 30 
companies, 12 came to the pre-bid meeting. D. Blatt will evaluate bids with J. Londa to 
check for minimum qualifications. The Task Force will review the list and select 3-4 to 
recommend to the Town Manager. 
6. The solar panels are on the roof at THMS and being connected. The inverter is on site and 
the project has passed the DOER inspection. J.Londa reported that completion is about 30 
days out and he has met with the Fire Department about safety precautions. A possible 
ribbon cutting ceremony was mentioned. 
7. J. Breault will consult with the Fire department about hot water use to see if solar hot 
water is feasible. The DPW building does not have high enough demand to justify the use. 
8. The IECC cannot be substituted for the Stretch Code, which is 10% above the IECC. A 
recommendation needs to be made to the Board of Selectmen with pros and cons of 
becoming a Green Community. Grant money ($175,000) if available to designated towns. 
9. A statement drafted by P.Slattery describing the activities of the Green Community Task 
Force for 2010 was accepted for the Annual Town Report.  A newspaper article 
highlighting the green projects of area towns featured a picture of the THMS solar project. 
10. The WPI study concerning energy needs of the region will not be available for 2-3 months. 
Twenty towns are included Fitchburg, Leominster and Gardner. 
11. Z. Cutting had a home energy audit through the MassSave program.  Free light bulbs and      
air sealing are available as well cost sharing on insulation. He will write up a report so we 
can promote it to homeowners. 
12. An audit was performed for Town Hall and Ritter Building.  J.Londa will put out a bid for a     
lighting upgrade on 5/9/11, opened on 5/26/11. Unitil will pay for 75% of the cost.   
       13. P.Slattery reiterated that he would be stepping down in September. 
       14. Next meeting date set for May 18, 2011 at 7:00 P.M.  Meeting adjourned at 8:22 P.M. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary 
 