===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes 
June 27, 2011 
 
        Present:   Members -   P. Slattery, Z. Cutting, S. DiCampo, J. McQuaid, N. Sullivan   
                    Town Liaisons – M. Benson, J. Londa 
 
1. P. Slattery called the meeting to order at 7:07 P.M. for an appointment with James 
Kreidler on behalf of Elemental Power Group (EPS) of Washington, D.C. and Twin City 
Baptist Church of Lunenburg. They are proposing 2 ground mounted solar fields (6 MW 
off Electric Ave and 3MW off Pleasant St.) to be tied in at the substation. They intend to 
build in the wooded area so it would not be visible to abutters. He will be following up 
with other Town committees and officials as required. (Mr. Kreidler sat in on the 
remainder of the GCTF meeting.) 
2. Solar Landfill update- J. Londa indicated that Borrego made a second site visit; a 
6/30/11 meeting is scheduled with them and Unitil. The energy contract is being    
       reviewed by the Town Manager and Town Counsel hoping to have the application   
      completed by mid-July.  M.Benson advised him to keep in contact with the Conservation   
      Commission. Eileen McCue of the DOER sent him a sample contract to follow. J. Kriedler   
      also offered for comparison a copy of a contract for a similar project in Winchendon. 
3. THMS solar project - J. Londa reported that as of 6/20/11 the system is online but still 
needed to pass final inspections. Z. Cutting suggested that J. Londa get a copy of the 
Commissioning Report to get baseline outputs and see any potential problems. 
4. T.C.Passios Lighting- DMH Electric was the winning bid at $45,775.00 with Unitil   
       covering $33,442.00 of the cost ($14,333.00 – Town’s portion) to change all the  
      lighting fixtures except the hallways and cafeteria and add motion sensors. It should be    
      underway by late July and potentially save $5,000.00 /year. 
5. There was no discussion of the EOSOLAMERICAS proposal at this time. 
6. Recycling- J.McQuaid met with the Town Manager regarding the Grant from the 
MassDEP Sustainable Materials Recovery Program. The Town has $750.00 available to 
fund composting bins for Lunenburg residents. She will look into different 
manufactures and make recommendations to the Town Manager. The bins will be 
distributed through the DPW.  She also suggested informing residents about the new 
waste/recycling handler, what is acceptable to recycle and where to purchase bags. A 
possible Styrofoam collection day will coordinated with the electronic recycling dates.  
7. Stretch Code- N. Sullivan presented research regarding the pros/cons of adopting the 
Stretch Code as required to becoming a Green Community. He referenced Ayer’s town 
website and listed which towns have already accepted the Code. A question was raised 
as to how many cities/towns have turned it down. The shortage and availability of Hers 
raters could be a problem especially for small scale builders. N. Sullivan will do follow-
up research and send to the GCTF via email. All members should attend the next 
meeting on 8/1/11 to take a vote on the issue before presenting to the Selectmen. 
8. In light of P.Slattery’s upcoming resignation, J.McQuaid suggested that we invite interested 
new members to submit their names to the Town Manager and attend our meetings. 
9. Meeting adjourned at 8:36 P.M. Next meeting 8/1/11 at 7:00 P.M. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid 