===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force Meeting Minutes 
June 6, 2011 
 
        Present:   Members -   D.Blatt, Z. Cutting, Steven DiCampo, J. McQuaid, E. Sund,   
                    Town Liaisons - J. Breault, J. Londa 
 
 
1. D. Blatt called the meeting to order at 7:00 P.M.  
2. Presentation was made by EOSOLAMERICAS regarding a proposed 25-30 acre 
solar field at 651 Chase Road on a 116 acre parcel including a potential future 
commercial enterprise at the frontage. D.Blatt inquired if the Town could buy 
power from them. They are going through procedures with their engineers, 
Stantec, and hope to be generating power by this time next year. 
3. The minutes for 5/18/2011 were reviewed and approved. 
4. Borrego update- J.Londa and Z.Cutting have permission from the Town Manager to 
negotiate with Borrego for a lower cost of electricity and net metering. Their bid 
was just an initial proposal. Borrego sent a timeline for milestones. On June 24th they 
will update the Town on permitting and interconnection processes. Their goal is 
execute the contract by late June/ early July. 
5. D.Blatt suggested getting an offer from EOSOLAMERICAS to purchase electricity for 
comparison to Borrego’s quote. Z.Cutting pointed out that with Borrego’s offer the 
Town will own the system after 20 years but not with EOSOLAMERICAS. 
6. Recycling- D. Blatt to look for rates on a paper retriever for the Town. The 
schools generate (24) 96 gal. totters of single stream recyclables every week 
during the school year. J. McQuaid will check on terms of new contract with 
Casella. 
7. J.Londa reported that the THMS solar project is waiting on final inspections. 
Through a website we will be able to monitor the energy production which 
should cover about 1/3 of the site’s energy use. 
8. J. Londa received a variety of bid prices for the TCPassios lighting upgrade. He is 
trying to confirm Unitil’s commitment to the project. 
9. Next meeting date set tentatively for June 27, 2011 to review the progress on the 
Borrego proposal. 
10. Meeting adjourned at 8:42 P.M. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary 
 