===PAGE 1===
Green Community Task Force 
Meeting Minutes   
February 15, 2011 
  
Present:   Members:          P. Slattery, J. McQuaid, N. Sullivan  
Town Liaison:   M. Benson, J. Londa 
Guest:   Z. Cutting, B. McQuaid 
       
1. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 1/11/2011 meeting. 
2. Committee discussed the status of the web page and the information on the cable channel. Roster 
of members needs updating. J. McQuaid will coordinate new member information.   
3. Neal Sullivan was welcomed as a new member of the Task Force.  
4. A discussion was held on ongoing recycling efforts. J. Londa outlined recycling efforts at the 
schools.  Cafeteria recycling, cell phone programs and ink cartridge programs were discussed.  J. 
McQuaid will work on a Recycling brochure.  
5. M. Benson related that Felipe Schwarz, our assigned consultant, has advised that his commitment 
is complete and the next action should be a report to the Board of Selectmen. M. Benson will 
speak to Felipe to coordinate his involvement with that meeting.   
6.  J. Londa gave an update of progress on the proposed 1 ½ MW solar system planned on the Town 
owned Youngs Road site. Refinements to the site area and the required acreage of the DPW were 
discussed. Further meetings with the DPW are planned with a resolution expected by March 1st.    
7. J. Londa attended an MRPC meeting on the Stretch Code and spoke about the discusson items.   
8.  N. Sullivan was instructed to see L. Klaft at the Town Clerk’s office to sign documents relating to 
Open Meeting laws and take the online ethics test as required.  
9. Zachary Cutting was introduced as an interested resident in serving on the Green Communities 
Task Force. He is a Construction Project Manager for a Solar Energy Co. Discussion was held to 
acquaint him with the history, topics and function of the Task Force. M. Benson shall notify the 
Selectmen that Mr. Cutting has been endorsed by the Task Force to fill the opening created by the 
resignation of C. Zivojinovic. 
10.  B. McQuaid inquired if the position of Alternate Member was still open. P. Slattery advised that 
an opening does exist and instructed him to fill out a Talent Bank form and submit it at Town 
Hall. 
       11.  Future meeting in March to be scheduled by Chairman. 
       12.  Meeting adjourned at 8:05 PM 
 
      
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Patrick J. Slattery, Secretary 
 