===PAGE 1===
 
Green Community Task Force Minutes 
June 6, 2012 
 
 Present:    Members    D. Blatt, Z.Cutting, J. McQuaid, N.Sullivan 
                  Advisors     M.Benson 
 
1. Meeting called to order at 7:05 P.M. The minutes from 1/4/12 were approved. 
 
     2. Solar Landfill Project: J. Londa stated that Borrego is possibly reducing the size to 500 – 750    
   Kw because the original interconnect fee is too expensive making the project non-viable.  
Borrego is trying to get Unitil to discuss fees and procedures with National Grid and WMECO 
for price comparison. 
 
 3. Twin City Solar Project/EPG: M. Benson noted that they are not “grandfathered” under the 
new Solar By-Law. It was submitted as an ANR (Approval Not Required) land lease plan which 
protects it as a solar field. It currently has been submitted to Developmental Plan Review but 
they have not submitted a Zoning Application, which has related fees. 
 
4. Chase Road Solar Project: M.Benson noted that this is a land purchase, not a lease and 
has been ANR approval as a solar field but with new dimensions. 
 
5. Green Community Act: D. Blatt said that it was not on the Spring Town Meeting Town 
Warrant because there were too many ongoing issues. The informational articles will be 
republished before the Fall Town Meeting. 
 
6. Question: In what direction should the Green Community Task Force move? 
Need ideas for projects to increase revenue or cut cost with low cost to the Town. Need 
quick return on investment; small to medium projects 
Suggestions: Revenue from recycling. Westminster is making a million dollars on regional    
                     unit.  Maybe a Paper Retriever? 
                     Public Safety Building- Solar Hot Water 
                     Performance Contracts- still cost the Town money 
                     Re-Education- Solar has a bad reputation right now  
                     Revolving Account for the GCTF to keep gains realized for new projects 
                     Recruit new members 
 
7. Next meeting: Possibly in late July. Members will be sent an email to set the date. 
 
8. Meeting adjourned at 8:07 P.M. 
      
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Joanne McQuaid 