===PAGE 1===
 
 
Green Community Task Force Minutes 
July 18, 2012 
 
Present:  Members       D. Blatt, Z. Cutting, J. McQuaid 
               Advisors        J. Londa 
 
1. Meeting called to order at 7:03 P.M. The minutes from 6/6/12 were approved. 
 
2. Solar project updates: 
     Landfill: J. Londa met with Borrego and the Town Manager. The interconnect fees are still an 
issue as well as the means of connection. Unitil will do a study in August looking at different 
inverters and the scope of the project. The cost will be $12,000.00 payable by Borrego who has 
already invested one year of planning and $18,000.00. There is uncertainty whether the Planning 
Board will require the 200’ setback per the by-laws which would reduce the developable area 
significantly. Perhaps a variance would have to be requested. 
    EPG: They are interested in net metering the electricity to the Town. If 100% is sold to   
Lunenburg then Unitil will reimburse the distribution charge which could ultimately be paid by the 
rate payers. The discussion is ongoing with the Planning Board. 
     Mass PVI: In M.Benson’s absence no other members were aware of updates. However an 
observer at the meeting indicated that they think MassPVI has gone to the Attorney General 
claiming that the new by-laws were making the project unfeasible. 
   
 3. The Planning Board is requesting possible additional sites for renewable energy projects within 
the town. We should look for quick Return on Investment (ROI) projects D. Blatt will follow up 
with M. Benson. Unitil may already have a list for solar sites. Large scale wind does not seem 
feasible. Z.Cutting stated that energy conservation would probably be the best option. A solar hot 
water system for the Public Safety Building may not be a quick ROI but an option for savings. 
 
4. Town Buildings Update: J. Londa said that cardboard recyclers are being installed at the schools 
to generate revenue and it would be available to residents. Selective lighting changes at the 
Primary building are warranted as well as changing the high school lighting from T-12 bulbs to T-
8 because the T-12 bulbs are no longer available. Perhaps an Energy Savings Contract or 
assistance from Unitil would be possible. Z. Cutting indicated that the price of LED lighting 
should be dropping soon. D.Blatt wondered if Monty Tech students could assist with lighting 
upgrades for the Ritter Building. 
 
5. Other business: The Green Community Act may be on the Fall Special Town meeting. D. Blatt 
will verify with the Board of Selectmen. Is there a new Building Code coming in 2014? 
 
6. Next meeting TBA.  
    Meeting adjourned at 8:04 P.M. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary 