===PAGE 1===
 
INITIALS             
 
Green Community Task Force Minutes 
February 7, 2013 
 
Present: Members   D. Blatt, Z. Cutting, J.McQuaid, E. Sund 
              Advisors     J. Londa 
 
1. Meeting called to order at 6:35 P.M. The minutes from July 18, 2012 were approved. 
 
2. Solar projects updates 
        Landfill: J. Londa reported that Unitil is requesting $558,000.00 from Borrego to proceed    
        with the interconnect and line upgrades for a 1 MW system. Although no final   
        determination has been made the project will most likely not go forward. 
 
        EPG: E.Sund said the land is currently in bankruptcy but the project is moving forward  
        with construction start scheduled for March and to be completed by May. They have  
        signed a Purchase Agreement with the Town to receive credits but no PILOT is in place   
        yet. There’s a possibility that Townsend would buy excess credits. 
 
        Any solar projects between 750KW and 1 MW have to go through the net-metering   
        queue with the State also. Currently other solar projects in Unitil’s district are  
        reducing the amount available to Lunenburg projects. 
 
        PVI: Although no Purchase Agreement or PILOT has been signed with the Town they    
        say that they are proceeding but have offered the Town a lower price on the Power  
        Purchase.  The Town would like to use as much of the credits as possible. PVI may  
        wholesale some of the energy depending on the final project size.  
 
3. Site Seeker for Renewable Energy Projects: Topic passed over in absence of M. Benson 
 
4. Green Community Act: D.Blatt surveyed the members to see if we should put it on the 
       Town Meeting Agenda in May. Currently $150,000.00 is available but the funding could     
       disappear if we wait longer and eventually the Stretch Code will become the new  
       Building Code. A decision was made to proceed but we need to generate a list of  
       possible energy conservation projects to present at the same time. Z. Cutting suggested 
       aluminum recycling with the proceeds being used to fund future energy conservation  
       projects. Also suggested was purchasing the street lights from Unitil and replacing them    
       with energy efficient ones, replacing the parking lot lights at the DPW and Public Safety 
       buildings. J. Londa thought Unitil might help with the conversion. They recently   
       partnered with them to install 10 new LED lights at the THMS. 
       D.Blatt asked the group to bring more ideas to the next meeting. 
 
5.  Recycling: J. Londa said paper and cardboard recycling containers are now located at all  
     school buildings and are available to Town residents with the revenue going to the Town. 
     J.McQuaid will get the information posted in the Lunenburg Ledger. 
 
6.  Next meeting set for Thursday March 7, 2013 at 6:30 P.M. 
     Meeting adjourned at 7:40 P.M. 
    
Respectfully Submitted, 
Joanne McQuaid, Secretary 
 
 
 