===PAGE 1===
Green Communities Task Force  
11/5/20 Via Zoom 
 
In attendance: Liz Murphy Neil Sullivan, David Blatt, John Londa, Dave Passios, Jay Simone 
 
Review of minutes: 
2/27/20- NS made a motion to approve, LM second 
3/12/20- edits fridge “could could-” grammar, NS made a motion to approve, LM second, 
unanimously approved both minutes. 
 
No comments from the public 
 
The latest grant application for additional energy efficiency projects was approved, DB shared 
his screen showing the spreadsheet noting the projects, estimated cost and grant allocation per 
project itemizing the planned projects, total cost and grant funding allowed  
The Final number is $69,360.87.  This puts us close to $425,000 total over the recent years.   
JL, updated the school projects, and will take this one project at a time, first- the lighting 
upgrade at Middle High and have been ordered, anticipate done by end of Nov 
next Turkey Hill kitchen, last one will be domestic hot water for Lunenburg primary school. 
 
Teen Center will try to schedule work for the Jan break- can do the appliances as we go along 
 
Karen Chapman- Heather asked Karen to fill out the incentive’s paperwork- the vendor will 
complete it, Karen is not able to fill out the vendor info.  The work is in progress 
  
the Board of Selectmen presentation was reviewed: 
 
DS prepared a power point slide 
1 -listing all grants 
2 -What's next- conversion of street lights.   
3 Two options with numbers,  
JL suggests adding a slide in between explaining the two options-  
First slide will be  
1 Where we are with lighting costs 
 2 What is next   
3 Explains in some detail 
 4 Will detail options of savings/ROI over time.  
Dave will send an updated PowerPoint for review. 
 
David Blatt submitted a letter to the editor in ledger about a month ago, sent a second one, but 
was told it was too long.  He updated the letter with info on upgrades with the new grant, then 
tried to explain the proposal to convert to LED.  DB will post to Facebook pages and we can 
share a few times on various Lunenburg pages 
 
===PAGE 2===
D.Passios, noted the Town Manager’s concerns for this project, notably, the increased workload 
for her and staff. We could probably use Fitchburg’s proposal, and a template to adapt for 
Lunenburg’s use if that helps.   
 
Article is in the town warrant- select approved 4-1 and finance deferred.   
 
DB shared a doc from a contractor providing a cold call estimate.  (TANCO?)  Their estimates 
included hiring someone to do the replacement and their costs were $4500, a little lower than 
ours.   
 
Going back to slides and costs/savings- additional discussion was had about changing the 15-
year savings to 20 years- it would be over a million.  DS -MAPC has a 30% grant for the cost of 
retrofitting street lights and Unitil can own.  DB also researched cost of light arm and cost is $44. 
The company was XTRALIGHT.  Also, some of the cost of light fixtures around 100- 129 per 
arm, with different wattages at different heights.   
 
DB asked JL what our final number for savings was.  JL said it's in the report but 2020 is an 
outlier year. Baseline is 28,827 2019 23221, 2020 17,234MMBtu.  We are almost at 20% 
reduction.  We have $40K of net meter credit against the street light account, if we buy lights, 
we’ll move it to another building.   
 
Motion to adjourn- NS, second, LM 8:12PM 
 
 