===PAGE 1===
Approved 2.16.22
Minutes 12.15.21Green CommunitiesPresent:David Blatt, David Passios, Liz Murphy, Matt Snyder
Called to order 5:35PM
Review of minutes,Request to amend minutes to change date to Sept 9 and capitalize names.
D.P motion to approve minutes with the amendments, M.S. second, all approved.
Project Updates:D.B shared his screen showing spreadsheet report of projects completed.We’ve spent $64,361 in grant funding, and had to return a $4360 in grant funds that were setaside for operations training. The projected annual savings of the improvements are $10,080.We only have 4 vehicles not already within the criteria, and will save $52k a year.  We’veachieved a 9.3%reduction in energy usage, we took a hit only because we are still heating TSPassios.  We also took a hit on water/sewer.
WE do have irrigation systems that could be shut down when its not dry. We should reach out toDPW regarding possible savings there.
Town Council filed notice/assistance for negotiations of sale price so clock is ticking 60-90 daysto come to agreement on purchase price.  We don't know that the DPU negotiation assistancehas the power to impose a price.
No Public comments
Next Steps. LED conversion
D.B. marked up a draft of Ayer’s RFP for design services.This was reviewed and the scope of work discussed.  Questions:Can we get designers to include the cost of replacing arms?Can we do this as an alternative in the bid for actual replacement work?  We may not know thestatus of wiring from visual inspections.Looking #5 in Task 3- do we need to add/change?  D.P suggests looking at redundancy. M.S.asked about reviewing areas that may need more lighting.  Public Safety should be consultedand making those recommendations.  We want to be careful about not adding lights when itimpacts the ROI and may not be covered under that grant funding.  We might need to ask thetown if they have free cash for added lights- if they are recommended.
===PAGE 2===
RFP needs close review to make sure to replace instances of “National Grid” with “Unitil” andoverall review by the Town Manager.D.B. will work to insert the spreadsheet of our light inventory with street address and polenumber into the RFP document.
When a designer is chosen, we need to be sure that they evaluate whether higher wattage likethe 400 watt bulbs are really needed in the areas they are in.
Dave will ask Kelly from the state to meet with us at our next meeting.  We need to find out if thetown can pay for this and then get reimbursed by the next grant round.Sometime in January should know the outcome of light purchase negotiations
D.B. will reach out to new facilities director at school and invite to meetings, at the earliest lateJan/early Feb.
M.S Motion to adjourn, L.M. SecondAdjourn at 6:31.