===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Green Communities Task Force 
 
David Blatt, Chairman   960 Massachusetts Avenue  
 Neal Sullivan    Lunenburg MA 01462  
Liz Murphy    Tel: 978-582-4147 Ext 5        
John Londa, Liaison   Fax 978-582-4353  
 
 
 
 
Green Communities meeting 3/31/21 
 
Meeting commenced at 6:03 PM 
In attendance: 
Liz Murphy, David Blatt, Matt Snyder, (prospective member), Heather Lemieux, Dave Passios, 
(prospective member) Robert Oliva, Neil Sullivan, John Londa.  
 
No comments from public 
No comments from board 
 
Motion to approve minutes by, NS, LM second 
 
Competitive Grant Projects status update: 
DB shared screen of spreadsheet of projects.   
 
Turkey Hill appliance replacement is complete and $1500 under budget, Karen will get a report 
from JL.   
The middle school lights, about $300 over budget, paid by school, is also complete. The primary 
school hot water- will be completed during April break and may be a little over but close to 
budget. Senior Center Appliance replacement.  Robert reports holding off on appliances in order 
to complete kitchen renovations, it's taking longer so they may just order and store while waiting 
for work to be complete.  This is true of the Ritter building too.  The Public Library, center DPW, 
town hall will all be ordered together.    
The Teen center replacement is complete but not pipe/valve/fitting/insulation 
Public Safety building retro commissioning work- need to follow up with Kit to know what’s done.  
Building Operator Certification, no volunteers from school yet.  Kelly from Green Communities 
said we would just lose the funds if we don’t send two people, the course is in April.   
 
In order to apply for the fall grant, we have to have completion narrative on all projects- by July. 
 
Streetlight purchase- Until finally gave us info on the age of street lights.  DB shared screen to 
show spreadsheet. The spreadsheet shows lamps were last changed 2014- 15, 88 were 
changed 2015, 100 in 2016, 91 in 2017, 2- 2018, 2-2020.  It appears very little light changes 

===PAGE 2===
happened since we’ve been discussing purchasing.  Why is the total figure gone up when they 
have replaced so few bulbs, we should be depreciating?  Is there anything we can do?  The 
Finance committee could reach out, Town Manager Office?  Town Attorney?  D.S. said we 
should make them aware there is a decent percentage of street lights out. Maybe tell them we 
don’t want them replaced but use it with negotiating purchase.  
NS suggests we should separate these issues, let the town ask about this- separate from us.  
We can bring the irregularities up with the town attorney later.  NS will draft a letter asking for 
more info on calculations and send it to DS to review and send to Heather.  Negotiations are still 
between legal on both sides, they are still going back and forth on the P&S.   
 
FRP for street light conversion: 
WE have two examples from MAPC and one from Ayer.  This started a conversation about 
design and oversight services for the installation, can MRPC do this project management and 
design services?  Lunenburg doesn’t have staff capacity to take on project oversight.   
JL, would recommend trying to get design work into the grant and get both RFP’s covered.  We 
will need to secure the funding using estimates in order to proceed, and then need to go to bid 
for design services that will then inform the RFP for installation.  We can use templates from 
Ayer and MAPC for this. 
 
What can we do tonight?  DS will send out Ayer’s RFP for design services, and Neil will send a 
letter to Heather for town council regarding the lack of bulb replacement.  Dave should send the 
spreadsheet to Neil.  LM will reach out to Karen, and Heather will contact Kelly regarding what 
the grant can cover for design services.   Members should review the RFP’s and provide notes. 
Kelly said as long as we have a letter from Unitil that we are in the purchase process we can 
apply for the grant. We should also consider any additional work we want to apply for in the next 
grant. 
 
Next meeting, some time late May, early June.   
JL, suggests we request lights that are out be replaced prior to our purchase. Discussion on the 
pros and cons occurred.   Can we ask about resources for technical assistance for negotiations.  
We are likely to own the lights for 6-9 months prior to the change over. NS. suggests we not get 
too dragged into this, let legal do this and we stay focused on the green project.   
 
Jay Simeone, commented that retrofit might take more hours in labor than full replacement of 
arms and lamps.   
Motion to adjourn NS, second LM, 7:15.   
 