===PAGE 1===
Town  of  L u n e n b u rg
G REEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE
Lunenburg,  MA  01462
David Blatt , Chair
David Passios , Member
Kim Duffy , Member
Matt Snyder , Member
Chris Holden , Member
Meeting Minutes
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE
March 6 , 202 4  6:30pm
Sudolnik Room Lunenburg Public Library
1023 Massachusetts Ave , Lunenburg, MA 01462
Attendance:
Members Present:  David Blatt, David Passios, Kim Duffy
Non-members Present: Matthew Allison, Chris Ruth (Facilities Director), Muir Haman, Bill Bernard (DPW
Director)
1. Call to Order:  6: 40  pm
Agenda Discussion
Review and Approve 
Pending Meeting Minutes
Amended meeting minutes approved  3-0 by David Blatt, David Passios, and Kim 
Duffy
Committee Comment The streetlight located at 554 F lat H ill  Rd may have been  missed  for replacement .
Not sure if privately owned.
Planning Board would like GCC input for the Solar bylaw update & new Battery 
storage bylaw
Earth Day 2024 ( Parks & Conservation Commissions ) –  C leanup events  
throughout April .
Public Comment No public comment
Committee Organization Tabled for next meeting
Discussion of upcoming 
possible grant approved 
items
 Sewer Commission 
Pumps
 School Mini-splits
 Town Buildings
Next grant cycle is April, then October. Grant should be finalized by March for 
April.  Also charging station grants (includes running electric to charger), looking 
for possible locations. Muir Haman suggests the Library. David Blatt suggests 
schools also. Chris Ruth says car manufacturers are going away from electric and 
towards hydrogen. Matt Allison asks if we have a charging station at the Public 
Safety Building. CR says no. Interested in finding out how many people in town 
have electric cars that would use a charging station.  Once a certain amount of 
grant funds are  reached (600k?), then we can only request 100k per grant cycle 
instead of 200k. DB to follow-up with Kelly Brown (Regional Coordinator 
Central MA for Green Communities)  to confirm amounts/limits.
Sewer Commission Pumps
Bill Bernard reached out to Unitil to get energy savings for sewer pumps. Funds 
have been allocated already for project. Will try to get in time for April but 
===PAGE 2===
unlikely. Dave Passios asks if there ’s anything GCC can do to help. Heather can 
help with the grant application form if needed
School Mini-splits
Town Buildings
Chris Ruth indicates nothing is ready for Facilities. Energy Audits for 
schools/town buildings scheduled to start tomorrow .
Muir Haman brings up Library HVAC that is on the Capital Plan. Also  Solar 
Panels for Library.
Outreach program to 
increase community 
awareness
Green Community Signs for along roads
Green Communities Committee Facebook Page informational posts on-going. 
Committee background, streetlight background, sustainability events, MassSave 
programs
Grid Modernization Advisory Council
 KD attended virtual meeting on Wed Feb 28 th , 2024
 Summary:
o Council members are focused on ensuring the electric grid and 
private companies (Unitil, Eversource, National Grid) understand 
the increase of electric demand that will result from the 
commonwealth ’s climate policy and goals .
o Currently  the Council is not comfortable that the grid is 
prepared/forecasts are correct with the level of information 
provided .
o All  3 electric companies  propose significant increases in capital and 
operating costs relative to today ’s levels
Solar By-Law Revision  & 
New Battery By-Law
Matt Allison representing the Planning Board is present requesting Green 
Communities Committee input to the  Solar By-Law Revision  of Chapter 250-
4.13 of the Code of Lunenburg  and the new Battery By-Law.  Overview provided,
By-Laws in draft.
Timeline for next meeting Approximately 2 weeks from now  –  TBD
Meeting Adjourned:  8:08  pm