===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 3 
 
Capital Planning Committee Minutes 
October 19, 2021 
The Capital Planning Committee met in the Ritter Building as scheduled with the following members present:  Tom 
Alonzo, Dave Passios, George Martin, Paula Bertram and Brian Lehtinen.  Town Manager Heather Lemieux was also in 
attendance. 
1. Call to Order – Chairman Lehtinen called the meeting to order at 5:32. 
 
2. Public Comment: Comment from the Committee, Comment from the Public – The Committee welcomed George 
Martin. 
 
3. Approval of Minutes- Dave Passios made a motion to approve the minutes of September 14, 2021, motion 
seconded by Tom Alonzo.  Passed unanimously. 
 
4. Review Capital Requests Submitted by Departments –  Heather Lemieux reviewed the projects submitted by 
Departments and explained that new projects have not assigned a CIP number yet.  George Martin questioned the 
amount allocated for capital needs.  Town Manager, Heather Lemieux, explained that funding comec from different 
sources;  in the operating budget, the special purpose stabilization fund and certified free cash.  The budget process 
has not yet begun, free cash has been certified at 2.6 million.  Ms. Lemieux added that there may be an additional 
item, an IT consultant has been engaged to review and identify Town Departments technological needs, including 
infrastructure and equipment.  Cost of the consultant was funded through the operating budget.  Ms. Lemieux then 
went over the new projects that have been submitted. 
 
New Projects FY23 
 
Department Project Est. Cost Notes 
Town Manager Records Retention Project 40,000  
Planning Master Plan 110,000 No bids were received in August for 2 
chapters of the master plan.  After consulting 
with vendors, it was determined that funding 
was not sufficient for 2 chapters of the 
master plan, however if the entire project 
was put out to bid that savings would be 
realized total cost is estimated at $153,000, 
funds remaining in prior capital item will be 
utilized. 
Town Facilities  PSB Eng. Design for drainage & 
pavement repairs 
25,000  
Town Facilities  Senior Center ADA Patio 100,000  
Town Facilities Senior Center HVAC Upgrade 25,000  
Town Facilities Town Hall, remove, replace, 
repair electrical, phone & cable 
wiring 
50,000 A site visit may be appropriate for this 
project. 
Police K-9 24,250 K-9 Jerry is retiring 
Police Police vehicle, marked new 67,805  
Highway Two Way Radio System 35,000  
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 3 
 
New Projects Future Years: 
Department Project Estimated 
Cost 
Year 
Town Facilities PSB repair drainage &pavement 
rear of building 
150,000 FY2024 
Town Facilities PSB,HVAC and Window 
Assessment 
  
Schools THES electrical distribution   
Schools THES sprinkler system   
Schools  THES,classroom technology   
Schools THES, elevator replacement   
Highway Northfield Road Culver 
survey/design/permit 
90,000 FY2025 
Highway Northfield Road Culvert 
Construction 
750,000 FY2026 
 
George Martin questioned the status of the Flat Hill Road culvert project.  Heather Lemieux explained that the project 
is on hold since the allocated funds are not sufficient for the project (based on the bids received).  The Town will be 
applying for funding under the small bridge program.   
 
Ms. Lemieux noted that there are ongoing discussions with Unitil regarding acquisition of streetlights.   
 
Dave Passios informed the Committee that an additional $25,000 for surveying Marshall Park should be included in 
the FY23 Capital Plan, it was his understanding that the Parks Department and DPW Superintendent were submitting 
the necessary paperwork. 
 
George Martin asked if Departments can still submit projects for inclusion in the FY23 Capital Plan.  Heather responded 
that the deadline was Thursday and unless there is an emergency, additional applications will not be accepted. 
 
Town Manager will review and finalize the documents  with departments (several projects do not have timeline and 
or costs) . 
 
5. Review Timeline to meet with Departments  – Committee will meet with Departments between end of October to 
the beginning of December.  In mid-December the Committee will review all request s and begin the prioritization 
process.  Committee recommendation should be finali zed by mid -January.  In late January the Town Manager will 
provide the Capital Planning Committees recommendation to the Select Board.   In order to meet the schedule, 
Committee will meet every Tuesday between now and November 30, 2021 (except November 16 th, due to Special 
Town Meeting).  Town Manager will schedule Departments. 
 
6. Action & Agenda Items for Next Meeting – Dave Passios questioned when the Committee would like to schedule 
site visits.  Consensus was to hear from various departments and then schedule site visits in early December. 
 
7. Set Meeting Dates - Committee will meet every Tuesday between now and November 30, 2021 (except November 
16th, due to Special Town Meeting).  Town Manager will schedule Departments. Meetings will be held in Town Hall or 
Ritter depending on availability.  Dave Passios asked if the meetings could be videoed. Town Manager responded that 
if desired, a request should be submitted to PAC and it will be dependent on availability of videographers. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 3 
 
8. Public Comment: Comment from the Public, Comment from the Committee – Heather Lemieux informed the 
Committee that the Special Stabilization fund should have sufficient funds to cover the replacement of Squad 3 and 
Rescue 1. 
 
9. Adjournment – At 6:16 p.m. Paula Bertram made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Dave Passios, passed 
unanimously. 
 
Respectfully submitted: 
Paula Bertram 
Paula Bertram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 