===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE 
MINUTES 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 21, 2021 
RITTER BUILDING 
 
1. Call to order -at 5:38pm. In attendance was D Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Town Manager 
Heather Lemieux, Tom Alonzo, and Paula Bertram via Zoom 
2. Public comment: comment from the Committee, Comment from the Public-B Lehtinen 
stated that he sent some questions to the Town Manager regarding the Priority list for the FY23 
Capital Plan. 
 Asked: Is there a score for the $25K for Marshall Park, he couldn’t find a number and assumed 
it the Town Beach not Marshall Park. H Lemieux answered that she would check will R. Oliver to 
see if he has a figure and fill out the evaluation for that project. She found that the Marshall 
Park Survey was not included in the DPW Director’s presentation or worksheet.  
Asked: What is the life or expected life left on the Brooks House roof? Answered: According to 
John Londa, that roof is 25-30 years old and it is at its life expectancy but there are no active 
leaks. 
Asked: What is the estimated cost just for the cost of a pump generator the senior center?  
Answered: She will check with R. Oliver and their Facilities Director. 
Asked: Looking at the full list, the police had 4 items but on the priority list there were only 3. Is 
the $67,805 replacement vehicle removed from the list, or a duplicate entry? Answered: She 
only has 3 on the list, doesn’t see a 4th. She sent an attachment of the Excel document with 
each of the individual worksheets for the departments and the Chief’s PowerPoint 
presentation. She followed up with a confirmation that the Cruiser has been pushed out. 
D Passios asked H Lemieux to go over the list. She responded with DPW Director recommended 
taking the Public Safety Building HVAC and Windows off and if the drainage around the building 
is addressed it would relieve moisture in the training room. She’d like a professional window 
assessment and possibly get funded through Green Communities.   
D Passios spoke about getting a generator from the hardware store to run the sump pump 
rather than have it on the Capital Plan. He also voiced his opinion that the senior center is going 
to need a full size generator for future use as an emergency shelter.  H Lemieux added that she 
spoke with the COA director, and the generator was requested for the center to be used as an 
===PAGE 2===
emergency shelter for ice storms, the running of the sump pump during power outages, and for 
a cooling center. She added that the Fire Chief supported it. 
3. Approval of minutes- B Lehtinen D Passios made the motion to accept the Minutes of 
12/14/21, T Alonzo seconded, the vote was unanimous. 
4. Prioritization of the FY23 Capital Plan Projects  
 Individual rankings and discussion took place with decision on Priority placing. The placement 
was reached by individual CPC member rating, then averaged. 
Ranking placement: 
 1.  PSB Engineering Design for Drainage-Town Facilities 
 2.  10 –Wheel, plow & sand Repl. 1994 Mack-Highway 
 3.  Senior Center HVAC Upgrades-Town Facilities 
 4.  Page Street Construction-Highway 
 5.  Master Plan-Gen. Govt.  
 6.  Two Way Radio System-Highway 
 7.  Canine Replacement-Police 
 8.  Interceptor Hybrid-Addition to Fleet-Police 
 9.  Town Hall Repairs-Vertex Year 2-Town Facilities 
10. Flat Hill Road Drainage Construction-Highway 
12. Records Retention-Gen. Govt. 
13. Utility Tractor/Rotary Mower Combo-Highway 
14. Mower-Schools 
15. Ritter Repairs-Vertex Year 0-1-Town Facilities 
16. One Ton Dump Truck with Plow-Schools 
17. Senior Center, Vertex Items #4 7 (1998 Roof Replacement)-Town Facilities 
18. One Ton Dump Truck with Plow-Highway 
19. Brooks House Vertex Items #3, #4 Foundation-Town Facilities 
20. Senior Center Patio-Town Facilities 
21. Police Ford 150 Responder-Addition to Fleet-Police 
===PAGE 3===
22. Old Primary-Vertex Hazardous Materials Abatement-Town Facilities  
23. PSB, Construct Records Room-Town Facilities 
24. Senior Center, Install Generator-Town Facilities 
25. AC for Classrooms at Primary School-Schools 
26. Town Beach Repairs-Town Facilities 
27. Brooks House-Vertex Items #5-12 Envelope-town Facilities 
28. Brooks House-Vertex Year 0-1-Town Facilities 
29. Senior Center, New Parking Lot-Town Facilities 
30. PSB, Develop Unused Space, Fire-Town Facilities 
31. TC Passios Repairs-Vertex Year 0-1-Town Facilities 
The Total cost of all projects is 4,023,049.00. 
 
5. Action and Agenda Items for Future Meetings- The next meeting is January 4, 2022 at 
5:30pm.  D Passios asked for the meeting also be remote so he could attend. Prioritization of 
the FY23 Capital Plan Projects will be the Agenda item.  
6. Public Comment: Comment from the Public, Comment from the Committee-none 
7. Adjournment-T Alonzo made a motion to adjourn at 6:43pm, D Passios seconded it, and the 
vote was unanimous, 
Respectfully submitted, 
Dawn Pavone 
Minutes Secretary 
 