===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 3 
 
Capital Planning Committee Minutes 
October 26, 2021 
The Capital Planning Committee met in the Ritter Building as scheduled with the following members present:  Tom Alonzo, 
Dave Passios, George Martin, Paula Bertram and Brian Lehtinen.  Town Manager Heather Lemieux was also in attendance. 
1. Call to Order – Chairman called meeting to order at 5:36 p.m. 
 
2. Public Comment: Comment from the Committee, Comment from the Public – No public or Committee comment.  
 
3. Approval of Minutes – No minutes available, Paula will send out minutes of last meeting and this meeting before the 
11/2/2021 meeting. 
 
4. Review Capital Requests Submitted by Fire Department and Land Use Director – 
 
Land Use Director – Adam Burney, Land Use Director, explained that the Planning Board is requesting funding to complete 
a Master Plan.  Previously the Boards strategy was to submit two $50,000 articles in two fiscal years.  The first of which 
was approved.  During the process it was determined that we had very inaccurate population projections.  A portion of 
the $50,000 funding ($7000) was used for a population study.   Following the population study, a bid was put out for 
completion of 2 chapters of the plan: zero bids were received, and all potential bidders indicated that the Town was asking 
too much for the small amount of funding available.    Adam conducted research and found that other communities were 
spending between $135,000-$225,000.  Mr. Burney noted that the r amp up and mobilization by the successful bidder is 
the bulk of cost, once that is completed, during the writing  of the various elements all the same general sets of data , 
information, public input, and participation is utilized.  The cost of ramp up/mobilization is in the 65,000 range.  Therefore, 
the Planning Board has requested $110,000 in this year’s Capital Plan.  Coupled with the $43,000 remaining from the initial 
article, there is $153,000 available to complete the entire Master Plan as one project.  The master plan sets a foundation 
for policy and for decision making and creates one unified document that helps guide municipal decisions that are made 
on many different levels. 
 
George Martin asked for further information about what a Master Plan is.  Mr. Burne y explained that a Master Plan is 
required by Mass General Law.  It is  a blueprint or map to where the Town will go over the next 20 years .  It covers land 
use and zoning, cultural and natural resources, housing,  and economic development.  It is designed t o guide decision 
making through consensus building.  There are 8 elements within the plan, each element has goals and objectives, and 
the plan outlines an implementation plan that helps the Town achieve those goals.  An example would be if the goal were 
to encourage more industrial development the plan would identify areas that would be appropriate, identify possible uses, 
and ways to help facilitate that goal.  Tom Alonzo asked for clarification regarding the required funding; the original plan 
was to eventually obtain $100,00 0 and now the Planning Board is seeking a total of $153,000?  Mr. Burney replied 
affirmatively.  Tom Alonzo question if the Board would make a commitment to keep the Master Plan up to date?  Paula 
Bertram, (Planning Board member) stated that she thought the Board is committed to updating the plan as needed to 
keep it current.  Adam Burney noted that the current plan is 19 years old.  Mr. Burney has dealt with communities that 
have much older plans.  Paula Bertram noted that the community has changed significantly since it was originally written 
(advent of sewer and dense development).  Adam Burney told the Committee he expects that it will take 18 months to 2 
years to complete update.    Brian Lehtinen asked if any consideration was given to doing the plan inhouse?  Mr. Burney 
responded that there are certain  elements that really can’t be done inhouse.  For example, c ompleting the facilities  
element in house could be a recipe for disaster and it may be colored by political views.  Mr. Burney added that it would 
be an incredibly big lift to do inhouse and having a consultant would be advantageous.  Tom Alonzo noted that doing the 
plan inhouse would take much longer as the Planning Board is occupied with conducting current business and could also 
negatively affect volunteerism.   
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 3 
 
Heather Lemieux question ed how many chapters the funding would cover.  Mr. Burney responded that the requested 
funding covers 8 elements, the existing open space plan (OSB) would be incorporated as one of the 8.  H eather Lemieux 
questioned if an update to the OSP would be needed?  Mr. Burney responded that some minor updates may be necessary.  
Heather Lemieux questioned the benefits of an updated Master Plan.  Mr. Burney responded that the Master Plan could 
identify grants that would be available and provide background data for grant applications.   
 
Mr. Burney added that in the Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness grant program there were several projects that came 
up and the grant criteria could not be met.  As the Master Plan is developed, we can look at sustainability. Heather Lemieux 
questioned if any consideration was given to utilizing a regional planning agency.  Mr. Burney noted that in the past MRPC’s 
attention to proposals has been lacking and there has been significant staff turnover recently;  staff members have left, 
John Hume is no longer the Director, Karen Chapman is now the P lanning Director.  Th roughout the COVID pandemic, 
MRPC has hired part time planners.  Mr. Burney stated that he feels that MRPC is trying to get their own house in order, 
and he is concerned that the Town won’t get the focus and attention needed due to internal turmoil.  Mr. Burney noted 
that MRPC also facilitates the DLTA grants which consumes most of their resources.  Ms. Lemieux noted that it is possible 
to go out to other planning commissions, Mr. Burney agreed and commented that there would still be a cost.  A planning 
agency could potentially reduce some of the cost, however Mr. Burney believes that the cost would still be over $100,000 
to complete.  Mr. Burney noted that if we hire a private consultant the process will go rapidly as they have more resources 
and can meet a tighter timeline.   
 
George Martin asked if there is a cost to utilizing  MRPC?  Heather Lemieux responded that the Town pays a regional 
assessment and added that MRPC serves us in other capacities, such as the aba tement of hazardous waste at the gas 
station on Mass. Ave., DLTA grants and GIS services.  
 
Adam Burney noted that some communities have done online master plans that are interactive.  Tom Alonzo said it was 
important to have both a hard & soft copy.  Heather Lemieux remarked that a searchable document would be ideal. 
 
Fire Department – Chief Sullivan informed the committee that the Fire Department does not have anything on the Capital 
Plan for this coming year and provided a quick summary of what’s coming up in future years:  
 
Item Year Estimated 
Cost 
Comments/Discussion 
Replace Engine 2 chassis FY2024 $115,000 Chief Sullivan was not satisfied with the estimates received and 
has pushed this item off a year.  The cost is hard to pin down due 
to availability of chassis and components.   
 
Dave Passios questioned the cost of replacing the entire vehicle.  
Chief Sullivan responded that unofficially the cost would be 
estimated at $200,000+-.   
Rescue 1 Replacement FY2026 $432,000 The current vehicle will be 12 years old at replacement.  T he 
estimated c ost of this item has increased from $362,000 to 
$432,000.  Exis ting vehicle would be rotated to become water 
rescue unit and the 1998 vehicle (ex -ambulance) currently 
serving in this capacity would be disposed of. 
Car 2 Replacement FY2026 $56,000 Vehicle serves as Fire Prevention/Duty Officer Vehicle.  Car will 
be 10 years old at replacement.   
 
Dave Passios remarked that it is important that other 
departments are contacted when one vehicle comes out of 
service as other departments may be able to utilize.  Mr. Passios 
noted that a  year or so ago he purchased an Acadi a sold by a 
department which only needed $3,000 worth of work while the 
DPW Director has been utilizing a utility truck.   
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 3 
 
Item Year Estimated 
Cost 
Comments/Discussion 
 
Chief Sullivan commented that possible usage varies by the 
vehicle.  His old car was given to the animal control officer and 
didn’t last very long.  The old service truck is currently being used 
by the DPW mechanic. 
 
Heather Lemieux pointed out that as a green community, an 
energy efficient vehicle cannot be replaced with a less energy 
efficient vehicle. 
Squad 3 Replacement FY2027 $1,146,000 Vehicle is currently a 2008 Rescue Pumper that serves as the 
Departments Heavy Rescue and Pumper.  Vehicle will be at 20 
years when replaced. 
M1 4x4 Utility Vehicle 
with Plow Replacement 
FY2027 $106,000 Department service vehicle, will be at 10 years when replaced. 
Rescue 2 Replacement FY2029 $500,000 Ambulances are rotated on a 5 -year cycle.  Newest vehicle 
utilized as primary ambulance and oldest as backup.  Vehicle will 
be at 10 year replacement point. 
 
George Martin questioned if the replacement will include all the 
equipment.  Chief Sullivan responded that the stretcher is 
included but all other components would come from the old 
vehicle. 
Engine 5 Replacement FY2032 $863,000 Reserve pumper for Department, serves as the heavy duty brush 
truck.  Vehicle was originally purchased through an AFG Grant at 
a cost of $30,000 to the Town.  Vehicle would be 30 years old 
when replaced. 
 
Heather Lemieux noted that all the identified capital items in the Fire Depar tment are replacements, there are no new 
items identified.  Chief Sullivan responded that air pack replacement may be necessary depending on how the new items 
hold up.  The Manufactures states that they are have a life span of 10 years, however they may not hold up.  Tom Alonzo 
questioned status of the turn out gear.  Chief Sullivan said the new gear has not been received, the original budget was 
based on 5 units per year however due to cost increases the department can only purchase 2 per year.  
 
Action and Agenda Items for Next Meeting  – Next meeting 11/2/21, School is coming in  (Facilities Director and 
Superintendent).  11/23/21 Police, DPW 11/30/31,  11/9/21 records retention and IT.  12/7/21 possible site visits. 
 
Dave Passios said he would like to talk about moving police vehicles into operating budget; take part of the budget funding 
and create a line item to fund the cruiser replacement schedule within department budget.  T om Alonzo noted that the 
cruiser replacement fits the definition of a capital expenditure.  He added that if vehicle replacement is incorporated 
within the omnibus budget, then the department head is not required to purchase a vehicle.  Town Meeting votes on the 
entire department budget, not individual line  items.  There is a r isk that the Town would not get vehicle rotation as 
anticipated whereas items specified in the  Capital plan are mandated.   This topic will be added to a the agenda of a future 
meeting. 
 
5. Public Comment: Comment from the Public, Comment from the Committee – None. 
 
6. Adjournment – At 6:19 p.m. Paula Bertram made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Dave Passios, passed unanimously. 
 
Respectfully submitted: 
Paula Bertram 
Paula Bertram 