===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Capital Planning Committee 
September 26, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
 
Location: This meeting was held remotely via Zoom. 
 
Present: Dave Passios, Tom Alonzo, George Martin, Peter Beardmore, and Matthew Brenner. 
Call to Order: Acting Chairperson Dave Passios called meeting to order, and read a statement regarding the 
Open Meeting Law and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely, and how to attend and 
participate in those meetings. 
Organization of the Committee: Mr. Martin nominated Mr. Passios as Chairperson, Mr. Beardmore seconded. 
Mr. Passios nominated Mr. Alonzo as chairperson, Mr. Brenner seconded. Mr. Passios said he prefers Mr. 
Alonzo to take the position as Chairperson, and would like to continue serving as Vice Chair as his other 
commitments won’t allow him the time he would like to dedicate to serving as Chairperson. Mr. Alonzo said he 
is willing to serve as Chairperson. 
Mr. Martin withdrew his motion to nominate Mr. Passios as Chairperson. Mr. Beardmore withdrew his second. 
The committee unanimously voted to close nominations. 
Mr. Passios reiterated Mr. Alonzo has been nominated as Chairperson. Mr. Passios, Mr. Beardmore, Mr. 
Martin, and Mr. Brenner voted in favor of electing Mr. Alonzo. Mr. Alonzo abstained. 
Mr. Alonzo nominated Mr. Passios as Vice Chairperson, Mr. Brenner seconded. Mr. Passios declared 
nominations closed. Committee unanimously voted in favor of Mr. Passios serving as Vice Chairperson. 
Mr. Passios informed the committee that there is a minutes clerk who will be responsible for recording 
meeting minutes, and the elected Clerk may be responsible for recording minutes when the minutes clerk is 
not available. 
Mr. Beardmore volunteered to serve as clerk. Mr. Alonzo nominated Mr. Beardmore to serve as Clerk.  Mr. 
Brenner seconded. Committee unanimously voted in favor of Mr. Beardmore serving as Clerk.  
Review Capital Planning Schedule: October 13 is the deadline for department heads to submit their capital 
plan request forms. Committee will meet on various Mondays and Wednesdays depending on availability of 
meeting space, and schedules of committee members. Committee members agreed to schedule meetings a 
month in advance based on availability.  
The next meeting will be held Monday, October 17, 2022 at 5:30 p.m. in the downstairs room of the Ritter 
Building.  
Mr. Alonzo will work with Town Manager Heather Lemieux on scheduling departments with larger quantities 
of requests in order to provide enough time to answer anticipated questions regarding those requests.  
Action Items for next meeting: Discuss prioritization and ranking system for items on capital plan 
Public Comment/Committee Comment: Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Passios welcomed new members to the 
committee. 
Adjourn: Mr. Alonzo motioned to adjourn, Mr. Beardmore seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Unanimously approved by the Capital Planning 
Committee at the November 7, 2022 meeting. 