===PAGE 1===
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE 
December 4, 2023 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Present Members: Chairman Tom Alonzo, Clerk Peter Beardmore, Planning Board 
Representative Matt Brenner, Member George Martin, Finance Committee Member Chris 
Menard. 
 
• Call to Order 
The meeting opened at 7:04 PM. 
 
• Public Comment 
a. CPC Members: No member comment. 
b. Public: No public comment. 
 
• Discussion of Capital Planning Requests and Preliminary Prioritization 
There were 2 revisions received from the prior school presentation and the facilities and 
parks presentation. Peter Beardmore states there was a slide missing from the 
presentation and there is a discrepancy in terms of what the slides listed compared to 
the school committee priorities list. There is a question of why on page 69 there a line 
with is $15,000 but there is no label. Peter Beardmore will inquire to get more 
clarification.  
 
Turkey Hill Window Replacement and Design Work 
There is an accelerated report program, but it is limited to windows, roof, and 
boilers. To qualify for the accelerated repair program, it was found that there is a 
requirement to commit to that building for the lifespan of the project.  
Matt Brenner doesn’t believe the safety film is a top priority and is struggling 
with the cost.  Peter Beardmore states there is a safety concern relative to the 
perimeter strength of the building. This would slow activity down to allow for a 
response. There are vulnerabilities in every building. Turkey Hill has floor to 
ceiling glass while the other two buildings have single pain glass.  
 
Senior Center Parking Lot 
The senior center parking lot project has been separated into a design and a 
construction phase. The design phase is estimated to total $35,000. The 
committee questions what the main goal of this project is. Heather Lemieux 
thinks this is a project that addresses safety issues, and the project could add an 
additional 19 parking spaces. There is also a question about the location of kid’s 
kingdom and the potential to relocate to create more space.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Ritter Floor Replacement and Ritter Stair Cover Access 
Chris Menard doesn’t think the floor replacement is a medium priority. Tom 
Alonzo also agrees it’s not deteriorating the building. Peter Beardmore believes it 
is all cosmetic. Chris Menard thinks if this is a safety issue then it should be 
closed off as an entrance. This can’t be used as an emergency entrance since it’s 
too dangerous. 
 
Marshall Pond Treatment 
The original request was for $256,000 for treatment of the entire pond. It has 
now been scaled back and will potentially be done in sections starting at an 
estimated cost of $50,000. Matt Brenner thinks this is a low priority. The main 
question posed by the committee is how to keep the lily pads from continuing to 
come back. Tom Alonzo and additional members believe this will not be a one-
time treatment. Peter Beardmore agrees that the pond is being used for 
recreational services. Additionally, there are a lot of lake acreage in Lunenburg 
but a very small portion I available to the public. 
 
Wallace Park Basketball and Tennis Court 
Peter Beardmore questions if this was a bad job when created or if it’s just 
surface issues. Additionally, Peter Beardmore questions if maintenance is being 
done to minimize the issues. There will be a discussion with the chair to get 
additional information.  
 
DPW Roof 
Overall, the committee seems the price is very high for the amount of space 
being repaired. 
 
DPW Front End Loader with Plow 
Peter Beardmore shares that Lunenburg has always only had 1 front end loader.  
Peter Beardmore doesn’t believe there is a need for an additional loader and to 
also keep the current front-end loader. Chris Menard questions the prioritization 
of repairing infrastructure versus the risk of equipment breaking and having 
redundant equipment. Heather Lemieux confirms that the directors meet with 
staff to find out what their needs are and there’s a lot of conversation with the 
mechanics about equipment and trucks. It’s not just the opinion of 1 person. 
 
Stone Wall in Cemetery 
Matt Brenner questions what the long-term cemetery plan is. This project does 
not involve any safety issues. There are also questions regarding other types of 
fencing. 
 
Drainage issues Laurel Lane and Reservoir Road 
===PAGE 3===
Peter Beardmore states this is a problem that needs to be addressed. Plans have 
already been drawn up for both locations. 
 
• Action Items for Next Meeting 
Tom Alonzo will work with the Town Manager to create a spreadsheet with all the items. 
Each member is to rank priority levels on an individual basis. Tom Alonzo wants 
everything to be fair and equally distributed among departments. 
 
• Confirm Subsequent CPC Meetings (Date, Time and Location) 
December 18 6PM at the Ritter Building 
December 21 6PM at the Ritter Building 
 
• Public Comment 
a. Public: No public comment. 
b. CPC Members: Chris Menard noted that minutes were posted in the share folder. The 
approval of minutes will be on the agenda for the next meeting. 
 
• Adjournment 
Motion to adjourn by Matt Brenner, seconded by Peter Beardmore. All in favor. Unanimous 
vote. 
The meeting closed at 8:50 PM. 
 