===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
October 9, 2024
Lower Meeting  Room
Ritter Building
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present Members: Vice Chair Tom Alonzo, Chair Peter Beardmore, Clerk Matt Brenner, 
Member-at-large Rob Bowen, Finance Committee Representative Chris Menard
1. Call to Order
The m eeting opened at 6:35  PM .
2. Public Comment – committee, public
There was no comment from the Committee or the public.
3. Chair ’s report
 Peter Beardmore states that he met with Carter Terenzini  and talked about
standardizing the presentations and starting the calendar earlier. Carter 
Terenzini has  appointed the L ibrary D irector to work with the department heads 
to try to regiment  the presentations . Peter Beardmore has been in email contact
with the L ibrary D irector about scheduling.
Peter Beardmo re shared what he learned at the last Budget Task Force 
Committee  meeting.  C apital and its effects on the budget were discussed.  
Peter Beardmore is interested in seeing what the Budge t Task Force 
Committee comes up with.  Their meetings are also available to view on 
YouTube.
Pete r Beardmore met with Chris  Menard and discussed concerns about 
the DPW budget.
Carter Terenzini e xpressed  his  concern with N orth C emetery and  the  
cemetery expansion.  There is a sum of money that is available to the 
Cemetery Commission that can be used towards expansion.
Peter Beardmore had previously distributed the financial policies manual. 
The proposed manual  included existing policies, bylaws, state practices 
but it was not annotated as to the source. The Committee believes getting 
their policies aligned with that document may be challenging.
===PAGE 2===
4. Review and approve minutes
The review and approval of minutes from prior meetings was ta bled to the 
next meeting. 
There was some discussion about where the Committee could share 
documents . Peter Beardmore states that the school department operates 
on Google and the town operates on Microsoft. There is discussion about 
having a SharePoint  file or using Google Drive. Tom Alonzo  is frustrated 
that there is no single domain that the Committee can use to share 
documents. Peter Beardmore will look further into this.
5. Capital request presentations   
   a. Police
 The presentation was provided by the Interim Police Chief, 
Lieutenant    Jeffrey Thibodeau
The majority of the 10-year capital plan includes replacing cruisers. 
The cruiser fleet is currently in good condition due to cruiser rotation
and replacing gas vehicles with hybrid Ford Explorers.  The 
hybrid vehicles have shown a decrease in fuel consumption and 
has grant opportunities through the Green Communities.  
Another project includes workplace  expansion. The police 
department has been working with the Facilities Director, Chris
Ruth, to utilize the vacant second floor. The department has 
outgrown its current workspace facilities.
FY 26 plan includes:  
 - Replacing 2 cruiser s
 The vehicles being replaced are cruiser 206 that has 
100,195 miles and is being used by the School 
Resource Officer. The second vehicle is cruiser 205 
that has 81,420 miles and is being used as a 
second line cruiser due to mechanical issues.
 Tom Alonzo questions if any vehicles will be coming o ff the 
ownership list. Lieutenant Thibodeau confirms that cruisers 
205, 206, and 209 will be auctioned.
FY 27 plan includes:
 - Purchasing portable radios
Lieutenant Thibodeau checked the estimated cost per
radio to be $1,478. The department would need
30 radios totaling $44,340. The lifespan for the 
radios is roughly 7 years.
===PAGE 3===
 - Purchase new Ford Police Interceptor  Hybrid  vehicle 
totaling roughly  $75,500.
Tom Alonzo asks why 30 radios are needed. Lieutenant Thibodeau 
states each ind ividual  officer is issued their own radio s.
FY 28 plan includes:
 - Replacing cruiser 208 and cruiser 212
 The replacement vehicles will be For d  Interceptor 
Hybrid vehicles costing $77,825 per vehicle. The total 
for the 2 vehicles is $155,650.
FY 29 plan includes:
 - Replac ing  a marked cruiser and the School Resource 
Officer vehicle.
 The replacement vehicles will be Ford Interceptor  
Hybrid Explorers costing  $80,160  per vehicle. T he 
total for the 2 vehicles is $160,320. 
 - Firearm replacement
 The current cost is unknown due to fluctuation,  but 30 
firearms will be needed.
 FY 30
 - Replacing 1  cruiser  and 1 unmarked cruiser
 The replacement vehicles will be Ford Interceptor 
Hybrid vehicles costing $ 82,565  per vehicle. The total 
for  the  2 vehicles is $1 65,500.
 FY31
 - Replacing 2 cruisers
 The replacement vehicles will be Ford Interceptor 
Hybrid vehicles costing $85,042 per vehicle. The total 
for the 2 vehicles is $170,085.
FY32
 - Replacing 2 cruisers
 The replacement vehicles will be Ford Interceptor 
Hybrid vehicles costing $87,593 per vehicle. The total 
for the 2 vehicles is $175,186.
Chris Menard asks if the Police Department will be looking to 
replace a pickup truck.  Lieutenant Thibodeau says that the pickup 
truck currently has 7,000 miles and hopes the lifespan will be 12 
years.
===PAGE 4===
Chris Menard inquired about body worn cameras. Lieutenant 
Thibodeau states they are currently working and are a great tool, 
but he is unsure of their lifespan. Chris Menard suggests adding 
body worn camera replacement to the 10-year capital plan. Tom 
Alonzo asks if there is a contract for software to support the 
cameras. Lieutenant Thibodeau confirms there is a yearly software 
contract and everything from the cameras is downloaded to a 
separate computer.
The Police Department is suggesting additional training and 
equipment for the mechanic who works on their fleet. The training 
would relate specifically to hybrid vehicles.
b. IT  
 The IT department needed to reschedule their presentation  and 
currently the date has not been determined.
6. Review schedule, topics for future meetings
 Below is the current schedule for presentation s :
October 21 st : Schools
October 23 rd : Facilities
November 4 th : DPW and Fire
Peter Beardmore will circulate an email to inquire  about  everyone ’s 
availability for November. 
Chris Menard brought forward the fact that capital projects are 
backlogged. He questions if this will affect the Committee  prioritization  of 
this year ’s  project s .
Peter Beardmore will add the discussion  about  the financial manual to the 
upcoming agenda.
7. Public Comment – public, committee
 There were no comments from the public o r Committee.
8. Adjourn
 There was a m otion to adjourn  by T om Alonzo , seconded  by  M att 
B renner.
The meeting closed at 7:52 PM .