===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
July 31 , 2024
Bilotta Meeting Room
Lunenburg Town Hall
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present Members: Vice Chair Tom Alonzo, Chair Peter Beardmore, Clerk  Matt Brenner, 
Member-at-large Rob Bowen
Absent Member: Finance Committee Representative Chris Menard
Agenda
1. Call to order
 The meeting opened at 7:30 PM
2. Review and approve minutes
 There were no minutes to review.
3. Public Comment
a.  Member s
The Committee welcomed a new member, Rob Bowen.
b. Public
 There were no comments from the public.
4. Proposal and discussion for capital planning presentations and meeting schedule
 Peter Beardmore hasn ’t received any specific information about the 
availability of any department heads.   Peter Beardmore plans  to reach out 
to  the Interim T own M anager to work on accelerating the presentation s from 
the department heads.
5. Standard information, criteria for capital planning presentations
 Peter Beardmore  believes there should be some  sort of overview of the 
needs and a slide emphasizing any key points that are not already covered in the
clear gov submission.  The  C ommittee reviewed the clear  gov submission 
form and its categories for criteria.
There needs to be discussion about whether or not  projects could 
potentially be  support ed by any G reen C ommunities grants.
Tom  Alonzo  requests documents be printed on 8 ½ x 11 sheets . 
P owerPoint  presentation s should not be in PDF format. There should be a  
title for each request and a short description of the reasoning  including  
===PAGE 2===
pricing, maintenance price , why it  is wanted, why it ’s  needed, how ’s  it 
going to be helpful .
Matt  Brenner wants to know  how the  request fits  into the department ’s  
future . Additionally, there must be some level of cost benefit s  analysis. 
Many departments  have very repetitive capital needs.
Peter  Beardmore requests financial plans for new equipment.  For g eneral 
request s  for items that represent new inventory  there needs to be some 
sort of  cost benefit analysis. The se include items that represent 
replacements of aging inventory .
Tom Alonzo states a ll dep artment  heads need to know this is a sales pitch.
They are s elling to the B oard to then have the B oard sell it at  the Town  
M eeting.
6. Discussion on Draft Financial Policy Manual and possible follow- up   
Peter Beardmore states if the  financial policy manual  is followed it 
would make things a lot clearer .
The C apital P lanning section is a 4-page  document. Peter  Beardmore 
notes there are  no major objections but questions if this would have to be 
adopted as a replacement to  the  existing policy. Tom  Alonzo  states  if there
is something to be changed in the manual,  then there would have to be a 
change in the charter,  or a bylaw would have to be added. If this manual 
isn ’t consistently updated,  then it will become useless rather quickly.
Peter Beardmore requests  the C ommittee read  the document  and have a 
discussion at an upcoming meeting .
7. Schedule and topics for future meetings
 Peter Beardmore suggests completing the annual workload  earlier  than 
usual.
It ’s anticipated that there will be 5 to 6 weeks of presentations  followed by  
2  to 3 meetings to nail down the priorities list.  Peter Beardmore 
believes presentations could start as early as September 11 th .
Historical ly the C apital P lanning C ommittee must  submit a prioritized list  to
the Town Manager. Then  the Town Manager will investigate  available 
funds from free cas h  and other available resources to come up with a 
number to support the capital. The T own  M anager  does have the ability to 
reprioritize the list .
The next anticipated meeting is August 21 st  at 6:30PM .
8. Public comment
a. Members
The were no comments from the members .
===PAGE 3===
b. Public
 There were no comments from the public.
9. Adjourn
 There was a motion to adjourn by Tom Alonzo, seconded by M att Brenner.
All  in favor.
T he meeting closed at 8:25 PM .