===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Munis 
General Ledger 
______________________________________________________  
Procedural Documentation 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For more information, visit www.tylertech.com.  

===PAGE 2===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 2 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Chart Manager ..................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Account Master ................................................................................................................................................. 12 
General Journal Entry/Proof ....................................................................................................................... 24 
Recurring General Journal Entry ............................................................................................................... 41 
General Journal Approval ............................................................................................................................. 48 
Accounting Entries .......................................................................................................................................... 53 
Month End Manager ........................................................................................................................................ 68 
Month-End Processing Checklist ................................................................................................................ 71 
Account Inquiry ................................................................................................................................................ 77 
Year-to-Date Budget Report ........................................................................................................................ 93 
Account Trial Balance Report ................................................................................................................... 104 
Import Journals .............................................................................................................................................. 112 
Year End Manager ......................................................................................................................................... 118 
  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 3 
 
Chart Manager  
Overview 
The Chart Manager program maintains your organization's chart of account segments and accounts. 
The program also provides direct access to associated Munis programs that offer additional 
maintenance actions for accounts and segments.  
 
 
Use these options to create or maintain data in Munis programs: 
• Excel Export—Export s data to Microsoft Excel. The program requires you to select whether 
to export the currently displayed code values (fund, segment, and so on) or the current list of 
accounts. 
• Accounts— Opens the Account Master program. 
• Copy Accounts—Copies one or more general ledger accounts using the Account Mass 
Creation program. 
• Account Change—Updates accounts, org codes, or segment values in the Change General 
Ledger Account Codes program.  
• Import Accounts— Opens the GL Account Import program to import accounts into Munis 
from an electronic file. 
• Account Merge—Merge s two or more general ledger accounts. 
• Account Overview—Opens the Accounts Overview program to display general ledger 
account details.  
• Due To/Due From—Opens the Due To/Due From  Setup program to view and maintain due-
to/due-from relationships.  
• GL Settings— Opens the General Ledger Settings program to define parameters for general 
ledger processing.  
• Adv. Segment Info—Displays the Advanced Segment Information dialog box, featuring 
account segment lengths and project segment lengths for expense and funding strings. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have the appropriate permissions for maintaining general ledger accounts.  
• All fund and segment codes, as well as your organization, object, and project codes, have 
been created.  
  

===PAGE 4===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 4 
 
Procedures 
When you first open the Chart Manager program, it displays your organization's existing account 
segments, in segment order.  
 
 
Click the Adv. Segment Info option on the toolbar to view segment sizes for balance, expense, and 
revenue accounts, as well as project segment sizes for funding and expense strings. 
 
 

===PAGE 5===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 5 
 
To view segment details, click the segment tab to refresh the display with the items specific to that 
segment. For example, click the Fund tab to view all the available funds. Choose a fund from the list to 
display details about it in the panel on the right. 
  
Adding a Rollup Code  
 Click the Rollup Code tab. 
 Click Add Rollup Code. 
The program opens the fields for entry.  
 
 
 Complete the fields, and then click Save to create the code.  

===PAGE 6===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 6 
 
Adding an Org Code  
 Click the Organization tab. 
 Click Add Organization. 
The program opens the fields for entry. 
 
 
 Complete the fields. 
 Click Save to create the code. 
 

===PAGE 7===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 7 
 
Adding a Segment Code 
When you use the Chart Manager program to add new segment codes to your organization's chart of 
accounts structure, the program creates new codes for fund, segments 2–8, orgs, and objects. You can 
view project codes in Chart Manager, but you must use the Project Master program to create new 
project codes.  
 Click the tab name that corresponds to the segment type to add. For example, to add a Department 
code, click the Department tab.  
The program refreshes the screen to display the existing segments of that type. 
 
 
 Click Add Department. 
Note: The name of the link varies depending on the segments your organization has established. 
The program opens the fields for entry. 
 
 

===PAGE 8===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 8 
 
 Complete the fields to define the attributes of the segment code.  
 Click Save to create the segment code. 
Deleting a Segment Code 
 Click the tab that corresponds to the segment of the segment code to delete. For example, to delete 
a department code, click the Department tab. 
 Locate the code and select it. 
The program displays the details of the code. 
 
 
 Click Delete Department to delete the selected code. 
Note: The name of the link varies depending on your organization’s established segments. 
The program displays a deletion confirmation message. 
 
 
 Click Yes to continue. 
The program deletes the code. 
 

===PAGE 9===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 9 
 
Exporting to Excel 
The Chart Manager program provides two options to export information to Microsoft® Excel®: 
• Export a list of the currently displayed segment codes. 
• Export a list of accounts for a single segment code.  
To produce a list of segment codes: 
 Select the tab that corresponds to the type of segment code to export. For example, click the 
Department tab to export a list of department codes. 
 Click Excel Export. 
The program displays a drop-down list with Export Department(s) as the only accessible option.  
 
 
 Select Export Department(s). 
The program generates the Excel file. 
 
 

===PAGE 10===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 10 
 
To produce a list of accounts: 
 Select the tab that corresponds to the type of segment code associated with accounts to export. For 
example, click the Department tab to export accounts that are associated with a specific department 
code. 
 Choose the segment code for which to export accounts. 
The program refreshes to display the details of the selected segment code. 
 
 
 Select the Accounts subtab. 
The program displays a list of accounts that are associated with the selected segment code. 
 
 

===PAGE 11===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 11 
 
 Click Excel Export. 
The program displays a drop-down list with options to either export the segment codes or the 
accounts.  
 
 
 Click Export Accounts. 
The program generates the Excel file. 
 
 
 
  

===PAGE 12===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 12 
 
Account Master  
Objective 
This document provides the procedure for creating general ledger accounts in Munis using the Account 
Master program. 
Overview 
A Munis account number is constructed using a combination of the organization, object, and project 
codes. If these components are not linked using the Account Master program, Munis will not recognize 
them as a valid account during transaction entry, and you will not be able to post transactions.  
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
 
• You have menu access to the Account Master program.  
• You have the appropriate permissions for maintaining general ledger accounts.  
• All fund and segment codes, as well as your organization, object, and project codes, have 
been created.  
• A detailed chart of accounts (COA), which helps you to avoid errors such as misplaced or 
incorrectly defined accounts, is in place.  
• Any required budget rollup codes have been established in the Chart Manager program. 
===PAGE 13===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 13 
 
Procedure 
Use the following steps to create accounts: 
 Open the Account Master program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Set-Up/Chart of Accounts > Account Master 
 
 
 On the toolbar, click Add.  
 Complete the fields as required, referring to the following table as a guide. 
Field Description Notes 
Account 
Org Code Contains the org code for the account 
that you are creating. Enter the code or 
use the field help button to select it.  
 
Object Code Specifies the object code for the account. 
Enter the code or use the field help 
button to select it.  
 
 
Project Code Indicates the project code for the 
account. Project codes are an optional 
feature and are applicable if your 
organization uses Munis Project 
Accounting. If applicable, enter the 
appropriate code or use the field help 
button to select it. 
 
Fund Identifies the account fund, which is 
always the first segment.  
 
Segments 2–8 Identify the account segments. Segment 
labels and order are assigned in General 
Ledger Settings.  
 
Object Specifies the object code of the account 
being maintained.  
 

===PAGE 14===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 14 
 
Field Description Notes 
If you are updating an account record, 
the default value for the object code is 
entered from the account being 
maintained.  
If you are adding a new record, enter an 
object code.  
Project Defines the project code of the account 
being maintained.  
If you are updating an account record, 
the default value for the project code is 
entered from the account being 
maintained.  
If you are adding a new record, you can 
enter a project code.  
 
Posting Effective Dates 
Beginning/Ending 
Effective Date 
Determine the dates within which 
transactions can be posted to this 
account.  
Leave both boxes blank to always allow 
posting to the account. 
 
Account Detail 
Last Updated Displays the date that the account record 
was most recently updated. The program 
completes this box; it is a display-only 
value. 
This box is accessible as search criteria 
when you click Search to locate an 
account record.  
 
Account Type Specifies the type of account: balance, 
revenue, expense, or statistic.  
Statistic accounts are used with Munis 
Performance Based Budgeting. 
 
Status Identifies the status of the account. The 
status determines whether the account 
can be included in reports and if 
transactions can be posted to it. When 
you are adding a record, the default 
value is Active. The status options are: 
• Active—I ndicates accounts that can 
appear on all reports that display 
account information and are available 
for posting.  
• Next—I ndicates accounts that are 
designated as next year accounts. 
An account with the Next status is 
only available for next year budget 
entries and reports. You cannot post 
current year transactions to an 
account identified with the Next 
status. Accounts with the Next status 
 
===PAGE 15===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 15 
 
Field Description Notes 
are automatically changed to the 
Active status when you complete the 
Year End Close program. 
• Inactive—I ndicates accounts to 
which you cannot post unless your 
user ID is assigned to one or more 
roles for which the General 
Maintenance on Accounts permission 
is granted in the General Ledger 
Roles program. This permission also 
allows you to include inactive 
accounts on reports.  
• Closed—I ndicates accounts to which 
you cannot post. Closed accounts 
only appear on reports that have the 
option to print closed accounts. An 
account cannot be closed if there has 
been any nonbudgetary activity to it 
in the current fiscal year. 
Contra Account Designates the account as a contra 
account, if selected. Contra accounts 
show a negative amount for expenses 
and a positive amount for revenues. 
Available budget checks are not 
performed for contra accounts. This 
check box is not available for balance 
sheet accounts. 
 
Entity Identifies an entity code for the account, 
if applicable. Entity codes determine how 
Munis programs are shared between two 
locations. The following options are 
available: 
 
1—First entity access only  
2—Second entity access only  
3—Shared access  
 
Entity codes are established in the 
System Settings program, which is 
accessible from the System 
Administration menu. 
 
Spending Plan Contains the spending plan to which the 
account belongs, if applicable.  
 
Character Code Indicates the character code for the 
account. This field is for display only. 
You cannot edit the character code here. 
Character codes are altered in Chart of 
Account Segments. 
 
Grant Associates the account with an entered 
grant record. This can be done when the 
 
===PAGE 16===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 16 
 
Field Description Notes 
account is created, as an update to an 
existing account, or by using the Global 
Update feature.  
Accounts that have been associated with 
a grant record are used to calculate the 
amounts on the Application # tab of the 
Grant Manager program. If the 
associated account is an expense or 
revenue account, it also appears on the 
Associated Accounts/Projects tab in 
Grant Manager. 
Requires Project 
String on Entry 
Indicates that transactions that utilize this 
account must enter a project string as 
part of the account detail, if selected. 
 
Budget 
Budgetary Determines how the account’s budget is 
created, if selected. Identifying an 
account as a budgetary account allows it 
to have a budget amount entered in the 
Next Year Budget Entry program. 
Nonbudgetary accounts usually have a 
carryforward balance at the end of the 
year instead of a new budget. 
This option is not available for balance or 
statistic accounts. 
 
Auto-encumber Automatically encumbers the account’s 
entire budget amount when it is posted 
for the new fiscal year, if selected. This is 
useful for salary accounts as it ensures 
that you cannot spend money set aside 
for employee pay. 
This option is only available for expense 
accounts. 
 
Require Budget 
Detail 
Requires entry of budget detail when you 
create budget projections for this 
account, if selected. If the box is not 
selected, budget entry has no 
restrictions. 
This box is not available for statistic 
accounts. 
 
Roll Available 
Budget Forward 
Directs the Open New Fiscal Year 
program to use the account's remaining 
available budget as the new year's 
original budget, if selected. If the check 
box is cleared, the Open New Fiscal 
Year program enters a zero-dollar 
amount as the original budget. The 
Budget Completion Journal program 
generates a journal entry for the original 
budget from the budget projection. The 
 
===PAGE 17===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 17 
 
Field Description Notes 
Account Inquiry program displays only 
the budget completion journal (BUC), not 
the remaining available budget that was 
carried from the previous year. 
This check box is only accessible for 
annual fund accounts. 
Allow Monthly 
Budgeting 
Indicates that the selected account can 
be included in monthly budgeting, when 
selected. 
 
Budget Rollup 
Code 
Contains the budget rollup code to which 
the account belongs, if applicable. 
Budget rollup codes are established in 
the Chart Manager program. 
 
Budget Subrollup 
Code 
Specifies the budget rollup subgroup to 
which the account belongs. The box is 
only available if a rollup code has been 
entered in the Budget Rollup Code box. 
 
Next Year Budget 
Rollup 
Identifies the rollup group to use when 
processing next year transactions for an 
account. This field is accessible if the 
Allow Use of Next Year Rollup Groups 
setting is enabled in General Ledger 
Settings. For budget checking for next 
year transactions only, if the Allow Use of 
Next Year Rollup Groups setting is 
enabled and the Next Year Budget 
Rollup field is completed with a valid 
rollup code, the available budget 
calculation uses the accounts with that 
same next year code to determine the 
available budget for the group. 
 
Payroll 
Payroll 
Encumbrance 
Account 
Indicates that the account is used for 
payroll encumbrance, if selected. This 
check box can also be selected 
automatically if you designate the object 
code to be used for payroll encumbrance 
accounts in the Chart of Account 
Segments program. 
The check box is only used for salary 
accounts and not benefit/projection 
accounts. 
 
Balance Sheet 
Balance Type Determines the type of balance sheet 
account that you are creating: asset, 
liability, or fund balance. This option is 
only available for the balance account 
type.  
 
Normal Balance Identifies the normal balance for this 
account: debit or credit.  
 
===PAGE 18===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 18 
 
Field Description Notes 
Closing Balances Determines how Munis manages a 
balance sheet account at year end:  
• Carry—C auses the account balance 
to be carried into the next fiscal year. 
• Zero—C auses the account balance 
to be closed to another account at 
year end, and the balance begins the 
new year at $0.00. If you choose this 
option, you must complete the 
Reference Account field with the 
account number to which this 
account closes. 
• SOY Transfer—Causes the account 
balance to be closed at the start of 
the fiscal year. If you choose this 
option, you must complete the 
Reference Account field with the 
account number to which this 
account closes. The Open New 
Fiscal Year program transfers all 
balances to their designated 
reference accounts.  
 
If you change the value of this field while 
updating an existing record, the program 
displays a warning message that informs 
you of the implications of your changes. 
 
Control Account Identifies the type of control account, if 
you are creating a control account. You 
need to define certain control accounts 
for each fund or fund/segment 
combination.  
See the Control Account Types section 
of this document for a description of each 
control account type. 
 
Account Description 
Full Specifies the name of the account as it 
should appear on Munis programs and 
reports.  
The program automatically completes 
the name with the description of the 
object code entered, but you can change 
it.  
The name can contain up to 30 
characters. 
 
Short Provides a shortened version of the 
account description as it should appear 
on screens and reports where character 
space is limited.  
 
===PAGE 19===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 19 
 
Field Description Notes 
The short description can be up to 10 
characters.  
The default value for the short 
description is the first 10 characters of 
the full description.  
Account Notes Displays a Text screen, where you can 
maintain notes related to the active 
account.  
 
Next Year Full Identifies the name of the account for the 
next year, if the account name changes 
by fiscal year. This field must be 
completed if you selected Next as the 
account status. 
 
Reference Account 
Org 
Obj 
Project 
Provide the org, object, and project 
codes for the reference account of an 
expense account type with a closing 
balance method of Zero or SOY 
Transfer. It can also be used for revenue 
accounts in Donation fund types. In this 
case, enter the expenditure account 
number whose budget should be 
increased when revenues are posted. 
 
Notification 
Warning 
Level/Percent 
Specifies a warning level for the account. 
If you do not want to use this feature, set 
the warning level to 0.00. If you do use 
this feature, when the account balance 
reaches the designated warning level or 
below, a notification is sent. 
For expense and revenue accounts, the 
warning level is a percentage. 
For balance sheet accounts, the warning 
level is an actual cash amount. 
To establish a recipient of warning 
messages, create a business rule in the 
Workflow Business Rules program with a 
process type of BWA – Budget Warning 
Notifications. 
 
 Click Accept to save the record. 
 Repeat the preceding steps for each account to create. 
Results 
The accounts necessary for your organization’s accounting process are available for use. These 
accounts are the basis of all Munis accounting transactions.  
Status Change 
Accounts are now active in Munis General Ledger and are available for use in other modules. 
===PAGE 20===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 20 
 
Control Account Types 
The following table provides descriptions of the different control account types, along with notations as 
to whether they are required types and what their normal balance types should be. 
 
Account Type Required? Normal 
Balance 
Description 
AP Cash Yes Debit The AP cash account designates the account from 
which accounts payable checks are posted. The due-
to/due-from table keeps these funds in balance. The 
AP cash account is typically the general fund or a 
pooled cash fund. If your organization plans to use 
distinct AP cash accounts along with corresponding 
AP check forms, discuss the appropriate setup with 
your project manager. Otherwise, the AP cash 
account is the same for all funds. 
ACI Liability No Credit An ACI liability account is used in conjunction with the 
Active Card Integration (ACI) Export program. This 
program imports files into the Works Fast Track 
purchase card management system, which allows you 
to issue payments using the ACI method. Payments 
made using ACI create a credit to the ACI liability 
control account, and a debit to the accounts payable 
account. However, no vendor payment is made. 
When the vendor submits an invoice, the amount 
debits from the ACI liability account. 
Accounts 
Payable 
Yes Credit An accounts payable account is the unique accounts 
payable account for each fund. When an AP invoice 
proof is updated, the expense accounts listed on its 
invoices are debited and the accounts payable 
account is credited. The system requires that the 
account entered for this type be within the same fund 
that was entered in the Fund field. 
Appropriation No Credit An appropriation account type is necessary if you plan 
to use the Budgetary GL Control option from the 
General Ledger Settings program. When an 
amendment (budget transfer) is entered to an 
expense account within the fund, a balancing debit or 
credit is made to the appropriation account. It is 
combined with the estimated revenue balance at year 
end, and the resulting figure is posted to the 
budgetary fund balance – unreserved account. 
Budgetary 
Fund Balance 
- Unreserved 
No Debit A budgetary fund balance – unreserved account is 
posted to once a year when the Close Current Fiscal 
Year program is run. It receives the amount of the 
carried forward appropriated fund balance account. 
This number is the sum of balances from the 
appropriation and estimated revenue accounts. The 
budgetary fund balance – unreserved account is the 
budgetary control account when using the Budgetary 
GL Control option. 
===PAGE 21===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 21 
 
Account Type Required? Normal 
Balance 
Description 
Budgetary 
Fund Balance 
– Reserved for 
Encumbrances 
Yes Credit The budgetary fund balance – reserved for 
encumbrances account is only utilized if your 
organization uses the Munis Purchase Order module. 
This account is automatically updated when 
encumbrances and liquidations are processed. When 
an encumbrance is created, such as when a purchase 
order is created, this account is credited. Once the 
purchase order is liquidated, this account is debited 
for the amount of the order.  
Checks 
Payable 
No Credit The checks payable account type is only used if the 
Update Cash During Cash Disbursements Journal 
check box is not selected in the Accounts Payable 
Settings program. Use this liability account if you do 
not want checks updated when written, but rather 
when cleared checks are returned from the bank. You 
should use this account type if your bank returns 
cleared checks daily. Do not use this account type if 
your checks are returned monthly. This account will 
be updated instead of the AP cash account when you 
run a cash disbursements journal. After a cleared 
check is entered into the Check Reconciliation 
program, the checks payable and AP cash accounts 
are updated. 
Direct 
Disbursements 
Cash 
No Debit This account type is optional, and it affects the Direct 
Disbursements program. If your direct disbursements 
are drawn from a petty cash account, and not AP 
cash, enter the petty cash account as the reference 
account. This causes the system to use this account 
as a default cash account when an invoice is coded 
as a direct disbursement.  
Due To/Due 
From 
Yes  Due-to/due from accounts are required unless you are 
using a distinct check stock for each checking 
account, and creating individual warrants by checking 
account. Coding an account as a due-to/due-from 
account is not necessary if you are balancing to a 
fund, as you must still set up the due-to/due-from 
relationships in the Due To/Due From Setup program. 
You only need to define an account as a due-to/due-
from if you are balancing to a fund-segment 
combination. 
Encumbrances Yes Debit Encumbrance accounts are only used if your 
organization utilizes the Munis Purchase Order 
module. An account of this type is automatically 
updated as encumbrances and liquidations are 
processed. Whenever an encumbrance is created, 
this account is debited by the system. Once 
liquidation is processed, the account is credited. The 
balance of this account should be the sum of the total 
encumbrances within the fund. 
===PAGE 22===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 22 
 
Account Type Required? Normal 
Balance 
Description 
Estimated 
Revenues 
No Debit Estimated revenues accounts need to be defined if 
the Use Budgetary GL Control check box is selected 
in the General Ledger Settings program. Whenever 
an amendment (budget transfer) is entered to a 
revenue account within the fund, a debit or credit is 
made to this account. It is combined with the 
appropriation balance at year end, and the total is 
posted to the budgetary fund balance – unreserved 
account. 
Expenditures Yes Debit For an expenditures account, Munis automatically 
creates a duplicate journal entry to this account every 
time a journal entry is made to an expenditure 
account within this fund. The resulting balance is the 
year-to-date total of all expenses posted to this fund. 
This is used by the Close Current Fiscal Year 
program. At year end, the balance is netted with the 
revenue control balance. The result is posted to the 
fund balance – unreserved, undesignated account 
and a journal entry is made to zero the balance. 
Fund Balance 
– Reserved for 
Encumbrance 
Yes Debit When the value of the Budget Carry Forward Method 
option in the General Ledger Settings program is 2 – 
Budgetary, an account with this type is used when 
carrying forward a budget at year end. This account 
replaces the original expense accounts for purchase 
orders that are still open at the end of a year. The 
Close Fiscal Year program uses this account to 
reclassify a fund balance.  
For Budget Carry Forward Methods 1-GAAP, 3-
GAAP/Budgetary Combined, and 4-Transfer, the total 
of liquidated purchase order amounts creates a carry 
forward budget amount that increases the Fund 
Balance – Reserved for Encumbrances account, and 
decreases the Fund Balance – Unreserved account. 
Fund Balance 
– Unreserved, 
Undesignated 
Yes Credit This is the primary fund balance account. This 
account receives a single posting at year end, which 
is the net total of the revenue and expenditure control 
account balances. An account of this type must be 
created before the Close Current Fiscal Year program 
can be run for a fund. 
Payroll Liability No Credit A payroll liability account is used when you defer cash 
posting to the second period for a split payroll. No 
cash movement takes place during the first period of 
the split. During the second period, the cash 
movement for both periods occurs and this account is 
liquidated. 
Revenues Yes Credit A revenues account is a running balance of all 
revenue posted to the fund for the year to date. Munis 
creates a duplicate journal entry to this account every 
time a journal entry is made to a revenue account 
===PAGE 23===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 23 
 
Account Type Required? Normal 
Balance 
Description 
within the associated fund. The account is used by the 
Close Current Fiscal Year program, which combines it 
with the expenditures control account balance. The 
result is posted to the fund balance – unreserved, 
undesignated account. As a final step, a journal entry 
is made to reset the balance of the revenues control 
account to zero. 
Use Tax No Credit A use tax account type is used by organizations that 
utilize the sales tax feature in Munis Accounts 
Payable. An account of this type stores accumulated 
use tax amounts that must be paid to the state. When 
these payments are sent, they are subtracted from 
this control account, and expensed to the paying 
accounts. 
 
  
===PAGE 24===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 24 
 
General Journal Entry/Proof  
Objective 
This document provides instructions on how to enter a manual general journal entry, update the entry, 
proof the entry, and release the entry for approval and posting.  
Overview 
Department staff members are responsible for entering journal entries, which will be released to the 
approval process. General ledger posting is typically centralized to the accountants within your 
organization’s finance office.  
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have the appropriate general ledger permissions for processing journal entries. 
• The chart of accounts (COA) has been created.  
• The Journal Number Control program has been completed to establish journal numbers.   
===PAGE 25===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 25 
 
Procedure  
Use the following steps to create a manual general journal entry: 
 Open the General Journal Entry/Proof program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > General Journal Entry/Proof 
 
 
 Click Add. 
 Complete the fields according to the following table to enter the manual journal. Press Tab to move 
through the fields.  
Field Description Notes 
Effective Date Specifies the date that the transaction 
affects programs in Munis.  
The default value is the current date, 
but you can change this if necessary. 
In certain circumstances, you can enter 
an effective date that is a future date.  
Type a date or click the calendar button 
to select a date. 
 
Fiscal Year Identifies the fiscal year associated 
with the journal entry. This field is 
assigned using the year entered in the 
Default Year/Period boxes in the 
General Ledger Settings program. This 
is a required field. Type the fiscal year 
in the YYYY format. 
 
Period Indicates the period within the fiscal 
year associated with the journal entry. 
The default value for this period is the 
value of the Default Year/Period box in 
the General Ledger Settings program. 
 

===PAGE 26===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 26 
 
Field Description Notes 
When you are adding data, you can 
enter a different period if you have 
appropriate permissions. Period is part 
of the journal key for all general ledger 
transactions. 
If the default period does not match the 
effective date, those with the necessary 
permissions see a warning message 
and the period is updated automatically 
to the current period. Those who do not 
have permission to change the default 
period are warned that the effective 
date and period do not match, but the 
period does not change and entry must 
be made to the original default period. 
Journal Displays an automatic sequential 
number based on the numbering 
system set up in Journal Number 
Control. The program completes this 
number and you cannot change it.  
 
Source Journal Identifies the source of the journal you 
are entering. A general journal entry 
source is typically GEN for general or 
GCR for cash receipt. 
If the value is GCR and the fund is a 
revolving fund, the program updates 
the following fields in Account Master: 
Revised Budget (CY), Budget Transfer 
In (CY), Budget Transfer Out (CY), and 
Last Updated. If the fund is also a 
multiyear fund, the program updates 
the value of the Inception Revised 
Budget field. 
 
Entity Code  Indicates how Munis is shared between 
two locations (such as a town and a 
school): 
 
1 - First entity only 
2 - Second entity only 
3 - Always shared 
 
Entity codes are established in the 
System Settings program, which is 
available from the System 
Administration menu.  
If your organization uses entity codes, 
you must select an entity code.  
 
===PAGE 27===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 27 
 
Field Description Notes 
Auto Reverse 
Journal 
Designates the journal as an Auto 
Reverse Journal (an accrual journal 
entry), indicating that this journal is to 
be included when you select the Auto 
Reverse option in the Journal Reversal 
program. The default value is N - No. 
Type Y (Yes) to identify this journal as 
an auto reverse journal. 
 
Short Description Contains the user-defined journal 
reference. Munis programs use this 
description on screens and reports 
where journal information is 
summarized. It occupies the Ref 4 
position. This is a required field. 
 
Journal 
Reference 
Specifies the user-defined journal 
reference code that stays with each 
transaction throughout its life. It may be 
a control number, a date, or a note. 
The journal reference from General 
Journal Entry/Proof occupies the Ref 1 
position on inquiry screens and reports. 
Entries in the Reference 2 and 
Reference 3 boxes display in Ref 2 and 
Ref 3 on screens and in reports. The 
short description occupies the Ref 4 
position on inquiry screens and reports. 
Information in reference fields varies 
depending on the program in which the 
journal is created. For example, if the 
journal was created during Invoice 
Entry, it may contain the vendor 
number. 
 
Journal Type Indicates the type of journal. The 
default value for this box is blank, but 
you can add a type code. There are 
three typical journal type codes: 
Normal (N), Interfund (I), or 
Adjustments (A). If you consistently 
assign type codes, they may be used 
as search criteria in queries and 
reports. 
If the default value for this box is “~” 
and the value of the Source Code box 
is GCR, this is an imported journal and 
you cannot change the type code. 
 
Budget Year 
Code 
Identifies the budget year code, which 
can be either 1 for Current Year or 2 for 
Carry Forward. This box can only be 
 
===PAGE 28===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 28 
 
Field Description Notes 
changed from the default of 1 if the 
value of the Budget Carry Forward 
Method option in the General Ledger 
Settings program is 3–
GAAP/Budgetary Combined. Setting 
this option to 2–Carry Forward adds 
the gross amount of each transaction 
to the Carry Forward from Last Year 
Actual field in Account Master. (It 
codes the entry as related to last year's 
budget so it can be excluded from a 
current year budget report if desired.) 
Due-to/Due-from 
Fund 
Identifies the target fund to use when 
you are generating due-to/due-from 
accounts. The default value for these 
boxes is the due to/due from fund 
selected in the User Attributes 
program, but you can change this. 
Note: Due-to/due-from accounts must 
be created in the Due To/Due From 
Setup program. 
 
Reference 2, 3 Offer the option for entering more 
detailed information. The values 
entered display on screens and 
reports. Each box contains up to ten 
characters. 
 
Approval Status Indicates the current approval status of 
the entry. If your organization uses 
Munis Workflow, the program updates 
this value as the approval process 
progress. A journal that is initially 
entered has a status of Held until 
approved by a designated approver. 
 
WO # Specifies the work order to which the 
journal applies. If you enter a work 
order number, the program creates 
actual supply detail lines for that work 
order. 
This box is applicable if your 
organization uses Tyler Asset 
Maintenance.  
 
Task # Contains the task number or code to 
which the journal applies. You must 
enter a task in this box. 
This box is applicable if your 
organization uses Tyler Asset 
Maintenance, and you have entered a 
work order number. 
 
===PAGE 29===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 29 
 
Field Description Notes 
Vendor Identifies the vendor assigned for the 
work order and task specified. Type a 
vendor number or click the field help 
button to select a vendor from a list of 
available vendors.  
This box is applicable if your 
organization uses Tyler Asset 
Maintenance, and you have entered a 
work order number. 
 
Project Accounts 
Apply 
Indicates that project account strings 
apply as part of the journal entry, if 
selected.  
 
Transaction 
Type 
Indicates how the journal transaction 
was made: by adjustment or by wire 
transfer. Select the blank option to omit 
this value.  
This information appears in the thirtieth 
position of the comment field when the 
journal is posted.  
 
 
Once you complete the header information, the Journal Lines group is accessible.  
 
 
 Complete the fields, using the following table as a guide, to enter the line detail information. 
Field Description Notes 
Line Assigns the line number of the journal entry. 
The program completes this number; there is 
no access to this field.  
 
T Indicates whether the line is for an expense 
or funding source string, if the journal entry 
applies to a project from the Project 
Accounting module. 
 
Project String Provides the project string to which the entry 
applies. Click the field help button to select a 
string from a list of available options. 
 
Project Description Provides the name of the selected project 
string. 
 
Org 
Object 
Project 
Indicate the org, object, and project codes for 
the general ledger account.  
 
Account 
Description 
Provides the account description from the 
Chart of Accounts for the selected general 
ledger account.  
 

===PAGE 30===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 30 
 
Field Description Notes 
Line Description Contains the user-defined description for the 
individual line posting. The description can 
contain up to 30 characters.  
 
Ref 1 Specifies the user-defined short description 
of the posting for the individual journal line. 
The description can contain up to 10 
characters. 
 
Effective Date Indicates the date the transaction affects the 
general ledger.  
 
D/C Identifies if the line is a debit (D) or credit (C).   
Amount Specifies the amount of the transaction. This 
should be a positive number. Zeros and 
negative numbers are not accepted. For this 
value, the program checks the available 
budget for expense accounts. The program 
displays a warning if it detects an over-
budget entry; it allows you to continue if you 
have permissions to make over-budget 
entries. If you are not authorized to enter 
over budget amounts, the program does not 
all you to continue without entry of a 
supervisor password.  
 
 
 To add detail lines, press Tab from the last box in a row to create a new detail line.  
The Line Description from the previous line is the default value for a new line. Make necessary 
changes to default values; as you add details, the program tracks debits and credits in the Journal 
Totals group at the bottom of the screen.  
 Click Accept when you have completed entering your journal lines.   
===PAGE 31===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 31 
 
Updating a Journal Entry Prior to General Ledger Posting  
To update a journal entry: 
 Open the General Journal Entry/Proof program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > General Journal Entry/Proof 
 
 
 Click Search, enter the search criteria, and click Accept to find the journal to update. 
 If the period chosen on the batch header needs to be changed, click Period.  
The program displays the Journal Year/Period Change screen.  
 
 
Note: You can only access this option if your permissions allow you to post outside of the default 
year and period. 
 Complete the New Year/Period boxes, and then click Accept to save the change and return to the 
main screen.  
 Click Update to make the necessary changes to the fields in the Journal Information group.  

===PAGE 32===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 32 
 
 When you have finished updating the journal fields, click Accept to save the changes. 
 To change the journal lines, click Modify Lines.  
This allows you to make changes to the account numbers, descriptions, and dollar amounts in the 
journal lines.  
 When you have finished modifying the journal lines, click Accept to save the changes.  
To verify if the funds are in balance, click Summary and the fund balances appear as shown in the 
following example. If the funds are not in balance, there are discrepancies in the fund between the 
debit and credit columns. 
 
 

===PAGE 33===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 33 
 
Proofing a Journal Entry for General Ledger Posting 
This procedure assumes that a journal entry has been created, released for approval, and approved by 
all approvers.  
To proof a journal entry: 
 Open the General Journal Entry/Proof program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > General Journal Entry/Proof 
 
 
 Click Browse. 
The program displays the Options screen.  
 
 
• Browse Own Journals— Displays only those journals created by your user ID. 
• Browse All Journals—Displays all available journals.  

===PAGE 34===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 34 
 
• Browse by Clerk—Displays only those journals for the user ID entered in the Clerk ID box . If 
you choose this option, enter the clerk's user ID in the Clerk ID box. 
 Select an option and click Accept.  
The program displays a list of journals.  
 
 
 Highlight the journal to proof and then click Accept.  
The program refreshes to display the selected journal. 
 Click Output-Post on the toolbar. 
The program displays the Options screen.  
 
 
• The Current Journal Only—Posts only the journal currently selected.  
• All of Your Own Journals—Posts all available journals for your user ID.  
• All Journals—Posts all available journals.  
• All Journals for Clerk—Posts only those journals for the user ID entered in the Clerk ID box.  

===PAGE 35===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 35 
 
 Select the appropriate option and then click Accept.  
The program displays the Output screen, where you can define the journal proof report settings. 
 Select the Save output option, note the file name, and click OK.  
If the program finds no errors, it displays the Post Journal Confirmation box. 
 Click No. 
 Open the Saved Reports program.  
Departmental Functions > Saved Reports 
 
 
 Click Search. 
 Enter your user ID in the User ID field. 
 Click Accept to display the list of reports. 
 Highlight the report to view and click an output option from the toolbar to display the report.  
The program displays the report.  
 
 
 Once the journal has been verified, return to the General Journal Entry/Proof program and click 
Output-Post again. 
 Click Yes on the Post Journal Confirmation screen to post the journal.  

===PAGE 36===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 36 
 
Copying a Posted Journal 
Use these steps to find a posted journal and create a new journal from it: 
 Open the General Journal Entry/Proof program.  
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > General Journal Entry/Proof 
 
 
 Click Posted Find. 
The program displays the Find Posted Journals screen.
 
 
 Click Search. 
 Complete one or more of the fields to specify the search criteria or leave the fields blank to search 
all journals. 

===PAGE 37===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 37 
 
 Click Accept to execute the search.  
The program displays a list of journals that meet the search criteria in the Posted Journal Results 
group. The toolbar also refreshes to provide the Inquiry and Create Jnl options. 
 
 
 Select the journal to view.  

===PAGE 38===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 38 
 
 Click Inquiry. 
The Journal Inquiry/Print screen displays the journal detail. 
 
 
 Click Back on the toolbar to return to the Find Posted Journal program. 
 Click Create Jnl to copy the selected journal. 
The program displays the Define Required Journal Fields screen. 
 
 Complete the Fiscal Year, Period, and Effective Date boxes.  

===PAGE 39===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 39 
 
 Click Accept. 
The program checks the available budget and your user permissions to validate the journal creation 
and provides a status message.  
 
 
Note: The message varies accordingly. If you do not have the proper permissions, you cannot 
continue. 
 Click OK. 
The program creates the journal and provides a message indicating the year, period, and journal 
identifier. 
 
 
 Click OK to close the status message. 
 Click Back to return to the main General Journal Entry/Proof program. 
The program displays the journal you created, which must go through the normal approval process 
before it is posted to the general ledger. 
 
 
 Click Release to submit the journal entry into the workflow for approval.  

===PAGE 40===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 40 
 
Results 
A journal has been created from a previously posted journal and submitted for workflow approval. 
GL Impact 
Once the new journal entry is posted, the general ledger accounts are affected by the amounts entered 
in the journal entry line detail. This impact is reflected in the Actuals box in the Account Inquiry 
program.  
 
 
  
  
===PAGE 41===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 41 
 
Recurring General Journal Entry    
Overview 
The Recurring Journal Entry/Generate program allows for the creation, generation, and maintenance of 
recurring journal entries. A recurring journal entry is an entry that occurs consistently as to date and 
amount. 
You can use this program to create recurring journal entries to manage indirect costs or charge-backs. 
At month-end, you can distribute an accumulated cost from one account (usually an expense account) 
to another set of accounts. 
This program must be accessed on a regular basis to maintain journal debits and credits, and to 
generate the recurring journals.  
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
 
• You have access to the Recurring Journal Entry program. 
• All accounts referenced in the recurring journal entry exist in the chart of accounts (COA). 
• Journal numbers have been established in the Journal Number Control program.   
===PAGE 42===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 42 
 
Procedure 
To create a recurring journal entry: 
 Open the Recurring Journal Entry/Generate program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > Recurring Journal Entry/Generate 
 
 
 Click Add. 
 Complete the fields according to the following table to add a new recurring journal entry. 
Field Description Notes 
Scheduled Run 
Execute This 
Report 
Determines when the recurring journal is 
created.  
• Now—The report is generated 
immediately. Use the output options in the 
toolbar to view, print, or save the report. 
• In Background (Now) or At a Scheduled 
Time— The report is created using Munis 
Scheduler. When you complete the 
Journal Header and Frequency sections, 
the program displays the Munis Scheduler 
dialog box, where you can define the 
processing times, enable notifications, 
and establish the recurring setup. 
 
Journal Header 

===PAGE 43===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 43 
 
Field Description Notes 
Journal Code Stores a unique, user-defined ID code for the 
journal. The code should contain six digits.  
Hint: To aid in identifying and generating 
journals, use the first three digits to represent 
the department creating the journal.  
 
Source Journal Identifies a source code associated with the 
journal entry. Recurring journals are manual 
journal entries and can be either GEN for a 
general journal or GCR for a cash receipt. 
 
Journal 
Reference 
Displays a user-defined journal reference 
code that stays with each transaction 
throughout its life. This may be a control 
number, a date, or a note. 
 
Short 
Description 
Contains a short, user-defined description for 
this recurring journal entry. This brief 
description contains up to ten characters.  
 
Journal Type Stores a user-defined, single-character code 
that describes the type of journal being 
created. Use journal type codes that are 
meaningful to your organization. For example, 
A for adjustment journal, I for interfund 
journal, or N for normal.  
 
Entity Code Signifies the entity (for example, city/town or 
school) with which the journal is associated. 
Entity codes are assigned in the System 
Settings program; typically, this value is 1 for 
the city/town. 
 
Auto Reverse 
Journal 
Indicates if the journal is available for 
automatic reversal. If selected, this check box 
indicates that the journal is an auto-reverse 
journal. 
 
Due To/Due 
From Fund 
Specifies the target due-to/due-from fund that 
keeps the journal entries balanced. 
DT/DF funds must exist in the Chart of 
Account Segments program. 
 
Reset After GEN Determines whether to reset all amounts to 
zero after journal generation. The default 
value is No (cleared). When this check box is 
selected, the journal resets all amounts 
entered to zero after generation. If this box is 
cleared, the journal holds the last amounts 
that were created. 
 
Effective Dates Define the range of dates for which the 
recurring journal should be generated. These 
dates can span the fiscal year or multiple 
years. 
 
Clerk Identifies the name of the person who is 
creating the journal entry. The program 
completes the value of this field; it is only 
 
===PAGE 44===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 44 
 
Field Description Notes 
accessible as search criteria when you click 
Search. 
Allocated Directs that amounts are to be allocated by a 
percentage, if selected. If the amounts are 
allocated, then the Reset After GEN check 
box is automatically selected and uses the 
account (segments) values identified in the 
account fields.  
 
Org Indicates the org code to use with the 
allocation. 
This box is accessible when the Allocated 
check box is selected. 
 
Object  Identifies the object code to use with the 
allocation. 
This box is accessible when the Allocated 
check box is selected. 
 
Project Specifies the project code to use with the 
allocation. 
This box is accessible when the Allocated 
check box is selected. 
 
Project Accounts 
Apply 
Directs the program to include project account 
strings in the recurring journal entry, if 
selected. Clear the check box to exclude 
project accounts. 
 
Frequency 
Months  Identify the calendar months a recurring 
journal is to be created. For a monthly journal, 
select the check box for each month.  
 
Weeks  Specify the weeks in which a recurring journal 
is to be created. 
 
 
 When the fields are completed, click Lines in the toolbar to display the Journal Entry Detail screen.  
 

===PAGE 45===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 45 
 
 Complete the fields, referring to the following table as required. 
Field  Description Notes 
Journal Lines 
T Identifies the project account type: expense or 
funding. 
 
Project String Indicates the project account string to which 
the recurring journal applies. 
 
Org/Obj/Proj Identify the general ledger account number.  
Description Stores a description of the journal entry. The 
description entered becomes part of the detail 
transaction and stays with it throughout the life 
of the entry. In the event of an audit, a clear 
description identifying the item can be helpful.  
 
Percent Identifies the percentage of the total amount to 
allocate to this account. 
 
Journal Ref Stores the user-defined journal reference code 
that stays with each transaction throughout its 
life. This code may be a control number, a 
date, or a note. 
The default value for this field is entered from 
the main Recurring Journal Entry/Gen screen.  
 
Perm/Temp Identifies whether this is a permanent or 
temporary journal entry. 
 
Debit/Credit Indicates whether this is a debit or credit 
journal. Select Debit or Credit from the list; to 
enter no amount but to add a line of text, select 
Text. You can enter text in the Description 
field. 
 
Amount Identifies the amount of the transaction. 
Type a value up to 99,999,999,999.99. Do not 
enter the decimal point and zeros if the 
transaction is a whole dollar amount. You 
cannot enter a negative value in this field. 
Note: When the amount is entered for an 
expense account, the available budget is 
instantly reduced. Any subsequent change or 
deletion makes corresponding adjustments to 
available budget. 
 
 When all lines have been completed, click Accept to save the entries.  
 To update line detail, highlight the line and then click Update. 
 Make any necessary changes to the line and then click Accept to save the changes.  
 Verify that your journal totals (debits/credits) are in balance.  
 Click Back on the toolbar to return to the Recurring Journal Entry screen.  
The recurring journal template is complete.  
===PAGE 46===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 46 
 
Generating a Recurring Journal 
To generate a recurring journal: 
 Open the Recurring Journal Entry/Generate program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry History > Recurring Journal Entry/Generate 
 
 
 Click Search. 
 Enter the search criteria to define the set of journals to generate, and then click Accept.  
 Click Lines to review the journal entry details.  
 Click Update to make changes to the lines. 
 To delete a line from the recurring journal entry, highlight the account to remove and click Delete.  
The program displays a confirmation message; click Yes to permanently remove that line from the 
recurring journal entry. 
 To add a line to the recurring journal entry, click Add.  
Select the account to add to the recurring journal entry and indicate if this account will be a 
permanent or temporary addition to the journal. 
 Click Accept to save your changes to the recurring journal entry and return to the main screen.  

===PAGE 47===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 47 
 
 Once you have returned to the main screen, click Generate on the toolbar to generate the recurring 
journal entry for your active set of journal entries. 
The program displays the Generate Journals screen. 
 
 
 Enter the appropriate year, period, and effective date, and then click Accept to continue.  
The program saves your entries and makes the Define, Gen Journals, and Gen Journal options 
available on the toolbar. 
 Select Generate Journals (all journals in the active set) or Generate Journal (only the current 
journal). 
The program displays a confirmation message.  
 Select Yes to create the journal proofs.  
Results 
Once the journal is generated, the journal proof resides in the General Journal Entry/Proof program.  
GL Impact  
The general ledger is not directly affected by the generation of the journal entry. When the journal entry 
is posted, the general ledger accounts are affected by the amounts entered in the journal entry line 
detail. This impact is reflected in the Actuals box in the Account Inquiry and Account Master programs.  
What’s Next? 
Proof and then output/post journals from the General Journal Entry/Proof program.   

===PAGE 48===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 48 
 
General Journal Approval                 
Overview 
Once a general journal is released, the established workflow business rules route the journal for 
approval. This is often used where the audit department or outside auditor has established a procedure 
wherein the person who enters a financial transaction cannot be the same person who approves the 
transaction. 
 
Journal entries may be routed to one person or multiple people. Once the journal has been fully 
approved by the required users, it may be posted. If a journal is rejected, then the originator of that 
journal will be notified. At this point, the originator may delete the journal or make corrections to it. If the 
originator makes corrections to the rejected journal, then the journal must be released to go through the 
approval process again. This document will look at the approval process using the Approvals card in 
Tyler Hub.  
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• Approvers are established in the Workflow User Attributes program.  
• Workflow business rules have been established. 
• Journals have been completed and released. 
 
Approvers are notified by email or Workflow Assistant of general ledger journals pending approval. This 
option is determined by the value of the Workflow Delivery list in the User Attributes program.  
===PAGE 49===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 49 
 
Procedure 
Munis Workflow transactions are approved using the Approvals card in Tyler Hub. 
  
 
If you do not have this card, you can add it to a page from the Content Library if you have sufficient 
permissions. 
  
To approve an item: 
1. Click the Approvals card to list all items currently awaiting approval. Use the All Process Codes and 
All Dates lists to refine the selection criteria.  
 
 
2. Review the items awaiting approval.  

===PAGE 50===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 50 
 
3. To view additional information, click the Launch option to view the item in the applicable Munis 
program.  
 
 
4. To approve the item from the Munis program, select the Workflow option to display the Workflow 
Approval dialog box, and then choose the appropriate action. 
 
 

===PAGE 51===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 51 
 
5. To approve the item from the Approvals card, select the item to display the Workflow options, and 
then select the appropriate action.  
 
 
When you select Approve, Reject, Forward, or Hold, an Optional Comment (Approve) or Required 
Comment (Reject, Forward, or Hold) box displays. For required comments, enter the reason.  
 
Button Description  
Approve Identifies the record as approved and sends notification to the next approver in 
sequence. 
Reject Rejects the item. You must enter a rejection reason. The program notifies the 
originator of the rejection and reason. The originator determines the next 
course of action (alteration and resubmission or deletion).  
Forward Allows you to choose another Munis user to review this pending record. If you 
are approving an item that has been forwarded to you, the Forward option is 
not available. 
Hold Retains an item in your approval queue for additional review. It will remain 
here until further action is taken. 
Status Change 
The following status changes occur according to the action taken for the transaction: 
• Approved records move to the next step of approvers, if necessary. If this is the final approval, 
the transaction is updated to a status of Approved and is ready for posting.  
• Rejected records return to the originator with a note regarding the reason for rejection. The 
originator takes the next appropriate action for the record (delete the record or update and 
resubmit it). 
• Held transactions remain in the queue until further action is taken by the required approver. 
• Forwarded transactions move to the queue of the identified recipient. The recipient reviews and 
updates the transaction to determine the next step. 

===PAGE 52===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 52 
 
What’s Next? 
Journal entries that have been approved are now ready to be posted to the general ledger.  
Rejected journal entries may be corrected by the originators and resubmitted through the approval 
process.  
===PAGE 53===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 53 
 
Accounting Entries 
Overview 
The Accounting Entries program displays and maintains general journal entries, budget transfers and 
amendments, and encumbrance journals. When you open the program, the General Journals tab is the 
default tab selected, and it displays all the general ledger journal entries you have permission to view.  
 
 

===PAGE 54===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 54 
 
The Accounting Entries screen is divided into three tabs: General Journal, Budget 
Amendments/Transfers, and Encumbrance Entry. Each tab provides entries for the specified type and 
an option for adding records of that type. 
 
 
Prerequisites  
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.   

===PAGE 55===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 55 
 
Procedures  
Maintaining Journal Details 
On the main screen, click a journal number to display the details. For example, on the General Ledger 
Journal tab, click a journal number to display the journal details and lines.  
 
 
When you view journal details, the toolbar provides various options to view or maintain the journal. 
  
 
• Return—Returns to the main screen.  
• Delete—Deletes the entire journal.  
• Void—Voids the selected journal.  
• Generate DT/DF—Generates due- to/due-from journals. 
• Release—Releases the journal to  the workflow process. 
• Post Journal—Posts the journal.  
• Workflow—Displays the workflow approval steps your organization has established for the 
selected record. 
• Proof Report—O pens the Journal Proof SSRS Report program, which allows you to generate 
the report output. 
• Attach—Displays the Defined Mappings screen for attaching documentation to the selected 
record, if your organization uses Tyler Content Manager. 
• View UDF—Provides information on user -defined fields. 

===PAGE 56===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 56 
 
 
On the Journal screen: 
• Click the arrow beside the Additional Attributes group to view or update other journal details. 
• Click Add Line in the Journal Lines header to add a new journal line. 
• Click the More button beside a journal line to access the Notes and Delete options.  
o The Notes option displays the Additional Description dialog box, where you can add 
comments for the selected journal line. 
o The Delete option allows you to delete the journal line. 
 
Adding a General Journal 
To add a general journal: 
1. From the General Journal tab, click Add Journal. 
The program refreshes the screen to display general journal fields. 
 
 

===PAGE 57===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 57 
 
2. Complete the fields as required, using the following table as a reference. 
Field Description Notes 
Journal Header 
Journal Contains the journal number, which is 
automatically assigned using the next 
available journal number in Journal 
Number Control. This field is for 
display only. 
 
Entry Clerk Provides the user ID of the user who 
created the journal entry. This field is 
for display only. 
 
Year Indicates the accounting year for the 
general journal. The default value is 
the fiscal year established in General 
Ledger Settings, but you can change 
this if you have the appropriate 
permissions. Valid entries are the 
current year, next year, or last year. 
 
Period Specifies the fiscal period for the 
journal entry. The default value is the 
period established in General Ledger 
Settings, but you can change this if 
you have the appropriate permissions. 
 
Effective Date Sets the date that the transaction 
affects programs in the Munis system. 
This does not affect processing 
(proofing or posting) of general ledger 
transactions. However, the program 
displays a warning if the date is 
outside of the current fiscal period. 
Typically, this date is the same for all 
detail lines in a journal entry, but it can 
be different from line to line. 
 
Short Description Establishes the description to be used 
by the system when referring to this 
journal. The program uses this 
description on screens and reports 
where journal information is 
summarized. It is also the fourth 
reference field in Journal Inquiry. You 
can enter up to 10 characters as a 
short description. 
 
Source Indicates the source code for the 
journal: GEN (general journal) or GCR 
(general cash receipt). If the value is 
GCR and the fund is a revolving fund, 
the program updates the following 
fields in Account Master: Revised 
Budget (CY), Budget Transfer In (CY), 
Budget Transfer Out (CY), and Last 
 
===PAGE 58===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 58 
 
Field Description Notes 
Updated. If the fund is also a 
multiyear fund, the program updates 
the Inception Revised Budget field in 
Account Master. 
Status Displays the status of the journal. 
When you enter a journal, the status 
is Held. The program completes this 
box and you cannot change it. 
 
PA Applied Instructs the program to include 
project accounts for the journal entry, 
when selected. Clearing the check 
box indicates that you are separating 
the project accounts from the journal 
entry process. The column headings 
in the Journal Lines group 
automatically update to include the 
Project column if this box is selected. 
 
Total Debits Displays the total amount of debits for 
the journal entry. 
 
Total Credits Displays the total amount of credits for 
the journal entry. 
 
 
3. If other attributes must be defined, click the Additional Attributes arrow to expand the group and 
complete the fields as required. Use the following table as a reference. 
Field Description Notes 
Additional Attributes 
Auto Reverse 
Journal 
Indicates that the journal is an Auto 
Reverse Journal (an accrual journal 
entry), which means that this journal is 
to be included when you select the 
Auto Reverse option in the Journal 
Reversal program. The default value 
is No. Choose Yes from the list to 
identify this journal as an auto reverse 
journal. 
 
Budget Year Code Controls how journal amounts are 
processed for budget reports. The 
budget year code can be either 1 for 
Current Year or 2 for Carry Forward. 
This box can only be changed from 
the default of 1 if the value of the 
Budget Carry Forward Method box in 
General Ledger Settings is 3–
GAAP/Budgetary Combined. Setting 
the Budget Carry Forward Method 
option to 2–Budgetary adds the gross 
amount of each transaction to the 
Carry Forward from Last Year Actual 
field in Account Master. (It codes the 
 
===PAGE 59===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 59 
 
Field Description Notes 
entry as related to last year's budget 
so it can be excluded from a current 
year budget report if needed.) 
Entity Code Determines which location's data you 
can access. Entity codes are used if 
Munis programs are shared between 
two locations, such as a town and a 
school. Entity codes are established in 
System Settings: 
• 1—Name of the first entity  (for 
example, the town) 
• 2—Name of the second entity 
(for example, the school) 
• 3— Shared 
 
Reference 1 
Reference 2 
Reference 3 
Store user-defined journal reference 
codes that stay with each transaction 
throughout its life. A code may be a 
control number, a date, or a note. You 
may use up to six characters for the 
Reference 1 code, up to ten 
characters for the Reference 2 code, 
and up to 12 characters for the 
Reference 3 code. Information in 
reference fields varies depending on 
the program in which the journal was 
created. For example, if the journal 
was created during Invoice Entry, it 
may contain the vendor number. 
 
Transaction Type Provides options to select how the 
journal transaction is made. You can 
choose None, Adjustment, or Wire 
Transfer. For cash accounts included 
on the journal, the selected 
transaction type displays in bank 
reconciliation programs. 
 
Due to/Due from Assigns the target fund to use when 
you choose the Generate DT/DF 
option. The default value for this box 
is the due-to/due-from fund selected 
on the Attributes tab in General 
Ledger User Attributes, but you can 
change this. 
Note: The appropriate accounts must 
be established in Due to/Due from 
Setup, otherwise the program 
encounters an error. 
 
Journal Type Identifies the type of journal. There 
are three typical journal type codes: 
Normal (N), Interfund (I), or 
Adjustments (A). If you consistently 
 
===PAGE 60===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 60 
 
Field Description Notes 
assign type codes, they can be used 
as search criteria in queries and 
reports. If the default value for this box 
is ~ and the value of the Source Code 
box is GCR, then this is an imported 
journal and you cannot change the 
type code.  
 
4. In the Journal Lines group, click Add Line. 
The program automatically saves the journal and displays fields to add a journal line.
 
 
5. Complete the fields to specify the journal line. 
6. Repeat the two previous steps until you have added all the lines required for the journal. 
7. Click Save to save the record. 
Adding a Budget Amendment Journal 
To add a budget amendment journal: 
1. From the Budget Amendments/Transfers tab, click Add Budget Amendment. 
The program refreshes the screen to display the budget amendment and transfer fields. 
 
 
2. Complete the fields as required, using the following table as a reference. 
Field Description Notes 
Budget Amendment/Transfer 
Journal Contains the journal number. This 
field is for display only. 
 

===PAGE 61===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 61 
 
Field Description Notes 
Entry Clerk Provides the User ID of the user who 
created the budget amendment 
entry. This field is for display only. 
 
Year Indicates the accounting year for the 
transfer or amendment. The default 
value is the fiscal year established in 
General Ledger Settings, but you can 
change this if you have the 
appropriate permissions. Valid 
entries are the current year, next 
year, or last year. 
 
Period Specifies the fiscal period for the 
transfer or amendment. The default 
value is the period established in 
General Ledger Settings, but you can 
change this if you have the 
appropriate permissions. 
 
Projection Inclusion Identifies whether the amendment is 
a one-time or continuing budget item. 
If you select One Time (temporary), 
the amendment is not included when 
the Next Year Budget Entry program 
is updated. One-time amendments 
are excluded in budget projections 
when the Exclude Temporary Budget 
Amendments check box in 
Define/Start Budget Projection 
program is selected. If you select 
Continuing, you must have recurring 
journal entries set up that match your 
budget. When this amendment is 
posted, the corresponding recurring 
journal is updated. For each new 
journal, the program completes this 
field with the default value from 
Budget Settings, but you can change 
this as required.  
 
Effective Date Sets the date that the transaction 
affects programs in the Munis 
system. This does not affect 
processing (proofing or posting) of 
general ledger transactions. 
However, the program displays a 
warning if the date is outside of the 
current fiscal period. Typically, this 
date is the same for all detail lines in 
a journal entry, but it can be different 
from line to line. 
 
Short Description Establishes the description to be 
used by the system when referring to 
 
===PAGE 62===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 62 
 
Field Description Notes 
this journal. The program uses this 
description on screens and reports 
where journal information is 
summarized. It is also the fourth 
reference field in Journal Inquiry. You 
can enter up to 10 characters as a 
short description. 
Update Recurring 
Journal 
Directs the system to include this 
journal in the recurring journal 
process, when selected. 
 
Entity Code Determines which location's data you 
can access. Entity codes are used if 
Munis programs are shared between 
two locations, such as a town and a 
school. Entity codes are established 
in System Settings: 
• 1—Name of the first entity (for 
example, the town) 
• 2—Name of the second entity 
(for example, the school) 
• 3— Shared 
 
Amendment Type Indicates whether the journal is a 
Budget Journal, Budget Amendment, 
or Budget Appropriation Change: 
• 1, 4: Expense account to 
expense account or revenue 
account to revenue account 
• 2, 5: Expense account to 
revenue account 
• 3, 6: Expense or revenue 
account; one-sided (taken 
from Budgetary Fund 
Balance) 
• 7, 8: Expense or revenue 
accounts; balance across 
funds 
• 9: Statistic accounts 
For type 3 or 6 budget amendments, 
you can also enter non-control 
balance sheet accounts or the cash 
account. The default value when you 
are adding a record is type 1. 
 
PA Applied Instructs the program to include 
project accounts when making the 
transfer or amendment, when 
selected. Clearing the check box 
indicates that you are separating the 
project accounts from the transfer 
and amendment process. The 
column headings in the Budget 
 
===PAGE 63===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 63 
 
Field Description Notes 
Amendment Lines group 
automatically update to include the 
Project column if this box is selected. 
Reference 1 
Reference 2 
Indicate user-defined reference 
codes that stay with a transaction 
throughout its life. A journal reference 
may be a control number, a date, or 
a note. Information in reference 
boxes varies depending on the 
program in which the journal is 
created. 
 
Status Displays the status of the 
amendment:  
• Held—Establishes the initial 
status of the added journal. 
• Unbalanced—Displays if the 
journal is not in balance. 
Unbalanced journals cannot 
be released unless your user 
role has permission to 
override out-of-balance 
amendments. 
• Pending Approval—Indicates 
the journal has been released 
and is pending workflow 
approval. 
• Approved—Denotes that the 
journal has been approved 
using the workflow process or 
the Budget Approvals 
program. 
• Error—Identifies that an error 
has occurred in the workflow 
process. (See the Workflow 
help content for more 
information on this 
functionality.) 
When you add a new record, the 
program automatically enters Held in 
this field, and then continues to 
update the status automatically as 
the entry moves through the approval 
process. There is no direct access to 
this field. 
 
Source Provides the source code for the 
journal. This field is for display only. 
 
Budget Year Code Stores the budget year code. This 
field is for display only. The budget 
year code creates budget transfers 
against either 1–Current year or 2–
 
===PAGE 64===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 64 
 
Field Description Notes 
Carry forward budget amounts. To 
process a budget transfer against a 
carry forward budget, you must enter 
against an expense account that is 
not a multiyear account. In General 
Ledger Settings, the Budget Carry 
Forward Method option must be 3–
GAAP/Budgetary Combined.  
 
3. In the Budget Amendment Lines group, click Add Line. 
The program automatically saves the journal and displays fields to add a journal line.
 
 
4. Complete the fields to specify the budget amendment line. 
5. When you reach the end of the line, press Tab to add a new line, if required, and then complete 
those fields. 
6. Click Save to save the record. 
Adding an Encumbrance Journal 
To add an encumbrance journal: 
1. From the Encumbrance Entry tab, click Add Encumbrance Entry. 
The program refreshes the screen to display encumbrance entry fields. 
 
 
2. Complete the fields as required, using the following table as a reference. 
Field Description Notes 
Encumbrance Journal Header 

===PAGE 65===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 65 
 
Field Description Notes 
Journal Contains the journal number. This 
field is for display only. 
 
Entry Clerk Provides the user ID of the user who 
created the journal entry. This field 
is for display only. 
 
Year Indicates the accounting year for the 
journal entry. The default value is 
the fiscal year established in 
General Ledger Settings, but you 
can change this if you have the 
appropriate permissions. Valid 
entries are the current year, next 
year, or last year. 
 
Period Specifies the fiscal period for the 
journal entry. The default value is 
the period established in General 
Ledger Settings, but you can 
change this if you have the 
appropriate permissions. 
 
Effective Date Sets the date that the transaction 
affects programs in the Munis 
system. This does not affect 
processing (proofing or posting) of 
general ledger transactions. 
However, the program displays a 
warning if the date is outside of the 
current fiscal period. Typically, this 
date is the same for all detail lines in 
a journal entry, but it can be 
different from line to line. 
 
Short Description Establishes the description to be 
used by the system when referring 
to this journal. The program uses 
this description on screens and 
reports where journal information is 
summarized. It is also the fourth 
reference field in Journal Inquiry. 
You can enter up to 10 characters 
as a short description. 
 
Source Indicates the source code for the 
journal: GEL (general 
encumbrance). 
The program completes this field 
and you cannot change it. 
 
Status Displays the status of the journal. 
When you enter a journal, the status 
is Held. The program completes this 
field and you cannot change it. 
 
PA Applied Instructs the program to include 
project accounts for the journal 
 
===PAGE 66===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 66 
 
Field Description Notes 
entry, when selected. Clearing the 
check box indicates that you are 
separating the project accounts from 
the journal entry process. The 
column headings in the Journal 
Lines group automatically update to 
include the Project column if this 
box is selected. 
Encumbrances Displays the total amount of 
encumbrances for the journal entry. 
 
Liquidations Displays the total amount of 
liquidations for the journal entry.  
 
 
3. If other attributes must be defined, click the Additional Attributes arrow to expand the group and 
complete the fields as required. Use the following table as a reference. 
Field Description Notes 
Additional Attributes 
Budget Year Code Controls how journal amounts are 
processed for budget reports. The 
budget year code can be either 1 for 
Current Year or 2 for Carry Forward. 
This box can only be changed from the 
default of 1 if the value of the Budget 
Carry Forward Method box in General 
Ledger Settings is 3–GAAP/Budgetary 
Combined. Setting the Budget Carry 
Forward Method option to 2–Budgetary 
adds the gross amount of each 
transaction to the Carry Forward from 
Last Year Actual field in Account 
Master. (It codes the entry as related to 
last year's budget so it can be excluded 
from a current year budget report if 
needed.) 
 
Entity Code Determines which location's data you 
can access. Entity codes are used if 
Munis programs are shared between 
two locations, such as a town and a 
school. Entity codes are established in 
System Settings: 
• 1—Name of the first entity (for 
example, the town) 
• 2—Name of the second entity 
(for example, the school) 
• 3— Shared 
 
Reference 1 
Reference 2 
Store user-defined journal reference 
codes that stay with each transaction 
throughout its life. A code may be a 
control number, a date, or a note. You 
may use up to six characters for the 
 
===PAGE 67===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 67 
 
Field Description Notes 
Reference 1 code and up to ten 
characters for the Reference 2 code. 
Information in reference fields varies 
depending on the program in which the 
journal is created. For example, if the 
journal was created during Invoice 
Entry, it may contain the vendor 
number. 
 
4. In the Journal Lines group, click Add Line. 
The program automatically saves the journal and displays fields to add a journal line. 
 
 
5. Complete the fields to specify the journal line. 
6. When you reach the end of the line, press Tab to add a new line, if required, and then complete 
those fields. 
7. Click Save to save the record. 
  

===PAGE 68===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 68 
 
Month End Manager  
The Month End Manager program establishes a closed date for each period. It supports the ability to 
roll the current period forward upon closing that period.  
 
The Monthly Amounts table is updated at the time a journal is posted to the general ledger. All journals 
are posted to the History status and monthly amounts are updated immediately. Monthly budget 
transfers are initiated through the Monthly Budget Amounts program in Munis Budget Processing and 
create transactions to represent the transfer between periods.  
 
 
For each period, the program displays the following information: 
• Unposted Journals—Identifies the number of unposted transactions for a period. Unposted 
transactions are those transactions that are not posted to the general ledger, such as proof 
journals, purchase orders, contracts, invoices, and requisitions. All the unposted 
transactions that are queried in Table Validation are also represented here. 
• Open Journals— Indicates the number of journals that are open for a period, or the number 
that have been posted after the period’s closing date. If a period has not been closed, then 
the number reflects all posted journals. Once the period has been closed, only the number 
of journals posted after the closing date is displayed. 
• Unbalanced Journals—Provides the number of journals that are out of balance based on 
both net debits and credits, as well as expenses to expenditure control or revenues to 
revenue control. Unbalanced journals display for the entire period regardless of the journal’s 
posted date with respect to the closing date for the period. 
• Fund Control Discrepancies—Specifies the number of inquiries that display the total 
expenses, expenditure control, and any discrepancies between the two. The program 
accounts for periods 1–12 when calculating fund control discrepancy amounts for period 13 
of the previous year. This column does not display when you view data for the prior year. 
• Unbalanced Funds—Displays the number of funds that are out of balance based on net 
expense versus revenue, as well as expense actuals to expenditure control and revenue 
actuals to revenue control. This functionality remains in Table Validation, but is replicated 
here. 

===PAGE 69===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 69 
 
 
Clicking a number in one of these columns provides a screen with additional information, depending on 
the column. When you click a record number from this display, the program opens the applicable 
supporting program. For example, if you click a GEN journal number in the Proof Journals category, 
that journal opens in the Accounting Entries program.  
 
 
 
The toolbar for the Month End Manager program provides direct access to associated Munis programs.  
 
 
• Table Validation— Opens the General Ledger Tables Validation program, which performs 
system checks against the main general ledger and amount tables and transactions to ensure 
there are no conditions that require action before the month-end process is run or a fiscal year 
is closed. 
• Balance Sheet Report— Opens the Balance Sheet Report program, which summarizes the net 
change for a specified range of funds during a period, as well as the ending account balance for 
each account. 
• Account Trial Balance— Opens the Account Trial Balance program. This program prints a trial 
balance for a single account or a range of accounts, including the entire chart of accounts. 
• Journal Inquiry—Opens the Journal Inquiry/Print program to view journal details.  

===PAGE 70===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 70 
 
• Accounting Entries— Opens the Accounting Entries program. This program displays and 
maintains general journal entries, budget transfers and amendments, and encumbrance 
journals. 
• Journal Reversal—Opens the Journal Reversal program, which is used to create  a reversal 
general journal or change the posting period of a general journal. 
• Roll Accounting Period— Opens the Roll Accounting Period program. This program allows a 
system administrator or your organization's accountant to change the value of the Default 
Year/Period box in General Ledger Settings for all users of your organization’s Munis system. 
Closing Journals  
For journals in the current period, the Actions menu provides the Close option as well as the Close and 
Roll Forward option. The current period is the only period that provides both options; other periods have 
the Close option only.  
 
 
When you close open journals, the program refreshes the screen to remove the Open Journals number 
and provide the closing date.  
 
When you select Close and Roll Forward, the program updates the Closing Date field and also updates 
the Current Fiscal Period to the next period. For example, if you are currently in period 7 and select 
Close and Roll Forward, the program resets the period to 8 and then highlights period 8 in the display. 
 
 
 
 
  

===PAGE 71===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 71 
 
Month-End Processing Checklist 
Overview 
The Munis month-end closing process moves all transactions for a specified period to the history table. 
Prior to processing the month-end close, a complete reconciliation of the system should be performed, 
including actuals, encumbrances, control accounts, and memo balances. 
 
This checklist highlights the reports that are used in the reconciliation process, the tools to assist in the 
reconciliation, and the processes that are to be followed. Scheduled monthly reconciliation will keep your 
accounts and funds in balance. It will also reduce the amount of time that is needed at year-end to close 
out the year. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have access to the programs found on the End of Period submenu. 
• There are no general ledger account access restrictions associated with your user ID that 
would prevent successfully completing the checklist items.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 72===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 72 
 
Month End Checklist 
As you create reports, save them to the Munis Saved Reports directory so they are archived for future 
reference. 
 
Initials Date Task 
  Day 1 of new month – Roll the Accounting Period. (This changes the default 
period in General Ledger Settings.) 
  Verify General Ledger Settings Default Period is the new period to which end 
users are posting transactions; this is changed by Roll the Accounting Period 
process. (Optional) 
  Run the Capital Assets Monthly Depreciation program, if applicable. 
  Enter and post all month end journal entries. 
  Post all open batches. This is only required for transactions within the period 
that is being closed and this can be viewed within the Month End Manager 
program. 
• Purchase Orders (Financials > Purchasing > PO Processing > PO 
Entry/Proof > Find Batch) 
• AP Invoices (Financials > Accounts Payable > Invoice Processing > 
Invoice Entry/Proof)  
• General Journals (Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal 
Entry/History > General Journal Entry/Proof > Browse) 
• Encumbrance Journals (Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal 
Entry/History > Encumbrance Journal Entry/Proof > Browse) 
• Budget Transfers/Amendments (Financials > Budget Processing > 
Budget Transfers and Amendments > Browse) 
• Capital Asset Transactions (Financials > Capital Assets > Capital 
Assets Processing > Capital Asset Transaction Entry/Post > Find for 
every type of transaction) 
• Employee Expense Claims (Appear as encumbrances that are 
liquidated when converted to AP or PR)  
• Cash Receipts (General Revenues > Payment Processing > Payments 
Journal) 
  Run utilities and correct any errors found during the GLENCUTE process. 
To run GLENCUTE, use the System Update program: 
System Administration >Miscellaneous Administration >System Update. 
Select Define Update Options, enter the eight-character program name, and 
click Run System Update.  
1. GLFIXREQ (fixes errors once you print and process) 
2. GLFIXMEM (fixes errors once you print and process) 
3. GLENCUTE (may require importing and posting the glencute00x.txt file, 
located in the Saved Reports directory; x = a number assigned by 
Munis) 
Reconciliation  
  Use the Full option in the General Ledger Tables Validation program to run a 
full table validation; correct any errors.  
  If necessary, run GLFIXCTL from the System Update program to correct 
revenue/expense. This does not sum control errors; these errors are erased 
from the General Ledger Table Validation report when the month is closed.  
===PAGE 73===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 73 
 
Initials Date Task 
Important! Use this option with caution and with the help of Munis Technical 
Support personnel.  
  Rerun the Full validation in the General Ledger Tables Validation program until 
only warnings appear 
  Run the Account Trial Balance for balance sheet accounts in summary and 
confirm beginning and ending fund balances are zero 
  Run the Account Trial Balance for all accounts in summary and confirm 
beginning and ending fund balances are zero 
  Print a Balance Sheet report in summary (consolidated) and in detail for each 
fund through the period being closed: 
• Confirm each fund’s assets = liabilities + fund balance. 
• Record the AP control account balances. 
• Record the Inventory account balances.  
• Record the FA account balance. 
• Record the expenditure control account balance. 
• Record the revenue control account balance. 
Note: Run the Account Trial Balance for all accounts in detail to use if reconciliations below show 
differences between the modules and the Account Trial Balance totals and export to Microsoft Excel 
so you can sort by source journal. 
  Reconcile accounts receivable by: 
• Completing the Detail Receivables by Date report.  
• Comparing the AR/GL Reconciliation Report by Fund to the 
Account Trial Balance Accounts Receivable control account for 
each fund. 
• Comparing the Invoice Detail Report Summary by Charge Code to 
the Account Trial Balance Revenue Accounts. 
  Reconcile accounts payable by comparing the Invoice History by GL Account 
Report to the Account Trial Balance for the AP Control Account.  
Reconcile: 
• History By Fund 
• Invoice Selection–Only Open Invoices  
• Year/Period equals Period Being Closed 
• Last check date is the last day of the month to be closed 
  Reconcile capital assets by comparing the Asset History by GL Account report 
for active assets and capitalized assets to the Account Trial Balance capital 
asset account totals. 
  Reconcile inventory by comparing the Perpetual Inventory Report to Account 
Trial Balance. 
Running the GL Table Validation, the Trial Balance for All Accounts, and then Trial Balance for 
Balance Sheets Accounts completes the prove process for accounts. When you run the Trial 
Balance for All Accounts, the control accounts are ignored and the subsidiary ledger takes their 
place. When you run the Trial Balance for Balance Sheet Accounts, the control accounts take the 
place of the subsidiary ledger. If either are out of balance, then there is an issue with control 
accounts not equaling the subsidiary ledger. The General Ledger Table Validation program, as well 
as the Month End Manager program, indicate which journals are in error. 
===PAGE 74===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 74 
 
Initials Date Task 
  Perform the month-end close from the Month End Manager program. (Note 
that the Monthly Trial Balance by Fund program shows zero information once a 
period is closed, while the General Ledger Tables Validation program verifies 
closed period transactions in more detail than open period transactions.) 
This is the last step in the process. All reconciliation should be performed 
before the month is closed. 
 
Sample General Ledger Table Validation Report 
 
  

===PAGE 75===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 75 
 
Guide to the Table Validation Report  
 
Number Group Error Message 
01 Fund Control Account Does Not Exist 
02 Fund Fund Does Not Net to Zero 
03 Fund Fund Does Not Net to Zero by Period 
04 Fund Fund Does Not Sum to Control 
05 Account Invalid Account Type on Acct Master 
06 Account Invalid Balance Type on Account 
07 N/A N/A 
08 Account Allocation Record Not Defined as GL Account 
09 Account Reserved Budget Amounts Exist 
10 Account CY Monthly Balance Does Not Sum to Account 
11 Account Reference Account Check 
12 Account Control Account Closing Balance Check 
13 N/A N/A 
14 Unposted Summary JE Transactions Exist 
15 Unposted Purchase Orders Exist 
16 Unposted Purchase Orders with Change Orders Exist 
17 Unposted Contracts Exist 
18 Unposted Contract Change Orders Exist 
19 Unposted Unposted Transactions Exist in Gen JNL Proof 
20 Unposted Unposted Transactions Exist in BG JNL Proof 
21 Unposted Unposted Transactions Exist in ENC JNL Proof 
22 Unposted Unposted Transactions Exist in FA JNL Proof 
23 Unposted Unposted AR Receipts 
24 Unposted Unposted EE Claims  
25 Unposted Unposted P-Card Transactions 
26 Unposted Contracts Exist to Roll into Next Year 
27 Unposted Open Invoices  
28 Unposted Open Student Activity Adjustments 
29 Unposted Open Requisitions 
30 Unposted Open Check Requests 
49 Unposted Open Student Activity Transfers 
51 Unposted Open Student Activity Transactions 
57 Unposted Open Fixed Asset Transactions 
 
 
  
===PAGE 76===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 76 
 
Guide to Table Validation Error Messages  
Each line on the Table Validation Report is produced by a specific error test. Review the report carefully 
as some of the messages look very similar.  
 
 Hint: When taking corrective measures, always start from the end of the report and work to the 
beginning. 
 
 Hint: Correcting one error condition may yield positive results on more than one error test. Try to 
solve errors that have the least impact on the general ledger first: from requisitions, to purchase 
orders, to journals in proof, to journals still unprocessed through month-end, to funds out of 
balance, and so on. Solving one error first may result in other errors being relieved. Conversely, 
correcting an error may result in new errors. Therefore, you may want to run the validation between 
corrective actions.  
 
 Hint: As always, if there are any questions or concerns, please contact Munis Technical Support for 
assistance. 
 
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 77===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 77 
 
Account Inquiry  
Overview 
The Account Inquiry program provides both summarized and detail history for accounts, with a focus on 
the current available budget. You can view data and create reports of the collected data, but you cannot 
modify data in this program.  
There are options in the Account Inquiry program for consolidating the data into a report-like format, but 
if you want to report on many accounts in a report format, it may be best to use the YTD Budget Report. 
The information in the fields displayed throughout the program depends upon your user permissions, 
which are established in the System Administration General Ledger Roles program.  
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• Accounts exist in the Munis system. 
• You have appropriate permissions to view accounts.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 78===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 78 
 
Procedures 
Finding Accounts 
To find accounts: 
 Open the Account Inquiry program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Inquiries and Reports > Account Inquiry  
Or:  
Departmental Functions > Account Inquiry  
 
 

===PAGE 79===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 79 
 
 Click Search or Seg Find in the toolbar.  
When you click Search, complete one or more of the fields to define your search criteria, and then 
click Accept.  
When you select Seg Find, the program displays the Account Segment Finder screen.  
 
 
 Complete the fields on this screen according to the following table, and then click Accept.  
For either search method, the program creates an active set of all accounts matching your search 
criteria.  
Field Description Notes 
Organization Contains the org code for the account. 
Click the field help button to select the 
org code from a list of available codes 
or enter the org code directly in the 
box. 
 
Fund Specifies the first account segment to 
include in the report.  
Segment 1 is always Fund. 
Click the field help button to select the 
fund from a list of available funds or 
enter the fund code directly in the box. 
 
Segments 2–8 Contain specific account segments to 
include in the report. Organizational 
labels for account segments are 
determined in the General Ledger 
Settings program. Examples of 
common segment labels include 
program, department, and grade. 
 

===PAGE 80===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 80 
 
Field Description Notes 
Click the field help button in each box 
to select a segment code from a list of 
available codes or enter the segment 
code directly in the box. 
Object Indicates the object code for the 
account. 
Click the field help button to select the 
object code from a list of available 
codes or enter the object code directly 
in the box. 
 
Project Identifies the project code for the 
account, if applicable. Project codes 
are applicable if your organization 
uses Munis® Project Accounting.  
Click the field help button to select the 
object code from a list of available 
codes or enter the object code directly 
in the box.  
 
Account Type Indicates the type of account. Account 
types are expense, revenue, or 
balance. The blank option includes 
accounts of all types. 
 
Account Status Specifies the account status: Active, 
Closed, Inactive, or Next (Next Year). 
The blank option includes accounts 
with all status codes. 
 
Rollup Code Contains the budget rollup group code 
to which the account belongs.  
 
Character Code Identifies the character code. 
Click the field help button to display a 
list of available character codes.  
 
[User-Defined 
Fields] 
Provides any user-defined fields.  
Percent Used 
Click Define Percent Used to access these fields as search criteria.  
Fiscal Year 1 
Fiscal Year 2 
Fiscal Year 3 
Contain the minimum percentage used 
in the fiscal year. You can specify 
percentages for last year, the current 
year, and next year. For whole 
percentages, you do not need to 
include decimal points; for 
percentages less than one, use 
decimal points. For example, type 25 
for 25%; type 25.5 for 25½%. 
 
 Click Accept to save the criteria. 
The program displays a confirmation message. 
 Click Yes, Continue to proceed with creating the record set. 
===PAGE 81===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 81 
 
 Click Browse to view a list of accounts in the active set of records. 
 Double-click an account to view the details.  
Viewing Account Details  
On the Account Inquiry screen, the Account group provides the basic details for the account (that is, 
account segments, type, status, and so on).  
 
 
Field Description Notes 
Fund Identifies the fund (or account segment 1) to 
query. Click the field help button to select the fund 
from a list of available funds. 
 
Org Specifies the org code for the account to query. 
Click the field help button to select the org code 
from a list of available codes. 
 
Object  Indicates the object code for the account to query. 
Click the field help button to select the object code 
from a list of available codes.  
 
Project  Establishes the project code for the account to 
query. Click the field help button to select the 
project code from a list of available codes. The 
project code applies if your organization uses 
Munis Project Accounting.  
 
Acct Displays the full general ledger account number. 
Each segment is typically separated with a dash. 
There is no access to this field.  
 
Acct Name Provides the name of the account, as established 
in the Account Master program. There is no 
access to this box.  
 
Type Specifies the type of account: balance sheet, 
expense, revenue, or statistic. Select the blank 
option to select all account types.  
 
Status  Identifies the account status. An account's status 
determines whether it appears on reports and if 
transactions can be posted to it. The status is 
updated using the either Account Master or 
Account Mass Change/Reset program. Status 
indicators are: 
• Active—This is the most common status for 
accounts. Active accounts can appear on all 
reports displaying account information and are 
 

===PAGE 82===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 82 
 
Field Description Notes 
generally available for posting (according to 
your defined permissions).  
• Next Year— This status indicates that an 
account is only available for next year budget 
entries and reports. No transactions posted to 
this account are allowed in the current year. 
The status of the account automatically 
changes once the Year End Close is 
processed.  
• Inactive—This status prevents all posting to an 
account without proper permissions. If you 
have Amount Maintenance on Accounts 
permission granted in the Roles – General 
Ledger program, you can post transactions to 
an inactive account. The Inactive account 
prints on all reports (provided you have 
adequate authorization). An account can be 
rendered inactive at any time in the fiscal year, 
regardless of the presence of current year 
transactions. The account can be reactivated 
at any time.  
• Closed—This  status indicates that an account 
is completely closed to all input and only prints 
on those reports offering the option to print 
closed accounts. No transactions may be 
entered against it. An account will be 
designated as Closed if there has been no 
activity—other than budget activity if the fund 
is a multiyear fund—posted to it in the current 
year.  
Rollup Contains the budget rollup group code to which 
the account belongs. If the box contains a value, 
click the highlighted folder button to view the 
rollup code details. 
 
NY Rollup Specifies the next year budget rollup group code 
to which the account belongs, if applicable. This 
field is only available when the Allow Use of Next 
Year Rollup Groups setting is enabled in General 
Ledger Settings.  
 
Sub-Rollup Identifies the subrollup code associated with the 
account. 
 
Annual 
Budgeting 
Establishes that the account is part of a multiyear 
fund, and that the account is budgeted annually, 
instead of once for the life of the account. This 
check box only displays when it applies to the 
account record. 
 
Multi Yr Fund Indicates that the account is a multiyear fund, if 
selected. This check box is not accessible.  
 
 
===PAGE 83===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 83 
 
4 Year Comparison Tab 
This tab shows the current fiscal year, the previous two fiscal years, and the next fiscal year. 
 
 
 
Field Description Notes 
Yr/Per Indicates the current year and period.  
Original Budget  Displays the adopted budget at the 
beginning of the fiscal year, as 
determined by the Budget Completion 
Journal. 
 
Transfers In  Provides the total amount of any 
budget transfers increasing budget if 
the account. View account detail by 
selecting the yellow folder. 
 
Transfers Out  Indicates the total amount of any 
budget transfers decreasing the 
budget from the account. View account
 
detail by clicking the folder button.  
 
Revised Budget  Displays the sum of the Original 
Budget plus Transfers In, less 
Transfers Out. 
 
Actual (Memo) Provides the general ledger balance 
that includes posted and unposted 
transactions. Click the folder button to 
view account detail. 
 
Encumbrances  Indicates the sum of all open purchase 
orders for the account. Click the folder 
button to view account detail. 
 
Requisitions Displays the total amount of 
requisitions in status 4–Allocated, 6–
Released, and 8–Approved. View 
account detail by clicking the folder 
button. 
 
Available Provides the budgeted amount 
remaining in the account. 
 
Percent Used Identifies the percent of the budget 
that has been spent, transferred out, or 
encumbered. 
 

===PAGE 84===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 84 
 
Field Description Notes 
When you are using this field as 
search criteria, enter the smallest 
percent used that you need to find. For 
example, if you enter 10, the program 
finds 10 and everything up to 100 
percent.  
 
Current Year Tab 
This tab displays the current year, carry forward, and GAAP totals, if carry forward monies exist. If there 
are no carry forward monies, the columns display as Current Year and Last Year. The Current Year 
column shows the current year, as determined by the General Ledger Settings. The Carry Forward 
column shows any purchase orders that have been carried forward from a previous year. The GAAP 
Totals column shows the combined totals of the Current Year and Carry Forward columns. The fields 
change according to the type of account you are viewing.  
 
 
On the Current Year tab, the CFWD BUA is reported in the CFWD column as Original Appropriation, 
not Amendments, so it is excluded from the Amendments detail. 
 
The Current Year tab is hidden when you view a revenue account. The tab is also hidden if there are 
balance sheet accounts and other account types in the active set of records. For active sets of records 
that consist of only expense accounts, the Carry Forward column always displays, even if the current 
account does not have carry forward amounts.  
Account Descriptions  
The following tables provide descriptions for the account types that display on the Current Year tab.  
 
Balance Sheet Account 
 
Field Description Notes 
Starting Balance Provides the balance at the beginning of the 
current fiscal year and last year.  
 
Activity Indicates the sum of the activity for the 
current fiscal year and last year. 
 

===PAGE 85===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 85 
 
Ending Balance Identifies the most recent account balance, 
calculated as follows: Starting Balance – 
Activity.  
 
Memo Balance Displays the general ledger memo balance 
that includes posted and unposted items.  
 
 
Expense Account 
 
Field Description Notes 
Original Approp Indicates the starting budget in the current 
fiscal year and last year.  
 
Amendments Provides the sum of any budget transfers in 
and/or out for the current fiscal year and 
last year. 
 
Revised Budget Displays the current revised budget, 
calculated as follows: Original Approp +/– 
Amendments. 
 
YTD Actual Identifies the actual balance at the end of 
the fiscal period or year. 
 
Encumbrance Specifies the sum of all open purchase 
orders as of the current fiscal year and last 
year. 
 
Requisitions Indicates the sum of all requisitions (status 
4, 6, and 8) in the current fiscal year and 
last year.  
 
Incep to Date Provides the sum of activity since the 
inception of the account to the current date. 
This is only populated for multiyear type 1 
accounts. 
 
Available Budget Displays the remaining available budget, 
calculated as follows: Revised Budget – 
YTD Actual – Encumbrance – Requisition 
(– Incept to Date, if multiyear). 
 
% Used Provides the percent of the revised budget 
that has been used to date. 
 
 
Revenue Account 
 
Field Description Notes 
Original Est Rev Indicates the estimated amount of the 
original budget for current fiscal year and 
last year. 
 
Est Rev Adjusted Specifies the sum of any budget 
transfers or amendments for current 
fiscal year and last year. 
 
Rev Est Rev Displays the revised estimated revenue, 
calculated as follows: Original Est Rev 
+/– Est Rev Adjusted. 
 
Incep to Date Provides the sum of revenue since the 
inception of the account to the current 
 
===PAGE 86===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 86 
 
Field Description Notes 
date. This is only populated for multiyear 
type 2 accounts. 
Actual YTD Rev Identifies the actual revenue collected 
for the identified accounting period. 
 
Remaining Rev Provides the amount of revenue 
remaining to be collected for the current 
fiscal year and last year. 
 
Percent Collected Displays the percent of revenue already 
collected. 
 
 
History Tab 
This tab provides a view of all years in the account's history; click the arrow buttons to view other years. 
This example shows the history for a revenue account. 
 
 

===PAGE 87===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 87 
 
4 Year Graph Tab 
This tab displays a bar graph of amounts for the current year, two previous years, and the next year. 
Available, Actual (Memo), Encumbrances, and Requisitions amounts are charted in distinct colors. 
When you hover the cursor over a chart element, the program provides additional information. 
 
 
Options to print or download the data as a .CSV file are found in the lower left corner below the graph. 
History Graph Tab 
This tab provides a graph of historical Available, Actual (Memo), and Encumbrances amounts for 
previous years, beyond those shown in the 4 Year Graph tab. 
 
 
Options to print or download the data as a .CSV file are found in the lower left corner below the graph. 

===PAGE 88===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 88 
 
Bienniums and Biennium Graph Tabs 
If your organization uses biennial budgeting, the program displays the Bienniums and Biennium Graph 
tabs. These tabs provide budget amounts and a graph of the 24-month period of the biennial fiscal 
year. 
 
 
If you click Months, the Account Monthly Data screen indicates the monthly amounts for the biennium. 
 
 
Note: In order to use biennial budgeting functionality, Munis personnel must run a utility to switch the 
database to a biennial format. This can only be accomplished at the start of the biennium (year 1). The 
carry forward method must be set to 3–GAAP/Budgetary Combined. Nonstandard fiscal year funds are 
not allowed in a biennial database. 

===PAGE 89===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 89 
 
Program Options  
If there are notes associated with an account, the Account Notes button is highlighted yellow; click 
Account Notes to view the contents.  
 
Detail 
Click Detail in the toolbar to search for transactions that have been posted to an account using the 
Journal Selection Criteria screen.  
 
 
Enter the search criteria to use, and then click Accept to submit the search. You can search by date 
range, year/period, journal source, or reference field. If you select the Include Unposted Journals check 
box, any general ledger journal entries still in the proof file are included.  
 

===PAGE 90===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 90 
 
The Account Detail screen displays the results. Click Detail or Journal on the toolbar for more 
information on a selected entry. 
 
 
When you highlight an entry and click Detail, the program displays the details for that account 
transaction in the appropriate program. The detail screen varies based on the journal entry source type. 
For example, if you select a POE entry, the Purchase Order Inquiry screen opens and provides the 
information for that record.  
 
 

===PAGE 91===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 91 
 
If you highlight an entry from the Account Detail screen and click Journal, the Journal Inquiry/Print 
program opens, providing the journal details of the selected record. 
 
Months 
To view account monthly data, click Months on the Account Inquiry screen. 
The program displays a monthly view of all journal transactions that have been closed to a period. If the 
transactions have not been through a month-end process, they are not included in the monthly data. 
However, you can view transactions not yet closed in the current month detail. Transactions that are in 
journal entry/proof and have not yet been posted are not visible in any screen.  
 
 
Click Curr Month Detail on the toolbar to display all the posted activity (that has been closed to a 
period). 

===PAGE 92===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 92 
 
Click Monthly Totals on the toolbar to show the totals of all the posted activity (that has been closed to 
a period) for the accounts in the active set by month for the current year.  
Totals 
To view account totals, click Totals on the Account Inquiry screen. The program refreshes to show the 
combined totals for all accounts in the active set. Click Exit Totals in the toolbar to return to the main 
Account Inquiry screen. 
 
GL Impact 
The general ledger is not affected by this program as it is for inquiry only. 

===PAGE 93===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 93 
 
Year-to-Date Budget Report  
Overview 
The Year-to-Date Budget report serves as a primary monthly budget report, but its flexible definition 
makes it suitable for special analysis purposes. The YTD Budget Report program can be run for the 
following purposes: 
 
• To report revenues collected to a specific period. 
• To report expenses to a specific period. 
• To report encumbrances to a specific period. 
• To report the current budget, expenditures versus carry forward budget, expenditures, and 
encumbrances. 
• To report available budget from posted transactions or available budget from pending 
transactions. 
• To report on fund balance position. 
• To proof budget, encumbrance, expenditure, and revenue balances. 
• To proof chart of accounts (COA) conversions and account balance conversions. 
 
This report can also be run for the following years and periods: 
• Three years prior to the current fiscal year for periods 1–13. 
• Two years prior to the current fiscal year for periods 1–13. 
• The previous fiscal year for periods 1–13 and for 99 (memo balance). 
• The current fiscal year for periods 1–13 and for 99 (memo balance). 
• The next fiscal year for periods 1–13 and 99 (memo balance). 
 
This document covers the available options and how they affect the presentation of the report. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
 
• You have the appropriate permissions to view the general ledger accounts and funds on 
which to report. 
• The chart of accounts (COA) has been established.  
• The adopted budget has been posted. 
 
===PAGE 94===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 94 
 
Procedure 
To create a year-to-date budget report: 
 Open the YTD Budget Report program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Inquiries and Reports > YTD Budget Report  
Or: 
Departmental Functions > YTD Budget Report  
 
 
 Click Search or Seg Find to identify accounts for the report.  
• If you click Search, complete the fields according to the following table.  
Field Description Notes 
Account Rollup 
Org 
Object 
Project  
Contain the org, object, and project (if 
applicable) codes that represent the 
account for which to create a report.  
 
Rollup Code Stores the budget rollup code for the 
specified account. To search on a range 
of budget rollup codes, insert a colon (:) 
between the first and last codes in the 
search range. Use the asterisk (*) 
wildcard character to find all codes. 
 
Account Type/Status 
Account Type Indicates the type of account: revenue or 
expense. You can select the blank option 
to include all account types.  
 
Account Status Determines the account status: active or 
inactive. You can select the blank option 
to include both active and inactive 
accounts.  
 

===PAGE 95===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 95 
 
 
• If you select Seg Find, complete the fields on the GL Segment Find screen. 
 
 
 Click Accept. 
The program indicates the number of records found.  
 
 

===PAGE 96===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 96 
 
 Click Report Options. 
The program displays the Report Options screen.  
 
 
 Complete the fields according to the following table to define the report settings.  
Field Description Notes 
Execute This 
Report 
Allows you to use Munis Scheduler to 
process the report.  
• If you select Now to process the report 
immediately, click an output option to 
print, view, or save the report.  
• If you select In Background (Now) to 
process the report a single time using 
the event log and email notification 
features, or if you select At a Scheduled 
Time to establish a specific time when 
the report runs, the program uses Munis 
Scheduler. 
 
Field # (Sequence 
1 to 4) 
Establish a component (for example, 
segment, org, or object) of the account 
structure to use as a sort key for the print 
sequence. 
Sequence 1 is the primary sort key for all 
accounts on the report, Sequence 2 is the 
secondary sort, and so on. 
The default sort is by fund, org, character, 
and object. Object does not need to be 
defined if it is the lowest level of the report. 
 
Total Prints a subtotal line whenever the 
sequence changes, if selected. For 
 

===PAGE 97===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 97 
 
Field Description Notes 
example, org code may have been selected 
as part of the sort sequence so that the 
system prints a total whenever the org 
changes. If this check box is not selected, 
Sequence 1 Total Revenues and Total 
Expenses are suppressed for this level. If 
this check box is selected in Sequence 1 
and in Sequence 4, there is no label on the 
last level. 
Page Break Directs the program to start a new page 
whenever the sequence changes, if 
selected. If this check box is not selected in 
Sequence 1, there is no label in the page 
header and this level has a header label like 
all other sequence levels. 
 
Report Title  Contain the title for the YTD report. The 
default value for the first line of the title is 
Year-to Date Budget Report, but you can 
change this. 
You can enter up to 40 characters of text on 
the two lines of text. The title centers 
automatically when the report prints. 
 
 
Print Options Tab 
This tab provides additional options for printing the report. 
 
 
Field Description Notes 
Report Options 
Include Only Accounts 
That Used _% or 
Greater of Budget  
Indicates which accounts to include based on 
the percent of the budget used. For example, 
if you type 100 in this box, the report includes 
accounts with a percent used greater than or 
equal to 100. This includes accounts that have 
 

===PAGE 98===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 98 
 
Field Description Notes 
used the entire budget or have exceeded the 
budget. 
If the value of this box is 0 or greater, up to 
100, the percent used is set to and prints on 
the report as 100% when the account has zero 
revised budget and actual or encumbrance 
activity. 
Type a value or leave this box blank to include 
all accounts. 
Order Accounts By Allows you to select the order in which 
accounts are sorted: org/object/project or full 
account. 
 
Totals Only Causes the report to print totals as described 
in the Field # Sequence selections, if selected. 
This means that the report does not include 
any accounts that are not entered in the 
Sequence boxes and does not include 
transaction detail. If none of the four sequence 
groups is selected, the report includes only a 
Grand Total. 
 
Account Description Determines the description that prints next to 
the account: full or short. The full description 
contains up to 30 characters; the short 
description contains 10. 
 
Print Full GL Account Directs the report to print the full account 
number, if selected. This prints instead of the 
org/object/project codes. 
This option is only accessible when the Totals 
Only check box is not selected. 
 
Roll Projects to Object  Instructs the program to summarize all general 
ledger accounts that have a project code 
under their common org and object, when 
project accounting is in use. Rather than each 
project account printing with its description, it 
is included under the org/object. 
 
Print Report Options  Causes the program to append the search 
criteria and report option settings at the end of 
the report, if selected. 
 
Year/Period Indicates the year and period for which 
information for the budget report is selected. 
If you select Within Year/Period, you must 
specify a fiscal year and period:  
• For the fiscal year, you can enter the 
current year, next year (which must be 
period 99), last year, two years ago, or 
three years ago. 
• For the fiscal period, you can enter periods 
1–13 and 99 (memo balance, which 
includes posted and pending transactions). 
 
===PAGE 99===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 99 
 
Field Description Notes 
For the current year, next year, or last 
year, the report may be run for any period 
other than 00 (start-of-year), including 
memo balance (99). For 2 and 3 years 
prior, the report may only be run for 
periods 1–13. 
The default value for the period populates 
from the Current Year/Period field in Roll 
Accounting Period, but you can enter any 
period. 
Notes:  
• Any period includes entries for that period 
that have not been closed using Month-
End Processing.  
• Period 99 retrieves up-to-the-minute totals, 
using the Memo Balance field for actuals, 
the Encumbrances field for encumbrances, 
and the Revised Budget field for Budget. 
Choosing Period 99 aligns the report to 
Account Inquiry reporting.  
• Last fiscal year retrieves last-year figures.  
• Next fiscal year retrieves next-year actuals 
and encumbrances. If Post to Master for 
Reports on the Budget menu has been 
run, next fiscal year also includes next 
year adopted budget.  
• If the fund is a multiyear fund, the program 
calculates and displays the three budget 
field amounts (original appropriation, 
transfers/adjustment, and revised budget) 
as if the period selected were 99.  
If period 13 of the prior year is requested, the 
current year carry forward budget is used for 
the encumbrance amount. 
Carry Forward  Defines the report output as: 
• Totals (GAAP)— Includes current year and 
carry forward activity.  
• Current Year Only—E xcludes activity 
related to encumbrance carry forward.  
• Carry Forward Only— Includes only activity 
related to encumbrance carry forward.  
The default value is Totals (GAAP), but you 
can change this option for any period in the 
entered year. 
 
Print MTD Version Causes the report to print a month-to-date 
column on the report, if selected. The MTD 
column is either MTD Expended or Actual 
 
===PAGE 100===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 100 
 
Field Description Notes 
MTD Revenue. If the MTD option is chosen, 
the Transfers/Adjustments column is omitted. 
Format Type Determines the detail format option: Standard 
or Cents in Budget Amount. When you select 
Cents in Budget Amount, the 
Transfers/Adjustments and Revised Budget 
columns display cents. 
 
Double Space Causes the report to print in double-spaced 
format, if selected. 
This option is only accessible when the Totals 
Only check box is not selected. 
 
Suppress Zero 
Balance Accounts  
Directs the report to exclude accounts that 
meet the following conditions: zero original 
budget, zero budget transfers, zero revised 
budget, zero actual, zero month-to-date 
actual, zero encumbrances, zero available 
budget, and if detail is selected, no detail for 
the reporting period. 
 
Exclude YEC Journals Excludes period 13 year-end-close journals 
when you run the report for prior years, when 
selected. 
 
 
Additional Options Tab 
This tab provides options to further specify how the report displays.  
 
 
Field Description Notes 
Additional Options 
Include Requisition 
Amounts 
Causes the program to add requisition 
amounts to the report and to rename the 
Encumbrances column to Enc/Req to reflect 
this, if selected. 
This check box is accessible for only current 
year and next year reporting and when period 
 

===PAGE 101===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 101 
 
Field Description Notes 
99 is chosen. The Available Budget column is 
affected as it uses the encumbrance amount 
in its calculation. 
Print Revenues - 
Version Headings 
Directs the program to print the revenue-
related column headings versus the standard 
column headings, if selected. Select this 
check box to print revenues-version headings. 
There is no encumbrances column. 
 
Print Revenue as 
Credit 
Causes the report to print revenue accounts 
as credits, if selected. This check box is 
available when the report is being run for just 
revenue accounts. If not selected, the report 
prints revenue account balances without the 
minus sign. 
 
Print Revenue 
Budgets as Zero 
Indicates to the program that revenue budget 
amounts should print as zero, if selected. 
 
Include Fund 
Balance 
Specifies to the program that fund balance 
summary information is included, if selected. 
If you select this option, the fund balance 
summary prints at the end of each fund. 
This check box is only accessible if there are 
both revenue and expense accounts in the 
active set and the Field # in Sequence 1 is 
Fund. 
 
Sort/Total Budget 
Rollup 
Causes the program to display the budget 
rollup code totals in the report, if selected. 
This check box is only accessible if the Rollup 
field is completed on the main YTD Budget 
Report screen. 
 
Print Journal Detail Instructs the program to extract detail 
transactions from the GL Journal Hold and GL 
History tables and prints these detail lines for 
each account. When printing journal entry 
detail, SOY entries are treated like purchase 
order entries. These SOY entries are the 
encumbrance entries for purchase orders 
carried over into the current year from last 
year. To include the SOY journal entries, you 
must use a starting period of 0. 
 
Include Budget 
Entries 
Causes transaction type 5 journal entries to 
be included in the detail of the report, if 
selected. 
 
Include Encumb/Liq 
Entries 
Includes transaction type 4 (encumbrance) 
journal entries in the detail of the report, if 
selected. 
 
Sort Option Determines the sort order if the Print Journal 
Detail check box is selected; sort options are 
journal entries or purchase orders. 
 
===PAGE 102===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 102 
 
Field Description Notes 
Detail Format Option Determines the journal detail format: 
• Standard—A standard report where 
journal detail is presented as is.  
• Column Sensitive—The detail line 
formatted based on the journal source 
code of the detail.  
For example, AP*, PO*, SOY, and R* source 
journals have reference 1 labeled "VND" and 
reference 2 labeled "PO." The detail line also 
has the vendor's alpha name presented 
before the journal comment and the detail line 
ends with the check number where available. 
In all other journals, only reference 1 is 
presented with the label REG (reference 2 is 
omitted) and the line ends with the journal 
comment. 
 
Include Additional JE 
Comments 
Prints journal entry comments on the report, if 
selected. 
 
Multiyear View Specifies the view for multiyear funds. If 
Default View is selected, the program applies 
the default setting from each account. If Life-
to-Date View or Fiscal Year View is selected, 
the program applies that view to all accounts 
in the set, regardless of each account’s 
individual default settings. 
 
Amounts/Totals 
Exceed 999 Million 
Dollars 
Directs the program to include amounts that 
exceed $999,999,999.00 by displaying the 
account description on a separate line from 
the totals.  
If this box is cleared, the report includes the 
amounts by shortening the account 
description to make room for the dollar 
amount and displays all account information 
on a single line. 
 
From Yr/Per 
To Yr/Per 
Define the range of years and periods for 
which to include account detail on the report. 
Typically, this would reflect one month's 
detail, but it could be year-to-date. 
These boxes are only accessible if the Print 
Journal Detail check box is selected. 
 
 Click Accept.  
 Click Back on the toolbar to close the Report Options screen. 
 On the main screen, choose an output option to view, print, or save the report. 
===PAGE 103===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 103 
 
Example Report 
 
Results 
You can now analyze what transactions have occurred within your search and sequence settings, 
confirm that a budget was posted correctly, proof your chart of accounts, or look at transactions for a 
specific period. 
  

===PAGE 104===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 104 
 
Account Trial Balance Report  
Objective 
This document provides the procedure for completing the Account Trial Balance Report program in its 
full form to check if a fund is in balance. If the fund is not in balance, the report identifies where and 
what entries have caused it to go out of balance. This report is an important tool when reconciling funds 
prior to year-end and month-end closes.  
Overview 
The Account Trial Balance report indicates if a fund is out of balance, or by what amount your fund is 
out of balance. When you create an Account Trial Balance report for all accounts in a fund, both the 
beginning balance and the ending balance should be zero (debits should equal credits for the fund 
totals). If a fund is out of balance, use both the All and Balance options to narrow down the type of 
account in which the discrepancy has occurred. You can also use the Detail option to see every 
transaction that has occurred within that fund to identify what transactions have caused the 
discrepancy. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have the proper general ledger permissions to view the accounts and funds to be 
reported.  
• The chart of accounts (COA) has been established.  
  
===PAGE 105===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 105 
 
Procedure 
Use the following procedures to create trial balance reports: 
 Open the Account Trial Balance program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > Account Trial Balance 
 
 
 Click Search.  
The program displays the GL Segment Find screen.  
 
 

===PAGE 106===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 106 
 
 Complete the fields to define the report data. The segment names vary according to the labels 
assigned by your organization.  
 Click Accept. 
The program creates an active set of records matching the search criteria and returns to the main 
screen.  
 Click Report Options on the toolbar.  
The program makes the reporting criteria fields accessible. 
 Complete the fields according to the following table to define the report settings.  
Field Description Notes 
Report Options 
Execute This 
Report 
Allows you to use Munis Scheduler to 
process the report.  
• If you select Now to process the 
report immediately, use the output 
options to print, view, or save the 
report.  
• If you select In Background (Now) 
to process the report a single time 
using the event log and email 
notification features, or if you select 
At a Scheduled Time to establish a 
specific time when the report runs, 
the program uses Munis Scheduler.  
 
Print (D)etail or 
(S)ummary 
Specifies the level of reporting. 
If you select Detail, the report includes 
all journal entries for that account 
whether they have been closed to a 
month or not. By choosing Summary 
the report will display only totals for 
each account. 
 
Fiscal Year-to-Date 
Version 
Causes the report to include fiscal year-
to-date balances, if selected. 
If you select this check box, the report 
automatically enters 1 in the Reporting 
from Period box. If you do not select 
this check box, you can enter a value in 
the Reporting from Period box. 
You cannot run the report for the start-
of-year period 00. 
 
Reporting Year Indicates the year to include in the 
report. 
The reporting year must be either the 
current year (the default) or last year. 
 
Reporting from 
Period 
Identifies the range of fiscal periods to 
include. If the Fiscal Year-to-Date 
check box is selected, this field is not 
available. 
 
===PAGE 107===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 107 
 
Field Description Notes 
Journal Detail from Contain the first and last dates that 
define the range of journal dates to 
include. 
This box is only accessible if the value 
of the Print Detail or Summary option is 
Detail. 
 
(B)alance Sheet or 
(A)ll Accounts 
Indicates the account types that the 
report includes. 
If you select balance sheet accounts, 
the program includes revenue and 
expenditure control accounts. If you 
select All Accounts, then all accounts 
except the revenue and expenditure 
control accounts are included. To 
ensure that the fund is in balance, run 
the report for both Balance (B) and All 
Accounts (A). 
 
Rollup Projects to 
Object Level 
Instructs the program to summarize 
project accounts on the report, if 
selected. 
The detail posted to these accounts is 
rolled up to the org/object level. 
The ending balance is calculated as the 
net of all projects associated with the 
org/object. 
 
Omit Zero Balance 
Accounts 
Causes the report to omit accounts with 
zero balances, if selected. 
 
Sort By Establishes the sort sequence of the 
report. 
The default value is 1–Fund, 
Segments.  
For the Org account entry mode, if All 
Accounts are selected for account 
types, the options are 1–Fund, 
Segments and 3–Org-Obj-Project. 
For the Org account entry mode, if 
Balance Sheet is selected for the 
account type, all the options are 
available.  
 
Print Org Code Causes the report to display the org 
code below the account, if selected. 
 
Print Fund Header 
and Org/Obj on 
Total Line 
Directs the program to print the fund 
account as the header and the org/obj 
in the totals, if selected. 
 
Include Page 
Break Between 
Funds 
Causes the program to separate fund 
totals in the printed report, if selected. 
This check box applies to both Detail 
and Summary reports. 
The default value for this check box is 
selected (Yes). This will ensure that a 
 
===PAGE 108===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 108 
 
Field Description Notes 
new fund does not start in the middle of 
a page. 
Amounts/Totals 
Exceed 999 Million 
Dollars 
Indicates that the report contains 
amounts and/or totals that exceed 
$999,000,000, if selected. The program 
adjusts the format of the report to 
account for the additional required 
characters. 
 
Print Report 
Options 
 
Directs the program to include a 
summary of the report options used to 
generate the report, if selected. 
Clear this check box to exclude the 
summary. 
 
Include Hold 
Journals in 
Beginning Balance 
Causes the report to include journals 
that have not yet been closed to a 
month, if selected. 
 
Include Page 
Break Between 
Each Subfund 
Instructs the report to include a page 
break after each subfund code, if 
selected.  
 
Print Subfund 
Totals 
Directs the program to include the total 
for each subfund on the report, if 
selected.  
 
 Click Accept. 
 Choose an output option from the toolbar to view, print, or save the report. 
Example Report 
 
Your report may display differently depending on the report options you have chosen. 
 

===PAGE 109===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 109 
 
The Display Format option allows you to display your search results to the screen as you enter the 
data. 
To create a Display Format report: 
 Click Display Format.  
The program displays the Brief Account Trail Balance Display screen.  
 
 
 Click Search. 
 Enter the search criteria. 
 Click Accept. 
The program returns to the Brief Account Trial Balance Display screen. 
 Complete the fields to define the effective dates.  
 Click Accept.  
The program displays a confirmation message. 

===PAGE 110===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 110 
 
 Click Yes, Continue. 
The program refreshes the screen to display an active set of records that consists of all the 
accounts that matched the criteria.  
 
 
 Use the navigation buttons to view the accounts.  
 Choose an output option to view, print, or save the report. 
Example Report 
 
 

===PAGE 111===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 111 
 
Results 
The report indicates if a fund is in balance, and if not, what transactions have caused it to be out of 
balance. When reading the Account Trial Balance Report, remember that both the beginning balances 
and the ending balances should be zero, and debits should equal credits for the fund totals. 
What’s Next? 
If there are any discrepancies in the report, post the correcting journal entries to bring the fund back into 
balance.  
  
===PAGE 112===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 112 
 
Import Journals     
Objective 
This document provides instructions on how to import data from ASCII files using the Import Journals 
program. This program is used for journal imports from systems or sources other than Munis.  
Overview 
When you import journal data into Munis, data must be in specific formats and you must understand the 
various file layouts. The following import formats are available in the Import Journals program: 
• Budget— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal entries.   
• Budget Long Account— The account type is in position 141 and the long account number is in 
positions 142 to 176; the remaining format is the same as the Budget Import Format. 
• Cayenta—This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing journal entries from a Cayenta 
system into Munis.   
• Faster— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing journal entries from a FASTER fleet 
maintenance system into Munis. (Note: FASTER is the name of the software.) 
• ISIS Payroll ZF65 Report—This format imports data from Microsoft Excel. This import is specific 
to the Louisiana Department of Education. 
• Jonas— This format is tab-delimited. 
• NC Vehicle Property Tax—This import format is specific to the state of North Carolina.  
• Oklahoma Benefit— This format is intended for use by El Monte and Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
• Oklahoma Payroll—This format is intended for use by El Monte and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  
• PeopleSoft— This format imports Excel data from a PeopleSoft system into Munis. 
• Pipe Delimited 1— This format is delimited using pipe characters (|). When you import using this 
format, the program examines the org and object codes and determines whether the 
combination represents an existing Munis account. If the account is valid, the program uses that 
account. If the account is not valid, the program combines the org and object with a hyphen 
between the two, and then applies that value to the cross-reference table in order to select a 
cross reference string. 
• Standard— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal entries. 
• Standard Excel— This is a standard format for importing a Microsoft Excel file. When this format 
is selected, the program displays the Generate Excel Template button. Clicking the button 
opens Excel with a blank form containing only column headers. This form can be used to create 
the import file. 
===PAGE 113===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 113 
 
• Standard Long Account—This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal 
entries using the Munis long account format. It is identical to the Standard Import Format, but it 
includes the full general ledger account number in positions 142 to 196. If you click Pre-Edit 
after selecting this format, the program displays the full account number. 
• Standard Multi-Journal— This is a fixed length ASCII file layout for importing standard journal 
entries into multiple journals in Munis. 
• Template—Various custom template formats are available if you have defined them in the 
Journal Import Templates program. 
Prerequisites 
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
 
• The chart of accounts (COA) has been established and includes all general ledger accounts 
being imported or referenced in the Account X-Reference program. 
• The Account X-Reference table has been created, if applicable. 
  
===PAGE 114===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 114 
 
Procedure  
To complete the journal import process: 
 Open the Import Journals program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > Journal Entry/History > Import Journals 
 
 
 Click Define. 
 Complete the fields to define the import parameters, referring to the following table for details.  
Field Description Notes 
Import Options 
Execute This 
Import... 
Determines when to generate the import 
when Munis Scheduler is enabled: 
• Now—Completes the import 
immediately. This option does not 
use Munis Scheduler; use the 
Import option within the program to 
complete the import. 
• In Background (Now)—Opens 
Munis Scheduler to complete the 
import one time using the event log 
and email notification features. 
• At a Scheduled Time— Uses Munis 
Scheduler to establish a specific 
time to complete the import. 
 
Import Format Specifies the format of the import. When 
you select a format and then click the 
Generate button, the program creates a 
 

===PAGE 115===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 115 
 
Field Description Notes 
blank template based on the selected 
format. 
Skip Budget Check Directs the program to ignore budget 
amounts, when selected. 
 
Report Over 
Budget Warnings 
Instructs the program to display report 
warnings if over-budget lines are detected 
on the import, when selected. 
 
Release After 
Import 
Directs the program to release all imported 
journals after the import completes 
successfully, when selected. 
 
Import File Contains the path of the file to import. 
Type the file path or use the Local File or 
Server File options to select a file from the 
appropriate location. 
The program indicates the format of the 
import file, such as Text (ASCII) File or 
Excel File, after you select an option from 
the Import Format list and advance to the 
next field. 
 
Skip First Line Directs the program to skip the first line or 
row of the import file, when selected. 
Select this check box if the import file 
includes column labels or field names. 
 
Remove Import File Instructs the program to remove the import 
file from its location after it is successfully 
imported into the Munis system, when 
selected. This prevents the program from 
performing duplicate imports. 
 
Journal Information 
Fiscal Year/Period Identifies the fiscal year and period the 
program uses for imported journals. 
If you select Within Year/Period, you must 
enter a specific year and period. The 
default values for the fiscal year and 
period are completed from General Ledger 
Settings, but you can change this if you 
have the appropriate permissions. 
Valid entries for the Fiscal Year box are 
the current year or next year.  
Valid entries for the Period box are 01 
through 13, inclusive. Period 13 
represents end-of-year (EOY) and is only 
valid in the prior year. 
 
Effective Date Defines the effective date the program 
uses for imported journals. 
 
===PAGE 116===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 116 
 
Field Description Notes 
Reference Assigns a user-defined journal 
reference code that stays with each 
transaction throughout its life. 
This is a user-defined code; it may be a 
control number, a date, or a note. 
 
Journal Source Specifies the journal source code for 
journals that are imported. The program 
automatically selects the journal source 
based on the value chosen from the 
Import Format list. 
 
Reference 3 Indicates the journal reference code that 
appears in the Reference 3 field. 
For some import formats, the program 
automatically completes this field and you 
cannot change it. 
For period 12 journals that need to be 
reported on the Oklahoma Grant Claims 
Supplemental Report, 
type SUPPLEMENTAL. 
 
Budget 
Amendment Type 
Indicates the budget amendment type for 
expense and revenue accounts: 
• 1—Exp to Exp or Rev to Rev  
• 2—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp  
• 3—Exp/Rev one- sided (not 
balanced) 
• 4—Exp to Exp or Rev to Rev 
• 5—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp  
• 6—Exp/Rev one- sided (not 
balanced) 
• 7—Exp to Rev or Rev to Exp 
interfund 
• 8—Exp to Exp interfund  
• 9—Statistic accounts  
Use Type 1, 2, or 3 when the amount on 
each line in the import file is the amount 
that the account’s budget should be 
increased or decreased. 
Use Type 4, 5, or 6 when the amount on 
each line in the import file is the new 
budget amount. The amendment is made 
for the difference between the amount 
being imported and the amount currently 
budgeted on the account. 
This box is accessible when the value of 
the Import Format list is Budget. 
 
Short Description Provides a short description of the journal 
contents. 
 
===PAGE 117===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 117 
 
Field Description Notes 
The description can be up to 10 
alphanumeric characters. 
This field is required. 
Import Summary 
Year 
Period 
Journal 
Source 
Status 
Short Description 
Displays a table of the imported journals. 
The Open Journal and Release All options 
below the table allow you to select a 
journal from the table and view it or 
release all journals in the table into the 
workflow, respectively. 
 
 
 When you have completed the applicable fields, click Accept.  
 Click Pre-Edit to find any errors in the file prior to importing the data. 
 Select an output option on the toolbar to review the journals. 
 Click Import to import the journal entries. 
Results 
The program imports journal entries or budget amendments in the proof stage. Each record is 
processed, verifying that each account exists in Account Master and is not a revenue or expense 
control account.  
 
If the account is invalid or matches either of the control accounts, the program displays an error and 
you are prompted either to continue checking other accounts or to abort the process. In either case, 
records are not created for a new journal. 
What’s Next? 
To affect the general ledger, you must output/post the journals using the General Journal Entry/Proof or 
Budget Transfers and Amendments program. To find the journals, click Browse on the toolbar when 
you open either program.  
  
===PAGE 118===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 118 
 
Year End Manager 
Objective 
This document provides instructions on creating a year-end checklist in the Year End Manager program 
to manage and streamline year-end processing. 
Overview 
The Year End Manager program provides a centralized location to organize and track progress on all 
the tasks that must be completed prior to running the year-end close process. It provides customizable 
checklists and detailed information about each task and associated records. 
Prerequisites  
Before you can successfully use this feature, you must ensure that the necessary permissions and 
settings are in place. If permissions or settings are not set up properly, or if the required programs are 
not available on the Munis menu, contact the system administrator.  
 
Confirm the following: 
• You have access to the programs on the End of Period submenu. 
• Month-end processing has been performed for all months in the year. 
• There are no general ledger account access restrictions associated with your user ID. 
 
  
===PAGE 119===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 119 
 
Procedures 
Creating a Year-End Checklist 
To create a year-end checklist: 
1. Open the Year End Manager program. 
Financials > General Ledger Menu > End of Period > Fiscal Year End Processing > Year End 
Manager 
 
 
2. Click Edit Checklist. 
The program refreshes the screen to display the Available Tasks and Checklist panes. 
 
 

===PAGE 120===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 120 
 
3. Click New Checklist. 
The program displays the Create Checklist dialog box. 
 
 
4. Choose how to create the checklist: 
• Use the Default Checklist—Adds all the default tasks in the System Generated tab to the 
checklist. 
• Start with a Blank Checklist—Creates a bl ank checklist with no tasks. The tasks in the 
System Generated tab are available to be added manually. 
• Copy Tasks from an Existing Checklist—Copies tasks from a previous year's checklist to 
the new checklist. When selected, this option provides a list of existing checklists from 
which to copy tasks. The Copy Comments check box, when selected, copies comments 
from the selected checklist to the new checklist. 
 
 
5. Click Create. 
The program refreshes the screen based on the selected option. 
6. Review the default tasks in either the Available Tasks or Checklist pane, depending on your 
selection.  
7. If tasks exist in the Available Tasks pane, select the check box for each task to add to the 
Checklist pane. 
The Add to Checklist link displays. 
 
 
 

===PAGE 121===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 121 
 
8. Click Add to Checklist. 
The selected task is added to the bottom of the Checklist pane and removed from the Available 
Tasks pane. 
 
 
9. In the Checklist pane, drag a task to reorder it. 
The program automatically renumbers the tasks accordingly. 
10. To remove tasks from the Checklist pane, select the check box for each task to remove. 
The Remove from Checklist link displays. 
 
 
11. Click Remove from Checklist. 
The selected tasks are removed from the Checklist pane and added to the Available Tasks 
pane. The remaining tasks in the checklist are renumbered accordingly. 
 
 

===PAGE 122===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 122 
 
12. The User Defined tab holds any user-defined tasks that are specific to your organization. To add 
a user-defined task, click New Task. 
The program displays the Add Task dialog box. 
 
 
13. Complete the fields to define the new task and then click Save. 
The program adds the new task to the User Defined tab. 
14. Select the check box for the user-defined task to add to the Checklist pane. 
The program displays the Add to Checklist, Edit, and Delete options. 
 
 
Note: If you select multiple tasks, the program displays the Add to Checklist option only. The 
Edit and Delete options are only available for individual tasks. 
15. Click Add to Checklist to add the selected user-defined task to the Checklist pane. 
16. Drag the task to reorder it as needed.  
17. Once you have added all the tasks to the checklist, click Return. 
The program automatically saves the checklist. 
 
 

===PAGE 123===
 
 
Munis® General Ledger, Version 2020.2                        Page 123 
 
Assigning Due Dates, Reminders, and Tasks 
To enable email notifications, GLYE and GLYED alerts (for reminders and due dates, respectively) 
must be established in the Alert Business Rules program, which is accessible from the System 
Administration > Alert Administration submenu. Once these alerts are set up and valid emails are 
established for the task assignees, emails will be sent to the assignees based on the reminder and due 
dates. 
 
1. From an existing checklist, click Dates. 
The program displays the Checklist Dates dialog box.
 
 
2. For each checklist item, enter the name of the user who is assigned the task, the due date, and 
the date on which to send a reminder in the relevant fields. 
When you start typing in the Assignee field, the program provides a list of available options. 
Assignees must be established users in the Munis system.  
For the Due and Reminder fields, use the calendar button to select dates as needed. 
3. Click Save. 
The program returns to the checklist. The Due, Assigned To, and Reminder fields for the 
individual checklist tasks include the information you supplied. 
 
Results 
Once your organization has defined all the required steps in the year-end checklist, the checklist can be 
used to manage and track progress in the year-end process. The checklist can be copied and edited 
from one year to the next, accommodating any necessary customizations to the process. 
GL Impact 
The general ledger is not affected by creating year-end checklists. However, depending on the tasks 
included in the checklist, and when the tasks are undertaken, the general ledger may be affected 
accordingly. For example, reviewing and posting unposted transactions directly impacts the general 
ledger. 
