===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, November 1, 2023 
Town Hall, Meeting Room 
           6:30 p.m. - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   Michael Cassidy  
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Amy Resnick – Math Specialist, Mr. Hevy- New Facilities Director 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:31 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment Mr. Beardmore congratulates everyone involved in Homecoming.  Thank you Mr. Santry with his call the 
change the date, our football team won, looking forward to some post-season games, first one is Friday night versus St. 
Bernard’s. Ms. Archambault asks for a motion to adjust the schedule so that the student representative does not have to wait 
until after executive session, and also any comments from Mr. Hevy, so he doesn’t have to stay the whole time to be heard.     
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to change the agenda schedule to have our studen t representative report and Mr. 
Hevy be presented before the executive session, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve via roll  
 
4. Student Representation Report Tatum Furman reports there are boxes at all schools to collect canned and boxed goods for 
our local food pantry.  The Primary School, had Hank’s Helpers awards.  Turkey Hill had students paint pumpkins, thank you 
to the donation from PJ Keating.  There is a half day on 11/6 at the Elementary schools for parent/teacher conferences.  
Middle school 8th grade families are preparing for the DC trip this week with information sessions.  The High School has a 
lot going on with Homecoming activities wrapping up.  Mock Trial has just started.  There is an electronics drive this 
Saturday and next Saturday.  Fall sports are finishing up. Students took the PSAT’s  last week and seniors are progressing 
with college applications as the November deadlines are  approaching 
 
Mr. Hevy takes this opportunity to introduce himself and share his history of experience, knowledge, and education 
background.  There are a lot of projects going on, I am excited to get into it and understand what we want to work on.  This is 
going to take some time to dig into and understanding the scope of the projects.  As far as the capital projects, I am trying to 
get online and get up to speed, but so far there has been some technical difficulties.  I briefly looked at the list of prior ities 
and public and life safety are very high priorities in my opinion.  Right now we have 530 normal operational level issues to 
work through, so it’s going to take me a little time to get through all of this. Ms. Archambault thanks him and appreciates h im 
jumping into start the projects.    
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
5. Executive Session: to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to enter 
into executive session, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all agree via roll call. 
 
6. Chair’s Report Ms. Archambault thanks all that were involved in making homecoming a success, the floats looked great.   
Thank you Mrs. Gearin and the student council for a great event.  The LEA has submitted a request to open their contract 
negotiations, we thank them for their timely request and we will discuss further in the meeting.  There will be a public 
community meeting regarding the development of Lunenburg’s Master Plan on November 2, 2023 at Smokestack Roasters at 
6:30 p.m.  The project team is going to be making a presentation, and we will be looking for community feedback and hope 
you will all join us. Ms. Archambault congratulates Mrs. Gerri Sampson on her retirement and thank you for your many years 
of service to our school, families, and community.  We will miss her.  Dr. Burnham shares that the students and staff at the 
middle high school did a “clap out”,  as Mrs. Sampson was ending her day, she was given a crown and cape to wear,  as she 
walked the halls  lined of the  students that continuously clapped for her, they used confetti poppers as she got to the end.    
Mr. Sculimbrene asks who won the float award – The Juniors won, with the winter theme. 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 10/4/23 –Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Beardmore seconded the 
motion, all approve via roll call, with Ms. Brzozoski abstaining. 
 
8. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 10/11/23 to 10/25/23 $216,510.22 –No questions from the committee, Ms. Archambault has 
signed off and the warrant will be processed.  
b. Line Item Transfers 
i. $25,356  to exhaust salary reserve account and set aside for custodial and IT presented by Mr. Cassidy this 
transfer is in line with the contract ratification Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve this transfer, 
Mr. Sculimbrene  seconds the motion, all approve via roll call 
ii. $157,380 transfer to reconcile accounts for transfers associated with differentials from resignations, internal 
transfers and new hires for teachers 
iii. $19,539 transfer to reconcile accounts for transfer’s associated with paraprofessionals, from resignations, 
internal transfers and new hires. 
No questions from the committee Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve these line item transfers (ii & iii), 
Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve via roll call. 
 
9. Superintendent’s Report  
Our civics and communication classes under Mr. Stevenson will be organizing and collecting items for the food pantry, The 
Primary School is collecting canned carrots and canned peas, and Turkey Hill is collecting canned corn and canned green 
beans.  The Middle School is collecting canned cranberry sauce stuffing mix.  The High school will be collecting Roasting 
pans, jarred gravy, and cornbread mix, all donations are welcome and accepted up until 11/16/23.  There is also a blue Food 
Pantry box in front of TCP, if anyone would like to donate any of the items, but do not have a student in the schools. 
The artist-in-residence program has been a great success, we will have another artist in November, and Mr. Santry will be 
giving an update. 
The class of 2024 moved their electronics recycling event to 11/4 and 11/11 from 9-1, there are containers located in the 
gravel parking lot behind TCP.   
There will be an upcoming PACSAL meeting on 11/16 via zoom at 6p.m.  
 
Upcoming Dates: 
11/6 Early Release at Primary School and Turkey Hill only – Parent Teacher Conferences 
11/7 No School for students– Full PD day for staff 
11/9 Evening Parent Teacher Conferences at Primary School and Turkey Hill 
11/10 All offices are closed in observance of Veterans Day 
11/13 Next PTO meeting 7 p.m. LMS Collaboration room 
11/15 Next School Committee meeting 6:30 at LMS, Hybrid 
11/22 Half day of school 
11/23 &11/24 Closed in observance of Thanksgiving 
12/9 Basketball boosters craft fair 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Contract Ratification – Café & Custodians Mr. Cassidy shares the new parameters of the contracts.  A three year 
contract starting July 1, 2023-June 30, 2026, there was a clarification for cafeteria workers on personal days and 
includes an increase of $500 for the café coordinator stipend.  There will be a 2 ½ % cost of living increase each 
year.  The first year will reconfigure the salary schedule, employees will get their step first then the cost of living 
increase.  Total impact is $72,291.94 
The custodial union is more detailed with a lot of additions to existing language of clarifying employees and 
management rights, redefined a work shift, breaks, and lunch times.  Roles and responsibilities have been clarified, 
no school days, allowing management to hire new employees at a higher rate and creation of a senior management 
position that will be beneficial to the Director of Facilities and Grounds. A new Joint Labor Management 
Committee, will be established and will meet regularly. Total impact is $169,593.33.  Mr. Beardmore was the school 
committee rep, and notes that things took a little longer than expected, discussions were contentious but not 
disagreeable and gives credit to the bargaining unit.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve both contracts 
as presented, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion.  All approve via roll call including Town Manager, Heather 
Lemieux. 
b. Initial Approval – 8th Grade Washington DC Trip Ms. Resnick provided the committee with the slides that she 
will be presenting at the parent meeting.  Ms. Resnick went through researching three different vendor companies 
for this trip, she narrowed it down to Implorica by World Strides, as the company they will go with for the trip in 
2024, based on lower price per student and bus transportation vs airline, hotel in the city vs in M aryland, meals are 
included, the availability to accommodate all requested activities and sites, at 10:1 student /chaperone ratio, payment 
plans and options for insurance plans for parents  Fifty dollars will go back to the district in scholarship money, and 
outstanding directors who are knowledgeable about the city and its history.  They provide night time security guards 
and no additional moneys from student accounts.  Ms. Resnick is planning a parent informational meeting on 
November 8 at 6:30 at the Middle/High School auditorium, so far she has 69 RSVPs.  Registration will open 
immediately following the meeting and close on Dec 21.  Mr. Beardmore appreciates the work that has been put into 
this trip, however, questions the costs and potential equity issues.  Ms. Archambault notes appreciation that $50 
from each fee goes back to the school and the website has other options to earn money.  If you want to go but 
cannot, reach out to Mr. Santry.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve this trip, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
the motion all approve via roll call 
c. LEA Negotiation Representative The committee has received a letter requesting we start negotiations with the 
LEA as the contract is up at the end of the year.  Ms. Archambault and Mr. Sculimbrene will be the school 
committee reps.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to recommend Ms. Archambault, and Mr. Sculimbrene to be 
the representatives to the LEA contract negotiations, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve via roll 
call. 
 
11. Old Business 
Action 
a. Bullying Prevention & Intervention Plan Approval We have reached out to our attorney to make sure we are not 
creating inconsistencies to the bullying policy.  There was a change in the language from Administration to Principal 
of the building, the Principal would then be able to designate someone to investigate.  It is confirmed from the 
attorney there are no conflicts.  There have been no additional feedback from an y families or community members 
as of this afternoon.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the plan, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the 
motion, all approve via roll call. 
 
b. Third Read Policy 6214 Mr. Sculimbrene reads policy 6214 out loud.  No comments from the committee or the 
public. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve policy 6214 as written, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, 
all approve via roll call 
Discussion 
c. STM Warrant Article Mr. Beardmore shares this was put on the warrant at request of the school committee, it was 
heard by the finance committee and received approval 4-1, discussed by the select board and approved 3-1.  We can 
give the history of how we got here and what the warrant actually covers, not the whole building.  This has no 
financial effect on the town as the money was already allocated.  Mr. Beardmore notes he can no longer attend and 
present this warrant.  Ms. Archambault will help with the presentation 
 
d. Capital Plan Priorities Ms. Archambault took the lists that were ranked by school committee members and then 
averaged them and created a prioritized list.  The members discuss the list and changes to what they feel are more 
prioritized.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to change the item, planning and renovation of Turkey Hill, to be 
reworded to assessment and schematic design of Turkey hill with a dollar value of $275,000, subject to 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
information that can be gathered to gain a finer point on that number, and a conversation between the 
superintendent and the town manager about the feasibility of making that change. Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
the motion, all approve via roll call.       The committee reorganizes the list and itemize a list of numbers 1-6, Mr. 
Beardmore makes a motion to approve items 1-6 as listed, Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion, all approve via 
roll call.  The committee then discusses the turf field, the redesign of the playground and driveway.   Mr. Lehtinen 
makes a motion to move the Middle High school turf field design to #7 and bumps number 8 & 9 respectively, 
Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, vote taken via roll call, Mr. Lehtinen – yes, Mrs. Brzozoski – yes, Mr. 
Beardmore – yes, Mr. Sculimbrene – no, Ms. Archambault – yes. 
 
12. Reports 
Mr. Sculimbrene comments on trunk or treat, it was awful weather, our candy was gone in about an hour and we went home.  
, Ms. Brzozoski thanks the Business Association for swapping their original date for the tru nk or treat, in order to 
accommodate the homecoming events.  Ms. Brzozoski says it was a great time, thank you to the businesses that participated. 
Mr. Lehtinen reports the Primary School met on October 23, Principal Adams mentioned they will be giving a presentation 
on the Safer Watch App.  Parent/Teacher conferences went well and will continue to be offered via zoom.  They had a Fire 
trailer, spirit week went well, and Friday there was an all school assembly with Hank’s Helpers.  Pre -K was working on letter 
“A”, there were lots of fall themes and pumpkin themes.  ELA is working on the second module, taking care of oneself, 
adding and subtracting.  Second Grade is doing a data unit, they were interviewing other students and using bar graphs, place  
values and descriptive essays. 
Ms. Archambault reports the Master Planning committee will be meeting at Smoke Stacks Roasters, tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. 
Mr. Beardmore reports the High School Advisory met last Thursday, discussed the Safer Watch App.  Comments also that 
the Parent/Teacher platform, while it is economically better, it is harder to navigate.  The next Athletic Advisory m eeting is 
11/20 at 6 and the next Capital Planning meeting will be 11/20 at 7. 
 
13. Public Comment - None 
 
14. Topics for Future Discussion If there are any students that have a topic they would like discussed by or with the school 
committee reach out to the superintendent’s office 
Capital Planning Review 
Budget Priorities 
School Committee goals 
 
15. Adjournment –Ms. Brzozoski made a motion adjourn at 9:20 p.m. Mr. Sculimbrene seconded the motion, all approve 
via roll call 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 