===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, October 4, 2023  
Town Hall, Meeting Room 
       6:30 - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary -present   Michael Cassidy  
Peter Beardmore, Member - present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - absent 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public  Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brou ght up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m.  Requests those that can, stand and recite the Pledge of Allegiance  
 
2. Chair’s Report The Municipal Building Committee met last night and invited me to come, we were going to discuss phase 3 
of the project, however they did not have quorum, that meeting has been moved to October 16.  Unfortunately, this year I 
cannot attend Homecoming this year, Mr. Lehtinen cannot either, would either member present tonight like to ride and 
disperse candy?  Mr. Sculimbrene and Mr. Beardmore agree at least one of them will be there and the School Committee is 
set to attend.  Truck or Treat is October 28 and Mr. Sculimbrene will take care of our part.  There is a Finance Committee 
public hearing regarding articles next Thursday, we should attend and be available to present our article. Ms. Archambault 
has availability and volunteers to take care of that. 
 
3. Public Comment None 
 
4. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 9-26-23 – Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Sculimbrene seconded the 
motion, all approve, with Ms. Archambault abstaining. 
 
5. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 9/11/23 to 9/29/23 $117,844.62 – Committee has reviewed and Ms. Archambault has signed off on this 
amount.  Mr. Cassidy presents a document sharing line item transfers totaling $127,786 with an explanation of each 
transfer.  Mr. Beardmore requests more details of transfer with Speech Pathologist.  Mr. Cassidy provides a sufficient 
explanation.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept line item transfers Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, 
all approve via roll call. 
 
6. Superintendent’s Report Dr. Burnham, follows up on water testing, and reassure families and community members have 
access to water bottle filling stations with clean, filtered, and cool water.  All students and staff should be using the water 
bottle filling station.  Mr. Cassidy attended a recruitment fair today, as we continue to search for substitutes and 
paraprofessionals.  We also have a flyer for volunteer opportunities posted on our website.  MCAS student scores were just 
received yesterday and will be mailed soon.  It does take up to a week to get from the post office to homes, and if iReady’s 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
are available those will be included.  Special recognition, this past Monday October 2 was National Custodian Appreciation 
and Bullying awareness day, along with this Friday October 6 is National Coaches day!  I would like to publicly thank our 
custodians and maintenance teams for all their efforts to maintain a safe environment for our staff and students.  Also thank  
you to our coaches for providing a positive environment and good sportsmanship.  Our students and school has been 
recognized over time for our positive sportsmanship. 
 
October Reminders 
 
9th   All schools and public offices will be closed for the Holiday 
18th Early release for Middle and High School Only for Parent/Teacher conferences 
18th School Committee Meeting Middle High School 6:30 
19th   Middle High School evening Parent/Teacher conferences 
21st Homecoming parade, game, and dance 
 
7. Student Representative Report  Tatum Furman, reports things are moving smoothly as we have entered our 2 nd month of 
school, students are looking forward to a 3 day weekend. The Primary School will have a visit from the Fire Safety Trailer 
mid-October.  Turkey Hill Elementary 5th graders recently attended Natures Classroom and will also be celebrating World 
Smile Day on October 6.  Middle School students can start attending the NHS tutoring program.  High School float making 
in in full swing for anticipation of Home Coming on October 21.  Seniors are preparing their college applications and 
attending college representative visits.  Blue Knights sports is going well for all teams.  
 
8. New Business 
Action 
a. School Improvement Plans:  A copy of all school improvement plans has been provided, Principals have updated 
details and actions to be taken.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the School Improvement plan as 
presented.  Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve. 
 
b. First Read Policy 6214 This policy is posted on the school website, if there are any questions please email 
lps@lunenburgschools.net.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to waive the first reading, Mr. Sculimbrene 
seconds the motion.  All approve. 
 
9. Old Business 
Action 
a. FY25 Draft Capital Plan: We have been postponing a finalization based on the fact that we have not had a full 
committee, however, we are out of time and need to make a decision.  We discussed putting the playground into 
phase 1 in FY25 and the entry way driveway phase 1 in FY25.  The proposed capital plan is being shared now for 
the public.  Mr. Beardmore comments about a break out of the window film, prioritizing the front windows at 
Turkey Hill.  Ms. Archambault agrees a breakdown of sectioning for window film as that may be likely to be 
approved.  Committee agrees to accept this as proposed and come back with a prioritized list.   Mr. Beardmore 
approves the Capital Plan as presented, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve via roll call. 
 
b. FY24 Quarterly Budget Report: Mr. Cassidy presents the quarterly report and identifies deficits.  Mr. Cassidy goes 
through each deficit on the report and shares the explanation.  Mr. Beardmore comments that every year we discuss 
if we get a SPED private tuition and how it effects our budget, and we are currently facing this with a 125,000 
tuition, and we really need elected officials to assist us when these situations occur.  Ms. Archambault agrees and 
says we will continue to bring this to the representative’s attention.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept 
the FY24 Quarterly Budget Report, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve via roll call.  
 
 
c. FY Budget Report/ESSER Update:  Mr. Cassidy presents ESER grant 2 balance was used an is now officially 
closed. Mr. Cassidy explains the current status of ESSER grant 3, we are on target to expend all funds by its 
expiration in a year.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept ESSER update, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
them motion, all approve. 
 
d. Strategy for Continuous Improvement Action Plan:  There have been no comments on this through 
lps@lunenburgschools.net.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to approve the Strategy, Mr. Beardmore seconds the 
motion, all approve. 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
e. Second Read Non-Discrimination Policies Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to waive second read, Mr. Lehtinen 
seconds the motion, all approve. 
 
Discussion 
f. School Committee Goals:  Ms. Archambault explains to the committee how she came up with the list of school 
committee goals.  Mr. Beardmore approves the goals with a slight language tweak, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
the motion, all approve 
 
10. Reports 
 Mr. Lehtinen reports the Building Design Committee met Monday, but did not have quorum. The Finance Committee 
meets tomorrow 
Mr. Sculimbrene reports on the PTO, there will be grants of $1500 to each school for teachers can engage in experiential 
learning for the kids. There will be a fundraiser, Trolls 3 movie in November, the deadline to purchase Lunenburg “swag” is 
October 6.  If you join the PTO prior to Homecoming, you will be enrolled for gift basket giveaway.  
Mr. Beardmore reports the HS Advisory met last Thursday the 28th, there was a discussion regarding the School 
Improvement plan along with a discussion on MCAS as the results are looking quite positive.  Discussion on the bullying 
plan came up, a comment came up that seemed to be the consensus in the room was on the language in the document.  This 
document was written by an attorney perhaps in the future we can have a “simpler, cliff notes” version of the document for 
the public to view and potentially comment on.  There is a change in senior privileges, previously they were only allowed to 
use the privilege for first or last period of the day, and this year they can sign out anytime during the day.  Currently we have 
12 students in dual enrollment, 9 seniors and 3 juniors. We got a quick demo and explanation on Safer Watch.  
Ms. Archambault reports that the MS Council met on September 26, they discussed the smooth opening,  and the School 
Improvement Plan.  There was also discussion on putting Developmental Design groups together and having the program 
become important as a way they address SEL concerns and also using Trails to Wellness and relationship mapping in that 
area.  MCAS results show that 5 out of 6 areas were higher than the state.  Fifty random 8 th graders will take a National Test, 
this test compare state to state results, they will take either the English or the Math test, they will not take both.  They are 
planning DC trip, still mixed review on plane vs bus, still waiting for final decision.   The Middle School Barbie Dance was 
very successful, they had sold 110 tickets prior to the event.  The next Master Planning Committee meeting is tomorrow  
 
 
11. Public Comment - None 
 
12. Topics for Future Discussion Prioritize Capital Plan, 
13. Executive Session-to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel  or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to 
move into executive session at 7:45 and adjourn following. Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 