===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, March 27, 2024 
        Special Meeting 6:30 p.m. -Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair – Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Absent    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up f or 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:31 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment 
Sarah Comer, 304 Lancaster Ave I have watched a lot of meetings, and it compelled me to come out and say thank you.  
For the first time in 6 or 7 years I have the felt value I place in education has been recognized here amongst the committee 
and represented to our town government.  I am very grateful to every single person on this board and this room who 
addressed the gross inadequacies in the funding for the schools.  This year was particularly brutal and the things that were 
said, some people have commented on those and some people took them personally, and I have to say as a member of the 
public when my voice is not represented, I feel the same way, so I wanted to say thank you. I think it's ridiculous that every 
single year you have to justify why the schools need more than a 2 ½% raise when they employ so many more people in the 
town than the rest of the town. Thank you for the rainbow budgets, I think there are now nine versions of a school budgets.  
Our Board of Selectmen was lamenting that the town manager would have to redo one, that's not fair.  I truly thank all of you 
and also the parents who stood up for the budget. 
 
 
Mr. Beardmore – read an email directed to the Town Manager, members of the Board of Selectmen, members of the 
Finance Committee, the superintendent and the Chair of this committee, apologizing for losing his cool at the meeting last 
Thursday. 
 
Ms. Archambault There was a tweet that came through MASC, representative, Tracey O’Connell  Novak, she was also a 
former Chair of Worcester School Committee. This comment was regarding small town balance budgets, and we are not 
alone in this crisis.   
 
Ms. Archambault shares we are here because there was confusion from the last meeting.  We clearly voted for the “pink” 
budget, which is the needs based budget.  The concern came from whether AARPA funds were included and also chrome 
books being included in the AARPA funds even though that is a reoccurring expense.  
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
Ms. Brzozoski I voted for the budget, not caring where the money came from, but I believe we are going to vote with 
AARPA, knowing we need to make that money up next year, but with the messaging that next year we are going to have to 
make that difference up somehow.  It was the amount of money and percentage, regardless of how it was funded  
. 
Mr. Beardmore I did not believe AARPA funds were in it.  AARPA money does not go into my budget, based on the 
information we have received from the town. 
 
Mr. Lehtinen I voted on a number and percentage, with or without AARPA, it did not matter to me 
 
Ms. Archambault I voted with the assumption that the AARPA funds were included in the numbers  
 
Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to clarify our budget vote is the 4.37% budget with the AARPA  funds of $221,600 
included.  Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion.  Roll Call vote Ms. Brzozoski – yes, Mr. Lehtinen – yes, Ms. 
Archambault – yes, Mr. Beardmore - No 
 
4. Old Business 
Action 
a. FY25 Budget Update Dr. Burnham shares an update to adjust the numbers that had been previously discussed.  
Also a slide sharing projects that would be done using AARPA money, if the override passes.    
b. Override Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to accept the list of repairs to be done with the AARPA funds if the 
override is approved and to make the override amount official of $948,138,   Ms. Brzozoski seconds the 
motion.  All approve.   
 
5. Public Comment  
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road I am actually speaking more as myself and a parent on this one, myself includes an 
employee in the Lunenburg Public Schools, as an English teacher.  Words matter. I do appreciate that from a fiscal system 
standpoint why we've called it a “needs-based” budget, sitting as a high school teacher and a high school parent sitting here 
as a person who moved into this town because, I worked here and fully believed that the education system was some of the 
best there was to offer. I’ve said this before I'm getting a little more dubious of that as time has rolled on and you're not the 
first school committee to have dealt with budgets like this. In my 20 plus year career here we've been through some tough 
years.  Covid unfortunately fortunately I don't know which one it is, was a Band-Aid for what was some pretty significant 
writing on the wall so I do appreciate that you're being a school committee, who's saying, well hey this isn't good enough.  
With the words matter I think maybe as part of your people talking about the budget we also have a different word than needs 
based because, when I get what I need I feel like that's enough to what I'm supposed to do. As a high school teacher and as a 
parent of a high school child, at best it's a limping budget. It's a budget that is actually not enough to be considered 
sustainable. So I get fiscally how it has to be called “need-based”, then that makes sense to people who are in the know of 
money management, but if you're not understanding how municipal systems work and what those words mean -  “needs 
based” actually says something very different than what that budget actually is. 
 
Ms. Brzozoski I wanted to talk about the silver linings of this process that has been absolutely wonderful.  It has opened up a 
conversations towards a better cooperation.  This entire process has brought attention to a very detailed breakdown of the 
budget in a way that I am not sure the public has ever been so engaged in.  We have she a lot of light on just how very little 
we have been working with over the years and how thin the margins are.  I have watched a lot parents come in and want to 
look at the budget, with intentions to cut the waste, only to find out that that has already been eliminated.  The most 
surprising things I have learned since joining the school committee is to learn at just how lean we have been running.  I can’t 
believe we have been getting by on so little.  We need to do a better job at conveying how rough things are and how it 
directly affects student achievement.  We need to hammer home the message that making kids wait a year for these vital 
services affect their development.  There are only 17 districts in the entire state that spend less per pupil then we do.  The kids 
of Lunenburg deserve a good education.  I also wanted to correct something…a phrase I have been hearing is that 30% of 
Lunenburg are below the poverty line, it is actually 7.2% of Lunenburg residents are below that poverty line as of the 2022 
Census.  You know what lifts children out of poverty. A quality education.  Every kid in Lunenburg deserves and needs a 
quality education.  The override isn’t perfect, and the timing is no ideal, but perfection doesn’t happen in government, we 
need to move forward and do what we can to make sure this next year for students matter, and get the job done we know we 
can. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
Laura Barooshian, 389 Mulpus Road I also just want to say thank you for all the work. This has been certainly an 
enlightening process for myself, with a child going into high school and another one that's home schooled I completely agree 
with the comments that were made.  I think this is our bare bones, this is what the immediate need is at the moment.  There's 
still work to be done and I am encouraged by how many people have stayed on, so many of the calls whether through zoom 
or in person.  I've also been just appreciative of the kid's involvement in this whole process.  I am also just looking for the 
school board in this next phase, once we're past this, to be really looking at the long-term needs.  We need to focus on the 
teachers and the work they're doing, and the extra that they're giving, and really making that part of a longer term budget 
plan.   Thank you for all your work, but we still have a ways to go. 
 
Mr. Beardmore reiterates first we need to make an invitation to our legislators to visit us at the earliest possible convenience 
and to reassert our position as the representatives of the children in Lunenburg.    Also I would like to see a break out of 
funding in Athletics.  I would like to see an explanation of the ins and outs of the athletic budget, what taxpayer dollars pay 
for and what user fees pay for, what the boosters pay for. 
 
 
6. Adjournment –Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion  to adjourn at 7:45, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all approve  
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 