===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, May 1, 2024 
Town Hall, Meeting Room 
       6:30 - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Bill Bernard, DPW Director 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment Mr. Beardmore mentions one issue we will discuss tonight is how to hire and retain staff.  I would like to 
recognize an individual that was instrumental in my education.  Don Adams passed away this week, he was 96 years old and 
a Lunenburg Music teacher.  He was always able to get more out of then you thought you had to give.  I was in two musicals 
he directed.  Our deepest sympathies to his wife Ann Adams, also a long term Chemistry teacher.  
 
Ms. Brzozoski reminds everyone to come to town meeting this Saturday.  Child care will be available.  It is so important, 
your vote matters.  Town election is May 18th. 
   
4. Chairs Report Don Adams, was a colleague, mentor, and a delightful person.  Our condolences to Ann and family.  Go to 
town meeting this Saturday, lunch will be available for $7 and child care will also be available.  
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session - None 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 4/10/24-4/29/24 $328,208.42 Warrants have been signed by Ms. Archambault, no questions. 
 
7. Superintendent’s Report We have received 1503 transportation forms, we still need 38 at the high school a nd 20 at the 
middle school.  Primary School have 2 left.  Turkey Hill is 100% compliant.  We have received 107 registrations for 
Kindergarten.  Extended day summer and after school registration is open.  May 20 Early Learning Center registration will 
open.  We will have an update on head injuries on June 26th, Dr. Ridley will be in attendance, and they are from UMASS 
sports medicine.  Thank you Mr. Bernard, director of DPW for the communications and giving us advanced notice on the 
water main replacement on Mass Ave project, and the culvert and bridge repairs. 
Upcoming Dates 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
5/4 Town meeting 
 5/18 Town Election 
 5/22 Next School Committee Meeting Hybrid from LMHS 
 5/27 Schools and Offices closed in observance of Memorial Day 
 6/5 School Committee Meeting Hybrid from Town Hall 
 6/7 Graduation 
 6/12 Last day of school will be a ½ day 
  
8. Student Representative Report Primary School has a STEAM night tomorrow from 5:30-7, Turkey Hill will be hosting. 
There is a book fair that will be closing tomorrow also.  Lunenburg Middle school has their DC trip approaching quickly.  
The High School has a planned trip to Spain in April 2025, registration is open through June.  Student government elections 
are next week.  The trip to Costa Rica in April was a success.  The prom is May 18 th at Wachusett Mountain. 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. Rain Water Retention Project Mr.  Bernard shares a presentation to the committee regarding a rain retention 
project.  Mr. Lehtinen asks if it makes more sense to have it down by the football field.  Mr. Bernard states the 
project is supposed to be in a visible location.  Ms. Brzozoski asks if a municipal separated sewer system is 
mandated by EPA, is there any grant money for this.  No this would come from operational funds .  Will the DPW 
maintain?  We are hoping to have the school chip in on maintenance.  Mr. Bernard asks if maybe som e students 
need volunteer time or National Honor Society.  Ms. Archambault replies that may be an option.  Ms. Brzozoski 
asks if this will cut into the driveway.  We will have to patch it.  Ms. Brzozoski asks where will this flow to.  This 
will go into an existing flow.  Will this attract more mosquitoes?  I am meeting with mosquito control tomorrow and 
will ask their opinion.  Ms. Archambault mentions that some of the plants that are suggested are actually poisonous.  
Mr. Beardmore shares conceptually I love this idea for the students and the public.  Would I know this exists, would 
it be an obvious item to catch people eye, and what about snow pile?  Mr. Hevy confirms we do pile snow there, but 
we can change that and pile it elsewhere, however I do believe students use that area as well.  Mr. Hevy asks about 
the area in front of the Brooks Building.  Ms. Brzozoski suggests the principal’s opinion, as that is also where 
students and staff gather for fire drills.  Mr. Sculimbrene reports if the students embra ce the idea of maintenance, 
that is great, but I have an issue with the town expecting students to maintain the area.  Mr. Lehtinen asks if there is 
a deadline, yes 6/30/24 Ms. Brzozoski reports she would need assurance this would not be part of our costs or 
expenses.  Ms. Archambault suggests we ask the principal and speak with Mr. Hevy and vote on May 22.  
 
b. Extended Day/ELC Handbooks Ms. Guillette shares there aren’t any significant changes, the dates changed on the 
school calendar.  There are no price or policy changes.  Mr. Beardmore mentions the select board has discussed 
turnover policy, does this follow that policy. This handbook is in compliance with policies.  Mr. Sculimbrene 
makes a motion to accept these handbooks.  Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion.  All approve 
 
c. Annual Town Meeting – Food in Auditorium Dr. Burnham shares there will be pre-made bagged lunches 
available for purchase during the town meeting.  People with allergies may bring in food items that are comparable.  
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to suspend the food and drink policy at the LMHS auditorium for May 4 th 
2024 town meeting Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve.  
 
d. Payroll Modification postpone 
 
Discussion 
e. FY24 Budget Our team including the contracted finance personnel are now meeting weekly with the finance 
director at town hall.  We should have an updated budget and any line item transfers at our next meeting.  The 
president of the finance company has said they offer workshops for school committee members.  Mr. Sculimbrene 
asked if we could wait for a new finance/business director to take this workshop, Mr. Beardmore and Ms. Brzozoski 
agree 
 
f. Revenue Sources During the budget cycle comments and questions were coming in from parents, per there 
suggestions, we are exploring fees and options.  Mr. Sculimbrene is open to any fee increase as long as it’s linked to 
their lunch status.  Dr. Burnham shares the list of fees: athletics (MS & HS), activity fee (HS & MS) facility r ental, 
potential cell tower, solar, parking passes.  Mr. Beardmore is resistant to fees, as many families do not qualify for 
free or reduced lunch but are under financial stress, but understands it’s practical.  Mr. Lehtinen agrees, when we 
discussed the transportation fees before, it would just be too large of a fee. The committee agrees transportation fee 
is not an option. Mr. Sculimbrene would support an increase in athletics and activity fees, families with kids, school 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
sports are not the most expensive, travel sports cost much more, these are optional and we are not obligated to 
provide.  Dr. Burnham shares that the parking passes, and pre-K tuition go into the general fund, the school pays the 
salaries.  Ms. Archambault would be interested to look at facility rentals, and the MS and HS athletics.  Mr. 
Beardmore brings the idea of sponsorships placed on fencing.  Mr. Hevy has a cell tower meeting next month with 
AT&T to explore options.  We want to explore solar companies in the parking lot, it’s not aes thetically pleasing but 
with grants and projects worth exploring. 
 
10. Old Business,  
Discussion 
a. School Choice We have voted to participate in the school choice program we elected to open 5 seats in the 9 th grade, 
we do get phone calls for school choice in the younger grades.  We do prioritize class size of 25 or less.  A list of 
optional seats for grades 1-8 is shared.  We receive $5000 per student, however the cost per student is more than 
that.  We will look at this for the next meeting 
 
b. Athletic Funding Dr. Burnham shares a slide show presentation explaining how we fund our Middle and High 
school athletic programs, anticipated expenses and participation 
 
c. Override Mr. Beardmore shares a slide show presentation that will be shown at town hall  
 
11. Reports -  postpone 
 
12. Public Comment None 
 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
Superintendents Evaluation 
 
14. Executive Session – to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares. 
 
15. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn immediately after at 9:50 Ms. 
Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 