===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, January 17, 2024  
LMS Collaborative Room #D132 
       6:30 - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up f or 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment - None 
 
4. Chairs Report I am working with the finance committee to schedule our budget meeting, they have us scheduled with them 
on the March 14th, and we will need to move our public hearing from March 20 to March 13, if the members of the school 
committee could let me know by 4 pm tomorrow if they are available to attend.  
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 11/15/23 –Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to approve minutes, Ms. Brzozoski seconded the 
motion,  roll call, Ms. Archambault – yes, Mr. Lehtinen – yes, Mr. Sculimbrene – yes, Mr. Beardmore – 
Abstain, Ms. Brzozoski - yes 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Line Item Transfer $14,840 To transfer money from Capital Improvements to Maintenance of Building Contract 
Service for the High School elevator repair. Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the line item transfer, 
Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, roll call, Ms. Archambault – yes, Mr. Lehtinen – yes, Mr. Sculimbrene 
– yes, Mr. Beardmore – yes, Ms. Brzozoski –yes 
b. Warrant Total 1/3/24-1/9/24 $ Mr. Beardmore requests the warrant information get into the folder with more time 
prior to the meetings, no questions Ms. Archambault has signed off on warrant 
 
7. Superintendent’s Dr. Burnham reports Kindergarten registration is open, pre-k registration will open March 1.  There will 
be a kindergarten readiness meeting via zoom on January 30, at 6:30.  There is a delay is the start day of our new Director of 
Finance, we will need to hire consultants for the interim time until the position is filled.   A note on inclement weather delays 
and closing decisions, I work very closely with the town DPW and Police department for advisement on current and 
anticipated road conditions.  I also communicate with our Grounds and Facilities team on conditions of our schools.  My 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
responsibility is to educate our students and to that we need to be open and provide a safe arrival and dismissal.  If there are 
any parents that have student drivers, they can use their best judgement to drive them to school that day or keep them home.  
 
Reminders 
Feb 7th School Committee meeting 6:30 Town Hall 
Feb 19th All offices and schools will be closed due to Presidents Day 
Feb 19-23 All schools are closed for school break 
Feb 28 School Committee meeting 6:30 LMS 
 
8. Student Representative Report – None 
 
9. New Business 
Discussion 
a. Proposed FY25 Budget Ms. Archambault takes a moment to remind the committee of the budget goal they have 
set.  A presentation is given in part by Dr. Burnham, Julianna Hanscom – Director of Special Services, and Annica 
Scott-Director of Teaching and Learning.  The presentation is available on the website for everyone to view.  A 
comparison of what we had available for services, staff, and academic plans in 2019 vs 2024 is shared.  We are 
anticipating a 10% increase in health insurance to be $500,000, Contractual increases of $400,000 and the loss of 
ESSER funds of $600,000.  While we knew ESSER funds would not be continuing, the increase in health insurance 
was unexpected.  Each school was then discussed with potential positions to be cut.  Mr. Be ardmore expresses this is 
a lot of information to digest, he disagrees with moving our meeting and public hearing dates, it has been scheduled 
this way through out time, we need to express to the finance committee that we need to keep our meeting on the 
originally set date.  Mr. Lehtinen agrees with Mr. Beardmore, we need to explain all the factors that are in play and 
that we need to keep our date of March 20th. Ms. Archambault will speak with town manager and fincom to discuss 
the need for the date of the 20th.   Ms. Archambault also brings up the option of scheduling an additional meeting to 
continue the discussion on the budget, it is determined an additional meeting will happen on January 24, 2024.  Ms. 
Brzozoski questions will there be more potential cuts on top of these.  Mr. Sculimbrene suggests a dollar value be 
included next to the positions up for potential cuts, while Dr. Burnham can make that happen, this process isn’t just 
about eliminating a dollar total, but also we need to make sure the impacts are not detrimental.  Mr. Beardmore 
wants to assure staff, families and the community that we as a school committee have a hard task in front of us, we 
thank the administration and the superintendent for putting all this information together for us, and  we will move 
forward to ask lots of questions and clarifications and make the best decisions we can.   Mr. Lehtinen appreciates the 
time put into this and is really concerned with a loss of the athletic director and what that means for our student., to 
put the position into the hands of an administrator is going to be really hard for them to keep up and make sure our 
department is running at its best. Paraprofessionals are another support system we need to keep, as our classrooms 
are going to potentially be larger.  Ms. Archambault states this is with no AP classes being cut, approximate class 
sizes are pretty stable at 25, and we haven’t taken any programs away.  If anyone has any questions please email 
them to lps@lunenburgschools.net    
 
10. Public Comment – None 
 
11. Adjournment makes a motion to adjourn at 9:35 seconds the motion, roll call, Ms. Archambault – yes, Mr. Lehtinen – 
yes, Mr. Sculimbrene – yes, Mr. Beardmore – yes, Ms. Brzozoski – yes 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 