===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SPECIAL SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
     SUPERINTENDENT FINALIST INTERVIEWS 
Wednesday, May 5, 2025 
     LHMS Collaborative Room #D132 
7:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Timothy McCormick, Superintendent Finalist 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Lehtinen at 7:30 pm 
 
2. New Business 
 
a. Finalist Candidate Interview for Superintendent of Schools – Timothy McCormick The 
candidate introduces themselves as well as an opening statement.  The committee takes turns 
asking a series of up to 10 questions that have been predetermined and will be the same for 
each candidate.  Each interview will be a max of 75 minutes. During the questions the 
committee and finalist share back and forth conversation related to each specific question.  
At the end of the questions the finalist delivers a closing statement.  The interview recording 
is available online.  Surveys have been sent out to stakeholders to share their input 
 
3. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to adjourn at 8:42, Ms Archambault seconds 
the motion, all approve via roll call vote 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  
