===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, February 26, 2025 
     6:00 LMS Collaborative Room D 132- Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Tim Santry – LMHS Principal; Norman Yvon – THES Principal, Carla Squier – Primary School Principal, Dr. Deborah 
Bookis – Director of Teaching & Learning, Julianna Hanscom – Director of Special Services, Dr. Susan Gilson – Director of 
Administration & Finance, Amy Resnick – MTSS Specialist/Coach, Lisa Cantin – MTSS Specialist/Coach 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Lehtinen at 6:02 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment – Mary Foyle 985 Flat Hill Road, I am here representing the LEA, obviously the proposed cuts are 
concerning to educators in the district and we will have more concrete details of those concerns in subsequent meetings.  
Today I am going to speak more about the institutional history and moving forward in regards to the budget.  This is  my 
10th nonconsecutive year serving as union president.  I have also spent 19 of my 23 years teaching here as a member of 
the LEA board.  I can attest to the fact that most budget conversations in these past years have had talks of cuts.  Your 
Lunenburg educations believe in the promise of a free and public education and what it offers for all students.  A public 
school system is a nonprofit, often making fluctuations of the economy that much more impactful.  Lack of overrides, a 
full 2 ½% tax creates an even larger budgeted gap.  We cannot rely on the lack of raises, 1% and 2% to make up the 
budget shortfalls.  The last time we faced significant cuts, we closed a building, removed key administrative positions, 
and had department and grade level cuts. I say this, not to encourage the same actions this time, but for institutional 
history, unfortunately we have been here before and if we as a school community, committee, and town continue making 
the same decisions we will continue to find ourselves in the same situation.  Covid, despite all of its negative impacts, 
actually helped our current budget scenario at bay for a few years.  If you watch meetings from prior years, I sound like a 
broken record, this shows that these budget woes are not anomalies, but rather perpetual and yes the Commonwealth 
could do more and needs reform in regards to school funding.  Lunenburg also needs to take responsibility for its part in 
the issue.  As a school committee, your staff implores you to determine, publicize, and advocat e for the school system 
you believe that our students deserve.  Decide if we will be a school system that offers the minimum for our students or 
one that is comprehensive, allowing for the development of the whole student.  Become more of a mouthpiece for the 
town in its goals.  Perhaps a 5 or 10 year plan with steps on how to actually achieve  the goals.  If history repeats itself, 
Lunenburg’s budget woes will continue.  It is clear that the town needs to make a decision; will it continue with taking 
similar actions and do what is needed to simply maintain a status quo or will it take steps to imagine a different future.  
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
On the behalf of educators and students I implore you as the school committee to consider what part you can and will 
play in what the future looks like for our students and schools. 
 
Mr. Beardmore Good evening, this will be a little bit repetitive, but I told people that I was going to locked on to this 
until it is resolved and I am still locked on.  Tonight you are going to watch five people make gut wrenching decisions 
that we all hope will be the least bad options.  I have been dreading tonight and our next meeting and our next meeting 
after that and this is the situations that we are in.  A previous commenter though is not wrong, we talked about the 
structural situation and the challenges that we could potentially face, particularly in an inflationary situation.  When I 
was on the finance committee in 2020, 2021, and 2022 and while I was on the school committee in 2022, 2023, 2024, 
and 2025 our legislators came and talked to us and told us that local aid is their top priority. Then last year they told us 
that they would come and meet with us following the election.  They did not. Instead they held a meeting and invited our 
chair to the meeting, we have had an open invitation to our legislators all along.  A few weeks ago Representative 
Scarsdale spoke at the Lunenburg Council on Aging event during the day and spoke on camera about education funding 
in Chapter 70, but hasn’t spoken with us.  In her comments that day she spoke about the Student Opportunity Act and 
anticipated a very long period of time that it would take to resolve the formulas in the SOA.  There were things that 
could be done; such as supplemental budget actions that could serve as a Band-Aid until that time.  Let me tell you folks, 
what we heard from her that day about supplemental budget action or what we heard today from the regional schools 
consortium or what we heard a couple of weeks ago from the Consortium of the MTA and the MASC amongst other 
organizations are not going to help us anytime soon.  The best we will see- any resolution to any of those items is the 
summer and probably later, long after these drastic cuts are made.  None of that was unanticipated, we talked about this 
with our legislators years ago and months ago and they have done nothing.  They talked about getting towns of similar 
interest together, but they have proposed nothing.  There is no legislation other than legislation that would form a special 
committee that will report out in the summer of 2027.  I say that wishing it was a joke, but it not.  That is the situation we 
are in. Our legislators went to our local newspaper to try to explain the situation again rather than coming to us.  They 
went and talked to a reporter from the local newspaper with no counterpoint.  I am here to tell you that we have been 
pouring money into Gateway School Districts for the last three years and need to do something to fix this.  While 
Representative Kushmerek who has been incredibly silent on this issue, pointed out that while Fitchburg doesn’t have 
school department issues, they have massive budget woes across their municipality.  They in fact, have the contrast that 
in the last 23 years Lunenburg has passed an override.  We have passed a debt exclusion for a fire station, a debt 
exclusion for a Primary School, a debt exclusion for the Middle High School, a debt exclusion for our roads and we have 
poured additional money every year into our pavement management program.  We have invested massive amounts of 
money in Lunenburg in excess of $60 million just in debt exclusions.  Fitchburg has never passed an override or debt 
exclusion.  Let that sink in ladies and gentlemen, and it was said explicitly by our MASC representative, when she came 
and talked to us a couple of years ago. You are being asked to back stop the states lack of support by passing more and 
more overrides.  While your income tax dollars and your sales tax dollars go to gateway cities and I am not faulting 
them, I think we have to support them, but we are also being asked to reach into our pockets again. The only mechanism 
to offer level services in our local public schools is through overrides.  That is the only mechanism that we have, it is an 
awful situation and our legislators lack transparency, they lack practicality, and they lack urgency on these topics.  I 
know that they’re hearing from people, they need to hear from us consistently and constantly until this issue is resolved. I 
will sit here in this very unenviable position for the next several weeks and make cuts, but I got to tell you every time I 
do I am thinking about the complete lack of support we are getting from our partners in education.  When proposition 2 
½ was passed in 1980, it was passed in a much higher inflationary period then we are currently in, much higher, but it 
was passed on the promise that local aid would serve as a back stop, because in an inflationary period income taxes and 
sales taxes tend to go up, collections tend to go up and our state has gone in the opposite direction.  Instead of 60% in 
local aid to support our schools we are at about 40% in comparison.  We have to do better, we have to hold them 
accountable. 
 
Ms. Brzozoski   Well you stole some of mine, the first thing I want to say tonight is that if you are watching this meeting 
congratulations, you are on deck to run for school committee or select board.  If you are watchi ng on zoom or the 
recording later on YouTube congratulations you are an engaged and informed citizen who cares about education in 
Lunenburg.  If you are paying attention to the issues we are facing that means you care about the interests of the students, 
the town, and the citizens who live here.  I am asking you to run, this town is small, this town can feel a little insular and 
sometimes it feels like you might need an engraved invitation to be considered for town government role.  That is not 
how this works, but if you thought it did, consider this your engraved invitation.  I am asking you to get involved, we 
have two open seats coming up on the select board and we have two open seats coming up on the school committee.  
Select board typically does not have a lot parent’s serve on it, while school committee often does, but I think diversity of 
views is important on both boards.  Right now you can help make your corner of the world a better place, you can help 
your community in your town and if you are watching this, you are already engaged.  If you want to email Brian or any 
of us, we would be more than happy to answer questions and talk about the time commitment.  You don’t have to be a 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
good public speaker.  Secondly, I was extremely disappointed after reading The Lunenburg Ledger on Friday, 
specifically to Representative Kushmereks remarks about the last adjustment to chapter 70 funding taking a decade of 
crisis for the gateway cities.  They had a decade of crisis to deal with before action was taken to fix it.  I have been 
thinking about that comment all weekend long, I haven’t stopped thinking about it since I read it on Friday; there was a 
decade of crisis - my kids don’t have a decade, none of the kids in any of the Massachusetts towns dealing with this have 
a decade to wait for it to get fixed.  I recommend people go out and seek out the article, and read it.  I am happy that our 
elected officials understand the scope of the issue, I am happy that they have become educated on the issue and that they 
have sought out the information and they know a lot about the issue, but is becoming clear we cannot expect immediate 
assistance from the state.  It is just not something we can rely on.  Yes I have emailed all this to my elected reps and have  
not gotten a response back, which is disappointing.  As a parent this is heartbreaking.  I am having a hard time taking off 
my parent hat because this does affect my own children, it affects everyone, all the students in Lunenburg.  I don’t have 
10 years to wait for the state to get together and fix the funding issue.  All I see is year after year coming back here and 
talking about the same thing, we sat here at this exact time last year saying this is going to happen again and I think it’s 
going to happen again next year too.  I am very very concerned.  I am having a really hard time knowing that this is a 
repeating issue, that they know it is an issue that is not being fixed and I don’t know what the town can do to fix it other 
than continuously raising property taxes and that is not something we can continue to do. 
 
Ms. Archambault The town caucus is March 10 at 7 p.m. in our auditorium at the Middle High School.  If you want to 
run for the select board or school committee, grab a friend to nominate you and come to the town caucus.  You do not  
have to collect signatures, you don’t have to do anything else if you show up at town caucus.  The people there support 
you, if you like to be part of the something that is the way to do it. 
 
Mr. Sculimbrene After watching other proceedings in the town government boards, there is a question about how did 
we get here and what happened.  If you go back and watch the meetings that we had for school committee last year at 
this time and even before that we indicated that there was going to be budget crunch because of predictable and obvious 
causes. One of the things that I was asked when I was delivering the report for the budget task force was…why does the 
costs in schools keep going up and the reality is the cost in schools keep going up for two reasons.  One is inflation if 
you look at inflation since 2020 we have experienced 18% inflation over that four year period.  Our costs are going to go 
up at least that much because dollars are worth that much less.  The other issue is unlike other service providers in town 
we have constitutional and legal mandates that we have to abide by.  We have to provide a free appropriate public 
education, we cannot discriminate based on the amount of need or the cost of the education.  When people move into 
town or come to town with children that are going to go to school we have to education them and sometimes it cost 
more.  Those are the two primary causes for why our budgets are constantly under this strain.  I agree with what Peter 
and Laura said about the need to have action by our legislator but, I want to make sure that it is clear that this is not and 
either/or situation.  We need to be doing both we need to fix this problem ourselves and we need to be regularly in 
contact with our legislators.  I know Representative Kushmerek is sponsoring a bill to help address some of the concerns 
about transportation costs - that is not a fix for everything but I do think that there are actions that they could take and 
would be shorter term solutions then refiguring how Chapter 70 funding works.  It is important to remember what Mary 
said, but also to think about this experience from your own personal life.  I deal with a lot of municipalities in my day 
job.  This pattern of boom or bust funding for municipalities is not something that is unusual, it is something that is 
normal, it is cyclical and when you are in a boom period it seems like everything is working.  When you are in a bust 
period everybody is grumpy, all the belts are tightened, and it is unpleasant, but I want to make sure that this is part of a 
pattern and, this did not surprise us.  We are not going to be able to address the problems we have got to understand how 
this happened. The fact that it repeatedly happens over and over again. That leads me to my last c omment which is how 
do we get out of this problem.  In the short term, we need to restructure how the school      operates, and I think that’s 
one of the things that is proposed in the budget.  I think we need one more town override and finally looking at the 
numbers and how town generates revenue in Massachusetts. This town in particular needs to adopt the Community 
Protection Act.  We have tried to do it multiple times before, it made its way to town meeting but lost.  This is the only 
other lever of revenue generations that towns in Massachusetts have and when our tax rate is locked in place by prop 2 ½ 
we have to make up the funding gaps.  The CPA offers us an opportunity to do that, but it also provides a state match for 
tax dollars. Renovating buildings in town or renovating Marshall Park those things will make us eligible for the CPA and 
will help get us more money. We have to move away from the notion that this is a crisis, we knew this was going to 
happen last year.  We know what causes are, and the solutions aren’t perfect but we need to take steps toward 
recognizing those solutions.  The reality is we must solve the problem ourselves. 
 
4. Chair’s Report – I want to thank everyone for being here tonight, your engagement is crucial. As we navigate these 
challenging budget discussions.  There will be a budget Q& A where the public can participate later on in the agenda.  I 
also want to express my gratitude for the volunteers in the community, my fellow school committee members, and our 
dedicated staff and administrative team who are here to help guide us through these decisions.   If this is your first 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
meeting I hope you leave with a clear understanding of the budget situations and the factors that shape it.  I want to 
provide an update on the significant financial challenges facing Lunenburg Public schools and over 200 other districts 
across Massachusetts.  This is not a Lunenburg specific issue but a statewide crisis that requires legislative and budgetary 
solutions. The school committee wants to assure community that Lunenburg Public schools is committed to fiscal 
responsibility and transparency.  Lunenburg has not mismanaged funds and our budget accurately reflect s the district’s 
needs.  We recently negotiated a fair contract with our unions in good faith ensuring that we stay competitive with other 
towns.  While attracting talent to our vacancies our staff are working to earn a living wage, just like other profess ionals 
in our community.  Many of our teachers are our neighbors and we work together to ensure that Lunenburg remains an 
attractive place to work while maintaining financial sustainability.  While we actively seek and receive grants, this will 
not solve this large budget shortfall.  Many other districts are also competing for the same grants and these funds 
typically come with restrictions that limit their flexibility.  The real issue is the inflationary measures and the states 
funding structure.  Together we can focus on our advocacy efforts.  The financial strain on public schools comes just 5 
years after the overhaul of the state school funding formula through the Student Opportunity Act.  While this law is set to 
increase school funding by over $1.5 billion by 2027, the majority of those funds are being directed to about three dozen 
districts with the highest concentrations of students in poverty, with disabilities, or English Language Learners.  
Meanwhile many other districts including Lunenburg are receiving only modest increases that are not keeping up with 
rising costs.  If you read the most recent news you will see districts like North Middlesex, North Andover, and 
Belchertown are grappling with multi-million dollar deficits forcing them to consider drastic measures such as cutting 
positions and even closing schools.  Lunenburg is not immune to the pressures, rising costs of healthcare insurance, 
transportation and special education outpacing our revenue.  It is becoming difficult to maintain the level of education 
our students deserve.  Fixing these systematic funding problems will take time, but we are actively working with key 
coalitions to push for change.  Organizations such as The Massachusetts Teachers Association, 211 Associat ions, and the 
United for our future Coalitions and 15 other partner organizations that are advocating for short -term and long-term 
legislative solutions to address the inequities in school funding.  We encourage the community to contact legislators and 
elected officials, attend legislative meetings and coalition events.  They need to hear from all the stakeholders.  Several 
bills have been filed to provide relief for various types of districts including rural, vocational, minimal aid, and regional 
schools and also to increase chapter 70 inflation adjustments, improve special education funding, and support in district 
transportation.  While not all of these bills directly impact Lunenburg, we need to continue to advocate for the ones that 
benefit our town as well as all districts.  Legislative action takes time, and changing the chapter 70 funding formula or 
securing additional relieve requires through debate committee reviews and hearings before any bill can move forward in 
the state.  However, we remain committed to advocating for fair funding for our schools and ensuring that Lunenburg 
students receive the high quality educations they deserve as we confront the reality of budget shortfalls  We welcome 
feedback and ideas from the community.  It is also important to recognize the expertise of our administration and 
teachers who are making professional informed recommendations on how best to educate our students with the 
constraints we face.  It is important to understand that securing additional revenue will re quire a multifaceted approach, 
this includes advocating for state level funding changes, while also working with town officials to explore local 
solutions.  We must also continue to advocate for more local funding from the finance committee, select board, and town 
manager,  This is not solely a school issue Lunenburg is facing, inflationary pressures in all departments, however, as the 
largest department in town, these financial challenges are particularly visible in the school budget.  You will hear tonigh t 
that we are exploring expanding partnerships, revisit fees, and leveraging town resources as part of our efforts to increase 
revenue and minimize cuts.  The school committee will make decisions that impact the education of Lunenburg students 
the least while also looking at increasing revenue, in an effort to decrease cuts.  These are not easy decisions there will be 
many ideas presented, but not all will be accepted as some are not in the best interest of Lunenburg or the student 
success.  A strong school system is a reflection of a strong town.  As we have seen in other communities families may 
choose to move away if they feel their schools are not adequately funded and prospective home buyers often avoid 
purchasing in towns with struggling schools.  Investing in education is not just about our students, it is about the long-
term health and vitality of Lunenburg as a community.  We appreciate the community’s engagement and support as we 
navigate the difficult financial decisions together.  Please continue to reach out with your thoughts, and lets work 
together to push for the legislative changes needed to secure the future for Lunenburg Public schools.  For those 
interested in getting more involved, the Lunenburg Caucus is an opportunity to run for local of fices, including school 
committee and select board.  The Caucus will be held Monday, March 10 th at 7 p.m. in the Lunenburg Middle High 
School.  The town election is on May 17th. 
 
5. Student Representative’s Report I am here on behalf of the Student Council.  The biggest concerns for the council 
today were around the budget.  We are very worried about the cutting of upper level and high achieving classes.  That 
will drive those kids out of Lunenburg. Students that can’t take AP classes, won’t be able to compete to get into the 
schools you want and students will end up leaving.  The other big thing they are worried about was the rise in athletic 
fees, if they are a 2 or 3 sport athlete, it’s likely some of them won’t be able to keep up with rising fees and theref ore will 
have to drop things they are passionate about. 
===PAGE 5===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
6. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Meeting  1/22, 1/29, & 2/5 Ms. Archambault makes a motion to approve the minutes for 1/22, 
1/29, & 2/5, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve with Mr. Sculimb rene abstaining 
 
7. Review & Approve Line Item Transfers, Warrants & Donations 
a. Warrants 2/3/25 – 2/4/25 $387,798.50 – Signed and approved 
b. Line Item Transfers - $9,200 from vehicle maintenance to contracted services to take care of HVAC on roof 
of LMHS.  Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to approve line item transfer, Mr. Beardmore seconds the 
motion, all approve 
 
8. Superintendent’s Report We went before the finance committee a week ago and requested funding for 
the $60,000 unbudgeted additional cost for the 911 upgrades at Turkey Hill.  Our next update is we 
are finally 911 compliant in all buildings. 
 
Upcoming Reminders 
March 5th School Committee meeting  
March 6th PacSal meeting 6 pm zoom 
March 6th Presenting Budget to Finance Committee 
March 19th School Committee meeting 
 
9. Presentation – None 
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Increasing New & Existing Revenues 
I. Athletics A slideshow presentation of athletic user fees is presented to increase fee for high school up 
to $325 and $275 for Middle School.  A 25% discount for siblings.  Reduced fee for high school to $50 
and $40 for middle school with a family cap of $1500.  Mr. Bigelow is asked to suggest a sport to cut   
Ms. Archambault makes a motion to accept the increase, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all 
approve via roll call vote 
II. Student Activities a proposal for an increase in fees, potential of having a base fee, and then 
additional fees based on clubs or activities students participate in.  Committee recommends Dr. Gilson 
meet with students to discuss these possibility of increases in fees. 
III. Transportation Bus Fee A proposal is presented to charge families a fee per student that ride the bus 
in grades 7-12 and also K-6 students that are under 2 miles from the school.  Committee would like a 
survey to go out to parents to get community feedback. 
IV. Facilities Proposal to increase fees by 50% Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept this as 
proposed, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve via roll call vote.  
       Discussion 
b. Joint meeting with Select Board 3/11 The select board chair reached out trying to get a joint meeting with the 
select board and school committee to try and discuss anything and everything.    Committee agrees this is a 
good idea and will propose the March 11th date for the meeting 
c. Protection of Students & Their Information Lately there has been concern of access of personal information.  
We have had a recent breach however, we do not share any personal information or school records.  That 
information is private. 
 
11. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. FY26 Budget Update Slides are posted and available on the website. Dr. Burnham shares the presentation and 
explains how budgets are developed.  The administrators for the district explain their list of priorities to the 
committee. 
b. FY26 Budget Q &A  
Q  Laura Peria, 44 Whiting Street I have a kindergartener, who is enrolled at the Primary School and I also had two high 
school students already go through the Middle High.  I have seen all the different levels.  Everything said today was spot on  
and I appreciate all of your comments.  One question I had was you were talking about these meta-analysis studies, which 
again I think there is a lot of different studies out there, do you know what the range of classroom size that was studied?   I 
don’t think obviously there is an end point that classroom size may cut off.  I don’t think anyone is going to argue that a 
===PAGE 6===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
classroom size of 5 is the same as 5.  Do you know the actual range that was studied?  A.  Dr. Bookis responds A meta-
analysis which looked at many studies and they pinpointed that the impact on achievement was from 13 to 17 students. For 
high school from that point up to 30 students and middle school up to 28 there showed there was no negative effects of 
learning based on the class size.  Q.  Can you clarify what the current proposed cuts to MTSS are?  I noticed when I looked at 
the excel spreadsheet positions were grouped under Special Ed.  A.  Dr. Burnham answers all three positions were to be cut 
in the initial proposal.   Q. Has physical classroom size been assessed for the increase potentially in students, and is it 
appropriate and safe?  A.  Ms. Squier answers that we can fit more kids in the classrooms, however the materials that would 
be out on display and available will be limited.  Teachers will have to rearrange their classroom and be limited in their 
materials. Q. I saw a salary increase of $71,000  for an HR Specialist, I am curious as to what that represents and especially if 
we are cutting jobs why need to further HR support and do we have multiple HR positions?  A. Dr. Burnham shares that is 
not a new position, it was moved from a different part of the budget and no we do not have multiple positions Q. I noticed on 
the expense cuts that were presented tonight the additional cuts to PE and music programs in the lower levels, was that just 
materials? A. Yes 
Laura Barooshian 389 Mulpus Road Q. Can you repeat where the slide deck is online A. It is under the school committee 
link and then the Meeting Minutes and Agendas. Q. On the line items noted for music positions that was materials correct?    
A.  Yes that is materials not positions.  Q.  Some topics coming up were extra-large study halls, getting work credit, possible 
work credits, large PE classes were there other things considered but tabled? A.   No we expect that there will be an increased 
number of kids in study halls, all classes will be larger.  We are piloting a work a work based program, and will report back  at 
the end of the school year. Q.  I do like the idea of sponsorships, I think there are opportunities to have other funds coming 
in.  What is the plan for a longer term, 3 or 5 year plans?  A.  I do not have a three to five year plan, it is going to come down 
to a shift in a funding mechanism, I can tell you that if this is what it is we will make cuts this year and we will be back here a 
year from now with likely more cuts. 
Mr. Beardmore comments we are in a slightly different position then we were a year ago.  There are actually more knowns 
today.  A year ago we had several unsettled contracts that are now settled, including our contract with the LEA, those are big 
numbers and we can now project those costs out over the next two years.  The numbers that are going to be projected are not 
good, there are going to be more gaps.  We absolutely need to deal with and we need to have a very straight forward and 
realistic conversation with our partners on the select board, town manager, and or legislatures.  
Vi-Anne Brown 118 Whiting Street I have been a resident here since 2008.  I have two daughters in the school system.  I 
am also the school social worker at the Primary School.  In a town like Lunenburg that is small and highly interconnected, I 
do not think that our solution for the school is taking from another entity, because the all matter.  They all contribute to the 
school, they all contribute to the public safety of the town, and they all contribute to the library, and all the other vario us 
organizations that we have.  It all matters.  I think the CPA money would impact the school, my question is: What has 
prevented the town from moving forward with this?  A There have been two attempts, once it got to Town Meeting and lost, 
the other time the select board did not want to put it on the warrant.  (Comment)  We know learning cannot happen without a 
relationship.  The relationship doesn’t necessarily have to be with people, they can be with a specific subject matter or 
specific historian.  Typically with younger children it is a relationship with a caregiver.  I want everyone for a moment to 
think back on your most pivotal educational experiences. Did the building you were in matter, did anything about the grounds 
or the physical aspect about the environment matter?  Likely not.  What mattered? So Lunenburg, we ar e a community here 
and we actually get to make the decisions.  This is not about the school committee, this is not about the select board, although 
they are important, it is about all of us.  I would implore you, when you are making your decisions, whether  to vote or make a 
public comment, to think about what mattered to you and your educational experience.  I was also very fond of the 
sponsorship program, on thing that has been super impressive to me about this community is the willingness for people to 
just roll up their sleeves and do what needs to be done.  The volunteers in this community are exceptional, from the pasta 
parties for athletics to the families opening their houses and garages for an entire month in the fall to let the students bu ild 
floats. Q What are the limitations that currently exist in allowing parents or other volunteers to come in and support the 
school community?  What would we need to do to get through the barriers? A We have a flyer on the website with different 
volunteer opportunities and we do not get a lot of volunteers.  You don’t typically get as many volunteers for grades 6 -12 as 
you might for the Primary School or Turkey Hill.  We also have limitations, as information is confidential and a non -
employee would not be able to access to those kinds of things.  Otherwise we would in need of cori checks, it would be best 
for them to reach out to the PTO.   
Amy King 3 Gates Place Q There has been a lot of discussion about the athletics and the increase in the budget.  We see 
many towns near us that have various advertising on their fields to help support the athletic budgets.  I am wondering that h as 
been discussed and if we are looking at that as a source of revenue. A  Currently we have a school committee policy that 
prohibits this.  The school committee will be reviewing this policy.  Q I heard the conversation about increasing facilities 
fees, one concern I would have is are we also cutting facilities personnel but increasing those fees?  We really need to mak e 
sure we are maintaining the facilities. I know we had a big volunteer group in the fall/late summer that came and cleaned up a 
lot of the facilities and fields.  A None of the personnel cuts that would be connected to the use of the field or the gym are 
going to be impacted, they are not among the proposed cuts. Q You mentioned health insurance went up, is that with the 
current roster of personnel? A What is built into the budget is based on the January enrollment when we made cuts and pulled 
===PAGE 7===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
individuals out of the budget that were also taking health insurance. Q The large presentation on MTSS, have we looked at 
how other school districts are doing some of that?  Are there other districts not using coaches and having good results? A The 
coach is not limited to MTSS in terms of direct service to students.  The coach is a little bit of curriculum planning, 
prioritizing data, and differentiating instruction working directly with teachers.  The MTSS structures that we have in place  is 
a couple of licensed teachers working as intervention teachers, we have also had tutors.  I think this is the standard practice 
that build into your system.  You have staff to provide the direct service.  The goal for the coaches is to be working with t he 
teachers to strengthen the instruction that happens every single day.  If we can strengthen the instruction that is going on 
every single day in every single class, you have kids learning and you are not having as many kids that are having difficulty  
accessing the learning and therefore, in need of additional supports.  
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to close the public portion of the Q&A, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all 
approve 
 
Mr. Lehtinen shares his list of priorities for the committee to discuss and provide feedback, Direc tor of Facilities and 
Grounds, it is recommended that Dr. Burnham hire the candidate she has interviewed.   A discussion about sharing resources 
with North Middlesex, which was not supported by the committee. Committee does not support eliminating the Direc tor of 
Teaching and Learning position, reducing Director of Special Services to part time  or eliminating all assistant principals or 
eliminating Athletic Director.  Committee tables the idea of eliminating Director of Finance and Administration and add an 
accountant position and HR Consulting Contract Support.  Committee supports eliminating one of the assistant principals at 
the Middle High School and the part time athletics secretary, making the IT tech to a part time position.  Committee goes 
through the expense cut proposal and discusses options. 
 
c. Superintendent Search Committee discusses timeline and ultimately decide to proceed as listed. 
  
12. Reports Tabled for the next meeting 
 
13. Public Comment Laura Peria Whiting Street, We started this meeting talking about priorities being classroom 
learning, instructional learning.  I would urge the committee and the superintendent to keep that in mind as you are 
looking at the budget.  I think I heard Tony say a few times, we are not cutting enough and yet these are all really hard 
decisions and nobody wants to cut athletics, nobody wants to raise fees, nobody wants to cut transportation, but I would 
just ask that we try to keep in mind serving the most students, our most vulnerable stu dents, serving that early education 
that we talked about being so critical as priority.  That is not going to make everyone happy.  I would really urge people 
to look at those transportation fees, I think that we went over a little quickly.  I agree with L aura though saying that may 
target certain groups more, but we also don’t want to raise fees.  I’m imploring the group to really think about our 
priorities.  It bothers me that I see a disproportionate cut at the K-6 levels in the classroom with the MTSS tutors and the 
teachers.  I would love to see that be a priority for restoring those positions.  I also appreciate lookin g at the admin roles, 
I think that is hugely helpful. 
 
Kara Harunkiewicz, 165 Gilchrest Street, I am speaking on behalf of myself.  As far as the student activities is 
concerned, when I looked at the list, I personally participate in 6 of them.  That would cost $450 which is more than any 
of the athletic fees were raised.  Two of them are directly related to music, which is also another hu ge expense.  I am 
trying to raise the awareness, even though some things that we are providing are seen as they don’t anything.  Any 
student in band has spent an insane amount of money to be in the band. Instruments cost a lot, you need reeds and that 
can cost $50 a semester.  It is not like those kids aren’t paying anything, they just aren’t paying anything directly to the 
school. 
 
Mr. Beardmore It has been a hard night, I need to say something that is even harder.  Tomorrow morning I will be 
informing the town clerk and the select board that I am resigning from the school committee effective May 16 th.  I spoke 
with the town clerk yesterday and the mechanics of this work such that, if I make my resignation known within a certain 
amount of time prior to the election, the position can be made available on the ballot at the next election.  My personal 
circumstances have changed rather dramatically since I first joined the school committee.  I have gotten married, my 
family has expanded quite a bit.  My family responsibilities have changed and I have recently taken on a new job.  That 
job is taking up a lot more of my time then my previous job.  I need to manage my responsibilities better and as a result 
of those changes, I don’t feel like I am personally able to put everything that I want to into the school committee.  I have 
certainly felt that over the course of the las several weeks and certainly through the budget season, I have done a fraction 
this year with respect to the budget that I did last year and the year before that.  I think I personally, my family, my 
colleagues and our school department deserve a member that can put more into this then I am currently able to.  So we 
will have three vacancies on the school committee in May.  I think that we also need to look over the schedule and see 
what needs to be done over the course of the next few months.  I don’t intend to retire from the public service, I will be 
back, but I do need to take a break it will be a little but I don’t know how long.  
===PAGE 8===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
14. Topics for Future discussion 
 
15. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to adjourn at 10:43 pm, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, all 
approve 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 