===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 COMMITTEE SPECIAL MEETING  
Wednesday, May 7, 2025 
     LHMS Collaborative Room #D132 
6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Dr. Susan Gilson – Director of Administration and Finance, Dr. Deborah Bookis – Director of Teaching and Learning 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Lehtinen at 6:31  
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Recognition & Farewell to Outgoing Committee Members Mr. Lehtinen reports Mr. Beardmore 
will not be returning, he brought a sharp mind and strategic lens to our work on the school 
committee, his financial expertise and deep understanding of systems made him an invaluable 
resource especially in times when we needed to make tough long- term decisions.  Peter always had 
ideas worth hearing and opinions worth considering.  He never hesitated to speak up even when it 
wasn’t easy or popular.  Sometimes his candor came across a little strong but it always came from a 
place of passion for doing what is right for students and taxpayers.  His honesty and drive to improve 
things and his commitment to transparency have shaped many of the conversations and decisions we 
have had at the table.  Peter’s decision to step away to spend more time with his family speaks 
volumes about his priorities and I know I speak for many when I say we wish him all the best.  His 
contributions to this committee will have a long lasting impact and his voice will certainly be 
missed, but knowing his voice will continue to be heard from the public comment mic. 
Ms. Archambault was already a dedicated member of the school committee when I first joined and 
from the beginning she set an example of thoughtful student centered leadership.  Carol has always 
brought a caring grounded perspective to our work especially when it comes to advocating for our 
youngest learners.  She often saw angles I hadn’t considered and was always willing to dig in to help 
and do the work that often goes unseen, but is so critical.  I have learned a great deal from Carol, not 
only about educational policy, finance, and governance, but how to lead with kindness and clarity.  I 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
am genuinely a better committee member and a chair because of the time I have spent working 
alongside her.  Her voice will be missed and her impact will be lasting. 
 
  Mr. Sculimbrene Peter I think all the things Brian said are true, but I also think that the thing that 
makes it so enjoyable to be on a committee with you is that you have a really good nature, you know 
that you are going to say things sometimes that inflame people’s passions and you are fine doing that. 
The thing that makes you different then so many people is that you do this regularly, is you can take it 
when they do it back and that is truly a great person to have in your corner.  I have often asked you 
questions and I have often sought your advice but really I think it is fun to know you, no one else can 
handle the things you can handle.  Brian I have been stunned at how good you are at executing on every 
part of the job.  You get everyone involved, you answer every email, you provide thoughtful responses 
every time and I know that bodes well for your future.  I wish you all the luck.  Carol, I have enjoyed 
learning from you and listening to you.  I have taken to heart what you said the first time I met you 
which is are you willing to speak for the trees.  I am happy to have known you and I will continue to 
speak for the trees.  I am also going to say you are one of the wisest people I have ever met, you know 
what the right answer is just by thinking about it being reflective and being kind.  I hope to be more like 
that as I get older I still feel sometimes I rush to judgement and I am impulsive as I was when I declared 
I did not want to be involved with the superintendent search.  I am so grateful that you are gracious and 
kind, you share your wisdom with everyone here. 
Ms. Archambault When I was told Peter was going to jump from Fincom to the school committee I 
said “How is he going to do that?” I thought he was going to do both so I spent all this time trying to 
trap him into saying “I can’t do both” when he said “I’m not going to do both” I have been delighted to 
work with you, you always have a fresh way of looking at things and when I don’t know what 
government person to talk to I ask you, because you know all those inner workings.  Brian, I have been 
continually amazed at how you juggle this job with your three young boys and coaching at school all at 
the same time.  I have enough trouble this job and I am retired with my husband at home, with no cats or 
dogs!  You do what you say you are going to do, everything gets done in a timely manner and I thank 
you very much for taking the chair this year, so I could take this last year and not do all that stuff. 
Mr. Beardmore Wow, thank you.  I have been thinking a lot over the last several weeks about the last 
six years of my public service, but the last three years in particular, and thinking back to my 
appointment.  I think I had a lot of people wondering what that meant, but I outlined four things that I 
really wanted to focus on, student achievement, facilities budget, public engagement, and 
communication and I have been thinking about if I were to grade those things on a rubric over the last 
three years where would I put us.   I am reasonably a tough grader I think, but in totality I give myself 
the “Ralphie Essay” a C+ and I probably shot my eye out more than once over the course of the last 
three years and that is just being honest.  I think there is a lot of work here to do and I am very proud of 
what we have accomplished.  I am most proud of the dialogue that we have built as a committee 
amongst ourselves, but also with the broader Lunenburg government and the public, which is something 
that existed nearly to this degree three years ago as it does today.  I am most proud of that.  Carol and 
Brian, first of all thank you for being excellent chair people of this committee.  I am a lot to deal with 
sometimes and you both know particularly when I lock on to something that I can’t let go of.  I know 
that is hard to deal with and keep the train running in a reasonable straight line, I think you both did that 
with extraordinary grace and attention, you both did a fantastic job and I am honored to call every 
member of this committee friends.  It is going to be hard not doing this moving forward and not be part 
of this committee.  I also want to thank Dr. Burnham and the entire administrative team and faculty, 
your time, attention, and responsiveness has been excellent.  We have not always agreed, as you knew 
when I showed up that would be the case, but the way we have worked together and worked through 
some extraordinarily challenging issues and times has been truly and honor to learn from you and to 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
work with all of you.  I greatly appreciated that.  To the members of the public, thank you for putting me 
here for a few years and I look forward to returning to your ranks and we will see what happens next. 
Ms. Brzozoski I want to thank you all for so many years of service and for showing me the ropes.  I 
have only been on for two years.  Carol when you were the chair you were scary and sweet, I think 
people underestimate and forget you are a grandma, very sweet and kind, but you have a backbone of 
steel, you used to be a teacher and you will stand up and fight passionately for the students here and I 
loved that.  Brian you have been fantastic, the way you communicate, I like getting emails and seeing 
your responses to the community members as our spokesperson, because they are always so well 
written.  I mean you are a math teacher, not an English teacher, your English skills are great.  Peter, I 
love when you agree with me, but when you don’t it is a little scary how passionate you can get.  You 
have definitely shown me how important it is when you are in a small town and disagree with someone 
you can do it in a kind emphatic way.  There is a way to do it and still maintain relationships that is one 
of your strengths. 
 
Mr. Lehtinen shares himself and Peter will continue to serve in the future, however, has invited 
delegation here tonight to honor Carol.  Representative Scarsdale.   
 
Representative Scarsdale states it is truly an honor to be here tonight and certainly I am glad I was able 
to be here early and catch the comments.  The conversation between all of you and how you interact and 
respect you have for each other is amazing. Lunenburg is lucky to have you.  Peter I would not give you 
a C+, I would give you an A+ for your passion and your dedication to such important issues such as 
education and funding around it. It has been an honor to work with you too Brian.  I am glad you are 
continuing your service to the community.  Carol, you are very kind and you present in a soft and gentle 
way, but you do have a backbone of steel.  I remember when I first met you and I was running for state 
representative the first time.  Lunenburg was new to the Middlesex, because of redistricting, and I 
remember how patient you were, and while I understood issues with Chapter 70, you helped me see it in 
a whole new light, your patience and depth of knowledge, your willingness to think outside the box and 
how can we solve this.  I was in awe of you when I first met you and that never changed for a single 
moment.  I am still in awe of you.  The delegation wishes you the best, Senator Cronin and Rep 
Kushmerek had other engagements tonight.  Senator Cronin is at the state house fighting for the House 
budget on the Senate side, which hopefully will be good news for all of us, but they did send me with 
citation, honestly they are similar to mine.   The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the House of 
Representatives and Senate, be it hereby known to all that we offer our sincerest congratulations to 
Carol Archambault.  In recognition of your 7 years of indefatigable commitment and dedication to the 
Lunenburg Public Schools, specifically to the Lunenburg School Committee.  The entire membership of 
both chambers extends it very best wishes and expresses the hope for future good fortune and continued 
success in all endeavors given this seventh day of May at the State House Boston Massachusetts, signed 
by Speaker of the House , Ronald Mariano, Senate President, Karen Spilka, State Representative 
Michael Kushmerek, Margaret Scarsdale and State Senator John Cronin.  Carol I don’t think you will 
have a typical grandmother’s retirement, I fully expect to see you out and about on the streets and 
continuing to lead with your heart and you beauty we wish you all the very best. 
 
Tatum Furman, Student Rep This is for everyone, for a 17 year old, I don’t zone out at these meetings 
as much as you think I would.  I have learned a lot for you all, how to hold my ground, how to express 
my opinion and how to speak publicly.  It has been very beneficial to me in life, these meetings actually 
part of what made me want to go into Political Journalism after high school You affect students more 
than you know, but for me personally this has been a big part of my life for the past 2 years.  
 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Dr. Burnham I wanted to echo all of the comments that have been made.  I don’t think I have much 
more that can be added, I think everyone covered all that ground pretty well.  I have been extraordinarily 
lucky to have worked with a consistent board for as many years.  I think it is fantastic that you are five 
unique individuals and you all bring talents to the work, it makes for a better stronger board.  While 
three of you are exiting soon, I will be exiting as well, so I want to take this opportunity to say thank you 
to all of you, it has been a pleasure to work with you and I think we have done a lot of work together, we 
navigated COVID, several of us Post-Covid and have had some very difficult budgets.  Thank you for 
your partnership, encouragement, and your support is much appreciated.  Carol is known for the Lorax, 
those of you who have been to a graduation or tow may know I am known for the turtle.  I would like to 
say this quote, it is an anonymous quote, “behold the turtle for him to make progress he must stick his 
neck out” every single one of you, by taking on this role and engaging in every single meeting, you are 
sticking your neck out, sometimes that can feel dangerous, but that is how we make progress.  I think we 
have made progress, thank you for your service, thank you for sticking your neck out and thank you for 
all the progress we have made for the children of Lunenburg.  You are greatly appreciated by everyone 
in the school district. 
Ms. Archambault I want to thank everybody, the 7 1/3 years that I have been sitting here has been 
extraordinarily interesting, I have learned so much about town government. I have learned that you have 
a voice, so many people do not realize, you all have a voice and you need to use it.  I wish to thank my 
committee members who have nothing but the very best in their hearts for the students of Lunenburg.  
Whether it was my first committee I sat with all the way through, everybody just wants what is best for 
our kids collectively.  When I came to this committee I was hoping my goal was to make some 
curriculum changes and I cannot thank Dr. Burnham enough for the curriculum changes that she 
oversaw and the growth in our district as well as the staff, the teaching and learning department, the 
students who work so very hard, everybody worked hard together to make those changes.  I also wish to 
thank people for their friendship, or people I didn’t know, like Liz, she is delightful and knows 
everything about everything and I can’t thank you enough because every time I text her with something 
she says of course I will do that, and she does.  It has been quite an experience and I wouldn’t change it. 
John Bowen Jr.  I want to say to the committee members who are leaving and who have serviced this 
town, thank you for your service.  Mr. Beardmore, Ms. Archambault thank you for your service on this 
committee. 
 
4. Public Comment Justin Repucci 1147 Mass Ave I am going to respectfully ask the school 
committee to consider how the new bus fee policy applies in cases where walking to school is 
unsafe.  We live within the 2 mile range, but we are on a busy state road with no sidewalks.  
Walking is not a safe or a realistic option, I understand the goal of the policy is that distance is used 
as a fair metric, but assumes walking is a viable option, in some cases it is not.  I am not here to ask 
for special treatment based on finances or convenience, I am asking for a process that accounts for 
safety and road conditions when determining who pays for the bus fee.  I’d like to ask the committee 
to consider a safety exemption or review this process so families like mine aren’t penalized for this 
circumstance. 
Jane Hall 73 Pine Grove Road I wanted to compliment the school committee on the process that 
you have followed as you lead up to tonight, hopefully appointing or making a decision about who 
you are going to appoint for the next superintendent of schools.  I was a little nervous when there 
was a little hiatus and the timing, but I think you did yeoman’s work over the last two months.  I 
wish you all luck tonight. Thank you for the opportunity to serve on the screening committee and 
attending the meetings was very informative.  You have four very qualified candidates, and I don’t 
envy you tonight.  The only think I hope is that you are thinking about how you make the decision 
that is based on what are the needs of the district and the town, because, sometimes we can be very 
===PAGE 5===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
influenced on the type of person I might like to work with.  This is much bigger than that as you all 
know, so I wish you luck and I am happy to be here to hear the deliberations that take place. 
John Bowen Jr. 162 Highland Street I have been the only student to show up at all of the 
superintendent candidate meetings for students.  I take that I will be the voice of students along with 
my friend Tatum.  In my comments to each candidate I mentioned history about Frederick Douglas, 
who was a US Marshall appointed by President Hayes, both of whom were against Jim Crow laws, 
particularly Marshall Douglas who was an abolitionist, however, they both upheld and followed the 
law of the land.  In that discussion I inquired about how critical race theory applies to public 
education.  Mr. Conway stated that he doesn’t believe CRT is being directly taught in school.  Ms. 
Fortuna was directly quoted from the MASC position statement for K -2 curriculum and critical race 
theory, she said “We do not teach CRT but we do have a fundamental and moral responsibility to 
teach history and social science and in all its truth, the pleasant and the unpleasant” That is word for 
word in the last paragraph of the position statement.  Mr. McCormack stated that he does not believe 
CRT is being taught at all.  Ms. Menard does not agree with CRT but says she will teach standards 
set by the MASC and DESE.  Focus indicators that were put out by the Massachusetts DOE in the 
24/25 school year is online and it identifies ways to incorporate CRT teaching indirectly by using a 
set of semantics in teaching.  This is hiding the fact that it is being taught.  I also inquired about 
teachers expressing their own free speech in their classrooms.  I mentioned a particular history 
classroom that is overloaded with one side of history and culture. The teacher does not promote an 
equal and fair representation of history throughout the classroom, because she is specifically 
overloading her classroom with imagery and slogans and flags of this one specific social science.  I 
believe that is a teacher expressing her own free speech and expression in the classroom and 
influencing students based on a personal agenda.  Mr. Conway stated he does not agree with teachers 
promoting their own free speech and expression within the classroom, he stated if it is being taught 
in a block regarding a specific historical or social science unit then it is acceptable, but the classroom 
should be balanced. Ms. Fortuna gave me a word salad of avoidance on the issue of free speech. Mr. 
McCormack stated he is unaware of teachers promoting their own free speech in classrooms but he 
believes that it is ok and should be allowed.  Ms. Menard also stated that she is okay with allowing 
teachers to exercise their own free speech and expression in the classroom.  In summary, students 
want a superintendent that leads and takes charge, not someone who is afraid of back and forth 
conversations or avoids difficult questions.  I strongly recommend you select Brent Conway as the 
next superintendent of schools.  He did not avoid answering my difficult questions, he was short 
answered, straightforward, direct, clear, and concise.  Mr. Sculimbrene he did the same thing with 
you, the law you raised during your interview with Mr. Conway.  He will tell you how it is even if it 
is uncomfortable. That is a leader and the person who should be leading our district education 
John Bowen I want to thank everybody for your time that you spent.  It is a long time and arduous, 
you guys were slave drivers last year and it was very difficult so I don’t envy anybody here on this 
board for the job and duty that you have particularly this year with multiple cuts.  I don’t envy the 
superintendent who will be walking into this disaster, it is a financial disaster, an educational 
disaster, and a district disaster.  There are buildings that have problems, there are educational 
direction that is lacking in teaching because of teachers classroom size is changing.  You guys are all 
in trouble and you are not going to make this community happy at all with any decision you make.  I 
tell you what will make me happy – just as long as you do your job. I support my son in his direction 
I watched all the meetings and I think that Brent Conway is a direct, concise, short answered and 
someone that  is not going to hand  us a bunch of language, but going to say “here is the deal”.  In 
the exchange of the law that Mr. Sculimbrene was having back and forth with him, I understand Mr. 
Sculimbrene being an attorney, he doesn’t like to give up a fight or an argument.  A lawyer will not 
ask a question he doesn’t know the answer to and he wanted a specific answer, but what Brent did in 
the exchange is he clarified, I have no read in detail, I have no idea, I cannot do that, but I would be 
===PAGE 6===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
glad to discuss it with you at a later date.  I would like to know, did you guys’ discus that later on 
and get an answer to that legal question that you had gone through? 
Mr. Sculimbrene In response to Mr. Bowen’s question, after he clarified there is a case pending in 
the first circuit about the cheerleader scenario, but applied to student conduct as opposed to the 
conduct or the running of a club.  So the first circuit has yet to rule on it.  Basically, the gist was he 
was focused on that case and missed the word group in the questions.  I agree with you, I though he 
gave it a good answer. 
Peter Beardmore I would like to comment on the discussion last night that occurred at the select 
board meeting pertaining to the discussion around the special election.  To complete the override 
process prior to last night’s interview, Laura and I spoke at public comment.  Select board meeting, 
the gist of my public comment was that I think there is going to be additional public outcry to make 
this happen.  Town meeting appropriated the money, the same body that appropriates an omnibus 
budget.  Town meeting appropriated that money, subject to the passage of an override vote.  While 
the select board pays regular lip service to the votes at town meeting, for some reason this  particular 
vote did not meet their muster for affecting their decision to put this on a allot.  I say this, having 
been part of the process where we as a committee came forward and agreed that the less bad course 
of action once again was probably to do this as a town override.  But there is a process and the public 
is included in the process.  There was a citizen petition, and lo and behold that citizen petition held 
the day on Saturday and those who chose to come to town meeting and to vote, voted for it.  An 
appropriation that has been made, but there is no revenue to support that appropriation because the 
public is not being given the opportunity to vote to approve that revenue.  That is the mechanics of 
the situation that we have right now.  The situation is different from the one that existed 2 months 
ago, when we met with the select board.  In deliberations last night, the select board ignored that 
reality.  I think to a certain degree it serves them to make dispersion of the school committee and the 
school budget when frankly our budget has been scrutinized ten times more than any other 
department in Luneburg.  There have been discussions around the forecasting and the long term 
projections of the costs associated with running the school department to a much greater degree than 
any other department in town.  There is a blocking mechanism that two of the three members that 
voted against or spoke against this last night used a year ago in opposing the override.  Here we sit, 
nothing has been done, one of those members is leaving and I don’t know what to make of it.  I am 
exasperated by a board that claims to represent the will of the people of Lunenburg, but will not put 
it to a vote.  I still believe that this is going to happen, it is just a matter of how long we are 
prolonging the agony.  I think there is going to be a special election, the question is, how long the 
select board is going to prolong this agony and the longer it takes the more disruptive it will be to the 
school department operations over the course of the summer and fall. 
Ms. Brzozoski I would like to echo what Peter said.  I also made a public comment not knowing that 
Peter was coming in hot too. What I asked for was for the select board to choose either –act 
immediately on bringing an override for FY26 as a compromise if they are not inclined to take 
action now then to start work toward an FY27 override at special town meeting in November.  This 
way everyone knows what money is coming in when we are doing our budgets.  Making 10 budgets 
is incredibly difficult and it wastes a lot of resources. My main reason is because of what we are 
doing to our staff, when we prolong this agony.  June 30th we have a significant number of staff 
being laid off, we are going to pay out unemployment, and they are going to hopefully and very 
likely end up finding employment in other districts.  These are quality teachers we are losing and it 
hurts every time we do this, it damages morale in the school system, it stresses out our staff.  We are 
not good employers, it is very upsetting what we are doing to our staff, and this is not good 
stewardship.  If we wait until next spring for yet another budget season like this, that will be three 
years in a row that we have put Lunenburg school district staff through this and this is not okay.  I 
am having a difficult time with the fact that the select board is not understanding what this is doing 
===PAGE 7===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
to our staff. I don’t know how to make them understand.  I don’t know how to make them care.  I am 
very frustrated, and then to hear them, last night disparage the school committee and our stewardship 
of what is happening.  I need leadership and I need forward movement.  This is me speaking as a 
citizen, I am upset that we are not being given a vote on something that we voted at a town meeting.  
I feel like our voice is being taken away, I understand they have the legal ability and the right to not 
put it on the ballot if they feel it is not appropriate, but it is frustrating to have sat through town 
meeting, voted, did the work and then to be told “sorry it only won by two votes that’s not good 
enough, that doesn’t count” But then to hear Mr. Jeffries say the town hall vote only failed by 5%, he 
phrased it as six votes, so if it passes at the ballot they will try again at special town meeting.  So 
wins aren’t really wins and losses aren’t really losses, it is whatever the select board decides.  I know 
that is inflammatory, but I am very frustrated, so I am going to be agitating for an override at special 
town meeting and FY27 override at November town meeting.  If I have to do a citizens petition, not 
as a school committee member, then that is what I will do, because I can’t speak for the members of 
the committee, and I don’t know what the new members coming in will want, but I will keep 
pushing. 
Mr. Lehtinen I want to thank Dr. Burnham for her outstanding leadership and dedicated service to 
the Lunenburg public schools as she prepares for retirement this June.  I am filled with admiration 
and gratitude for the impact she has made on our district.  Dr. Burnham has led with clarity, care, 
and unwavering focus on what is best for students.  Her steady leadership helped navigate complex 
challenges, supported meaningful growth, and built a foundation that will serve Lunenburg well into 
the future. Whether guiding instructional improvements, prioritizing students’ well-being, or 
strengthening our community partnerships, her legacy is one of thoughtful student centered progress.  
I have appreciated Dr. Burnham’s collaborative spirit and her ability to bring people together with a 
sense of purpose and professionalism.  It has been an honor to work alongside her.  Thank you Dr. 
Burnham for your years of service and leadership and your heart you have brought to Lunenburg. I 
wish you a joyful and fulfilling retirement, you have certainly earned it.  
 
5. Chair’s Report This Friday is Are you Smarter Than a 6th Grader at the high school at 7 p. doors 
open at 6:30, this is a fundraiser for the club and you can come watch the school committee beat the 
select board.  The Lunenburg Business Association is having their vendor fair on May 10th from 11-
6 at TC Passios, this is a family friendly event.  The classic cruise night is at TCP on May 21st from 
4-8, this is a free event, and they will have music, food, games, prizes and fun for all.  The state 
budget process with a vote of 140 -14, the House passed H410 an act making appropriations for 
certain other activities and projects as part of a statewide priority for high quality education, $353 
million was allocated for educational related investments and is a direct result of the work of project 
211.  The following provisions were included, a full 100% reimbursement for FY25 regional school 
transportations up from 80%, 75% reimbursement for FY25 out of district special education 
transportation costs through the circuit breaker program increased from 44%, 75% reimbursement 
for FY26 out of district special education transportation costs, a directive for the Office of Inspector 
General to review school transportation and provide recommendations by February 2, 2026 to reduce 
costs, enhance purchasing power and streamline services.  There was also $483.2 million for circuit 
breaker special education reimbursements, there were local earmarks secured of $40,000 for security 
system upgrades in Lunenburg Public Schools.  The budget also continues to fully fund universal 
free lunch meals and invests $1667 billion in early education care.  The House budget passed 
including 150 per pupil minimum aid increase.  Additional circuit breaker funding of $190 million, 
$120,000 in direct earmarks for Lunenburg public schools.  The Senate ways and means committee 
has released the FY26 budget on their side, unfortunately does not include language to establish 
chapter 70 commission that we have been advocating for, so we can continue to push for this as an 
amendment.  The support of the public as well is critical to our success.  You can contact Senator 
===PAGE 8===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Cronin and urge him to file a budget amendment incorporating the language of Senator Lewis’s 
Senate bill S400 which is proposing the commission to recommend changes to the funding formula, 
there will be a hearing on May 9th at 2 pm.  On May 12th you can testify in person or virtually on 
educations hearing on Senator Lewis’s bill, you can also submit written testimony.  The senate will 
debate FY26 amendments the week of May 19, 2025, which is after the hearing. 
  
 
6. Student Representative Report There is no school on 5/26/25 in honor of Memorial Day.  On 
5/29/25 the first graders will be going to the zoo and Primary School will hold field day on 6/12.  At 
Turkey Hill the fourth and fifth graders will be taking the MCAS test and their field trip is on June 
11th.  The Middle High School, athletics are in full swing.  Student council elections were last week 
and votes were announced on Friday.  The middle school had their Glow Dance on Friday, my friend 
sister went and said she had a lot of fun.  The sixth grade will visit the Museum of Science and 8th 
grade will be going to DC.  The seniors are wrapping up their year, participating in motorcade, 
senior breakfast and graduation fast approaching.  May 16th is the last day to order the high school 
yearbooks.  The 2026 Greece trip for next April is filling up fast.  May 17 -30 there will be an 
honors and AP art thesis show, I have a piece in that, so check it out, it will be fun.  National Honor 
Society is offering peer tutoring on Tuesdays.  The Junior Senior prom is coming up on May 17th. 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes-  none 
 
8. Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers & Donations 
 
a. Warrants 4/16/25 – 4/30/25 $182,608.62 
b. Line Item Transfers A request to transfer $16,063.77 and $7,136.41 from the Elementary 
Guidance salary due to a resignation and partial unfilled maintenance to substitute lines.  A 
request to transfer $1000 from fire safety furniture line to vehicle maintenance.  A request of 
$12,332.80 to go to contracted services from general supply line of $6,370.01 and $5,962.79 
from another general supplies. A request to rectify salary lines move $1,500 from business 
manager, $1,500 from human resource director, $53,493 from salary reserve line to Business 
Office, Assistance Secretary.   Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve, Mr. 
Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve 
c. Donations from the Madigan Family for $1,500 to continue the Richard Stachowicz 
Memorial Scholarship to be awarded to a graduating senior in the class of 2026. A donation 
of $35.50 from Box Tops which will be deposited into the gift account at Turkey Hill  Mr. 
Sculimbrene makes a motion to accept donations with gratitude, Ms. Brzozoski seconds 
the motion all approve 
 
9. Superintendents Report 
Upcoming Dates 
 5/21 School Committee meeting hybrid from LMHS 
5/26 Schools and Offices Closed – Memorial Day 
6/4 School Committee Meeting hybrid – prior to meeting will be a celebration for retirees, 
Karyn Giuliani from the Art Department at the high school, Peggy Proctor from World 
Language at the high school, and Bob Hill from the Science Department at the high school  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 9===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
10. Old Business 
Action 
 
a. Superintendent Search Deliberation and Action Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to 
open the discussion of superintendent candidacy, a candidate needs three affirmative 
votes, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, all approve 
 
Ms. Brzozoski first choice Jodi, second choice Brent 
Mr. Beardmore first choice Jodi, second choice Joanne 
Ms. Archambault first choice Brent second choice Jodi 
Mr. Sculimbrene first choice Jodi second choice Brent/Joanne 
Mr. Lehtinen first choice Jodi second choice Joanne 
  After a discussion amongst the committee they then choose their first choice 
Ms. Brzozoski – Jodi, Mr. Beardmore – Jodi, Ms. Archambault Brent, Mr. Sculimbrene – 
Jodi, Mr. Lehtinen  
With four votes for Jodi she is voted to be the next superintendent of schools pending 
negotiations, Mr. Lehtinen calls her and she accepts. 
 
b. Override Ballot Impact The select board has met and decided they will not be putting the 
override on for a special election, there was no official vote they need 2/3 of vote to get it on 
the ballot.  
c. Student Activity Fee Structure Dr. Gilson discusses some options for an increase and the 
committee ultimately decides for a universal increase from $55 to $70 Mr. Sculimbrene 
makes a motion to approve the increase to $70, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all 
approve  
d. THES ADA Study Final Report the committee has the final report in their folder, Ms. 
Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all 
approve 
e. Facility and Grounds Report the committee has a report in their folder.   Ms. Brzozoski 
makes a motion to accept the report, Mr. Beardmore seconds the report, all approve. 
f. Paraprofessional Contract Ratification a brief summary status is given by Mr. Beardmore, 
about a year ago a contract was agreed upon for one year with the Para’s.  We have gone 
back and made some changes, a raise in pay, they will now be on a salary plan opposed to an 
hourly pay plan, 26 week pay period and all benefits of a contracted employee vs an hourly 
employee, moved away from some stipends and it will all be absorbed into the contract and 
all money goes toward retirement. Ms. Archambault makes a motion to accept the 
agreement, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
g. Third Read Policies 3601.3 Bus Fee Policy, 1303.1 Advertising in Schools the bus policy 
needs to go back to the subcommittee for an adjustment in language.  Mr. Beardmore reads 
1303.1 advertising policy out loud Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve policy 
1303.1 as read, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all approve. 
 
11.  New Business 
Action 
a. Class of 2023 Account Ms. Walker and Mr. Koziol discussed the wishes of the class of 
2023.  The class has a balance of $4,644.36 and would like to donate it to the annual 
secretary’s gift card drive.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept the donation of 
===PAGE 10===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
$4,644.36 to be earmarked for the Annual Secretary’s gift card drive, Ms. Brzozoski 
seconds the motion all approve 
b. Grant Submission Approvals the committee has been provided the memo’s in their packet 
from Dr. Bookis and Ms. Hanscom.   Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the 
submission of grants, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve 
c. Budget Task Force Charge the chair of the select board wants the committee to review the 
budget task force charge, there is interest in the task force starting up again.  Mr. Lehtinen 
recommends adding “develop and present at least 3 numerical scenarios”  Mr. Sculimbrene 
makes a motion to table this until next meeting, Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion all 
approve 
          Discussion 
d. Master Planning Committee Ms. Archambault reports they met, as previously they couldn’t 
get a quorum.    The committee decides they will go through the list and will send their 
priority list to Dr. Burnham and Ms. Archambault    
12. Reports Ms. Brzozoski Come see me at the vendor fair Saturday I have 300th Lunenburg 
anniversary stickers, which will be in 2028.  LEAF met and welcomed new members, they are still 
waiting for their 501 C3 status to be approved.  The wellness committee met and will be doing 
survey of student behavior, and I am excited to see the results. 
Mr. Beardmore the High School advisory met on 4/27 had a budget discussion and the effects on the 
high school and how the class registration process is delayed because of this. We also discussed the 
student activity fee, and end of year calendar. 
Ms. Archambault Middle School advisory met on 4/26 and discussed MCAS schedule, handbook, 
approved minor changes, discussed the DC trip which will be going via bus this year. 
Mr. Sculimbrene The PTO met on Monday night, cruise event with Lions club, met with some of the 
people bringing cars.  They are wondering what will happen to their room at TCP when the staff move 
out of the building.  Dr. Burnham does not have any authority over whether any space after they move 
from the building.  They should reach out to the town manager 
Mr. Lehtinen LMBDC met before town meeting, the plan did not pass, but will still be on the ballot for 
a town vote 
 
13. Public Comment Dave Passios  I got a chance to hear some of the members comments regarding 
the budget task force.  Last night I made some very marked comments relative to the challenge that 
had tasked the select board with last year.  Shortly after elections, my comment to them was, you 
need to get over your issues and you need to bring the town out of the hole, you need to lead this 
town, the executive branch is the branch that needs to deal with budgetary problems and passing it 
off to a committee that is then going to have to go back to paid employees and department heads to 
get information, digest it, and then spit it back again at the select board and executive branch is a 
waste of time. I told them it is their responsibility to run the town and use every resource available to 
them. 
Ms. Brzozoski I would like to welcome our incoming superintendent I am very excited and this was 
a big decision.  Thank you for everything Dr. Burnham you have been our measuring stick, you are 
going to be really hard to replace.  I think there are a lot of things that you do that we don’t even 
know about, because you make it look effortless. 
Mr. Beardmore I want to repeat all of the thank yous.   I am so excited we are on the cusp of 
finishing the AC project at the Primary School, it has been a long road and we may have everything 
we need procedurally.  I am proud of the stick-to-itiveness of our administration and this committee 
to make sure that project happens. 
Ms. Archambault Thank you PAC for everything they do and John for being everywhere when 
needed. The people in this community are so much better informed because of what you do. 
===PAGE 11===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Mr. Lehtinen Thank you to my wife and children, if you are up –Go to bed! 
 
14. Topics for Future Discussion 
Dr. Burnham is working on the State of the Schools report 
 
15. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn 
immediately after at 9:58 pm, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, motion approved via roll 
call vote 
 
16. Executive Session  to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 