===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SPECIAL SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday January 29, 2025 
      6:00 LMHS 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - present    
Carol Archambault, Secretary - present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:  
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Brian Lehtinen at 6:05 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment – None 
 
4. Old Business 
Action 
a. Screening Committee Membership We had put this on our agenda from our last meeting. There have been two 
memos that went out advertising about the screening committee and one of those had an incorrect date of deadline to 
submit your application by January 31.  My recommendation would be that we table this to a vote on Saturday the 
1st.  I did reach out to all that had submitted so far and reminded them of the correct dates and that we were likely to 
vote on Saturday.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion based on the conflict to table the appoin tment of the 
screening committee, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, all approve.  (Mr. Sculimbrene was not present 
for this vote) 
 
b. Workshop: Superintendent Search - The committee has received in their folder a list of workshop topics to cover, 
to serve as a rough outline to guide us through the workshop.  Topics discussed were superintendent characteristics, 
communications between the superintendent and the school committee, education leader, curriculum expertise, 
leadership management, community engagement, a strategic minded individual, transparency, ability to understand, 
anticipate, and react to change.  The committee ranks in order of importance.  Listening sessions for staff and also 
for the public is suggested.  The committee will review applications, set up interviews and give feedback to the 
school committee 
 
5. Public comment -  Mr. Sculimbrene is really grateful that Brian and Carol are doing this, I don’t know enough about   
 education to know what is good and what is bad, and if I had to put my faith, my kids’ future in any two people’s  
 hands other than my family members, you guys are it.  I do not think we could do better than you guys.  I am really  
 grateful that it is you guys. 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Mr. Lehtinen I want to thank the community for stepping up with over 20 applicants to help out on the screening 
committee, with a very diverse group of people.  I am really excited and I think we are on the right path, we are 
doing it as a community.  We are making it.  Change can be really hard but I think we are doing it the right way.  I 
think we are going to do some good. 
Ms. Brzozoski I am happy we got community members without kids or with grown kids that is when we get the 
buy-in from the community.  When we have people who don’t have an immediate stake decide that they want to 
help, that is fantastic. 
 
6. Adjournment Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to adjourn at 7:08 , Ms. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve  
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 