===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, April 16, 2025 
      LHMS Collaborative Room #D132 
6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Dr. Susan Gilson – Director of Administration and Finance, Kaja Savasta – CSS Architects Inc., Michael Ray Jefferies – 
Select board Vice Chair 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Lehtinen at 6:31 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment – Carol Archambault This afternoon the House Ways and Means Committee did 
submit their budget.  Their budget has a minimum aid to school raising from the $75 per student to 
$150, however, this is a huge example of how you can’t count on anything because this has to go to 
the Senate, so right now it looks like we would have more Chapter 70 funding.  However it could be 
cut in half come July 1st, it is very important for people to realize these things go up and down.  
There is also potential for 75% of all required out of district placement eligible for reimbursement, 
which again could change and cannot be counted on. 
 
Peter Beardmore There have been a number public hearings over the course of the last several 
weeks pertaining to education funding.  There was a hearing in Boston last week that I know the 
superintendent and two of our members attended.  I was able to watch some of both the hearing in 
Springfield and the hearing in Boston over the internet.  I recognized a lot of impassioned testimony 
on the part of parents, students, municipal leaders, and quite frankly what I consider to be a lot of 
political theater on the part of acting commissioner of education and many legislators.  What came 
out last week in the way of a proposal that is explained as a one-time funding from the fair share tax.  
Although the fair share tax is a permanent tax the funding proposal is one time funding which I don’t 
quite understand.  As well as a House budget I have inquired of our legislators relative to the bill that 
came out last week, what the net effect on Lunenburg? I would encourage people to repeat and 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
reprint to their hearts content because we need that number and while all money at any time is 
sufficient, the sooner the better 
 
4. Chair’s Report I also have the House and Ways Means Committee was expected to release their 
FY26 budget today prompting increased advocacy efforts as state budget activities.  The state house 
news service reported that the speaker Mariano’s comments at a Boston Chamber of Commerce 
event last week was Mariano confirmed that the House Ways and Means budget will sustain funding 
for universal free school meals and fully support the Student Opportunity Act, however he ruled out 
reforming the Chapter 70 school funding despite calls from superintendents, school committees, and 
students at budget hearings. When asked post event about revising the formula, a topic Senate 
president Karen Spilka had shown interest in, Mariano firmly declined stating , no too much 
uncertainty. Representatives will have until Friday to submit amendments and then we encourage the 
public to contact your district’s representatives this week and urge them to file amendments 
establishing a chapter 70 commission using the language from Senator Lewis’s bill Senate 400 and 
all requests outlined in the FY26 advocacy document.  The 211 have been working from 
Representative Scarsdale house bill H405 was finalized as H410.  An act making appropriations for 
fiscal year 2025 to provide for supplementing certain existing appropriations and for certain other 
activities and projects.  It allocates a one-time 1.3 billion FY24 fair share amendments tax surplus 
and has been referred to the Senate.  Key provisions to the bill were a full 100% reimbursement for 
FY25 regional transportation up from 82%, a 75% reimbursement increased from 44% for FY out of 
district special education transportation cost through circuit breaker, a directive for the office of 
Inspector General to review transportation and recommendations by February 2, 2026 to reduce 
costs and enhance purchasing power and streamline services.  Also Representative Kushmerek and 
Scarsdale reached out to me stating that there are $50,000 in earmarks for Lunenburg Public 
Schools.  The chair of the select board also reached out stating the same. 
 
5. Student Representative Report In the Middle High School they have been having the spring food 
drive, I have seen a lot of kinds bringing things in.  We have the Spain trip leaving tomorrow and the 
DC trip is happening next month.  We have had MCAS in the schools.  Elementary school is having 
field day on June 11th and the Primary School will have theirs on June 12.  The fifth grade will have 
their promotion ceremony is June 13 
 
6. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
a. Regular Session 2/26/25 Mr. Sculimbrene make a motion to approve the minutes, Ms. 
Archambault seconds the motion, all approved via roll call vote 
 
7. Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers & Donations 
a. Warrants 3/27/25 to 4/14/25 $368,097.31 
b. Donations A donation in the amount of $800 for the Parilla family for STEM supplies for the 
Primary School and will be deposited into the gift account for future STEM supplies.  We 
also have a check for $1000 from an anonymous donor to help students going to Nature’s 
Classroom in October 2025 that check will be deposited into the gift account at Turkey Hill 
Elementary.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept both donations with gratitude, 
Ms. Archambault seconds the motion all approve via roll call 
c. Line Item Transfer A transfer in the amount of $19,600 from computer purchase and lease 
line to the equipment maintenance and lease line, this is for an anticipated expense from 
Canon. Second line item transfer request of $5,000 moving from the fire safety furniture 
repair line to the vehicle maintenance repair line, this transfer will cover the remaining 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
repairs to the truck and mower for the remainder of the year. A third transfer from the school 
salary reserve line of $311,041.69 to the multiple salary lines. A fourth transfer to move 
funds to the athletic transportation, special detail, dues and fees and the high school after 
school stipends, this is the first phase move making monies available in the athletic portion of 
the budget.  We can go back and reclassify expenses that had been charged against the 
revolving account. Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the line item transfers, 
Ms. Archambault seconds the motion all approve via roll call. (Ms. Brzozoski was 
unavailable for this vote) 
 
8. Superintendents Report The transportation form were a little late getting out to families, we 
weren’t able to get the payment option on revtrak up and running in time.  Transportation forms are 
due by May 1st, at this point we have only received 413 forms.  You do not have to fill out a bus 
waiver form if you have already submitted a free and reduced application and qualify, because we 
will be relying on that information for the bus waiver.  The free and reduced applications can be 
found on our website on the main page and on the transportation page, for anyone submitted an 
application, you will also need to complete and submit a sharing form also available on our website.  
In order to pay the bus fee, you can send a check made out to Town of Lunenburg and send it to The 
Central Office 1025 Massachusetts Ave, make sure to put bus fee in the memo section of the check. 
Once revtrak is open and operational we will send out a notification to families.  Additional details 
about the bus fee can be found on the website on the transportation page. To date we have received 
27 bus waiver requests.  Moving forward payment will be due at the time you fill out the 
transportation form.  We have extended a due date for payment to June 1st.  Registration for the 
summer program extended day will open April 28.  Before and after school program for the fall will 
open May 5th and Early Learning Center Program will open May 19th.  We have been notified that 
we were awarded the innovation grant from Innovation Land Education, this was one of the 
stackable grants.  Innovation Land will work with us providing us letters of support for additional 
grants that we should pursue in order to complement their grant.  Our current plan is to apply for 
both the Ryman Foundation grant and the SC Johnson grant both of which have rolling application 
periods.  Routinely our tech department repairs broken Chromebooks, replaces screens and we were 
out of available parts, we had to switch vendors and the prices went up 54% due to tariffs, I think we 
need to be prepared it is going to be a bumpy ride relative to our funding in our current approved 
budget.  Town meeting, our food service program will be offering bagged lunches, cost will be $8 
and be available between 11 and 1, cash and carry only.  I was one of those in attendance at the 
Ways and Means hearing on April 8th, I did submit written testimony advocating for some of the 
bills that are under consideration at the moment, and based on estimates for revenues that could 
come to Lunenburg if those were passed.   We should be able to restore 9 positions if all of them 
pass. 
Upcoming Dates 
April 21 Schools and Offices are closed for the Holiday 
April 22 -25 Schools are closed for April Vacation 
May 7 School Committee meeting 6:30 Town Hall 
 
 
9. Presentation LMBDC Mr. Michael Ray Jefferies gives a presentation on updates that the Municipal 
Building Design Company has been working on which includes The Ritter Building, Town Hall, and 
Meeting House.  The presentation that will be shared at Town Meeting is shared with the committee. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
10. Old Business 
        Discussion 
a. Student Activity Fee Restructure LMHS The committee has been provided an update in 
their folder regarding the progress that has been made thus far. 
b. Athletic Summer Camp Update Dr. Burnham makes the committee aware that our AD 
Bigelow has accepted a new position, he will be resigning effective June 30.  We did reach 
out to the Board of Health there is a rather lengthy check list of tasks to take care of in order 
to be compliant.  Given the short timeline I am not confident at this point that we are going to 
be able to satisfy all of the Board of Health requirements. They are working on the list, and 
while we may not be able to hold camps this summer, I think it is worthwhile to continue the 
progress with paperwork so long term we can pursue this as an option. 
c. School Committee Goals passed over 
Action 
d. THES ADA Study Report Dr. Gilson introduces the architect Kaja to the committee and 
shares a presentation.  They are wrapping up the study of conditions and assessments and 
ADA compliance for Turkey Hill. Kaja shares the details of parts of the building that have 
been assessed and what would be recommended for replacement or repair.  The engineer also 
shares information on scenarios and costs. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the 
report as a draft, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve 
e. FY26 Budget – Free Cash & FinCom memo The committee discusses the FY 26 budget, 
position cuts, unemployment costs. We have developed a memo to be shared with the finance 
committee and how we would plan to spend the free cash, but also it was suggested it be 
printed and available to the public and at town meeting Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to 
approve the memo to the finance committee as presented, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the 
motion all approve.  Mr. Brzozoski makes a motion to move forward with the 
recommendations for free cash, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve 
f. School Choice Dr. Burnham shares options of opening school choice beyond 9th grade.  Dr. 
Burnham goes through each grade, their size, and potential seats to open.  Mr. Beardmore 
makes a motion to accept the proposal, contingent on the passing of free cash, Mr. 
Sculimbrene seconds the motion 
g. Warrant Articles Mr. Lehtinen goes through the warrant article 7 and how it relates to the 
school Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to support Article 7, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
the motion all in favor.    
Article 8 is the FY 26 program of Capital Projects, there are two options Mr. Sculimbrene 
makes a motion to support Article 8 option 2, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all 
approve 
Article 9 authorization to fund special projects Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to 
support article 9, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve 
Article 11 is the citizens petition for the override –  no motion 
Article 12 Supplement LPS fiscal year operating budget Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to 
support article 12, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve 
Article 28 Marshall Park Design Debt Exclusion, the Parks Commission shares details of the 
plan  Ms. Archambault makes a motion to support article 28, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the 
motion, the motion passes 4 -1 with Mr. Beardmore voting no 
Article 29 LMBDC debt exclusion Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to support article 29, 
Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, motion passes 4-1 with Mr. Sculimbrene voting 
no   
h. Superintendent Search In the folder is the dates of the timeline of a plan to meet the 
candidates.  The MASC rep speaks about the interview, questions, length of interview and 
===PAGE 5===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
the schedules of the day of site visit. Ms Archambault makes a motion for Alicia to see if 
she can schedule two candidates the week of the 28th and two candidates the week of the 
5th, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve. 
i. Second Read Policies 1303.1, Advertising in Schools 3601.1, Proposed Bus Fee Policy 
Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to waive second read, Mr. Beardmore seconds the 
motion all approve. 
j. Capital Plan This was voted on during an emergency meeting, but also just agreed to 
support Article 8 section 2 
 
11.  Reports Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to table reports, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion 
all approve 
 
12. Public Comment Chris Sullivan 108 Island Street As a private citizen, listening earlier in terms of 
the athletic director discussion,.  The possible solution that was proposed budgetary and totally get 
where we are at budgetary right now obviously, I would hope that we will look at this as a very 
temporary solution.  The reason we have a full time athletic director is we have 50% of the student 
body participating in high school sports.  To think that job can be done on a part time basis is short 
sighted, even in the short term.  Again I understand where we are at and I think we have made a lot 
of strides in the last few years with Lunenburg Athletics in terms of quality of the program and that 
we continue to put out in terms of the level of participation, spectator participation at a lot of our 
sports.  I would just hope this is a necessary short term solution.  Additionally I would just point out 
prior discussions in term s of what our athletics has been charged with, one team in particular, with 
the ski team, I want to make sure we do not lose sight of that discussion that needs to happen with 
the other schools involved and if that is something that is going to default to someone who is part 
time. 
 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
 
14. Executive Session ( to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel 
 
15. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn 
immediately following at 10:31 pm , Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all approve 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 