===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, October 15, 2025 
       LMS D#132 
 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present 
Emily Young Secretary - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Member – Present 
George Yapp, Member - Absent 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Tim Santry-LMHS Principal, Norman Yvon-THES Principal, Carla Squier-Primary School Principal, Christopher 
McNamara-Business Administrator 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Public Comment None   
 
4. Chairs Report – I want to highlight two things, I want to thank all the teachers and staff that 
participated in Nature’s Classroom.  Thank you to the parents who also chaperoned the trip.  I would 
also like to highlight that float building is underway, all four classes are working on floats, it is a huge 
commitment, but is part of what makes Lunenburg so special. 
 
5. Student Representative Report None 
 
6. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session 6/18/25 Ms. Gilman makes a motion to approve, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion all approve 
 
7. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers  None 
b. Warrants 9/30/25  - 10/8/25 $280,131.23 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
c. Donations – Donation from PTO, they donated $1500 to each school to be used as principal 
believes is best. Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the donations, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion all approve 
d. Grants – we have been granted the opportunity to receive $105,000 in two amounts, one is 
$50,000 and one is $55,000, it has to be spent on a one-time option and cannot be added to the 
budget, Dr. Fortuna recommends this to be used for I-Touch screens at the Primary School and to 
restore iReady for one more year. Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept these grants and 
spend as described, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
 
8. Superintendents Report I would like the school committee to reconsider a vote we took two weeks ago 
regarding the soccer uniforms, we are currently adding an addendum to the bottom of the order forms 
regarding employees that do not adhere the rules will face consequences along with creating a uniform 
replacement plan.  I do think it is the right thing to do to let our soccer players wear the uniforms for the 
rest of this season.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to disperse the soccer uniforms to the players as 
soon as possible, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
 
 
9. New Business 
Discussion 
a. School Improvement Plan the plans have been put into the committee folders, each school has 
submitted their packet.  The committee discusses chronic absenteeism in the high school 
b. Assessment Report The committee has been provided the report by Dr. Bookis.  Dr. Bookis 
goes through the report and highlights some of the detail in the report 
c. FY 27 Budget Priorities My entry report and the assessment report both align with the budget 
priorities.  This is more explained as a statement of our community values, not just numbers, we 
are looking a kids futures. Dr. Fortuna explains each priority and what that entails and how we 
make our investments to make this a success. 
d. Superintendent Entry Report The committee is very happy with the entry report and look 
forward to the positivity of the future in Lunenburg Schools 
e. Superintendent Draft Goals The committee has been provided the goals in their packet.  Dr. 
Fortuna explains her goals and the structured elements of the goals.  There are goals, key actions, 
and benchmarks and what will be provided to show evidence of each goal 
f. School Committee Draft Goals The committee discusses some ideas/topics that they would like 
to see on the list for goals. 
 
10. Public Comment   Chris Sullivan 108 Highland Street.  As a parent of a 5 year soccer player and 
on behalf of the soccer boosters, I wanted to thank you for reconsidering your vote on the uniforms.  
Always feel free to reach out to the groups that are involved in the challenging situations, we may be 
able to help with explanations and dialogue.  I think uniform replacement cycle is great. I would 
encourage using the Step students to have the job of tracking uniforms coming and out and keeping 
track of the state of the uniforms in relation to replacement cycles. 
 
11. Reports from Sub Committees Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to table the reports, Ms. Gilman 
seconds the motion, all approve 
 
12.  Topics for Future Discussion DESE group will be meeting regarding Chapter 70 funding.  
Representative Scarsdale will also be having a forum and Ms. Gilman would like to put some 
information together to submit.  Audits and the future of Turkey Hill including a conversation with the 
Facilities Director. 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
13. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 9:35, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion 
all approve        
 
 
     
   Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                      