===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, June 4, 2025 
      TOWN HALL 
6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present 
Emily Young Secretary - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Member - Present 
George Yapp, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Dr. Susan Gilson – Director of Administration and Finance, Tim Santry – LMHS Principal, Norm Yvon -THES Principal, 
Carla Squier – Primary School Principal 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Ms. Brzozoski at 6:30 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Retiree Recognition Dr. Burnham reports Ms. Karyn Giuliani is retiring from the High School and 
has been with Lunenburg for 24 years, she has done a phenomenal job with the art department.  Ms. 
Peggy Proctor is a World Language teacher working with grades 8 through 12, we thank her for her 
26 years of service. Mr. Robert Hill is a Science teacher at the high school and has been with us for 
26 years. He and his wife will be working at the family business at the apple orchard.  We wish them 
all well and good health, happiness and lots of relaxation. 
 
4. Public Comment 
 
Ms. Gilman – I am sorry Mr. Hill isn’t here, he was my geology teacher when I was a freshmen in 
high school.  He was everyone’s favorite teacher, I am sure he still is.  I am happy for him but sad he 
is retiring, he was such a great person, in the early 2000 he always hosted the rallies and always had 
some creative funny performance 
 
Liz Peterson – reads a letter in honor of Dr. Burnham retirement. Ms. Peterson presents Dr. 
Burnham with a plaque in honor of her 7 years and a bouquet of flowers. 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Carol Archambault – Thanks three retirees for all of their service. Ms. Archambault reads her letter 
in honor of Dr. Burnham’s retirement. 
 
Ms. Brzozoski – I would like to honor our retirees and the length of time they have been part of our 
community and congratulations to our seniors that will be graduating in a few days. 
 
5. Chair’s Report Isaac had Mr. Hill this year and he was one of the most engaging educators that he 
has had in his entire academic career.  The only think I regret is that Isaac will not have the 
opportunity to have the other retiring teachers and my other son Ethan will not have the opportunity 
to have any of them.  They were all extraordinarily gifted, they all reached students in a way that 
made them feel special and brought subjects alive.  I am grateful that these people are working in the 
cradle of democracy, teaching our kids, not only how to be smart people, but also how to be good 
people. 
 
6. Student Representative Report None 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 3/19, 4/7, 4/16, 4/30, 5/1, 5/5, 5/6, 6/7, 5/15, 5/20 Mr, Sculimbrene makes 
a motion to approve all the minutes, allowing the new members to abstain to the ones 
they were not part of, Mr. Yapp seconds the vote, all approve via roll call vote 
 
8. Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers & Donations 
a. Warrants 5/19/25-5/29/25 $598,262.6 
b. Donations Lauren Perilla donated $800 to the Primary School for the purchase of STEM 
supplies for the next school year.  Box top donation of $31.70 to be deposited in the gift 
account for future field trips and presentations. A donation of $2381.08 from the Scholastic 
Book fair also to be deposited into the gift account at the Primary School Mr. Sculimbrene 
makes a motion to approve all donations with gratitude, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion, 
all approve via roll call vote. 
c. Line Item Transfer $231,912.49 transferred from multiple lines to cover expenses, 
unemployment, student activities and spring athletics.  Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to 
approve line item transfers, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve via roll call. 
 
9. Superintendents Report We have received 1,074 bus requests, and have 494 unpaid at this time.  
We will send a list to Dee bus, so they can designate bus routes, names will not be forwarded to Dee 
Bus unless or until the fee is paid.  Today was the last day for seniors and was also the senior 
motorcade was this morning, senior awards will be held tomorrow and graduation will be on 
Saturday, there is a possibility due to weather the graduation will be indoors.  Yanina Burns will be 
the part time Assistant Principal and part time Athletic Director for the next school year.  There have 
been two finalists for the Finance Director position, however, both declined due to the salary.  The 
move for TCP to Turkey Hill will be happening sooner than expected.  A new program will be using 
our classrooms and we have to be completely vacated by 6/30 instead of 7/15. There has been some 
communication with the town manager for chairs of three major boards to meet rather than 
reconvene the budget task force.  The plan at this time is to schedule a tri-board meeting once a 
month and that is the full membership of the school committee, the select board, and the finance 
committee.  A list of dates for the meetings are supplied to the committee.  All of these dates are on 
Tuesdays.  Mr. Sculimbrene asks if we can go back to the town manager to adjust dates to be on 
dates that some of the meetings are already scheduled versus adding seven meetings for the School 
Committee. 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Upcoming Dates 
6/16 Last day of school ½ day 
6/18 Next School Committee Meeting 
6/19 All Schools and offices are closed 
7/7 ESY Special Education Program starts 
7/14 Extended day summer program – located at the Primary School 
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. FY26 School Handbook the committee has been supplied with the handbook in their folder, 
any changes are in yellow.  Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to accept the handbook as 
proposed, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion, all approve via roll call vote 
 
11.  Old Business 
a. 2024-2025 SIP Progress Reports committee has been provided a School Improvement Plan 
for each school with notes on all updates that have happened. Mr. Sculimbrene makes a 
motion to approve SIP plans as included in the folder. Ms. Young seconds the motion 
all approve via roll call vote 
b. Facilities and Grounds Report a comprehensive summary of all projects that have gone on 
this year and their status, along with all capital projects that will be underway for the 
summer.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion, all approve via roll call vote 
c. Review of Operating Protocols Ms. Brzozoski provided a version of the proposed operating 
protocols.  Mr. Sculimbrene wants thing set as rules versus guidelines, we will always be 
able to vote to extend any section of the protocol.  Ms. Brzozoski would like to keep them as 
a guideline.  Ms. Gilman shares her experiences with testifying at the State House and having 
2 minute time limit for comments.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the proposals 
with the removal of meetings being at one location and ban on PowerPoint and that 
these are rules and not guidelines as an amendment to the current protocols. Mr. Yapp 
seconds the motion, Motion passes with 4 approvals and 1 no. 
 
12. Reports 
Mr. Sculimbrene I was unable to make the PTO meeting.  The policy subcommittee will be meeting 
on Friday. 
Ms. Gilman reports the PTO had a great car show last week with the Lions Club, Teen Center, and 
Community Food Pantry.  It was a wonderful day and I want to thank the schools for all their help 
getting the information out to students and thank you to the administrators who’ve offered great 
prizes, including Dr. Burnham who hosts kids for lunch and I have principals for the day both at 
Turkey Hill and the Primary School.  Thank you to the fire department, library, and police 
department, the library is dong a slime party for a student, the fire department is doing a ride to 
school, and the police department is doing a ride to school also.  It is a great community event across 
generations, we are hopeful to continue this.  
 
13. Public Comment Ms., Gilman on our agenda for next meeting can we put some discussion on the 
budget task force. 
 
14. Topics for Future Discussion 
A statement from the committee to guide our discussions going forward 
 Budget  
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Tri-Board Meetings 
Information from the Town Manager and if she can attend or a formal response on her timing 
Budget projections from the Superintendent 
Potential for meeting the new superintendent via zoom prior to a meeting in July 
MASC workshop on superintendent evaluations and school committee roles and responsibilities 
 
15. Executive Session ( to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel 
 
16. Adjournment Ms. Gilman makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn immediately 
after at 7:53, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion, all approve  
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 