===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SPECIAL SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Friday, January 17, 2025 
      3:00 Remote Meeting 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - absent    
Carol Archambault, Secretary - present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - absent 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:  
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Brian Lehtinen at 3:11 
 
2. Public Comment – None 
 
3. Executive Session (To conduct strategy  session in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel  Ms. Archambault makes a motion to 
enter executive session, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve via roll call. Return 3:32  
 
4. Public Comment - None 
 
5. New Business 
Action 
a. Search Committee The school committee assigned Mr. Lehtinen and Ms. Archambault for the search committee.  
We did reach out and get some great information from LEA and Liz Peterson.  We have drafted up some dates to 
show the process.  The files are in the folder.  Ms. Archambault reads the post that will be put out for the  
Superintendent Screening Committee to include the description of what will be required for time of the members.  
You can send your letter of interest to Mr. Lehtinen no later than January 31, 2025 the members will be appointed at 
the School Committee meeting on February 5th.  Mr. Lehtinen reads the job posting for the Superintendents position.  
Applicants should submit a letter of interest including your key qualifications, a vision for the district, how your 
leadership would support the district’s mission and goals, and your approach to fostering and thriving educational 
environment for students and staff, a current resume, three professional references, can be submitted to Mr. 
Lehtinen.  We are hoping to have the job posting approved this week, and shares the timeline of interviews and 
planned finalist choices along with a time line if an internal candidate is not chosen.  In the folder is a plan B with 
expedited dates.    Ms. Brzozoski would like to use Plan B, to be more respectful of the committee’s tim e, especially 
if we end up needing an external search.  The challenge is needing to add special meetings and also time needed to 
appoint members to the committee.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the internal job posting, Ms. 
Archambault seconds the motion, all approve via roll call vote.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the 
screening committee post with potential for dates to be adjusted as needed. Ms. Archambault seconds the 
motion, all approve via roll call 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
6. Public Comment  - None 
 
7. Adjournment Ms. Archambault makes a motion to adjourn at 4:09, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve via 
roll call vote 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 