
-20002551943000-6667557150       Lunenburg Public Schools

Lunenburg Public Schools

Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools	
Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools	
-146049950800-146049950800
MEETING MINUTES 
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING 
Wednesday, November 5, 2025
						 Town Hall
 7:00 – Hybrid

School Committee 			Superintendent 
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present			Dr. Jodi Fortuna
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present
Emily Young Secretary - Present			
Mandy Gilman, Member - Present
George Yapp, Member - Present
					Recording Secretary
					Courtney Fuller
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. (http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law

Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene

Pledge of Allegiance

Executive Session To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices- or strategies with respect thereto. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter into executive session, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all agree

Public Comment  None

Chairs Report – Homecoming was a unique, corny, and really fun day.  I am really thankful for all the work that everyone puts into the day.

Student Representative Report None

Review and Approve Minutes 
Regular session 9/17/25 &amp; 10/1/25   Ms Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the minutes, Ms. Gilman seconds the motions, all approve

Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants
Line Item Transfers We want to transfer $13,500 from admin tech contracts to school committee dues, to cover superintendent search invoice. Transfer $2000 from school science supply line item at Primary School to the reading supply line item at the Primary school to cover cost.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to approve transfers, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve
Warrants 10/15/25 to 11/3/25 $709,457.44
Donations – Laura Barooshian is donating $100 for the high school field trips.  Music Gators has donated $500 to High School Music Program, $500 for the Middle High School Program and $500 for the Turkey Hill Music Program.   Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept all donations with our gratitude, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve

Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna shares district highlights and celebrations, teaching and learning, professional development update.  Dr. Fortuna also announces the hiring of Director of Curriculum and Instruction position.  Spotlights are shared and recognizing a few teachers and staff members in the district. Finance and spending updates. Dr. Fortuna did a staff survey to engage feedback, communication and visibility, results are shared strengths and weaknesses that have been determined.

New Business
Action
James J. Larkin Scholarship Approval Committee has been supplied with the Larkin Scholarship Proposal and an outline of the process of how to go about creating a scholarship.  This will be classified as a gift and is the amount of $500 this Spring and then $250 every year after. Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept this scholarship, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve.
First Read Policies 1303.1 Advertising in the Schools, 3303.01 Cash Handling, 5201.03 Middle School Pathways, 5204.01 Competency Determination The committee takes turns reading through each policy.

Discussion
Trust Commission Mr. Sculimbrene met with the Trust Commissioner of Lunenburg this past Sunday.  They discussed what happens if someone makes the town a beneficiary as opposed to making a donation.  However, some of the trusts are very old, and the “purpose” of the trust is in a manner that is not feasible in modern needs.  It has been asked to gather all the trusts for the town, we could take this information to the attorney general and they can administratively modify them, which will then make the money usable for modern day needs.

Old Business
Action
Superintendent Draft Goals Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to approve, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve
School Committee Goals Committee lists their goals as: the future of Turkey Hill, Primary School playground and parking lot, and budget process.  

Public Comment John Bowen, 162 Highland Street, Chairman of the Trust Fund Commission, Mr. Bowen takes this time to explain the responsibilities of the Trust Fund Commission and the basis of the inquiry.  Every declaration that you have for every trust needs to be in the treasurer’s office and they are currently not.  Part of our inquiry is to look at all trusts in town that are gifts, we want to see every gift that the school has and the declarations that are attached to that gift.  We have a duty to make sure the declarations are being met and the scholarships are being granted accordingly.

Subcommittee Reports Ms. Young reports the PACSAL committee met on October 2nd, this was the support version of the group and have another meeting on November 6th at 6 pm at the High School and also on Zoom.  The goal of the group at this time is to grow the group, to get more parents involved.  They were part of the Trunk or Treat event and it was a great success and were able to connect with new parents.   The Master Planning Steering Committee has been meeting and had a successful public information session and presentation on October 22nd at Smokestack Roasters in Lunenburg, there was good conversation and feedback received.  The next meeting will be November 12th at 6 pm, the place is to be determined.  
Ms. Gilman reports the PTO is working on finalizing details for a few events, they are having a movie event in December, which is very popular.  We have finalized our date for the Special Someone Dance which is February 7th.  We also have a night at Great Wolf Lodge, it is a day in March the rate is $125 per night and you get tickets to the water park as well.
Ms. Brzozoski reports the Middle School Advisory committee has met twice and talked about MCAS scores, very impressive the 8th grade civic scores were 20 points higher than the state numbers.  They have had their parent/teacher conferences.  The 8th grade trip is on, thank you to Jen Rios who stepped up, Amy Resnick has been doing it for years and is getting Jen up to speed on how to do it.  The cost is going to be about $1400.  LEAF has met, and they have gotten their nonprofit status so they are getting ready for a grant cycle.  The Municipal Building Design Committee has been meeting often, we have been talking about needs vs wants and which direction to go.  We also got a tour of the Brooks House, it is big and vacant, but does need a lot of work.
Mr. Sculimbrene reports he and Laura attended a policy subcommittee, we produced the cashless policy and the latest version of the advertising policy.  The High School Advisory Council met on October 30th, Mr. Santry presented the MCAS scores and school accountability numbers.  The slump in the scores for the 10th grade year has been a hot topic and there has been some research done to try determine the reason for the change.  We also discussed a little about the budget process and also changes to the PD day regarding ALICE training.

 Topics for Future Discussion
Future of Turkey Hill, Budget Process, Turf Field, Status of all non personnel facility items and projected/expected costs

Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 9:19, Ms Gilman seconds the motion all approve        

Respectfully Submitted,

Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                    








1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103




















