===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, January 8, 2025 
      6:30 – Town Hall - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - absent    
Carol Archambault, Secretary - present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Dr. Susan Gilson – Director of Administration & Finance, Krista Diamantopoulos – LMS Faculty, Mr. GD Richard – 
Scholarship Donor 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Brian Lehtinen at 6:30p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to go out of order and move our student representative report prior to executive 
session, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion all in favor 
 
3. Student Representative Report Districtwide there is no school on January 20th for Martin Luther King Jr day. The Primary 
and Turkey Hill have parent teacher conferences both online and in person on January 30.  Both schools will have a half day 
that day.  Monday, January 30 will be the start for winter activities.  The middle school will be having a Red Carpet dance o n 
Friday January 17, and will also mark the end of the quarter for both middle and high school.  The enrollment for Washington 
DC 8th grade trip remains open until January 15th.  The after school music program is starting up for the middle and high 
school.  The National Honor Society is now offering peer tutoring. 
 
4. Executive Session – to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter executive 
session at 6:34, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve via roll call vote.  Return at 6:57  
 
5. Public Comment – Mr. Beardmore I would like to advise the committee that I was invited yesterday to participate on a 
Fitchburg Access TV show next week, it is called Fitchburg/Leominster Area Politics.  It is hosted by a classmate of mine 
from Lunenburg.  This will be my second time sitting in on the show, he asked me for some potential topics, and I suggested 
Chapter 70 funding as a topic.  I have been advised that he invited a member of the Leominster School Committee to 
participate as well, it will taped next Wednesday, and I do not know when it will air. 
 
6. Chair’s Report I would like to wish everyone a Happy New year.  On January 1st the Mass State Senate and Representatives 
were sworn in.  I congratulated our legislators and also wanted to mention that Senate President Karen  Spilka called out K 
through 2 funding, in her speech for reform as a priority, to tackle review this ses sion, they need revisions and to re-examine 
the formula, and that there are communities struggling throughout Massachusetts.  The regional school transportation and 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
special education needed to be reviewed.  On Sunday President Biden signed HR 82 into law, The Social Security Fairness 
Act. 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
a. Regular Session 12/4/24 Ms.  Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the minutes,  Ms. Archambault seconds 
the motion all approve 
 
8. Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers, & Donations 
a. Warrants 12/16/24-12/19/24 $237,027.01– Warrants have been signed 
 
b. Donations From Principal Squire $30.30 from Box Tops, will be used for field trips.  There is a donation in the 
amount of $13.51 for art supplies from the Cultural Council, this was the balance of money allocated to them for 
the Artist in Residence program.  A donation of $1,560 from the PTO for STEM and Reading materials.  All of this 
money will be deposited in the gift account.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to accept the donations with 
gratitude, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion all approve. 
 
c. Line Item Transfers  None 
 
9. Superintendent’s Report An update on the search for Director of Facilities, we have interviewed a very well qualified 
candidate in the last week, however we anticipate that salary may be a barrier for this particular candidate.  We are setting  up 
interviews with other candidates as well. The MSBA is conducting statewide surveys of school buildings.  We are gathering 
information that will be required.  Part of the process will be participating in virtual interviews with them and then follow ing 
those interviews they will conduct site visits to all of our schools as well as TCP, because ACE is located there.  The visits 
should be completed in late January or early February.  At the last meeting the MSBA is going to be accepting statements of 
interest on January 13th, the eligible accelerated repair program projects for the 2025 cycle include roofs, windows, doors, 
and heat pumps.  Based on the money available for the door replacement project at Turkey Hill, we will not be able to fund 
replacement of all the doors at turkey hill and we can have a conversation at the next school committee meeting after Dr. 
Gilson and I have the opportunity to attend MSBA’s webinar on the 21 st, we may want to consider putting in a statement of 
interest to get the rest of those doors.  An update on the 911 phone – upgrades are almost complete, the only thing remaining 
is to fully transition the phone system and that will happen on January 21 st.  There was a communication pushed out today 
regarding the PowerSchool Breach regarding what was accessed.  Our IT Management Consultant is also looking into what 
was accessed.  We will be sending out updated communication to the committee and families as soon as we have more 
information. 
 
Upcoming Dates 
 
January 22 School Committee Meeting Hybrid LMHS 6:30  
January 17 Term 2 ends 
January 20 Schools and School Offices are closed. 
January 30 Parent/Teacher conferences for Primary School and Turkey Hill 
January 30 Half day for only the Primary School and Turkey Hill 
     Happy New Year to everyone 
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. LHS Scholarship Donation Mr. George Richard, a former alum of Lunenburg Public schools has donated $15,000 
for a scholarship award to honor one of his former teachers. Mr. Vincent Joseph.  This donation is to go to an athlete 
that is pursuing college.   Vincent Joseph, grew up in Leominster and had no money, Bridgewater State picked him 
up for one semester and he turned that into four and turned it into a teaching degree.  He was an incredible advisor to 
our class and a great teacher out of the Lunenburg School System Ms. Archambault makes a motion to accept 
this generous donation with gratitude, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve.  
b. Transportation Contract Dr. Gilson supplied the bid with Dee Bus, it is a 3 year contract with tentative increases 
over the 3 years, working with them for a bit more consistency on increases throughout the contract.  Mr. 
Beardmore makes a motion to authorized Dr. Gilson to negotiate and finalize this contract, Ms. Archambault 
seconds the motion, all approve.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Discussion 
c. LMBDC Plan Mr. Lehtinen reports they met on Monday and they met with the architect for the second time.  Mr. 
Michael Ray Jeffries met with department heads.  Dr. Burnham reports they met this morning and was showed the 
plans for the Ritter Building and how they are setting up for the Central Office Staff.    I did meet with my team to 
discuss this the projected plan.    Dr. Burnham shares what does not work with this plan and how revisions would 
need to be made.  A discussion regarding staff at central office and what their needs would be.  There was also 
discussion with the Special Ed Coordinator regarding perceptions and having the ACE program downstairs in the 
basement is not what DESE likes to see.  DESE does not like to see clusters of programs together, or in winged 
areas, they want to make sure it is in an “equitable” area, this could potentially be an issue when they come out for 
an audit, and you are not given very much time to rectify the concern and really not an appeals process.  
d. 2025-2026 School Calendar The school committee was provided with a draft of the 25/26 school calendar for 
review 
e. Revolving accounts – School Choice and Facilities Revolving Accounts Dr. Gilson shares a presentation for 
School choice funds and the Facilities revolving accounts.  She shares that these accounts are following the same 
patterns as other revolving accounts, which is the money coming in is not enough to cover the money going out.  
11. Old Business 
Action 
a. Facilities and Grounds Report Dr. Gilson shares an update on projects that have been bid out.  We were discussing 
in December that the fire alarm system came in much higher than expected, based on new requirements.  Updates on 
the doors and security for Turkey Hill.  The Fire alarm should be completed by August 15.  We have $300,000 for 
the door and security that will cover all the security and only 3 doors.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept 
the report, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motional approve. 
b. Class Accounts – Class of 2005 Krista Diamantopoulos officially requests the money from the class of 2005 be 
moved into a separate account for future use for the class.  Ms. Archambault makes a motion to approve the 
transfer of funds, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all approve. 
c. Committee Appointment Sick Bank appointments, Dr. Burnham shares we have received sick bank requests, it 
was one member of the committee, and prior we had Mr. Cassidy, however, there was convers ation for Dr. Gilson, 
however she feels as HR she should remain neutral, but we do need to have a second person for this committee. Ms. 
Archambault is currently the school committee member.  Mr. Lehtinen volunteers to be the second member. Ms. 
Brzozoski makes a motion to nominate Mr. Lehtinen to serve on the Sick Bank Committee, Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, all approved.  We are also looking for a Superintendent Search Committee, we were notified 
today the Superintendent will be retiring at the end of the school year. Mr. Beardmore suggests we allow our internal 
staff the opportunity to apply and interview before outside applicants.  If we do not choose a candidate, we can then 
move to an outside search.  Ms. Archambault volunteers to be on the screenin g committee Mr. Lehtinen makes a 
motion to appoint Carol Archambault as the Superintendent Subcommittee Search subcommittee, Ms. 
Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve.  Mr. Beardmore nominates Mr. Lehtinen as a second member to 
the committee, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve. 
Discussion 
d. Restructured Fee Proposals Dr. Gilson and Mr. Bigelow share a presentation for a proposal for increases for 
athletic fees.   
e. Recommendations on Cell Phone Use Mr. Santry shares some gathered information from his middle and high 
school groups.  We do agree cell phones are a distraction, however also feel classrooms need to remain sacred.  Zero 
tolerance is untenable, especially if it’s an unfunded mandate.  We do have procedures within our School Advisory 
Councils, it allows us within the building to develop our procedures and update annually.    We would prefer that 
each school have a policy that goes into the handbook. 
f. School Committee Resolutions A draft has been uploaded into the folder, any feedback and suggestions can be 
emailed to Mr. Lehtinen 
 
12. Reports Ms. Brzozoski reports PACSAL met on January 2, we had Melanie Ray as a speaker, she is a special ed . advocate 
and spoke on how and why to get an advocate, she shared the different types of advocates and organizations that are 
available.  We are going through a DESE audit and there will be parent surveys sent out.  
Ms. Archambault reports Fincom met on 12/19, there was a Budget Task Force Presentat ion, and all documents dealing 
with Budget Task Force are available online.  Munis upgrade will occur between January and March.  They FY 24 year end 
free cash came in at 2.5 million, there will be firm budget dates.  The next meeting is tomorrow evening, budget meetings 
start on February 13th, and they need two more members 
Mr. Lehtinen reports the Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee met Monday, Greg Roy, one of our members also went to 
the select board meeting yesterday with Mr. Jeffries, we want to remind everyone that we are planning to revamp the inside 
and really “Wow” you when you walk into the building.  We will meet again on the 22 nd. 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
13. Public Comment Ms. Brzozoski encourages people to go to the Municipal Building Design meetings, they are very fun and 
interesting. 
 
14. Topics for Future Discussion 
Club User Fees 
School Committee Goals 
 
15. Executive Session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel  
 
16. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter into executive session an d adjourn immediately following at 
9:55, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve via roll call vote 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 