===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, September 17, 2025 
       LMS  Room D#132 
 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present 
Emily Young Secretary - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Member - Absent 
George Yapp, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be broug ht up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Executive Session To discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices- or strategies with respect 
thereto. Returns from executive session at 7:34 
 
4. Public Comment  None 
 
5. Chairs Report – None 
 
6. Student Representative Report The Lunenburg Public Library will be hosting a writing contest with 
four different age groups for everyone to submit to, the deadline is September 25th and winners will be 
announced on October 3rd.  Parents should fill out all their back to school forms, available on the 
Lunenburg Public Schools website.  The Primary school will have their open house on September 18th, 
Turkey Hill had their open house tonight, they will have a book fair this week through the 19th and 
Penny wars will start on September 29th through October 3rd.  At the Middle High school there will be a 
display of self-portraits on display in the school library from October 11th through November 9th.  Our 
fall sports and activities are in full swing, you can catch a home game for any of our sports by checking 
the online schedules.  The eighth graders will go to Washington DC this year, there will be an 
informational meeting Thursday September 25th at 6 pm in our auditorium.  Guidance counselors 
recently visited the senior English classes to offer guidance about their futures and college applications.  
There is a college fair at MWCC on September 25th for all schools. 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
  
7. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session- None 
 
8. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers   FY 26 we will be moving $4,222.59 out of the curriculum adoption line 
and putting it into the Primary School workbook line and $550 from the Elementary School art 
supply to the Elementary Phys Ed line. FY25 transfers are from maintenance of buildings to 
sewage disposal, electricity charges and telephone charges in the amount of $50,701.43 and 
$26,524 transferred from the transportation line down to the Elementary Special Ed Para to 
athletic training coaches to athletic court time lines. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve 
transfers, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all approve. 
b. Warrants 9/2/25-9/15/25 $689,112.33 
c. Donations – Ms. Barooshian, President of the Music Gators, kids raised $1500 through toll 
booth in town, would like to donate $500 to Turkey Hill Music program and $1000 to the 
Lunenburg Middle High School Music supply budget Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept 
the donation, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
 
9. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna shares a list of district highlights and celebrations at each school 
along with recognizing our new staff members. Open house at the Primary School is tomorrow night, 
grades 1 & 2 are from 5 to 5:30 and Preschool and Kindergarten are from 6 to 6:45. The middle school 
had a successful open house on September 4th, it was well attended, and the middle school student 
government is in full swing and has started planning their first dance which will be October 3rd with an 
80’s theme.  The high school also had a successful open house on September 11th, parents had the 
opportunity to follow their student’s schedule. LMHS had a representative from the office of the District 
Attorney’s Community Outreach Program to provide information to parents about substance abuse as 
well as social media concerns.  Homecoming is November 1st, the theme this year is countries, and each 
grade has begun building their floats.  The guidance office has a full schedule of college admission 
representatives visiting.  Our teaching and learning team has been actively engaged and working to 
support collaboration, instruction and student learning across the district.  The business office has been 
working with town hall for permissions in Munis and working to make processes more automated.  
Thank you to our maintenance team for working together to get projects done in all of our schools.  
There is an upcoming PACSAL meeting October 2nd at 6 pm the topic is trunk or treat. 
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Arts & Cultural Vitality Grant Details are in the folder for the school committee and posted 
online, this is year 3 of a 3 year grant, its approximately $7000  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion 
to approve Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all approve 
 
Discussion 
b. Consideration of New Legal Representation Dr. Fortuna would like to use a firm she has used 
in the past with 3 other districts, the fee is $25 more per hour and would like the committees 
approval to move forward with the change. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the 
change in legal representation with an amendment as Mr. Sculimbrene explained, Ms. 
Young seconds the motion all approve 
c. Increase in Office Support LMHS Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve an additional 
15 hours to secretarial support, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all approve 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
d. FY Draft Capital Plan Committee and Mr. Beardmore discus the items on the drafted plan, to 
include the turf and track, plow for a truck, and some building renovations, safety film and 
playground 
e. Superintendent Goal Draft Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to pass over the superintendents 
goals and save for the next meeting, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all approve 
 
11. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. FY 25 Budget Update Mr. McNamara explains the surplus number has gone up to $603,885.97, 
the change is due to closing out purchase orders from FY25.  Mr. McNamara and Dr. Fortuna 
explains how this may have occurred and how we can avoid this for the current and upcoming 
years. 
b. Community Q & A FY 25 Budget Mr. McNamara reads the questions that have been submitted 
and answers them for the public. Also discussed what the schools missed out on by not spending 
the funds.  The committee explains some of the issues that have been discovered, to include 
double booking of the para salaries, the music program and supply line cuts, and also the process 
the committee had gone through in the past year and how they did not know this was the reality 
of the budget. 
c. School Committee Goals Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to pass table the school committee 
goals and the subcommittee reports, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
 
12. Subcommittee Reports   
 
13. Public Comment  
 
14.  Topics for Future Discussion 
 
15. Adjournment Ms. Young makes a motion to adjourn at 9:29, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all 
approve         
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                     