===PAGE 1===
 
MEETING NOTICE 
JOINT SCHOOL COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD MEETING 
Tuesday, March 11, 2025 
6:00 pm, Town Hall 
  HYBRID MEETING 
 
 AGENDA 
 School Committee Superintendent 
Brian Lehtinen, Chair Dr. Kate Burnham 
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair 
Carol Archambault-Secretary 
Laura Brzozoski Recording Secretary 
Peter Beardmore Courtney Fuller 
 Guests: 
 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the 
Lunenburg Public Access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-
AccessCable-157427270975305 ) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel after the meeting.  
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting. 
Please note that while the option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be 
suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with 
particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
 The following information is provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: 
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 . From a telephone, dial the toll 
free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 0347 #   
 
 If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an email address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when 
asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request 
to speak. This agenda lists all topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken 
because of these discussions. Not all items listed may be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent 
allowed by Open Meeting Law 
 
1.  Call to Order   
2.  Old Business 
 a. FY26 Superintendent’s Recommended Budget   
3.    Adjournment 
 
                                                                                                                                    
