===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Lunenburg School District 
Superintendent Screening Committee 
 
 
 
Brian Lehtinen, School Committee Rep, Chair 
Carol Archambault, School Committee Rep, Vice Chair 
 
Alicia Mallon, MASC Field Director 
 
Screening Committee Members 
Caesar Nuzzolo 
TJ Loughlin 
Sarah Wright 
Mary Foyle 
Brad McNamara 
Jane Hall 
Kristen Ryan 
Mandy Gilman 
Carla Squier 
Liz Petersen 
 
Meeting Minutes 
Friday, March 10, 2025   
5PM Lunenburg Middle 
High School Collaboration 
Room 
 
 
The minutes lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those 
reasonably anticipated. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items 
listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
1. Call to Order-Call to order at 5:00pm by Mr. Lehtinen, seconded by Ms. Archambault.  
 
2. Public Comment-Brian introduced Alicia from MASC as our Field Director. 
 
3. Orientation with MASC Field Director: 
 a. Open Meeting Law-Ms. Mallon discussed the quorum of our committee which is 7 
based on the number of members(12).  Important everyone attends all meetings.  
Mentioned ethics law and respecting executive session-members prohibited from 
talking about any topics discussed in executive session outside of this room.  We are a 
confidential committee and will need to sign a confidentiality statement today. If you 
have a question, can ask Ms. Mallon directly.  
 
Conflict of interest- if there is someone you recognize, related to, etc., have to sign 
ethics document.  Cannot ask a candidate questions about age, race & ethnicity, 
religion, gender, health, disability.   
 
Role of Chair-chair has no more influence over body, one vote.  Help keeps committee 
===PAGE 2===
on track, making motions, posting meeting & minutes.  Start in open session & go into 
executive session to narrow semi-finalists next meeting.  
  
Typically have 8-10 interview applicants. Those meetings will be in executive session, 
not shared with other semifinalists.  Led by MASC rep.  Screening committee has to 
send at least two, maybe three as recommendation to SC.  No more than four. 
Committee can choose how many.  Internal candidates can be given courtesy of 
screening committee interview.  
 
Do’s & Don’t’s- Come into with no preconceived notions. Wide range of applicants, 
keep open mind.  Question as to what happens if we don’t have qualified candidate at 
end of process?  Ms. Mallon said that MASC will come back out and do another 
search for no cost.   
 
Discussed key words/themes important for our district: Budget theme, inclusive, 
communication theme-tone, receptive & outward), community supporter, school 
safety, leader, families, understands needs of district (size, makeup), visibility, honest, 
collaboration (town partnership), data driven,  receptive to feedback.   
 
Homework: think about survey and booklet.  Send three questions, MASC will merge 
and compile into interview questions.  
Will go through questions with group, fine tune.  Ms. Archambault said she will send 
listening session’s feedback to compile for group.  
 
Posting closes March 21st.  Three searches running concurrently-Beverly, Monson, etc.  
Already have applications coming in.  After deadline closes, committee will meet 
again to finalize questions and choose semi-finalists.  Group decides how many to 
bring in, MASC contacts candidates.  Exaample-9 people- 3 people 3 nights.   
 
MASC will send rubric and we will have our own notes from this to formulate top 
candidates.  
After this is sent to School Committee, finalists have a site visit in district, meet with 
admin, tour buildings, meet with teachers, dinner break.  Will have interview with 
School Committee in public at night.   
 
Will have QR code for feedback.     
 
Scheduling-Meet Tuesday the 25th at 5pm to go over questions, pick semifinalists.  Try 
for later that week or next? Ms. Archambault mentioned this falls when she is away.  
Said that another committee member would jump in if necessary. Another SC member 
would have to do all meetings if this was decided so process was not broken.   The 27th 
6:30pm & 28th   5pm & 31st,  6:00pm suggested.  One member gone after 30th, asked 
about virtual.  District visits not until after April Break. 
 
Ms. Foyle suggested interviews in Library classroom, exit right from there to side door 
for parking lot, and more private.   
 
A week from today is deadline to receive questions. When posting closes, MASC will 
send link for drop box for committee to see applicants resumes and experience. 
 
Could make a decision on 31st. Otherwise would want to meet again that week.  Could 
===PAGE 3===
also meet 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th.   
 
Not public until School Committee decides, and then publishes.  Question whether 
internal applicants have to apply?  YES 
 
Posting going out nationally, statewide, social media posts, MASC, MASS. 
 
     Ms. Mallon provided her email and personal cell for any questions or concerns. 
 
     4. Public Comment -none 
      
     5. Adjournment   Motion to adjourn at 5:57pm by Ms. Foyle, seconded by Ms. Hall. 
 
 
 