===PAGE 1===
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103
       
Lunenburg Public Schools
Dr. Jodi Fortuna , Superintendent of Schools
MEETING MINUTES
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE  MEETING
Wednesday, August 6, 2025
  LMHS –  D132
 4 :00  –  Hybrid
School Committee Superintendent
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present Dr. Jodi Fortuna
Laura Brzozoski , Vice Chair  - Present
Emily Young Secretary  - Present
Mandy Gilman , Member  - Present
George Yapp , Member  - Absent
Recording Secretary
Courtney Fuller
Guests :   Tracey O ’Connell Novick –  MASC Field Director
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/ ) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law
1. Call to Order
2. Executive Session  to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel   - Returned to regular session at 6:11
3. Pledge of Allegiance
4. New Business   Ms. Brzozoski announces that Chris McNamara has been hired as our Business Administrator
Action
a. Donations
i. Kevin T Szocik  foundation donated a check in the amount of $895 to Lunenburg Middle High School
Athletics Program  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the motion, Ms.  Young seconds the motion 
all approve
b. Business Administrator Contract Approval  –  Ms.  Gilman makes a motion to accept the contract, Mr.
Sculimbrene seconds the motion, all approve
c. Workshop- Roles & Responsibilities of the School Committee and Superintendent Evaluation  Ms. Tracey 
Novick discusses roles of the school committee along with the process of superintendent evaluations.  Ms. Novick 
shares some worksheet presentations.
5. Adjournment   Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 5:41 Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve
Respectfully Submitted
Courtney Fuller
