===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, April 15, 2026 
        LMHS 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Absent    
Mandy Gilman, Secretary – Present 
Emily Young, Member - Present 
Member,TBD  
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator, Dr. Kimberly Sarfde – Director of Teaching and Learning, Sibyl Kaufman 
- LEAF 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:05 by Dr. Fortuna 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Public Comment Mandy Gilman, I thank both the chair and the superintendents for their comments, we 
have worked collaboratively for a long time over the last eight months with the rest of the town. There 
has been a lot of discussion about why there is not an option for level services funding, I feel strongly 
that the town, when they didn’t endorse the override last year, asked the group of leaders in the town to 
get together and think about a long term plan.  A long term plan is difficult in municipal finance, but the 
reason our budgets that are being represented include a few different things is because the goal of the tri 
board process was to think two to three years in advance, and I think that some of that is getting lost in 
the conversations. 
 
4. Chairs Report – I have watched as the debate online and in other places has unfolded and I want to 
make two comments.  Everybody in town who did not watch the tri board meeting process, which I 
don’t blame you if you didn’t, has to realize that process gave us so much different access to the town’s 
budgeting process then we have ever had before. This process and how it unfolded over the last eight 
months really did engage in a collaborative process to build budgets.  The town charter makes clear that 
we are responsible for the school district’s budget and the town and select board are responsible for their 
budget.  While the select board has an oversight role over the entire budget, they really are separate and 
distinct.  This year, it felt like everybody was making sure everyone else knew where they were and 
what was going on.  We have never seen so much detail about each town department.  The second thing 
is while everyone has opinions, and everyone has the right to their opinions, at the end of the day we are 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
all still neighbors.  If someone, who is your neighbor disagrees with you, or you see fights on Facebook, 
remember that we are all neighbors.  If we are all fighting, it is a beautiful spring in New England, close 
your laptops, push your keyboards away and go for a walk. 
 
5. Student Representative Report – The Primary School has their first grade field trip on May 26. Turkey 
Hill has their third grade field trip on May 27, fourth grade trip is May 29 and the fifth grade is June 3rd.  
The Middle school has their play tomorrow, called Are you Scared Yet.  There is a family DC meeting 
in the auditorium right now.  The students going to Greece leave on Friday.  If you visit our website 
there is a updated information for the seniors. Next week is school vacation.  April 30th is a PTO 
fundraiser at Launch.  Bus sign ups close on May1st, May 2nd is Town meeting, May 16th is Town 
election, May 25th there is no school in observance of Memorial Day and June 18th is the last day of 
school. 
 
6. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session 3/4/26 Ms. Gilman makes a motion to approve the minutes, Ms. Young 
seconds the motion all approve. 
,  
7. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers  None 
b. Warrants $18,547.98 
c. Donations – Visual Arts student scholarship, this is 2 one time scholarships for a graduating 
senior donated by the artisans of Hickory Hills care of Donna Silverstein Ms. Gilman makes a 
motion to accept the donation, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
 
8. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna addresses the upcoming town budget and Proposition 2 ½ 
override votes.  The dedication this community shows to our students and schools is wonderful.  There 
is a strong emphasis on “one town” we all work together.  April 28th at 7:00 at the Eagle House, I invite 
anyone with questions to come meet with our town representatives. 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. Leaf Grant Funds Sybil Kaufman, president of LEAF, gives an update for the status of LEAF, to 
date $8,366 has been raised.  The grant cycle will start May 1, 2026 
b. Prism II & III Grant and Fresh Grant Proposals 2026 Dr. Sarfde presents two grants, one is a 
farm to table grant, and has worked with our Food Service Director to determine how this would 
be used and implemented.  Ms. Young makes a motion to accept the proposal, Ms. Gilman 
seconds the motion all approve.   Dr. Sarfde explains the Prism II and Prism III grants. Ms. 
Gilman makes a motion to approve the submission of the Prism III grant proposal to DESE 
in the amount of $72,250, Ms. Young seconds the motion, all approve.  The Prism III grant is 
for curriculum materials for high quality instruction and potential some professional development, 
focusing on pre-k to grade 5 Ms. Gilman makes a motion to approve the submission of Prism 
III grant, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve 
c. Scholarship Tax EIN’s the committee has been provided the legal opinion in their folders tonight 
with their assertions.  We are currently determining whose tax id numbers all the scholarships are 
using. 
d. Unified Sports and Co -ops Dr. Fortuna shares information with the committe e regarding 
available unified sports and options. Ms. Hanscom shares her perspective on our district culture 
and availability of activities to any and all students 
e. Budget Quarterly Report Mr. McNamara shares the recent quarterly report  
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
f. Personnel Report Ms. Peterson has provided the committee with the updated personnel report 
g. SC Representative for Negotiations  Mr. Sculimbrene and Ms. Young will do the cafeteria 
negotiations and Ms. Brzozoski and Ms. Gilman will do the custodial negotiations  
h. Superintendent Evaluation  Dr. Fortuna has added her list of goals and the different artifacts 
linked to her goals into the committees folder to utilize and prepare the evaluation 
i. First Read Policies 3303 Handling of Cash  Receipts, 5503 Student Data Privacy and 
Security, 5701.01 Administration of Medication, 1303.01 Advertising in Schools 
Ms. Gilman makes a motion to waive the first reading of policy 3303 Handling of Cash 
Receipts, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to waive 
the first reading of policy 5503 Student Data Privacy and Security, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion all approve.  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to waive the first reading of policy 5701.01 
Administration of Medication.  Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve.  Ms. Gilman 
makes a motion to waive the first reading of policy 1303.01 Advertising in schools, Ms. Young 
seconds the motion, all approve    
 
10. Old Business 
Action 
a. Warrant Articles the committee has the link to the warrant article in their folder 
 
Discussion 
b. School Committee Goals the goals are added to the committees’ folder, the future of Turkey 
Hill, the Primary School parking lot and driveway. 
 
11. Public Comments for issues discussed tonight  None 
 
12. Reports from Sub-Committees  Ms. Gilman reports the House budget came out today and it does 
include $160 per kid more than originally though and a little bit more in circuit breaker money, not sure 
on the amount yet 
 
13.  Topics for Future Discussion  
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Gilman makes a motion to adjourn at 8:46, Ms. Young seconds the motion all 
approve. 
 
 
Submitted Respectfully, 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                          