===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, April 1, 2026 
        LMHS 6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Secretary – Present 
Emily Young, Member - Present 
Member,TBD  
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator, Christopher Stevens – Director of Facilities 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Ac cess Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Public Comment Eden Perrine 18 White Tail Crossing I am going to advocate about school sports 
counting as gym credits for high school students.  I have multiple reasons behind why this would be 
beneficial for students and for the athletic department.  The first supporting reason this would be 
beneficial is that it would increase the number of people involved in school sports.  If students could free 
their schedule of a gym class and instead play an afterschool sport it would allow students to fulfill other 
credits while still being able to take classes they are interested in taking. An increase in the number of 
kids trying out for sports they would be interested in participating would be instrumental as the teams 
would be bigger.  In the fall of 2025, the boys varsity and jv soccer teams barely had enough students to 
field a game. They resorted to a large number of players swinging for both teams.  With more students 
on the team, they would be able to have two full teams, which would fill the field positions and still 
leave substitutions. There have been multiple studies showcasing that students who participate in after 
school sports have overall better mental health.  A study published in the journal of adolescent health 
found that students who play an afterschool sport had less stress and better mental health as young 
adults.  In a study, they surveyed 850 students from 10 different schools about participation in school 
sports and met up with them again 3 years after graduation and found those that were involved in school 
sports had lower depression symptoms, lower stress, and better mental health than those who did not 
play any sports.  The study co-author Katherine Sabistston even made the statements “team sports offer 
a heightened emphasis on group goals, social support, and sense of connection that provides more 
opportunity for learning adaptive coping strategies that can be essential or long –term mental health” 
She explains that students playing after school sports had a good increase in mental health even as they 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
got older.  Another reason supporting the idea of after school sports counting for credit is that more 
people joining sports teams would increase the income as students would pay athletic fees and more 
parents/guardians attending these games would add to the interest fee revenue.  We won’t have to worry 
about students not doing PE either. Those who don’t do any sports would still apply for gym credits and 
those who like it will continue.  I asked 53 people from a mixture of grades, non-student athletes vs 
school athletes to get the students perspective.  I created an anonymous survey and the results showed 
that 100% of students said they supported the idea and would be willing to join an afterschool sport if 
they didn’t already if this were to pass.  Though one was concerned that they enjoyed PE and played an 
after school sport, I explained they were still able to choose gym as a class.  My last point explaining 
why this would be beneficial is that students should be able to take classes they look forward to while 
taking other credit inducing classes.  Kids could take two semesters of other credit gain classes while 
still being able to be in classes that they were interested in.  This is why I think that income-wise, mental 
health wise, participation wise and schedule wise this would be beneficial if the school adopted the idea 
that after school sports could count as PE credits for high school. 
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street I have been a resident for 50 years, I am a concerned citizen about a 
whole bunch of different things. I don’t think I have heard anyone say if we do an override we will rid 
ourselves of this problem, I hear just the opposite, it may be a few years, how long? Who knows? So 
before I vote on something I’d really like the whole enchilada, as they say.  What is the best projection 
that we can do so we can have a long range and short range ideas?  I know I don’t have to tell you things 
are pretty tough today.   Number 2 we talk about a lot of things, but not necessarily the building and the 
programs that we need as we go on, its scattered her or there and that plays a big role in costs. I’ve heard 
rumblings about, but no real discussion that centers around bleachers, turf, and the buildings and that all 
equates to money.  The Lions Club started the food pantry at TCP, they take care of thousands of people 
a month, when this idea first came about and I was asked to help out if I could, I said yes, but I didn’t 
think there was a big demand, and I was wrong.  Thanksgiving we gave out two big boxes of food to 
125 plus families, this is a testament to the fact that things are not good right now.  I was in CVS one 
time and there was an elderly lady in front of me talking to the pharmacist and said “well, you really 
really have to take these pills, twice a day” and the lady said, well I ran out to quick, and the pharmacist 
said let me see what I can do, he took her aside and told her there was a special on the prescription, but it 
is only good if you take it as it is prescribed. She said ok I will try.  He said you can take two pills every 
single day for 90 days and we will see what we can do after that.  And she said, oh thank you, I hope I 
will feel better.  Can you imagine talking to your grandmother or your aunt?  It happens and it happens 
around here.  I went into my pocket and made sure that lady would be taken care of.  For those of you 
that don’t know, we have had two tragedies in this town when young people had horrific accidents and 
we pulled together, we build houses, we bought houses, because one of the youngsters was accepted at 
the University of Florida on a doctorate and the other one needed some help, so we get it done.  The 
point is we made it happen.  I have confidence we will continue to do that, but we need to keep our 
heads on straight 
Laura Brzozoski May 2, Saturday is town meeting, you need to come and vote and then Saturday May 
16th is the election.  The override has to pass at both town meeting and the ballot box, you need to sign 
up for both. 
Mandy Gilman I took 3 students, 2 seniors and 1 junior, from Lunenburg High School yesterday to 
testify at the state house in support of more school funding.  It was a great day, Jason, Jade, and Kara 
were thoughtful and interested and I hope they enjoyed it.   I had a great day, but I do want people to 
know although depressing listening to all the schools, it is not just a Lunenburg problem, this is a 
statewide problem.  I am always going to hopeful that Margaret Scarsdale, our state rep is working 
incredibly hard to push though changes to Chapter 70 formula.  I am hoping we will get the override and 
limp through a few years and that the Chapter 70 formula changes. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
4. Chairs Report – I spoke with Capital Planning this  morning and can confirm that there are three things 
that capital plan proposed on our behalf that were approved by the town manager and were the two 
feasibility studies for the primary school, one for driveway and playground, also the cameras system for 
the entrance 
 
5. Student Representative Report – None 
 
6. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna highlights our students and the why behind our work, she shares 
some recent experiences in the classrooms.  We have had a busy week with many committee meetings 
and to ensure the community remains fully informed we have officially launched the districts FY27 
budget and FAQ web page that can be found on our main website. 
 
7. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session 2/4/26 & 2/25/26 Ms. Gilman makes a motion to approve the minutes, Ms. 
Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve.  The minutes are approved for 2/4/26 by the full 
committee.  The minutes on 2/25/26 are approved with 1 abstention 
,  
8. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers   
b. Warrants 3/18/26 to 3/27/26 $368,414.29 
c. Donations – Betsy B. Parker Scholarship – funds were accepted, at the time the transfer from the 
estate to the executor, the funds were not available, once this is resolved we will bring back to 
the committee. 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. Congressionally Directed Grant Funds seeking $300,000 in one time funding to address 
increasing student needs. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion that the committee authorize the 
superintendent to submit an FY 27 congressionally directed spending proposal titled 
Lunenburg Districtwide Instructional Implementation System Development Initiative in the 
amount of $300,000 to work with our legislative delegation to advance this request, Ms. 
Young seconds the motion all approve. 
b. Monthly Spending Report Chris McNamara has shared an updated monthly spending report Ms. 
Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Young seconds the motion all approve. 
c. Spring Athletics Report The committee has received an updated spring athletics report in their 
folder. Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Young seconds the motion all 
approve. 
d. Food Exemption – ATM Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the waiver for the food 
and covered beverages in the LMHS auditorium for the boards during the town meeting, 
Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve. 
e. Buss Fee Decision Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept the bus fee, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion all approve 
f. Life Long Learning Program Decision After a discussion of the program, including costs and 
participation it is decided to discontinue this program for  the time being.  Ms. Gilman makes a 
motion to sunset the Life long learning program effective June 1 2026, Ms. Young seconds 
the motion all approve  
g. Draft letter for Legislature Ms. Gilman drafted a letter to the Senate Ways and Means and House 
Ways and Means chairs and our legislators regarding the budget situations Mr. Sculimbrene 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
makes a motion to approve the letter and have it sent out, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion 
all approve. 
h. Vote to cosponsor the warrant article for Kids Kingdom with the Select board To ensure this 
goes on the agenda at Town Meeting the committee votes again. Ms., Gilman makes a motion to 
cosponsor the warrant for Kids Kingdom with the Select board, Ms.  Brzozoski seconds the 
motion all approve 
 
10. Old Business 
Action 
a. Facilities and Grounds Report Mr. Stevens shares an update on the Facilities and Grounds  
Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the report, 
all approve 
 
11. Public Comments for issues discussed tonight 
 
Ms. Young I am struggling with the unified sports, I would like it to be a bigger conversation at some 
time. I don’t want it to be swept under the rug.  I’d like to look at it again and see what we can do for 
kids with disabilities. 
 
12. Reports from Sub-Committees    
Ms. Brzozoski the school advisory committee for the middle school met and talked about the grade 8 
world language and the override, middle school sports being in the restoration budget, one of our 
students is doing the Project 351 with cradles to crayons clothing drive, Julia Melvin is representing 
Lunenburg. 
Ms. Young April 2, PACSAL will be meeting at the Middle High School at 6 pm and they will be doing 
a planting project. 
Ms. Gilman The PTO raised over $15,000 at the Special Someone Dance. I want to thank everyone.  
We had our Great Wolf Lodge fundraiser that went really well.  There is a movie night on Saturday to 
see the Super Mario Bros. at 10 am  The Primary School Advisory Board met we talked about the 
changes in schedules.  The MCAS is happening at Turkey Hill 
Mr. Sculimbrene The High School advisory is meeting on Thursday, we need to do one policy 
subcommittee before the end of the year 
Dr. Fortuna The committee should start thinking about my evaluation and also I have an announcement 
that the principal at Turkey Hill next year will be Mr. McGrath from the Middle school.  You will see 
two postings Dr. Beth Anne Cormier has announced her retirement, we will have an entirely new 
administrative team at Turkey Hill 
 
13.  Topics for Future Discussion contract negotiations, HR report 
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 8:50, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion 
all approve. 
 
 
Submitted Respectfully, 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                                          