===PAGE 1===
129 Northfield Rd, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING NOTICE 
TRI-BOARD MEETING AGENDA 
 
Date: Tuesday, March 24, 2026   Time: 7:00 PM 
Location: Town Hall –Bilotta Meeting Room   Broadcast Status: In Person/Remote 
 
 School Committee Superintendent 
Anthony Sculimbrene, TBD Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair 
Mandy Gilman, Secretary Recording Secretary 
TBD, Member                                                                                                                                  Courtney Fuller 
Emily Young, Member 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its 
hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio 
transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately 
upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the 
meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
 
This meeting will be held in -person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to  attend this in -
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy t o the 
public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broad cast, unless otherwise 
required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in -person 
vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607?omn=83933248201 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475 -4499 and 
enter Webinar ID: 766 316 7607  # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail 
address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
I.   TRI-BOARD CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
II.  PUBLIC COMMENT- The Tri-Board seeks public comment on the FY27 budget.  
 
III. FY27 BUDGET AND PROPOSITION 2 ½ OVERRIDE  
 
IV. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
VI. ADJOURN 
 
Note:  
a) References to the Tri-Board and Tri-Chair in the context of this meeting refer to Finance Committee, School Committee and Select Board b) 
Material discussed in the Tri-Board Meetings may be further deliberated in future, individual Committee meetings 
Lunenburg Public Schools  
 
 
Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  
