===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, January 7, 2026 
       Town Hall 
 7:00 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Jodi Fortuna 
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present    
Mandy Gilman, Secretary – Present 
Emily Young, Member - Present 
Member - TBD 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests:   Christopher McNamara – Business Administrator, Nick Valorie –President East Coast Renewable Energy, Matt Paraliticci – 
ECR Representative, Peter Beardmore, CPC Member 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order at 7:00 by  Mr. Sculimbrene 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance  
 
3. Public Comment - None 
 
4. Chairs Report – We are still looking for a fifth member, this term would be until May.  You would not 
have to run, you would be appointed. 
 
5. Student Representative Report - None 
 
6. Review and Approve Minutes 
a. Regular session 11/5/25, 12/3/25, 12/17/25 Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve the 
minutes, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
,  
7. Review and Approve Line Items, Transfers, Warrants 
a. Line Item Transfers  None 
b. Warrants 12/13/25 to 1/5/26 $516,336.86 
c. Donations – None 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Jodi Fortuna, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
8. Superintendents Report Dr. Fortuna reports our Literacy Coach abruptly resigned on Monday and we 
will not be filling that position going forward.  This is a grant funded position and we will be directing 
those funds to more direct services for the children. 
 
9. New Business 
Discussion 
a. Solar East Coast Renewable energy Proposal – The owner of East Coast Renewable Energy 
presents to the committee options available to the school, to add chargers for electric vehicles.  
Benefits of having a charging station on the property are discussed along with the responsibilities 
of the school to take care of the charging station.  An electric bill can be submitted to the 
company and a proposal can be put together. 
b. Track/Turf Field Design Plan Discussion Mr. Beardmore, comments as representative to the 
Capital Planning Committee.  Mr. Beardmore has sent a prioritized list to the committee via 
email on December 18th.  The top three items are for the DPW and the bridge construction on 
Flat Hill Road, a patrol cruiser, and a replacement of the town’s brush truck.  The first two 
school related project which is number 9 are the intercoms at Turkey Hill and Primary School for 
the entrance doors and the cameras that are associated with those buzzers.  The safety film and 
the mower are number 14 and 15.  The heat for the maintenance garage is number 19, In total the 
requests were 3.267 million dollars.  In terms of the track/turf design, the proposal came in the 
week of December 16th, it was then forwarded to Mr. Beardmore by the facilities director and 
superintendence, cam in just under $200,000.  We need to come up with a plan for this as soon as 
possible, we cannot move forward until we have the engineering and bid work.  We need a new 
surface, drainage, and new construction/walls. 
c. Kids Kingdom Relocation The select board has sent the committee a proposal to the school 
committee for permission to move kids’ kingdom for example 20 feet in one direction.  Mr. 
Sculimbrene would like to relinquish Kids Kingdom over to the Town of Lunenburg.  Mr. 
Sculimbrene makes a motion to remit care and custody of Kids Kingdom to the Town of 
Lunenburg, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, the motion passes with 3 approvals and 1 
abstention. 
 
10. Old Business 
Action 
a. Mid – Year Curriculum Report Dr. Sarfdie sent a comprehensive report to the committee, she 
explains to the committee a summary discussion on what and how Lunenburg is doing at this 
point in the year.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept the report, Ms. Gilman seconds 
the report, all approve 
 
Discussion 
b. 2026 -2027 School Calendar Liz has included in the folders, feedback, that we have received 
regarding the proposed calendar.  The committee discusses parent/teacher conference dates and 
kindergarten screenings and start dates.  Calendar will be brought forth again in the future for a 
vote to approve 
c. FY 25 and FY 26 Budget Update Chris McNamara gives an update, we are on track for FY 26 
for spending.  We are in a good position 
d. Future of THES We do need to look at next year’s capital planning and make some changes for 
requests.  We can come up with some suggestions that we can ask for that will work toward 
ADA compliance.  Discussion of a rebuild vs a new building and also with MSBA assistance.  
Dr. Fortuna states the first phase needs to be the restrooms, they’re not accessible.  Tony will 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
come up with a draft proposal for the committee to have a goal to aim for in regard of the THES 
future. 
 
11. Reports from Sub-Committees Ms. Young reports tomorrow is the PACSAL meeting at 6 in the 
Lunenburg Middle School, in person and zoom.  Ms. Gilman reports the PTO met on Monday night, we 
have the Special Someone dance, tickets go on sale tomorrow, and they are still looking for businesses 
that would like to sponsor the event.  We also have some blankets left for sale, they are $30 and you can 
email the president of the PTO.  A shout out to the businesses that have sponsored, Gatsby Grounds 
Company will be our presenting sponsor.  Powell’s has given us a fundraiser.  Damon McQuade, 
architect, Lynn Walsh – Real Estate, Styles Company, Photos by Jen, Biotech Builders Group,  Nedloh 
Mechanical, and Keatings.  The PTO is doing a Great Wolf Lodge night in March and we will receive 
$15 or $20 per reservation.  The committee will work together to have a representative to FinCom. 
 
12. Public Comment Ms Brzozoski is excited about the cooperation between town departments, and feels 
it’s a real theme this year.  I appreciate that and our team.  Mr. Sculimbrene comments that on 
Christmas Eve, they were driving to family in Rhode Island and his 15 year old son engaged them for 
over an hour and a half on the Palestinian Israeli situation.  It was very clear to me that a lot of what he 
had learned came from contact with the educator in our town.  It was amazing and the best Christmas 
present I could have gotten.  It was intelligent and insightful.  He had facts, figures, and statistics that I 
was unaware of.  Having full discussions about issues of the day with your kids is incredible.  I wanted 
to thank all of the people that educate our children in the town.  Ms. Young reports on the Turkey Hill 
study there are 10 accessibility issues identified to be worked on over a number of years and the cost 
was estimated at $1,250,000. 
 
13.  Topics for Future Discussion  Turkey Hill, override,  
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 9:40, Ms. Gilman  seconds the motion 
all approve                 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted,.07 
 
 
Courtney Fuller                                                                                                                                                                            