===PAGE 1===
 
 
Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District 
Administration Board 
Operations Committee 
Special Meeting Minutes 
April 27, 2023 
9:30AM 
Meeting conducted via Webex 
 
ATTENDEES PRESENT: 
Kristen Rubin, Chair of Administration Board – Town of Berlin 
Meg Delorier, Vice Chair of Administration Board – Mass Development/Devens 
Don Lowe – Town of Bolton 
Kate Hodges – Town of Lancaster 
Heather Lemieux – Town of Lunenburg 
Chief Thomas Gammel, Chair of Operations Committee – Town of Lunenburg PD 
Chief Timothy Kelly, Vice-Chair of Operations Committee – Mass Development/Devens FD 
Chief Eric Schartner – Town of Berlin PD 
Chief Michael McQuillen – Town of Berlin FD 
Chief Warren Nelson – Town of Bolton PD 
Chief Jeffrey Legendre – Town of Bolton FD 
Lt. Reid Bagley – MSP Devens 
Chief James Babu – Town of Harvard PD 
Chief Richard Sicard – Town of Harvard FD 
Chief Everett Moody – Town of Lancaster PD 
Chief Michael Hanson – Town of Lancaster FD 
Chief Patrick Sullivan – Town of Lunenburg FD 
Director Anne Camaro – NVRDD 
Supervisor Peter Kinnas – NVRDD 
Supervisor Glenn Casey – NVRDD  
Executive Director Frank Pozniak – State 911 Department 
Director of Programs Monna Wallace – State 911 Department 
Director of Special Projects Joseph Crean – State 911 Department 
Lt. Andrew Perry – Town of Harvard FD 
 
NOT PRESENT: 
Marie Sobalvarro, Town of Harvard 
 
 
I. CALL TO ORDER:    
 
With both the Administration Board and Operations Committee quorum present and acting, 
the meeting was called to order by the Administration Board Chair at 9:33am. 
 
II. DISCUSSION OF STATE 911 REQUEST RE: BOXBOROUGH'S 911 CALLS 
 
Director Camaro was given the floor to present the request from State 911 Department, for 
NVRDD to take over and process 9-1-1 calls for the Town of Boxborough for 60 days. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Director Camaro also presented the concerns previously sent to her by members of both the 
Admin Board and Operations Committee: 
• What happens at the end of the 60 days, if the Town of Boxborough is not able to 
staff their communications center? 
• What is the Town of Boxborough doing to mitigate the issue? 
• Why isn’t their back-up center able to take over their calls? 
• There’s a concern about taking on another community in an ‘emergency’ situation, 
and being forced into another “Townsend Situation”. 
 
Monna Wallace from State 911 Department addressed the concerns: 
• Currently the Town of Boxborough has 2 officers and 1 dispatcher certified. They are 
hoping to be back to their optimal staffing (5) by the end of the sixty days. 
• The Town of Boxborough is actively searching, interviewing and training staff to work in 
the comm center. 
• The Town of Stow is the alternate PSAP for Boxborough. They are however, unable to 
take on the calls from Boxborough as they are a single-dispatcher PSAP. 
• The State 911 Department does not believe that the Town of Boxborough would be 
rushing into a regional center without pre-planning. 
 
Administration Board Chair Kristen Rubin opened the floor for other comments, concerns and 
discussion. 
 
Chief Gammel stated his concerns with the arrangements: 
• 60-days is not enough time to get staffing levels back up. 
• NVRDD Communities pay their assessments, and are concerned with taking on a town 
with no financial compensation. 
Monna Wallace addressed the concerns from Chief Gammel, by saying that State 911 will 
continue to monitor and work with the Town of Boxborough to address the staffing issue. Frank 
Pozniak advised that State 911 can provide NVRDD with financial reimbursement for any 
overtime incurred as a result of this arrangement. 
 
Don Lowe also expressed his concerns with regards to the arrangement. He agrees with the points 
brought up by Chief Gammel and added that it will be important to define what happens at day 
61, and he is concerned with NVRDD’s staff getting burned out. 
 
Director Camaro took the floor, and advised she has had a conversation with NVRDD’s 
Dispatcher Union, and that they are in favor. She opened the floor to Supervisor Kinnas 
(scheduler) and Supervisor Casey (Union President). 
 
Supervisor Casey advised of not having a microphone, but that he was in favor of the 
arrangement. 
 
Supervisor Kinnas talked about the scheduling process at NVRDD and that he did not think there 
would be an issue filling the open shifts. He was also a proponent for the arrangement, as he 
believed this arrangement would showcase NVRDD as a good neighbor and willing to work with 
our public safety partners. 
 
Chief Babu took the floor and favored the arrangement, agreeing with Supervisor Kinnas.  
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Heather Lemieux took the floor and aired her concern with what will happen after the 60-days. 
Both Monna Wallace and Frank Pozniak advised that they will be monitoring the situation, and 
will continuously provide updates to Director Camaro. 
Chief Babu wanted clarification that NVRDD would only be taking 9-1-1 Calls, and was advised 
that yes, it would only be 9-1-1 calls, followed by a transfer to the Boxborough Police. 
 
With no further discussion, Chief Gammel entertained a motion to accept the State 911 Proposal, 
where NVRDD will answer and transfer 9-1-1 calls originating in the Town of Boxborough to the 
Boxborough Police Department for the period of 60 days. 
 
Chief Sicard made the motion and it was seconded by Chief Kelly. With no further discussion 
requested, a roll call vote was completed: 
Chief Hanson: Aye 
Chief Sullivan: Aye 
Chief Sicard: Aye 
Chief Kelly: Aye 
Chief Schartner: Aye 
Chief Moody: Aye 
Chief Babu: Aye 
Chief Legendre: Aye 
Chief Nelson: No 
Lt. Bagley: Aye 
Chief McQuillen: Aye 
Chief Gammel: No 
With a majority, the motion passed and was referred to the Administration Board. 
 
Kristen Rubin entertained a motion to accept the State 911 Proposal, where NVRDD will answer 
and transfer 9-1-1 calls originating in the Town of Boxborough to the Boxborough Police 
Department for the period of 60 days. Heather Lemieux asked for further discussion and amended 
the motion as follows: motion to accept the State 911 Proposal, where NVRDD will answer and 
transfer 9-1-1 calls originating in the Town of Boxborough to the Boxborough Police Department 
for the period of 60 days. With status reports every 30 days, and a meeting 15 days prior to the 
end of the 60 days to discuss the progress of the Town of Boxborough in achieving their staffing 
goal. 
Meg Delorier made the motion and it was seconded by Kristen Rubin. With no further discussion 
requested, a roll call vote was completed: 
Heather Lemieux: Aye 
Kate Hodges: Aye 
Meg Delorier: Aye 
Don Lowe: No 
Kristen Rubin: Yes 
With a majority, the motion passed.  
 
Director Camaro will finalize the procedure and will distribute to operations committee for 
approval. 
 
With no other business Chief Gammel entertained a motion to adjourn the meeting at 10:02am. 
Motion was made by Chief Moody, and seconded by Chief Sullivan.  
 
With no other business Kristen Rubin entertained a motion to adjourn the meeting at 10:02am. 
Motion was made by Heather Lemieux, and seconded by Meg Delorier.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
 