===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, November 8, 2023 
        Special Meeting 5:30 p.m. - Remote 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair – Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   Michael Cassidy  
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Ellen A. Whittemore 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 5:00 
 
2. Public Comment None 
 
3. New Business 
Action 
a. Appointment of Director of Administration & Finance Dr. Burnham introduces Ms. Whittemore to the 
committee and to the public.  Ms. Whittemore takes the time to share about herself and her family and why she has 
interest in this position with Lunenburg School District. The members of the committee ask questions regarding her 
desire and abilities to join our district Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion for Dr. Burnham to move forward and 
work with Ms. Whittemore to secure her employment with Lunenburg Public Schools.  Mr. Sculimbrene 
seconds the motion.  All approve via roll call vote 
 
4. Public Comment – None 
 
5. Adjournment – Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to adjourn at 6:03 Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion.  All approve via 
roll call vote 
: 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  
