===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, December 6, 2023 
Town Hall Meeting Room 
          6:30 p.m. - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present    Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member- Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Mrs. Lynn Radford 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brou ght up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment - None 
 
4. Chair’s Report Ms. Archambault reports Mr. Lehtinen wrote a letter to legislature in regards to funding emergency.  Ms. 
Archambault read the letter out loud and the committee agrees the letter is well written and should be sent.  Thank you to all 
that participated in the Tree Lighting.  Thank you to Ms. Peterson for the work being done with the past classes and 
advisories, she has received an email from the President of the class of 2017,  Brendan Tobin, Ms. Archambault read the letter 
out loud for the committee, and notes that Ms. Peterson is working with him on the request for funds. 
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Special Meeting 11/8/23 – Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Beardmore seconded the 
motion, all approve 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 11/14-12/4/23 $206,275.16   No questions from the committee, Ms. Archambault has signed off, 
and the warrant will be processed.  No line item transfers Mr. Beardmore requests that a link be included in the 
meeting folder for the warrants. 
 
7. Superintendent’s Report Dr. Burnham shares that Mrs. Whittemore will have a start date of February 12, 2024.  We also 
have a new Assistant Principal at the Lunenburg High School, Mrs. Burns and will begin work on January 1, 2024, a brief 
history of Mrs. Burns experience and education was given. There was a safer watch session held, we had 2 parents attend the 
meeting on Monday.  Student meetings on safer watch will be happening soon.  The District Safety team will plan a “test” of 
the new app in the late winter/early spring.  The FBI has issued an alert to the Massachusetts Association of Superintendents, 
there are reports that unauthorized individuals have been gaining access to schools, there are no local cases of this and all 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
admin and secretaries have been informed.  A resident in town has interest in some pictures and records of the old TCP 
dating back to the 1950’s and 1960’s, this will come in front of the school committee for a vote to release to the historical 
society.   
 
Upcoming Dates 
Annual Secretaries gift card drive ends this Friday 
December 8th Basketball Booster Craft Fair 9-2 in Middle School Cafeteria 
December 14 & 15 Music Concerts 
December 20, 2023 Next School Committee meeting 6:30 at MS Collab room 
December 25-1/1/24 Winter Break, All schools will be closed and reopen on January 2, 2024 
 
We are beginning the holiday season, Happy Hanukah to all that celebrate. 
 
8. Student Representative Report Our student representative reports all the students are looking forward to winter break, that 
is right around the corner.   The Primary School officially has apparel for sale.  Turkey Hill “Girls on a Run” won a 5K race .  
Emma Barooshian was chosen for project 351 in the Middle School.  The High School student council is running a gift 
wrapping service starting next week, there will be a winter semi-formal dance on December 16th, and winter sports have 
started. 
 
9. New Business 
Action  
a. Initial Spain Trip Approval Mrs. Radford presents her slide show for an anticipated approval for a trip to Spain in 
April of 2025.  The trip would take place 4/18/25-4/26/25, there will be no school missed for the students that attend 
the trip.  Ms. Brzozoski asked a few questions regarding vendor and fees and how it compared to the planned trip to 
Costa Rica.  Mr. Beardmore thanks Ms. Radford for a great Itinerary, what is the timeline on how this will be 
marketing to students.  Mrs. Radford shares, if she receives approval tonight, she will be sharing the information 
with students tomorrow, there is no official deadline for signing up, but Mrs. Radford prefers to cut off registration 
at the end of this school year.  Mr. Beardmore comments about equity and all the conversations and meetings that 
have been based on equity, and because of that he will be voting “no” on approval.  Mr. Lehtinen thanks Mrs. 
Radford for organizing this trip.  Ms Archambault supports what Mr. Beardmore is saying about k ids wanting to go, 
but we really do not have a policy regarding this and we keep things fair.   Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to 
approve the trip to Spain, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion.  Mr. Sculimbrene - yes, Mr. Lehtinen yes, Ms. 
Brzozoski – yes, Mr. Beardmore – no, Ms. Archambault yes 
 
b. Donation   The High school received a donation from Bright Funds, an employer of one of our students of $656.41, 
this will be put into the gift account.  Turkey Hill, received $267 from Hannaford Helps, and will be deposited into 
the gift account.  Turkey Hill was given $1500.00 from the PTO and will be entered into the gift account.  The PTO 
also gave $1500.00 to the Primary Schools and this will go into Student Activities to help with future field trips.  
Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to accept these donations with g ratitude, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all 
approve. 
 
Discussion 
c. Winter Sport Report A report is supplied from Mr. Bigelow regarding participation in winter sports.  Mr. 
Beardmore comments that some sports are doing really well from a numbers perspecti ve.  He has concerns about the 
numbers on the football team, and maybe we should consider a co-op like we do with Hockey.  They discuss reasons 
could be low for any of the sports.  As a school committee we do not make changes for sports as it would be left  to 
the Athletic Director to make sure sports are running safely and with enough players.  
 
d. Francis W. Parker Essential Charter School Report The annual report is shared with the committee.  This report 
is supplied to the committee because we have students from Lunenburg that attend the Charter School 
 
e. Capital Planning Mr. Beardmore and Dr. Burnham presented the capital plan to the Capital Planning Committee 
three weeks ago, since that committee has met twice.  The committee will begin ranking the items on the 18 th.  The 
members were unclear as to why we needed detailed engineered plans for Turkey Hill, but not the same for TCP 
renovations.  However, we originally thought with MSBA that there was a 10 year commitment, it is actually a 
usage life expectancy.  There is skepticism on window films and we don’t think Turkey h ill will receive support, 
however it doesn’t need the building design and could possibly move forward in February.  The committee discusses 
MSBA and their requirements and troubles with communications, the MSBA is very clear on their requirements, but 
their requirements and parameters change often.  Mapping out a 10 year plan is hard when MSBA’s guidelines can 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
change annually, along with town timelines being very different from MSBA timelines.  Ms . Brzozoski asks if we 
submit a letter of interest, when do we have to make the commitment to the project. Mr. Beardmore thinks we 
should withdraw the windows now, but not the need, we just do not have enough numbers, Ms. Archambault agrees.  
Ms Archambault lists the main points of the conversation pull window request for this year, send communication to 
MSBA, and  request for Turkey Hill schematics be pushed to FY26. Mr. L ehtinen asks Dr. Burnham’s opinion, and 
she would not be recommending to move forward with roof or windows if that means we commit to keep the 
building open for 25-30 years, but she is not opposed to bumping it.  Mr. Beardmore offers to draft a letter to t he 
MSBA to the Executive Director and give to Ms. Archambault for committee approval.    Ms. Brzozoski makes a 
motion to pull the window replacement from the Capital Plan, but not the safely film, Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, all approve 
 
f. Response to LEA Negotiations A draft letter has been provided in the school committee folder. Ms. Archambault 
reads the response letter out loud and proposes a meeting as possible in January. Mr. Beardmore makes a motion 
to approve the letter, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve 
 
10. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. Student Activity Class Account Reallocation Work is continuing to be done with these accounts.  The secretaries 
at the High School have reached out to any class advisors, they have been able to track down, as of now classes 
2003, 2007, 2010, 2016, and 2018, have no activity or communication with us with a total of $11,215.23.  Dr 
Burnham reminds the committee of a line being created and used for High School field trip scholarships.  These 
accounts have been inactive for multiple years and our policy states after 2 years it is a loss to the class of funds.  
Ms. Brzozoski, is not comfortable to vote on this.  Mr. Beardmore appreciates the idea to create scholarships, but 
also is a big believer in multiple attempts in communication to really have exhausted all options and pathways to get 
ahold the class advisors.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to continue all communication, including Facebook 
and social media, inviting class officers to reach out as soon as possible, no later than the end of the fiscal year 
6/30/2024, at that time all left over funds will be transferred to another account for future scholarships for 
travel abroad field trips.  Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion.  Mr. Lehtinen – yes, Mr. Beardmore – yes, 
Mr. Sculimbrene – yes, Ms. Brzozoski – no, Ms. Archambault – yes. 
 
b. FY Budget Development In the folder are some examples of the kinds of data that we are using pending our 
decisions on cuts.  Information is broken out to social worker caseloads by bui lding, services including IEPs, and 
504’s for current students.  We broke down as our kids move forward how many classes we will need for K -6 to 
have approximately 25 students per classroom and 6-8 may have 28-29 students.  There is a breakdown of classes 
offered at the high school and an expectation of how many levels of classes needed.  
 
11. Reports Mr. Sculimbrene reports the PTO met on the 4th, Officer McNamara and Hank walked everyone through the safer 
watch program.  They will be holding a craft fair on Saturday 9-2.  The Trolls movie was sold out.  The Special Someone 
dance was very successful last year, this year it is going to be on February 3 or 10 and will be held at two different times on 
the same day, this year the PTO will also be seeking sponsors for the dance. 
 
 Mr. Lehtinen reports the Finance Committee met on November 30 th  Chris Menard brought up capital planning, and 
mentioned previously as a town we rallied around parks, and now we need to rally around buildings  The town manager went 
over funding and whether some items should be the operating budget versus the capital budget ie. Police cars or bulletproof 
vests.  The treasurer will attend on 12/7/23 and the committee will meet again on 1/11.  Third quarter preliminary tax bills 
will be the same as the 1st and 2nd quarter, the 4th quarter will be higher  Green communities was brought up and how maybe 
each department should reach out to them with their 10 year capital plan, so Green Communities can get in front of some of 
the projects.  Dr Burnham shares that Mr. Hevy has reached out to the state regarding Green Community Grants and the only 
item on our 10 year plan that would possibly be allowable are the mini-splits only if we use them for heat.   
 
Mr. Beardmore reports the Athletic Advisory met on the 27th and will be having two fundraisers, Ice Hockey will have be 
selling ads and will be distributed at their Alumni game on January 5th and subsequent home games.  Boys and girls 
basketball will be doing raffle calendars, drawings to be held throughout the month of January. A presentation by Caitlyn 
Germain, the Athletic Director for Notre Dame Academy, was given during the meeting that shared new fundraising ideas, 
apps and sponsorships from businesses.  The High School Advisory Committee will  meet tomorrow at 3, I won’t be able to 
make it, but I will meet with Mr. Santry separately.   
 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Ms. Brzozoski reports Pascal met via zoom on 11/16 there is a new format and platform for IEP’s and this will be 
significantly longer and more detailed.  You can receive four free covid at home tests at covidtest.gov.  We will be updating 
our bylaws 
 
Ms. Archambault reports Master Planning Committee has not met   The Middle School Council met on Tuesday and had a 
general budget discussion, Middle School guidance position that has not been filled, however, they are using a substitute with 
significant training, NEAP assessment 1/30/24, 50 random 8th graders will be taking either the Math or English test.  
Registration for the DC trip is open, financial aid is built into the price.  Also, some information about a 5 year grant to help 
with screening for substance abuse and mental health.  The last discussion we had was how it’s hard for the students to have 
to make choices between Jazz band and basketball in the afternoon 
 
Dr. Burnham clarifies that there is a 5 year grant with ESPIRT, Mass General that helps us deal with substance use, trained 
coaches will be in to work with students.  Parents are able to opt-out of the program. There was a presentation for staff at the 
middle high school staff, and coaches will be brought in to work with us through the partnership.  
 
12. Public Comment Ms. Mary Foyle, 95 Flat Hill Road, as a teacher over the past 6 or 7 years I have been in three different 
departments I welcome you into my classroom anytime, to catch a glimpse of high school life.  Years ago when we made a 
decision to not regionalize, that did mean that we would have to support some classes with low numbers, effectiveness does 
not always equal efficient.  As a member of the LEA union and as we about to start negotiations for the contract that we do 
ask for flexibility on available times, 7 pm on one night as the only option, is really hard for us to be able to get all of our 
stuff together and also late for some serious conversations.  As a class advisor of 2005, I did have a past student reach out to 
me regarding the funds, we have $1000.00 in our account and it has not been very easy to get this money, this process takes 
time.  As a teacher I would like to comment regarding the possibility of a line being created for funding assistance for foreign 
trips, maybe instead it could have a broader use and include all field trips.  Dr. Burnham states, The Primary School has an 
account to help defray costs of field trips and perhaps, when donations come into the high school, there could be 
opportunities for those monies to be used for more local field trips similar to the Primary School.    As far as the process for 
class funds, we have recently learned that some banks are requiring quite a lot be done in order to open these accounts, and it 
might be worthwhile to explore banks and options.  Mr. Lehtinen states he saw in The Gardner News that Murdock had a 
boiler explosion, Thanksgiving, and had to move students to different buildings and change of school hours for a period of 
time, it was an informative article, that also brought up some of the issues that we have discussed with Turkey Hill  
 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
 
Master Panning 
Liaison for Green Communities 
 
14. Executive Session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion at 9:31 to 
enter into executive session and adjourn immediately following, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion, all approve 
 
15. Adjournment 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 