===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, November 15, 2023 
LMS Collaborative Room #D132 
          6:30 p.m. - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Absent   Michael Cassidy  
Peter Beardmore, Member - Absent 
Laura Brzozoski, Member- Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public  Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brou ght up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment Mr. Lehtinen thanks all the citizens for coming the town meeting and to the National Honor Society for 
babysitting last night 
 
4. Chair’s Report Ms. Archambault thanks everyone that attended the Special Town Meeting.  The AC Warrant was voted in 
favor.  Thank you to the IT staff and everyone involved in the set up.  Thank you to Mr. Cassidy for his years of service, your 
efficiency, transparency, kindness, and invaluable assistance through the pandemic.  We wish you nothing but the best.  
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 10/18/23 –Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to approve minutes, Ms. Brzozoski seconded the 
motion, all approve 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total for the last two weeks is $213,362.67 no questions from the committee.  Ms. Archambault has 
signed off and the warrant will be processed.   No line item transfers 
 
7. Superintendent’s Report Dr. Burnham also thanks everyone that came out and to those that supported our AC Project.  We 
also thank the members of the Green Community Committee and we look forward to working together in the future, with the 
possibility of funding for the AC project phase 2 and any other projects that might be on our capital plan that would be 
eligible.  Mr. Cassidy’s replacement Ms. Whittemore has accepted the contract, her title will be Director of Administration 
and Finance, and has a tentative start date of 2/12/24.  Lunenburg secretary’s gift card drive will be beginning soon.  
Tomorrow will be the last day for collections for the food pantry.  The annual tree lighting will be on 11/30 at 6 p.m.  There 
is a scheduled early release day next Wednesday and schools and offices will be closed on Thursday and Friday.  On 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
November 20 we will present to the capital planning committee.  December 6 is the next school committee meeting at Town 
Hall at 6:30 and will be hybrid. 
 
8. Student Representative Report - None 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. FY 23 End of Year Report Mr. Cassidy presents the annual submission, this is a DESE document, includes 
revenue from local expenditures, part of this is the requirement of the School Committee Chairs signature.  Also 
included are grants and revolving accounts, this data does get audited by an independent auditor and also a shares 
report to explain data numbers.  The deadline to get this submitted to DESE is 12/1/23 .  As of now the file is 
incomplete and will be submitted as incomplete, because we do not have the town data yet.  If we do not submit this 
report by the deadline, there is a possibility, we will not receive our monthly Chapter 70 funds, so we will submit 
this incomplete and turn in an amendment when we have all the information needed. Ms. Brzozoski makes a 
motion to accept the end of year report, Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion, all approve  
 
b. ESSER Update Mr. Cassidy shares the updates with closure of grant next September, we are on target to not 
overspend.  Resignations of positions in ESSER has created a surplus, we have a position open for a Guidance 
Counselor that is currently being advertised.  
 
c. Petty Cash Ms. Peterson reports that Town Hall has contacted all town departments about petty cash reconciliation, 
there were three accounts we didn’t know about and have been inactive for 10 years, they are Special Services, 
School Committee, and Home Economics, due to turnover of positions, no one is aware of what took place with 
these accounts.  We currently have the following active petty cash accounts, Superintendent, School extended day 
account, and all school accounts except the Elementary School.  Ms. Peterson discusses the policy we currently have 
and a discrepancy with what Town Hall has, so that may need to go back and be reviewed.  There is a school petty 
cash account, so Ms. Lorenzen was hired, no one was aware of this petty cash account, so town hall has told her to 
use the process of reimbursement, and she is currently comfortable keeping it this way.  Regardless, we have to 
reconcile all these accounts, in order to do this we need to take money from our budget line to reconcile the accounts 
and then make the decision if we want to keep them.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to send the petty cash policy 
back to the subcommittee as well as keep these accounts open, rename and adjust the accounts accordingly 
and communicate with town offices as needed, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve  
 
d. Student Activity Class Accounts – Every year when a class graduates there is a Class Activity account, some of 
these accounts have been left open for upwards of 10 years and have pending money in them.  The secretaries and 
Ms. Peterson have worked to contact the class advisors and the members of the stud ent council of each class.  Mr. 
Lehtinen asks if these advisors were contacted.  Dr. Burnham replies yes they were and in some cases the students 
weren’t willing to step up and take the steps necessary to move the money.  Dr. Burnham shares that the funds could 
be used to defray costs of the more expensive field trips and be used as scholarships.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a 
motion to table this item for the next meeting, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve  
 
e. Donations The class of 2027 float for homecoming parade, was made possible by Eurotech painting, they donated 
some paint, Bosworth family donated PVS pipe, and Cherry Hill Farm donated the wagon.  Mr. Lehtinen makes a 
motion to accept the donations with gratitude, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve 
 
Discussion 
f. Athletic Reports Mr. Cassidy presents a summary of athletics department, we have a middle school and  high school 
revolving accounts and a description of the expenses for each level.  We could be looking at an increase in athletic 
fees in the next two years.  MART services are available for after school sports, arrangements need to be made 
ahead of time 
 
g. FY 24 Grants As we are going to have a vacancy of a Director of Finance, things may be in limbo or run a little 
behind during our transitions.  It will take us some time to have up to date and accurate data, but we will get there.  
 
h. FY25 Budget Development ESSER positions are not guaranteed, Mr Cassidy presents a slide show, and we are not 
asking the town to fund all of the ESSER positions.  We are expecting a $1 million increase to our regular expenses 
in this next budget year.  Health insurance is expected to increase 10%, total increase in expenditures of $7,672,125.  
We have a loss of $650,000 in ESSER funds, this is much more significant than we expected.  Our anticipated 2.5% 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
increase to our budget will barely cover our insurance.  Mr. Lehtinen suggests a letter be drafted from the school 
committee to legislation emphasizing our concerns and request assistance in finding ways to increase our funding.   
 
i. School Committee Goals  Our three major goals as a school committee are (1) Budget (2) Policy and (3) 
Transparency and Communication  Ms. Archambault reads out load the details of the goals and plans and checks in 
with the committee to make sure they are currently on task of meeting these goals  
 
10. Reports Ms. Brzozoski reports the Turkey Hill advisory met yesterday, they are doing well, slight schedule adjustment, 4 th 
and 5th graders are having recess before lunch, which is working well, and hopes to expand it to 3 rd grade next year.  Veterans 
Day looked a little different this year, due to spacing capacity, they held an assembly and honored staff members that had 
served.  Next Wednesday is the traditional Turkey Hill Trot, permission slips are due Friday, also they are looking for paren t 
volunteers to help., if you are interested please contact the office at Turkey Hill for more information.  The food drive is still 
going on and they are collecting canned corn and canned green beans.  The advisory will begin reviewing the school 
handbook and restructuring the information, in order to be able to quickly find information you are looking for. Next meeting 
is December 5. 
Mr. Lehtinen reports there was a finance committee meeting on November 13 th, they introduced their 6th member to the 
committee, Mr. Passios is back The town manager had some articles they wanted to review, Article 1 had a few adjustments 
voted 5-0 for approval, Article 2 they also voted 5-0 and Article 3 was deferred early and voted 5-0 for approval 
Ms. Archambault reports there was a Master Planning Committee meeting, held at Smokestack Roasters, many new members 
of the community attended.  The Consultant group presented some numbers of the survey previously taken by the community 
and gave time for break out groups to discuss the direction they believe the town should work on moving forward.  The next 
meeting is December 7th.  The Finance Nomination Committee met on November 7 th to reappoint Mr. Passios, there is still 
one opening on the Finance Committee. 
 
11. Public Comment - None 
 
12. Topics for Future Discussion 
Student Activity Class Accounts 
Budget Development 
  
 
13. Executive Session to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct 
collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel makes Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to 
enter executive session at 8:19 and adjourn immediately following, Ms. Brzozoski seconded the motion, all approve 
 
14. Adjournment 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 