===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE EMERGENCY MEETING  
Wednesday, June 12, 2024 
LMHS Collaborative Room #D132 
       6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair -Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair- Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary -Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member -Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment  
 
Mr. Lehtinen congratulates all the students, faculty, and staff on a great school year and for those that have the sum mer off, I 
hope you have a great summer! 
 
4. Chair’s Report I understand there is some concern in the community regarding the cuts being made despite the passing of 
the override as promised before the override the following cuts are being made, a Humanities teacher at the high school, an 
intervention teacher at the high school, a class room teacher at the middle school, a Wilson reading teacher at the elementary 
school, a PE teacher that is split between the Primary School and the elementary school, and a soc ial worker in the Primary 
school, as well an instructional coach districtwide, these are the cuts being made due to financial reason.  These cuts do equal 
the ESSER funds when cuts are made per contract.  The remaining personnel do move around as their certification permits, 
paraprofessionals are not part of this cut, there may be a reduction in this area for other reasons ; the need for individual 
paraprofessional positions is constantly being reassessed.  I hope that answers the questions people have concerning this, if 
you have any additional questions I would ask you to follow up with the superintendent or w ith the school committee chair.  
As you are aware I have one more year in my term on the school committee, but I am stepping down from being chair, I wish 
to thank the members of this committee both past and present for their hard work and keeping me on track.  I would also like 
to thank the superintendent and Mrs. Peterson for always being available, knowledgeable, and flexible.  One more very 
special thank you is to elected officials from the other boards particularly Renee Emkey and Evan Waters for their 
collaborations. 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 4/3/24, 4/10/24, 5/1/24 – Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Lehtinen 
seconded the motion, all approve via roll call vote  
b. Special Session 5/14/24 Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to approve minutes, Ms. Brzozoski seconded the 
motion, all approved 
 
6. New Business 
Action 
a. Committee Reorganization 
i. Election of Officers & Appointment of Sub-Committee Members Mr. Sculimbrene makes a nomination 
for Mr. Lehtinen to be the new Chair of the School Committee, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion.  Mr. 
Lehtinen accepts nomination.  Mr. Beardmore does want it noted that while he sup ports the nomination and 
knows Mr. Lehtinen will be an excellent chair, my reservation is that when you have a labor union and you 
have a potential conflict with that labor union, and they seek representation from their affiliation,  and you 
are a member of that affiliated union, it creates a difficult situation, potentially for you, and wants to state 
in advance that there is reservation to put you in that situation, but also potentially a public perception  A 
roll call vote to approve Mr. Lehtinen as the new Chair of the School Committee is approved 
unanimously via roll call vote. 
Ms. Archambault makes a nomination for Mr. Sculimbrene to become the Vice Chair of the school 
committee.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a nomination for Mr. Beardmore as Vice Chair, he respectfully declines 
based on his feeling of potential conflict with union and his personal situation.  A roll call vote to approve 
Mr. Sculimbrene as the new Vice Chair of the School Committee is approved unanimously via roll 
call vote. 
Mrs. Archambault reports the position of secretary should be someone who can be available during t he 
daytime hours, Mr. Lehtinen works at a school, and Mr. Sculimbrene in New Hampshire, leaving the 
options of Ms. Archambault or Ms. Brzozoski.   Ms. Brzozoski makes a nomination of Ms. Archambault as 
secretary, Mr. Beardmore seconds the nomination.  A roll call vote to approve Ms. Archambault as new 
secretary of the School Committee is approved unanimously via roll call vote  
Mr. Lehtinen will also be the official voting delegate to the MASC, Legislative Representative of the 
School Committee and also the Spokesperson as these are typically all done by the Chair 
The subcommittees are listed, changes to the Finance Committee will now be Ms. Archambault, Finance 
Committee appointing Committee will be Mr. Lehtinen, and the Wellness Advisory will be Ms. Brzozos ki, 
all other subcommittee appointments remain the same. Ms. Archambault makes a motion to accept the 
appointments as stated, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, approved unanimously via roll call vote  
 
ii. Authorize Policies & Procedures to Remain in Force Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to authorize 
policies and procedures to remain in force, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve  
 
iii. Annual Student Activity Accounts Authorization Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion authorize annual 
student activity accounts, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve 
 
iv. Annual Town Meeting- Auditorium Waiver Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to retain the annual town 
meeting auditorium waiver, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve  
 
b. Declare Surplus-Curriculum Classroom Materials The committee has been supplied with a list of items that have 
been determined to obsolete or irrelevant to the current curriculums being used in our classrooms.  Ms. 
Archambault makes a motion to approve the items listed as surplus, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion.  
Roll call vote approved by Ms. Archambault, Mr. Lehtinen, Mr. Sculimbrene, Mr. Beardmore, abstained 
vote by Ms. Brzozoski 
 
c. Donation We have a letter of gratitude that we will be sending to Mr. Lucier for his continued support in post -
secondary education in the fields of Creative Writing and Film Production. We received 4 scholarships in the 
amount of $1,000.00 each for our graduation seniors 
A donation of $2,265.39 from the PTO from the spring book fair will be deposited into the Primary School Activity 
account to help field trips.  Ms. Archambault makes a motion to accept these donations, Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, approved unanimously via roll call vote 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
7. Old Business 
Action 
a. Superintendent Evaluation Ms. Archambault summarizes the process, each member did their own evaluation, then 
they were combined, reviewed by Mr. Lehtinen and sent to the full committee for approval It has been determined 
that the first goal is Professional Practice and that goal was met.  Goal number two is the i-Ready benchmark, this 
was very close, but not fully met.  Third is the Climate Survey which was met The fourth goal is the Title 1 survey 
which was met.  It was determined to be proficient in all standards. Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve 
the 2 year evaluation of Dr. Burnham, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, approved unanimously via roll call 
vote.   
 
8. Public Comment - None 
 
9. Executive Session: to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.  
 
10. Adjournment Motion to enter executive session and adjourn immediately following made by Ms. Brzozoski at 7:36, 
seconded by Mr. Beardmore, approved unanimously via roll call vote.  
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted  
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 