===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, November 20, 2024 
      6:30 – D132 LMHS - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - present    
Carol Archambault, Secretary - present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Mr. Michael- Ray Jeffreys – Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee Chair 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Brian Lehtinen at 6:39 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment – Mr. Sculimbrene would like to thank the town for voting to support the warrant, which allowed for 
town investments to be invested pursuant to the prudent investor rule, I think that is a modernization step that needs to 
happen.  It is something that will hopefully put the town on better financial footing and hopefully it will be good for the 
schools.  
Ms. Archambault would like to mention the Master Planning Committee is holding a town wide meeting on December 4 th 
at the Lunenburg library from 6:30 to 8 p.m. to continue the discussion of what direction we would like our community to 
move in.  Also there is a third survey available on the town website and the superintendent has sent it home to all families  
 
4. Chair’s Report Mr. Lehtinen reports we had a very successful town meeting.  The town did pass the additional Chapter 70 
funding to the school budget and the study was approved for the Brooks House.  We also had a great presentation by Mr. 
Sculimbrene.  The annual tree lighting is December 5th.  I also want to wish everyone a Happy Thanksgiving and hopefully a 
successful winter tryouts for all sports athletes. 
 
5. Student Representative’s Report - None 
 
6. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
a. Regular Session 10/2/24 Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve minutes for 10/2/24,  Ms. Archambault 
seconds the motion all approve 
 
7. Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers, & Donations 
a. Warrants 11/5/24 to 11/15/24 $290,529.31 – Warrants have been signed 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
8. Superintendent’s Report Dr. Burnham reports the select board approved AARPA funds for the truck with plow and the 
middle high school safety window film.   An update on the position of Director of Facilities, we have completed round 1 of 
interviews and round 2 will be starting tomorrow and we are hopeful to have the position filled after Thanksgiving.  We had 
our school specific assessment forums for families on November 14 th, the meetings were not highly attended through zoom, 
however, they were recorded and posted on the district website on the main page under back to school.  The Thanksgiving 
food drive to benefit the Lunenburg Food Pantry ends tomorrow, so if anyone was interested in contributing and hasn’t yet 
still has time, each school is collecting specific food items, so make sure to check the school website for the specific 
information.  The 7th annual gift card drive that is organized by our Lunenburg Public School secretaries has kicked off.  We 
have received gift card donations from members of our very generous community and thanks to all who contribute we have 
helped numerous families over the last six years, the collection with go through December 6 th, they can be dropped off an any 
of the schools, through the mail, or electronically to mbowen@lunenburgschools.net  We welcome gift cards from Walmart, 
Target, Visa, Dollar Tree, grocery stores, anything that can be donated is greatly appreciated.   I’d also like to offer wishes to 
everyone for a Happy Thanksgiving. 
 
Upcoming Dates 
 
December 2 – PTO Meeting LMHS 7 p.m. 
December 4th 6:30 Hybrid Town Hall School Committee Meeting 
December 5 – PACASAL meeting at 6 – support group via zoom 
December 5 – Annual Tree Lighting 6p.m. at the Gazebo 
December 18th 6:30 Hybrid LMHS School Committee Meeting 
December 23-January 1- All schools are closed for Winter Break 
 
 
9. Presentation – LMBDC Update Mr. Michael – Ray Jeffries gives an update regarding the Lunenburg Municipal Building 
Design Committee work that they have been working through.  He shares a history of the town of Lunenburg trying to 
resolve building concerns.  Initially they were tasked with looking to repurpose TCP, after lots of research and working with 
architectural designs and updates, the pandemic we were hit with a price tag of close to $30 million, which about $14 million  
was for code upgrades.  We then also had to make a plan for the Town Hall and the Ritter Building and also the Brooks 
House was all brought under one umbrella.  We worked together as a committee to come up with three plans of what you can 
do with the buildings, three distinctively different concepts and ultimately came up with a 4th hybrid option.  The select board 
endorsed it and that is where we are moving forward.  Our concept is to be cost effective and how to maximize the usage of 
the municipal buildings.  The vision for the town hall is to stay a town hall, but more like a meeting house, the vision is to 
remove what is now the town manager and HR office to get back to the original footprint to have a larger meeting room, the 
first floor would have three meeting rooms, the assessor’s office would become a smaller meeting room, the area that was the 
town clerk and copy room would become an additional meeting room.  This would also provide an opportunity for groups 
that need to meet whether AA. AL anon etc., it provides community space.  The Ritter building will become the primary 
location for the Lunenburg Public Schools, there is adequate space in the building to accommodate all of the current staff, 
future staff, and also the ACE program.  The concept then would be to build a new town hall, which would be to th e right of 
the current building, this would be an administrative building.  We preserve TC Passios for another day.  We would keep this 
on the horizon as we recognize it’s the central location of our school district, we recognize a potential need for more sports 
fields, and also the conversations of the Turkey Hill Building.  The LMBDC previously recognized that Turkey Hill would 
make a wonderful community center, it is well located on a separate parcel with separate entrances and egresses.  The 
committee discusses ideas in relation to the district being “campus like” vs spread out around the town.  Sharing support for 
the committee to move forward and get the projects done…to keep moving forward.  
 
10. New Business 
Discussion 
 
a. Student Competency Determinations An update to the committee on the impact of the vote to eliminate MCAS as 
a requirement to graduate.  We are awaiting additional guidance from the state regarding any impacts this decision 
will have.  The committee along with Dr. Bookis discus the MCAS.  MCAS are not optional, students must 
participate in the exam, and the change is that a required passing score to graduate high school.  A discussion of how 
we maintain receiving the data to make sure we continuing to improve, and will students continue to give the test the 
same participation effort if it is no longer required 
 
b. Cell Phone Policy The committee discusses cell phones in school, use in classes.  Mr. Sculimbrene reached out to 
many different resources and community members regarding thoughts and concerns on the cell phone in schools.  Is 
there a centralized policy or is by classroom.  Are there different rules for different grades?  Zero tolerance policies 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
in classes, but allowed during recess/lunch etc. Parents wanting to be able to contact students in case of emergencies.  
Surveying the teachers was brought up as an option, as is it a “problem” in their classrooms, surveying 
administration, students, and parents.   
 
c. 2025-2026 School Calendar A draft of the calendar is brought forward, we are still in the process of gathering input 
from many different groups, if anyone has suggestions or concerns with the calendar please reach out to your 
schools.  One of the conversations is our winter break and possibly having a two week break, bringing up concerns 
for those special education students being out of school can result in learning loss, our food insecurity students, this 
is a long time to be without food, along with our mental health students and having the access to our counselors. 
 
d. Topics for Delegation Mr. Lehtinen has reached out to representatives and the senator, representative Scarsdale got 
back to me and would like to have the delegation do a private meeting to start before we do a public me eting, they 
believe they would be able to get more done and have conversations about potential options, constraints and insight.  
I invited the chair of the select board as well as Mandy, who has been very involved.  I wanted to put this out for 
everyone to brainstorm their thoughts so I could bring them forward to Representative Scarsdale.  Mr. Beardmore is 
not in favor of a private meeting at this point, we need this brought forward publicly and the more public we can be 
the more we can speak face to face.  We have offered many times for them to meet with us and it’s time for them to 
be in the public.  Mr. Sculimbrene says take any opportunity you can to meet with them.   Mr. Sculimbrene wants 
them to focus giving us some indication that they will fix the problem we are all having with busing cost increases, 
these increases are going to make it impossible for us to operate.  Ms. Archambault agrees meet with them with any 
means possible, however, echoes Mr. Beardmore, they need to come and meet with us public ly.   They need to 
straighten out the Chapter 70 funding.  They need to stop making mandates that they do not fund.  We need more 
help either through the community or the schools and getting mental health help faster.  Food insecurity is so huge, 
we need school food to continue to be free and anything else they can do throughout the Commonwealth to give 
people food.  Health Insurance assistance, and help or insight they can give on the large increases in health insurance 
costs.    Ms. Brzozoski speaks about Chapter 70 inflation adjustment, also the current focus on the electric busses, 
however, that is not helping us now.  Rep Scarsdale really focused on regional schools, and that does not help us 
specifically.  Mr. Beardmore says we need to apply pressure, and we keep an open invitation on each agenda for 
delegation to attend our meetings.  Mr. Sculimbrene would like the opinions of the delegates, first, what happens if 
the Department of Education seeks the legislative repeal of title one because that would have tremendous impacts on 
us, our kids, and the school district.  What would happen if they seek the legislative repeal of Title 9?  Likely the 
head of the Department of Education and the audience she will be are not the people that understand how the 
funding mechanisms work and how the laws work, we need to be prepared that if that happens our only other 
protection is the state of Massachusetts and I don’t think they are going to be able to have any policy commitments, 
but I think they need to be aware that local towns and school boards are concerned about this. 
 
 
11. Reports Ms. Brzozoski attended the Massachusetts Association of School Committee Annual Conference there were 
approximately 850 people in attendance on the cape.  They had a keynote speech by Tim Shriver, he talked about dignity the 
foundation of a new patriotism If you are interested in it you can google the Dignity Index.  Also attended School and 
Municipal Collaboration Supporting Common Goals which discussed informal vs formal governments.  Th ere were 
discussions of how other towns worked together to save money, whether DPW took over some of the town or school tasks, 
school bus leasing options, and budget task forces.  Collaboration between school committees and superintendents and how 
culture is set by the interaction communication relationship and trust and it is a common goal working together.  Making sure 
the school committee has the most amount of information is important.  We are very lucky to have Dr. Gilson, tons of school 
districts are trying to hire a Finance Director.  I also wanted to take a moment to appreciate our SRO’s because in talking to 
other districts, I didn’t realize how blessed we are to have the SRO’s we have, it is really a fine line to walk, it comes down to 
relationship and the culture of the town’s police department and the school.  Every district is having the same issues with 
bussing and increased costs. 
Mr. Beardmore reports the Capital Planning Committee has not met yet, is scheduled to meet on 12/2 we will be consi dering 
all of the proposals that have been made to all of the departments.  One topic I am going to recommend that we remove the 
items that have been funded by AARPA.  My preference would be to remove the truck and plow and the window film for the 
middle high school.  The Town Manager Selection Committee met in executive session on Monday night this week and will 
be meeting on December 11 and 12th to conduct interviews and hopefully report out finalists for consideration to the select 
board. 
Ms. Archambault The Master Plan Steering Committee met on November 14 th, I was unable to attend and the minutes aren’t 
available and the meeting was not recorded.  However, I did receive a spreadsheet from the consultant to put my personal 
thoughts of critical needs of the community and the school, I do not feel comfortable doing this on my own and instead 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
would like the input from the committee, if you could fill this out and get it back to me by December 2 nd so I can bring 
forward at the next meeting on December 4th 
Mr. Sculimbrene reports the Budget Task Force gave a very brief presentation at Special Town Meeting on Monday about 
ideas we have on the table for recommendations to other Town committees and a request for help.  We then met on Monday 
and discussed a bunch of different solutions, we went through a punch list that we generated throughout the process in 
anticipation of writing a very brief summary of the budget task force finding and our recommendations.  One of the things we 
considered and talked about extensively was community preservation and funding. 
Mr. Lehtinen reports the LBDC presented at special town meeting.  We also met on Monday to go over questions we wanted 
to ask to the one candidate for the interview we had tonight before this meeting.  The Primary School will meet on Monday 
 
 
12. Public Comment  - None 
 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 9:31, Mr. Beardmore seconds the motion all approve 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 