===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, May 22, 2024 
LMHS Collaborative Room #D132 
       6:30 - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair -Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   
Peter Beardmore, Member - Absent 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Eric Hevy – Director of Grounds, Julianna Hanscom – Director of Special Services, Bill Bernard – DPW director, Meredith 
Weiss – ELL Coordinator, Michael Smith - Teacher 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticip ated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:31 
 
2. Pledge  of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment 
 
Sybil Kaufman, 27 Oak Ave Thank you to everyone and Kate for putting all the extra work.  I hope you ask what we need 
not what we think we can get.  I just wanted to do a bit of a debrief, I am sure everyone here including me, we can breathe a 
big sigh of relief in a lot of ways, and could also compose an extensive list of what this body collectively and we as 
individuals might do differently if we could jump back in time.  Someone who ha s herself put in some overtime getting to 
know the details of public school and town government operations in Lunenburg, MA.  I would like to go back at least a 
decade so I could get a PhD in Education admin, something I did consider at one point in my lif e, as that would have been 
very helpful.    I am left with a few takeaways that I hope prove useful to you as a governing body, moving forward I hope 
ask for what we need.  Political strategy is about nuance and communication but comes after a fair assessm ent of what our 
children need to stay safe, healthy, happy, and engaged in a competitive curriculum that prepares them to thrive in adulthood .  
Ask for what we need and demand it if you have to.  Look beyond what is to what should be; does this meeting str ucture 
serve your population optimally, can committee members work out their policy positions ahead of a public meeting; is there a 
way to summarize and communicate the policy discussions and decisions that take place here, can you provide child care and 
hold a meeting a weekend once per quarter.  I am willing to help, not just throw out ideas and not be involved.  Can you help 
us set up a rotating refreshment donation, can you be creative, innovative, or simply copy another town who has a higher 
community engagement rate with their school committee to achieve better turn out at meetings and more participating in 
surveys and votes, can bylaws be revised to allow for community discussion rather than the structure of being welcome to 
attend but not actually interact with you beyond these sometimes insufferable speeches with the caveat that I know these are 
volunteer positions, the lowest hanging fruit for improvement seems to be a concerted effort between us all to improve the 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
productivity of and community engagement at these meetings.  We could do our homework beforehand, research, read 
surveys, synthesize and come prepared with position statements and questions.  We can try our best to avoid talking at each 
other and instead talk with each other and truly if nothing else, please from here on out, let’s not ask for what we think we 
can get, lets as for what our children need. 
 
Mr. Sculimbrene Thank you, I want to thank Sybil Kauffman, Mandy Gilman, TJ Laughlin, Shoshana Mulè, Kara 
Harunkiewitz, Noah Lind, Tatum Furman, Kaylin St. George, Joseph James, Brandon Harris, Cecilia Stanek, Sophia Mulè, 
Owen Foyle and my son.  I was very proud when he made a comment at town meeting in support of the override.  I think that 
the fact the override passed means that this is a community that valued education, it values our students, it values our 
teachers, and it values the role a school plays in the community.  I think that the passage of the override and the efforts by the 
parents and the students to organize in support of the override is really a message to the school committee that we need to 
work just as hard as everybody else and we need to have innovative ideas that make what we do more accessible to people.  I 
think that one thing that has happened especially since the open meeting law has passed is that meetings in public have 
become cumbersome and my comment is in line with what Sybil said, and we did not collaborate in preparation,   I think 
Peter and Carols presentation at town meeting was an example of how you hit all the notes in less than 10 minutes, so I think  
you know if the override can pass we have a lot of work to do and I want to make sure that we d o that work correctly.  Lastly, 
I just wanted to say to Dr. Burnham, you can thank your team, but at the end of the day we would not have been able to ask if  
you had not had a vision for what a curriculum change could do in terms of test scores, and we wou ld not have the support, if 
the schools were not running the way they are, and we would not have the buy in from parents if they didn’t see meaningful 
improvements and assessments and test scores across the board. 
 
Ms. Brzozoski I wanted to start tonight off also by saying thank you, thank you to every single person in this town who 
voted yes or no, 1,411 people participated in the democratic process.  Thank you to every person who participated, thank you 
to every citizen who paid attention, who asked tough and insightful questions and who cared enough to get involved.  Thank 
you to the Lunenburg SOS group who advocated so fiercely for the students and got out the vote so successfully.  Thank you 
to the students who made their voices heard.  Thank you to the teachers and staff who have had to bear through this process 
and the uncertainty.  Thank you to the superintendent and team and Annika and Juliana who put in incredible amount of work 
and hours and their knowledge into these budgets.  I really do want the public to understand how hard Dr Burnham and her 
team worked, there were times that a budget document would be uploaded to our drive at midnight and that a 6 a.m. when I 
would open it, Dr. Burnham was already working on it again.  Thank you again to Dr. Burnham for her patience and her 
diligence and for not flinching when I sent her an email with 90 questions about the individual line items in the budget, and  
she answered every single one with a lot of detail.  Thank you to the other elected and appointed officials in town for working 
with us during such an unprecedented budget season.  Thank you to our town manager Heather Lemieux who worked hard to 
fill in then budget gaps and work through a difficult scenario, the finance committee put in an incredible amount of work and 
some of its members were strong advocates for the schools, thank you to the select board for working with us during this 
season and some of their members advocacy of the school system and for their votes of sup port for the schools.  I do want to 
make it clear while this is a victory, this does not mean we are swimming in money, we purposefully kept the override to a 
modest achievable amount, the exact amount was to level fund the schools from the previous year m inus the ESSER funding.  
We had always known that funding was ending.  I personally did not feel it appropriate to transfer the burden of that money 
from the federal government grants on to the backs of Lunenburg taxpayers.  So there will  be some positions cut this year, 
those positions have been planned for strategically long term.  It does not mean we have money to expand programs or staff, 
or that we have a sudden influx of more money, it means exactly what we have been saying….level service funding, the  exact 
amount of money needed to do the same thing this year, that we did last year.  Lunenburg is still at the far low end of the 
spectrum for per student spending in the state, one modest override victory does not  make up for years of low school funding  
as we have been very transparent during this process every dollar of the override budget has been allocated and budgeted.  I 
am asking the board going forward if we can be very cognizant of the budgetary constraints and work within the resources 
allocated, and if we can maintain this careful budgeting going forward.  Every budget decision is made with student success 
in mind and what is best for the students. I am so happy and so proud of my town that on Saturday, enough Lunenburg voters 
asked themselves that exact same question and made that question their priority.   
 
Mr. Lehtinen I would like to congratulate the PTO on a great cruise night tonight, I was there earlier it is a great crowd and a 
great event.  I also want to thank all the Lunenburg voters who came out and voted.  Thank everyone for their support 
throughout the process, the school committee members, the superintendent, and her admin team, and also the staff, and all the  
parents and students who really got involved in the process to make it happen.  We couldn’t do it without a great community 
effort. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
4. Chair’s Report Thank you to everyone who helped get the override passed, whether you were part of SOS Lunenburg or 
fincom or whether you went to town meeting and or voted on Saturday.  We are grat eful to you every little bit of anything 
was helpful, the stories that I heard from neighbors saying their college age students came home to make sure the override 
passed and also the amount of high school students that are 18 and were able to vote and did  so, it is a great lesson in civics 
and also a wonderful statement by the community.   We do have an attorney double -checking to make sure there was nothing 
else we have to do, but we think we are all set.   Legislators are working in their conference committees to finalize this year’s 
budget and there is a bill that would be of great help to us. The bill is sponsored by MASC, MACC, and the two major 
teachers unions.   Thank you to Senator Cronin, he is on top of this inflation adjustment to chapter 70, we are told my MASC, 
this bill will bring around $500,000 to Lunenburg as we are not a hold harmless community.   Also a bill for 100%  
reimbursement for special education transportation and circuit breaker  that you can also reach out to Senator Cronin about to 
gain more support. 
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session None 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 4/30/24-5/15/24 $226,250.36 Ms. Archambault has signed, no questions. 
 
7. Superintendent’s Report We need 34 transportation forms at the high school, and 28 at the middle school, Turkey Hill and 
the Primary School are 100% compliant.  Early Learning Center registration opened on Monday.  There was a conversation 
about what student activity fees are used for, so I am working with Mr. Santry to prepare an informational slide deck that will 
be shared at a June meeting.  My gratitude to all people that worked so hard, paid attention, and participated, I am proud of 
our students, and also thank you to the committee, it required an awful lot from you, you were all very strong vocal advocates 
for what our school district needs for funding.  I think that is a very powerful message.  
Upcoming Dates 
May 27 Schools and offices closed for Memorial Day 
June 1 High School Graduation 
June 5 School Committee Meeting 6:30 Town Hall 
June 12 Special School Committee Meeting 6:30 LMHS 
June 12 Last day of school for students ½ day 
June 26 School Committee Meeting 6:30 LMHS 
 
8. Student Representative Report - none 
 
9. Old Business 
Action 
a. Rainwater Retention Project Mr. Bernard reports he has received many questions via email, and has responded 
and sent answers back.  This is an educational project and should be located at the Middle High School.  Mr. 
Sculimbrene asks if it still include poisonous plants Mr. Bernard replies, we can change out the plants Ms. Brzozoski 
asks if we outsourced this, he replies yes we did and it was around $5-10,000.  Did you ask any on in the school 
before spending that money, reply no.  Is your design mobile, reply no.  Mr. Santry (Principal of LMHS) sent a 
response to this project and was read aloud by Dr. Burnham Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to not support the 
rainwater retention program, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all agree.  
 
b. School Choice At the previous meeting Dr. Burnham brought forward a list of potential school choice spots open 
from 1st through 8th grade, generally we do not open school choice until 9th grade, but wanted to make sure we 
explored every option available to bring money into the district.  Through conversations all members of the school 
committee agree class sizes are growing and we still desire to keep class size as much as possible.   Mr. 
Sculimbrene makes a motion to not increase any school choice spots for 1 st thru 8th grade, Mr. Lehtinen 
seconds the motion, roll call vote approved by Mr. Lehtinen, Mr. Sculimbrene, Ms. Archambault and 
abstained by Ms. Brzozoski 
 
Discussion 
c. Family – School Partnership Compact Meredith Weiss, our ELL coordinator and also Mr. Smith a teacher at 
Turkey Hill are part of the district Family School Partnership Initiative team.  Last year when we were doing work 
facilitated by the Department of Ed, they did such outstanding work as a part of that committee t hat I asked them if 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
they could lead and be co-facilitators of the Culture and Climate Council..  Ms. Weiss reports their hopeful 
intentions are to align the three stakeholders, our families, our students and our school staff in ways t hat we can best 
support students and their expectations in classrooms this document can be used as a springboard for many 
conversations about expectations and how to uphold the responsibilities of an LPS community member.  The 
committee discusses the documents, mostly that it is a great document, but also maybe a shorter version  that is more 
understandable to general public and also an option of potential QR code to be added, so feedback can be given.  
 
d. Facilities Update Mr. Hevy gives an update on current projects happening within the district and also  goes through 
each building and lists all projects that are going to be necessary in the future   
 
e. Topics of Delegation Ms. Archambault shares that originally we wanted to meet with the delegates.  I have spoken 
to them and was told it would be helpful if we gave them topics that we would be asking them.  If each committee 
member could come up with topics and send them to me prior to the next meeting.  Some topics discussed, bus 
bidding process, state funding as Chapter 70 minimum, we are not receiving enough state funding, millionai res tax, 
the regional transportation has a lot of work being done for it, but that does not help us at all,  
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Donation $24.90 from Box tops will be deposited into gift account at Primary School and $21.00 from Box tops 
will be deposited into gift account at Turkey Hill. Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to accept the donation, Ms. 
Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve 
 
Discussion 
b. New IEP Form The team shares a PowerPoint slide deck explaining the new IEP form and the differences that we 
will be seeing and implementing.  Meetings will be longer, much more detail and also includes students feedback  
 
c. 2024-2025 SC Meeting Calendar The school committee calendar is presented for the 24/25 school year, mostly the 
same 1st and 3rd Wednesdays of the month, with adjustments for holidays and school vacations.  If you have any 
questions or concerns please email questions to Dr. Burnham 
 
11. Public Comment Dr. Burnham shares this afternoon she was invited the Primary School.  The entire first grade became 
aware there are students that rely on our food pantry, and some do not get birthday celebrations.  They put together 90 
celebration boxes that are ready for graduations or birthdays.  The parents donated all the items, and will be donated to the 
food pantry tomorrow.  Also one more aside, I updated the superintendent evaluation folder, it includes a timeline and a “how  
to”  but if you need any help you can certainly reach out, that is set for the June 12th meeting, so I need the completed 
evaluations by June5th 
 
12. Reports 
Ms. Brzozoski reports the PACSAL met and talked about the new IEP form and bylaws at Turkey Hill.  Turkey Hill 
Advisory met on 5/5 we talked about the Family School compact, which will be presented at the May 22 nd school committee 
meeting. Bussing for field trips are very expensive, which made field trips trickier to plan this year.  The 5 th grade is going to 
a Woo Sox game, 4th grade is having 2 in-house experiences, animal adventures (which was entirely free and funded by the 
PTO) and earth dome, 3rd grade will have animal adventures (which was entirely free and funded by the PTO)  June 5 th is 
field day with a rain date of the 6th.  The 12th will be the last day and a half day.  There was an optional survey sent out 
requesting any classroom placements, you cannot request a specific teacher, but the teachers can use this information for 
placement in classrooms.  Teacher appreciation was 2 weeks ago and we appreciate our teachers very much. 
 
Mr. Sculimbrene reported that the PTO met regarding the event that is currently out front, the cruise night, in collaboration  
with the Lions Club, the food pantry and the Boys and Girls Club. 
 
Ms. Archambault reports the Master Planning has the next public meeting on May 30 th at 6 at Smokestack Roasters again, I 
will send out the flyer, they will be open for their menu for you to enjoy.  What they are trying to do is the launch of the next 
survey, they are trying to take what they already have and really break it down.  May 30 th is also our Senior Awards Night, so 
I will not be able to attend the Master Planning meeting as I need to be at Senior Awards.  
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
Delegation List 
AARPA Funds 
 
14. Executive Session –to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares  
 
15. Adjournment Mr Lehtinen makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn immediately following  at 8:48 pm, 
Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 