===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, June 26, 2024 
       6:30 – Remote 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Brian Lehtinen, Chair - Absent   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Vice Chair - Present 
Carol Archambault, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Kevin Bigelow-Athletic Director, Dave Abraham-Athletic Trainer, Dr. Ridley, Nadine Lorenzen-Food Service Director 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Mr. Sculimbrene at 6:35 
 
2. Public Comment - None 
 
3. Chair’s Report -None 
 
4. Review & Approve Minutes – None 
 
5. Review & Approve Warrants – Warrants approved and signed in total of $159,241.02 
 
6. Line Item Transfers Mr. Paul Livingston our contract consultant shares a list of reclassification of 
$411,675 transfer from general budget salaries to general budget lines to meet the expected 
expenses.  Ms. Archambault makes a motion to approve line item transfers, Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, all approve via roll call 
 
7. Superintendents’ Report -  School and district administrators will be participating as a team in the 
Department of Leadership Instructional Institute on July 29, 30, and 31.   Also, want to make you 
aware the office manager at Dee Bus, Linda, has retired, we are hoping for a smooth transition, 
working with a new partner.  We also received communication from the Mass School Building 
Authority, they are prepared to launch their next school survey assessment.  The survey will include 
site visits at approximately 1,580 schools, as well as a compilation of existing data at approximately 
120 schools currently in the MSBA program.  This assessment will result in a published report 
sharing an understanding of the building condition and general environment for the Commonwealth 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
public schools.  Beginning in the fall architectural and engineering experts will visit public 
elementary and secondary buildings.  These will be evaluated regardless of whether or not the 
district has any plans for improvements.  The assessment will evaluate key factors including the 
condition, capacity, maintenance, and educational environment.  The data collected during the 
assessment is just one factor used to determine which school facilities present the highest level of 
need in urgency, and the results are not the sole basis the MSBA uses to determine any districts 
eligibility for funding.  There will be an update related to scheduling of sites visits later in August.   
 
8. New Business 
Discussion 
a. Head Injury Presentation Dr. Ridley from UMASS is a Sports Medicine and Exercise 
provider, joins Mr. Bigelow and Mr. Abraham in a discussion on concussion and how it 
correlates to CTE later in life.  They discuss the steps they take at events where a concussion 
is suspected and return to play protocol.  Dr. Ridley is available any time for future questions 
and concerns, you can also contact Mr. Bigelow or Mr. Abraham. 
 
b. Program Evaluation Ms. Hanscom has provided a slide deck to the school committee for 
review 
      Action 
c. FY24 Budget Carryover Open PO’s Dr. Livingston explains why differences have 
occurred this fiscal year and presents the committee with a list of PO’s that are recommended 
to carryover in to FY25.   Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve the open PO list, 
Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, approved unanimously via roll call. 
 
d. The Community Eligibility Provision (CEP) Ms. Lorenzen shares her presentation on CEP 
vs Universal Meal Program.  At this time Turkey Hill qualifies to participate in CEP.  The 
CEP program does bring in a little more money than the Universal Meals Program.  Our 
students would not see any difference but the parents would need to fill out separate 
information for their student at Turkey Hill.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve 
CEP program at Turkey Hill, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, approved 
unanimously via roll call vote. 
 
e. Budget Task Force Appointment The committee discusses the ups and downs of the task 
force Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to appoint Mr. Sculimbrene and Ms. Brzozoski as 
a backup, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, approved unanimously via roll call 
vote. 
 
9. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. FY 24 Quarterly Budget Mr. Livingston gives a quarterly budget update, committee asks 
when we might know how much money is left? We are hoping by 7/15 we should have that 
number.  Does it look like we will have a surplus? Not as of right now 
 
b. Keystone Report Dr. Burnham has provided an update in the school committee folder, any 
questions contact Dr. Burnham 
 
c. Personnel Report Dr. Burnham shares that we 11 new hires, we’ve had 48 members of our 
staff that have left the district, and our open positions that are currently being processed.  It is 
noted that salary has been the reason for many of the separations. 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
      Action 
d. Class Accounts –Close out The committee is provided the notes for each classes’ progress 
and status Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to table this topic, Ms. Archambault seconds 
the motion, unanimously approved via roll call vote. 
 
10. Public Comment Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street Who is the Finance Director and what are they 
paid?  With the reorganization of the school committee Mr. Lehtinen is in the teachers union, is this 
a conflict of interest?  How long will Mr. Livingston with us?  Mr. Sculimbrene clarifies that as long 
as Mr. Lehtinen is not on the school committee in the same district that he is part of the union, there 
is no conflict.  Dr. Burnham shares that Dr. Gilson is our Finance Director, she will be paid 
$150,000 and has a 3 year contract.  We don’t have an end date for Dr. Livingston, thus far the 
services have been approximately $31,000 and we are hoping for a 2 to 3 month transition period.  
Dr. Burnhams’ salary will remain the same and she will not take a raise for this year. 
 
Dr. Burnham goes through the list of questions from the school committee.  As far as a running list 
of staff, we will be getting back to quarterly reports.  A question regarding policy on bus driver 
hiring….we do not have any part of the bus driver hiring. Are we dropping IXL?  It is still budgeted 
but we are looking into it.  Why are we outsourcing landscaping is it a reasonable cost?  We do 
outsource mostly for the playing fields, this is much easier for us and we do receive this at a 
reasonable cost, this isn’t a reasonable share with the town to include in a bid.  Who pays for the 
electricity for the food pantry? This is not part of the school department responsibilities. Our 
custodians do clean the whole building, however at this time we do not have a custodian at TCP. Our 
maintenance and grounds department takes care of the lawn outside TCP.  As far as TCP not having 
running water, I have not been made aware that has been an issue, they are looking into whether it’s 
a battery issue for the sensor, however, we do not have any students in the building at this time, and 
have not heard of this being an issue by any of the staff.  There was a question/concern about library 
usage and availability at the high school.  I want to remind everyone to go through the chain of 
communication and start with who is in charge, and move up the chain if you need more assistance 
 
11. Reports – Tabled 
  
12. Topics for Future Discussion  
Discussion for finance workshop 
Use of cell phones in school 
 
13. Executive session : to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open 
meeting  may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or a litigating position of the public body 
and the chair so declares 
 
14. Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to enter executive session and adjourn 
immediately after at 9:28 pm, Ms. Archambault seconds the motion, approved unanimously 
via roll call vote 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 