===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, January 3, 2024 
Town Hall 
          6:30 p.m. - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present   
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member- Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to move the first executive session to begin after the first public comment and student 
representative report, Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion, all approve 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment – Mr. Beardmore makes a statement based on his past discussion with the state ethics board and his 
position with the school committee, he was under the understanding that even though his ex -wife works in the school system 
and they share a minor child, he has made full disclosure, that he in fact was able to participate in LEA negotiations.  He 
recently reached back out to the ethics committee at Ms. Archambault request, and it appears that this is not the case, he ma y 
not participate in contract negotiations or votes regarding LEA, he will not make any comments publicly or privately. 
 
4. Student Representation Report Tatum Furman reports, across the district is high morale coming back from a much needed 
break.  Semester 2 will wrap up on January 19th. Report cards will be available at the Primary School on January 30 th.  Spirit 
week was very successful during the week leading up to winter break.  Fourth graders are starting their work with recorders 
in their music class. At the Middle High school winter sports are in full swin g.  There will be a meeting for the Spain trip on 
January 4th 
 
5. Executive Session to discuss the deployment of security personnel or devices or strategies with respect there to:  Ms. 
Brzozoski  makes a motion to enter executive session, Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion all approve 
 
6. Chair’s Report Ms. Archambault wishes everyone a happy and healthy 2024.  She reports the letter to MSBA that Mr. 
Beardmore wrote has been amended as suggested, a copy is in the folder, and will be sent out this week 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 11/01/23 – Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Sculimbrene seconded the 
motion, all approve 
 
8. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 12/19/23-1/2/24 $28,591.11 no questions from the committee.  Ms. Archambault has signed the 
warrant.   No line item transfers 
 
9. Superintendent’s Report Dr. Burnham wishes everyone a happy New Year.  Kindergarten registration is now open and Pre -
K registration will open on March 1st.  There will be a kindergarten readiness meeting via zoom on January 30, 2024 at 
6:30 p.m.   
Upcoming Dates 
 
January 12th is an early release day PD day for staff 
January 15th All schools and offices will be closed in observance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day  
January 17 School Committee meeting at the Middle High School 6:30  
 
10. New Business 
Action 
a. Donation A donation from box tops for education in the amount of $32.20 will be put into the gift account for 
Turkey Hill Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to accept this donation, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion.  All 
approve 
Discussion 
b. 2024-2025 School Calendar We are piloting a different model for parent teacher conferences.  We will most likely 
be publishing the finished calendar for everyone without the dates of the conferences, once we have everything 
settled for the new program we will amend the calendar.  Also there is discussions going on currently about the 
winter break for next year based on when the holiday falls.  Some options are two full weeks off, or coming back to 
school on Thursday January 2nd and have a 2 day school week.  Factors that are taken under consideration are 
students with food insecurities and the potential of them going two full weeks without care kids or our 
breakfast/lunch program, with kids’ home so long the costs of heating could be a problem.  Also MCAS dates are set 
and determined by the state, the more pre-MCAS days we can have the better.  The committee discusses a few 
different options as opening on Monday December 23, and the likeliness of very low attendance.  How it will affect 
seniors and our planned graduation dates.  Dr. Burnham shares that a seniors last day of school cannot exceed 12 
days from the last day of the rest of the school.  Would there be a financial budget to leave the school closed for the 
two full weeks, based on heating.  Dr. Burnham states that we have other sports that use our facilities during that 
time and expecting them to put their activities on hold for 3 weekends is a lot to ask, so we would most likely be 
having the heat on anyway. 
 
11. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. FY 25 Budget Development  Dr. Burnham shares a slide that shows the details of the breakdown of positions with 
expected amount of cuts by department, based on the assumption we receive 2.5% state funding and will have a 10% 
increase in health insurance costs.  Mr. Sculimbrene asks what is included in the extracurricular category, will that 
affect coaching, Dr. Burnham replies, this category is people who solely work in athletics.  Administration cuts has 
more flexibility, we’ve been re-negotiating contracts and have been able to save money and the positions.  The 
committee discusses how are these people going to be chosen is it a dollar amount and roles selection?  Dr. Burnham 
shares that it is more about looking at the district as a whole, and how we are going to makes this work, principals 
will be part of the conversations as they know what roles are an absolute necessity to keep the school running.  The 
majority of the cuts we make will be included in the 5 year staffing plan as we know we need them, and will 
continue to bring them back. 
 
12. Reports Mr. Beardmore reports the Capital Planning Committee met on December 21 st, we finalized our consolidated 
recommendations.  The town manager will be publishing her proposed capital plan in the next couple weeks.  Our items did 
move down a little bit on the list, Turkey Hill design schematics and assessment moved to #4, Turkey Hill safety window 
film moved to #7 and the dump truck with plow moved to #14.  Our committee will continue to meet through the spring and 
try to come up with a 5 year plan or at least put together some guidance to do so. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
13. Public Comment - None 
 
14. Topics for Future Discussion 
FY 25 Budget 
  
 
15. Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares : Mr. Lehtinen makes a 
motion to enter executive session at 7:45 and adjourn immediately following, Ms. Brzozoski seconded the motion, all 
approve 
 
16. Adjournment 
 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 