===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Tuesday, May 14, 2024  
Special Meeting 
            6:00 - Remote 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Absent    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Susan Gilson, Business/ HR Manager Candidate 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:00 
 
2. Public Comment – None 
 
3. Chairs Report I want to remind everyone we have two important votes this week.  On Thursday is the water district vote.  
Saturday is the Town Election, where we vote for our elected officials for next year along with the override vote.  
 
4. New Business 
Action 
a. Business/HR Manager Candidate Appointment Ms. Gilson is introduced, and has already met with the members 
of the school committee.  She is currently the Assistant Superintendent of King Phillip Regional School District, and 
Dr. Burnham brings her forward as a recommended candidate for the Business/HR Manager position.  Mr. Lehtinen 
asks what the hiring process was like prior to coming to the school committee.  Dr. Burnham replies we had a large 
panel of administrative staff, central office staff, and staff that would be interfacing on a regular basis with the 
business director.  We had 3 candidates, one withdrew, we moved onto a second round of interviewing and we 
would then chose to move Ms. Gilson forward for your approval. Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to appoint Ms. 
Gilson to the position of Business/HR Manager pending final approval in contracts with the superintendent, 
Mr. Lehtinen seconds the motion all approve via roll call. 
 
5. Public Comment – None 
 
6. Executive Session to consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee 
if the chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants.  
 
7. Adjournment Mr. Lehtinen makes a motion to enter into executive session and adjourn immediately following at 6:09, 
Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve via roll call  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Courtney Fuller 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  
