===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, March 6, 2024 
Town Hall, Meeting Room 
       6:30 - Hybrid 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Carol Archambault, Chair- Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Brian Lehtinen, Vice Chair - Present   Business Manager/ HR Director  
Anthony Sculimbrene, Secretary - Present    
Peter Beardmore, Member - Present 
Laura Brzozoski, Member – Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: Eric Hevy – Director of Facilities, Tim Santry – LMHS Principal 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadc ast 
live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. 
(http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access 
YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.   Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1. Call to Order by Carol Archambault at 6:30 p.m. 
 
2. Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3. Public Comment - None 
 
4. Chair’s Report At last Thursday's Finance Committee meeting it was suggested that I meet with the town manager to 
negotiate additional funds.  Dr Burnham and I did meet with her on Monday and we were told not to count on any additional 
funding, there was a chance of maybe $40,000 from additional new growth but nothing definite.  At last evenings Select 
Board meeting the Town Manager stated that there would be an addition $230,000 added to the school budget pending new 
growth certification and a warrant article from the assessor's office.  This morning Dr Burnham and I received an email from 
the town manager telling us not to use the $230,000 in our budget planning so that figure will not appear this evening. Also at 
last evening's Select Board meeting it was stated they would put an override on the warrant as well as on the ballot. We will 
be deciding on the dollar amount this evening, the Select Board needs that number for their March 12 th meeting.  The 
superintendent and I met with the Town Manager, Finance Committee Chair, Select Board Chair, and Park Commission 
members to discuss future projects, most discussion needs to be done between the Municipal Building Committee and the 
School Committee to determine an agreeable path forward with Turkey Hill, and we will commence this discussion after the 
budget is set.  At last night's Select Board meeting two of our earmark requests one for network security and one for enhance 
911 were voted on to be submitted to our state delegation. I wish to thank the citizens that have been following this very 
difficult budget season, I would urge all residents and I will at each meeting until then, to plan on attending the May 4th town 
meeting to make your voices heard. 
 
5. Review & Approve Minutes 
a. Regular Session 1/24/24 – Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve minutes, Mr. Sculimbrene seconded the 
motion,  roll call vote all approve with Mr. Beardmore abstaining. 
 
6. Review & Approve Warrants & Line Item Transfers 
a. Warrant Total 2/26/24 $102,872.20 – No questions, Ms. Archambault has signed 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
b. Line Item Transfers $78,933 an explanation was provided for all line item transfers and reasons for each one.  Mr. 
Sculimbrene made a motion to approve line item transfers, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion, all approve  via 
roll call 
 
7. Superintendent’s Report  Nothing New to report 
 
8. Student Representative Report Nothing new to report from The Primary School.  Turkey Hill is participating in Read 
across America.  LMHS is wrapping up winter sports and starting spring sports.   
 
Ms. Archambault adds that she thanks the third grade for inviting her to participate in Read Across America. 
 
Mr. Beardmore shares, I believe our sports teams are all done for the winter season and across the board I think our teams 
achieved above expectations once again with fantastic participation levels, as we have been demonstrated in the past and just 
want to give a shout out to our AD and his staff of coaches, the students, and the parents for a great winter season. I also just 
read I believe within the last day or two in social media that our Science Olympiad team did extraordinarily well in the recent 
state tournament so hats off to all involved to include the advisers and of course once again the students and their parents. 
 
9. New Business 
Action 
a. LHS Program of Studies Mr. Santry shares good news from LHS – Every 10th grader has taken the MCAS and 
100% have passed both ELA and Math.   I was contacted by DESE last week and five of our students from LMHS 
received a Student Achievement Award.  This award is provided to students who fall within the high need subgroup 
category in MCAS that also scored within the exceeding expectations in the math or ELA test. As you know, as part 
of our accountability with the state is to move our subgroups from Needs Improvement to Meeting Expect ations, in 
some cases at LMHS we are moving students from meeting to exceeding expectations. Once again a tribute to the 
people in our building and the hard work that we do in order to support students every day. Lastly about MCAS 29 
of our students from the class of 2024 were awarded the John and Abigail Adams award. The Adams scholarship 
award goes to students that scores place them in the top 25% of the district scores, but also have to be in the 
advanced category in one of the two tests based on our average class size of 104/105, 29 of them received this 
award. Congratulations to our Science Olympiad team this is the first year Lunenburg has ever had a team, 16 high 
school students participated in Science Olympiad and they placed in the top 10 out of 71 teams in the state.  A shout 
out to Bodie Orni, he placed ninth out of 81 teams in the Harvard University Invitational for Science Olympiad. 
Some more good news I spoke with Dr Burnham and we are able to lock in on a Saturday June 1 st graduation date, I 
will be getting that information out to families in my weekly email.   
 
You should all have copy of the program of studies for 24/25.  I’d like to thank my Assistant Principals and 
Department Heads for helping us make the changes, with the uncertainty in the budget.  Our strategy moving 
forward is allowing the students choices to dictate our courses and electives.  We will whittle away at courses once 
we have recommendations and students choices entered.  We would like to offer AP Statis tics if possible as many 
academic programs at college levels include statistics as a requirement.    Offering could have an opportunity to 
receive college credit.  The majority of schools in our Midwach group offer statistics both at CP and AP level, it 
would keep Lunenburg Public Schools competitive, we had already purchased textbooks, and we wouldn’t incur  
additional costs.  Ms. Brzozoski asked how many students you accept.  Mr. Santry replied last year we had 33 sign 
up for Statistics (Not AP).  Mr. Beardmore asks for some more commentary regarding possible struggles of adding 
an AP class and pulling students from current classes.  Mr. Santry shares that this year we are really going with 
student choices, if we have classes that only have a few sign ups then we won’t be running that class.  We are 
hopeful that the last week of March, or first week of April to begin the registration and be able to get the numbers to 
the guidance counselors, and then we can start to decipher out which classes can and cannot run for the next school 
year.  Mr. Beardmore asks do you think adding AP stats will affect AP calculus and is it likely that a course listed in 
the handbook, actually not be offered based on numbers.  Mr. Santry replies we do not have any data yet as to if  AP 
calculus would be affected and yes it is possible a class may not run.  Mr. Beardmore makes a motion to approve 
the Program of Studies, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion.  All approve via roll call.  
 
b. Student Opportunity Act Plan Annica Scott provided a document to explain Student Opportunity Act Plan. Ms. 
Scott shares that every three years districts are asked to write a Student Opportunity Act for DESE.  They gave us 
guidelines and I attended a webinar in order to write this.  Today I met with a repre sentative from DESE who said 
this was in great shape to present to the school committee.  We are looking to have this posted and open for public 
feedback for a few weeks as well, before it is due on April 1 st.  We had to analyze our data and we looked at things 
like MCAS, Iready, our module assessment data and we looked specifically at any subgroups which were showing a 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
disparity Ms. Scott references data through the report for school committee’s attention.  M r. Beardmore asks for 
more clarification on how this document was built.  Ms. Scott answers, through templates provided by DESE, this 
document does not include faculty, or public feedback yet.  Prior to the committee’s approval in two weeks that 
information will be added. 
 
c. FY 24 Quarterly Budget Report Our financial consultants and Liaisons along with my team have been working on 
our budget lines and finding deficits or budget lines that need to be adjusted.  A spreadsheet was provided to the 
committee that detailed all the budget line adjustments.  Dr. Burnham went through each line and explains the 
differences noted.  Mr. Sculimbrene asked if we are definitely getting Circuit Breaker money.  Ms. Hanscom reports 
that we will definitely receive Circuit Breaker money, but it is based on the previous year. 
 
d. Warrant Article Submission Per the advice of the Town Manager it was suggested we write a request for the 
money and what it would be used for.  We are requesting $82,119 from free cash to pay  for the Network Security 
Upgrade.  For the warrant, it should say that the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from free cash a 
sum of $82,119.  Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to approve and warrant as drafted, Mr. Beardmore 
seconds the motion, all approve via roll call 
 
Discussion 
e. Assessment Report A report was supplied to the committee and is posted online.  If anyone needs more information 
or has any questions please email lps@lunenburgschools.net 
 
f. Facilities Update Mr. Hevy reports to the committee by going through each school building and different repairs or 
maintenance that needs to be done.  He goes into detail on each item and shares the cost to repair or replace.  The 
turf field feasibility study, we held interview with contractors and ultimately it was awarded to Collins Civil 
Engineering, hopefully to be completed by the end of July 2024.   Mr. Beardmore comments to emphasize the 
timeline on the turf field plans, as the field has 2 maybe 3 years of life left to it. We are currently not in compliance 
with the E911 system, this system allows 911 to know which room a call is made from.  Turkey Hill is most 
expensive because they have an older phone system. 
 
10. Old Business 
Discussion 
a. FY 25 Budget update Q & A Dr. Burnham shares a new updated presentation for the budget.  Mr. Beardmore 
shares his struggle of what the right path is the needs budget or the level services minus ESSER.  Dr. Burnham 
reports historically the budget process was percent increase based.  We really do not want to lose that position as we 
won’t be able to provide comparable services, if more cuts are needed, how can we do what’s best for our kids.  
Evan Waters, the Chair of the Finance Committee, reports the budget that is to be submitted to them  has to be the 
2.94% budget.  We as the committee look at the budget as a whole, we have no authority over the Town Manager, 
the Select Board will look over the budget as well and then everyone votes individually.  The committee asks “What 
if no one votes to approve the balanced budget?”  Mr. Waters’ replies then you leave without a balanced budget and 
you begin scheduling Special Town meetings.  Mr. Lehtinen asks if it makes sense for us to come up with a 
percentage and let the select board come up with the amount.  Ms. Archambault replies, it really is up to us to come 
up with the number and is better for us to come up with the number. If we end up with our budget being over the 
asking price based on more town money, we would then hold a meeting to level the money and re-appropriate.  Mr. 
Beardmore asks about the numbers we can use to determine the amount of taxes a household would increase.  Mr. 
Water’s comments the DLS website will give a median home value, but also shows the amounts based on $200,000 
and up, however, this is based on 2023 tax year and before our re-evaluation is submitted.  Mr. Beardmore looks to 
more guidance for the values of what we gain or lose on each version of the budgets, what are we able to provide 
educational wise if we choose the budget.  Dr. Burnham reports while working on the many versions of the budget, 
we have been focusing on positions, we are working on a line by line version to show differences in expenses and 
salaries. 
 
Renee Emkey, 6 Irish Court With the ESSER cuts it changes the salary reserve line, does it also change the health 
insurance? And is it fair to say the ESSER numbers stay the same?  Dr Burnham: No, we have to do that separately, and 
yes the number will stay the same. There is an increase of $200,000 for co mputers, as the 6th and 9th grade students get 
new Chromebook, along with the replacement cycle for staff, Turkey Hill needs all updates current, because of MCAS 
and the network security update. 
 
Chris Menard, Vice Chair Finance Committee The comment was made regarding the democratic process and where 
does it begin.  We’re kind of living it right now and, it was also stated that finance committee is an appointed position, 
===PAGE 4===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
but it's kind of a funny appointed position, where we're not a subcommittee to anyone.   We're appointed by the town 
moderator, the school committee, and the select board. Our real purpose is to represent the legislature through hearings 
and ultimately, there are three things we can do through that; the first one is we can influence the budg et as its being 
developed, the second thing is we vote on every money article, whether we would recommend approving it or not, and 
the third thing we do is write a report that goes into the warrant. The last two things are pretty important because if Town 
manager, who is responsible by charter to pull for the budget. If we don't agree with it as a finance committee we can 
simply recommend to not approve it as it is. The second thing we could do is if we said hey you know the schools are 
short $200,000 and we believe these other departments are over, we could write that up in our in our report.  On the floor 
we can hold those items and make amendments to the town manager budgets, during the town meeting.  So that's the 
democratic process that comes into play.  When you come forward to the finance committee hearing at least the first 
time, everything you do needs to be based upon the budget as it stands on that day, but you can come forward and say 
this is where we think we should be based on that budget.  We'll have a public hearing, the budget will become more and 
more firm, throughout the entire process.  Unknowns will become known and maybe by the end of it you know your 
budget is increased just like we saw this past week.  So I want everyone to know that th e town manager is responsible for 
coming up with the budget for the entire time.  But there are processes in place to push back against that budget.  
 
Shoshana Mulè 139 Cove Road Dr. Burnham why can’t you take the 5th grade band off the cuts in the level service 
minus ESSER.  Dr. Burnham replies that position is not listed for cuts on that budget.  The Turkey Hill position and the 
High School music position will not be touched in the Level services minus ESSER budget.  
 
TJ Loughlin 207 Rolling Acres Road My question I guess is I'm trying to reconcile the 8% starting point to a 6% 
which I think is a difference of over $400,000? Dr Burnham replies the 8% did not make actual position cuts, it took a 
salary value just off the bottom line, when you go in and actually make cuts in the spreadsheets that we're working in; 
there are embedded formulas.  This year negotiating with the para professionals and the teachers, there's a salary reserve 
line in the budget, and when I remove a teacher or paraprofessional, the lines reduce accordingly to the individual staff 
member based on the formula.   To be fair and transparent we have said that 12 positions, 8 licensed educators and 4 
tutors which are not full-time jobs are currently paid for with the ESSER grant.  We are trying to make a comparable 
number of cuts in terms of positions.  We traded out one position for the four tutors, because we are going to keep those 
tutors and pay them out of a different grant.  We have said for 2 ½ years that we would be making a cut to the positions, 
but that the cuts were not specifically the ESSER positions. 
 
Evan Waters, 45 Sunny Hill Road Do you have a dollar amount for the 6% - 2.94?  $714,814 with a possible increase 
in funds of $230,000.  Is there a standing policy that says health insurance sits on the school budgets side?  Ms. 
Archambault responds, no it used to be town budget, a past superintendent wanted health insurance on the school budget 
side in order to benefit from insurance decreases and petitioned to have it as part of the school budget.  Mr. Waters states 
it doesn’t seem to make sense to have one department in the town include the health insurance as part of their budget, but 
the town hold the rest of the departments insurance in their budget.   
 
Action 
b. Override Discussion & Vote Ms. Archambault shares the level services minus ESSER is the difference between 
6.02% and the town manager 2.97% is $714,814.  Ms. Brzozoski agrees with the number, but would like input from 
Dr. Burnham.  Dr Burnham shares that if we can fund more positions she is not going to say no.  Mr. Sculimbrene 
gives credit to Mr. Lehtinen, when he said if we are going to go through this whole process, we might as well go for 
a result we want.  Mr. Beardmore is struggling with this scenario, because he does no t believe it is going to pass.  
There has been a huge mismanagement and the lack of trust that exists between citizens and the town.  We are in a 
no-win situation, it is frustrating, saddening and irresponsible.  I think Mr. Jeffrey has misrepresented this  situation.  
Mr. Lehtinen agrees with Mr. Sculimbrene with the level service minus ESSER.  Ms. Archambault agrees with Mr. 
Sculimbrene, if we are going to do it, let’s make it worth it.  I understand there are people who can’t or don’t want to 
spend the money, but we need to do what is best.   Ms. Archambault makes the recommendation to set the override 
amount at $715,000 Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to set the override amount at $715,000, Mr. Lehtinen 
seconds the motion, all approve via roll call. 
 
11. Reports Mrs. Brzozoski reports the PTO met on Monday, they are doing teacher appreciation on Friday with a coffee 
warmup.  The special someone dance has now raised $1,572 in total, which is fantastic.  They are doing their spring planning 
event, they will not be doing Hollis Hills this year, and they are going to do a cruise night in conjunction with the Boys and 
Girls Club, food pantry, and the Lions Club.  This will be held on Wednesday May 22 with a rain date of May 29.  They will 
be doing kids games and raffles, maybe a DJ.  This will be a real community event, not just the PTO.  Mr. Adams talked 
about the solar eclipse which is going to be happening on a school day, a little before dismissal.  
 
===PAGE 5===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
Mr. Beardmore reports Mr. Stevenson’s Civic Class had a really fun event, getting to talk with the students from a school 
committee seat is always enjoyable and a great time.  There will be an Advisory Committee meeting on the 18 th.  I will be 
distributing an agenda to the booster club leaders, later in the week.  I will also be encouraging all athletic parents to attend 
that meeting, there are some really good fundraising opportunities that have come our way.  I think we need to build 
awareness and participation amongst the parents that have kids participating in sports.  Last week at the Finance Committee 
meeting the police chief brought up our comfort dog, Hank, advancing age, and he will need to be replaced in the not too 
distant future. 
 
Mr. Lehtinen reports there have been three finance committee meetings.  On February 21st the meeting was mostly on the 
budget process and review of the target budget, it was preliminary with a lot of unknowns.  They did mention that free cash i s 
not part of the operating budget.  On February 22, there was a cancellation of the no land  presentation.  There was a Council 
on Aging in the library, an interesting fact was that 30% of Lunenburg is elderly, they plan to increase the meal site 
manager’s hours to full time.  There was a little push back, but it is really hard to hire part -time people.  The library will be 
increasing hours.  Some discussion on the process of town meeting was shared and some data regarding attempts for 
overrides in Massachusetts.  On the 29th the IT department mentioned that the schools are going to be upgrading their phone 
system voiceover system, but did not know the particular details.  The police are talking about recruiting and retaining has 
been a challenge, statewide average is 2.4 officers per thousand and Lunenburg currently has 1.5 officers per thousand.  
There was mention of a possible addition of a second SRO next year.  They also want to seek a comfort dog in the 
community in the future. 
 
Ms. Archambault reports that tomorrow evening the Master Planning Committee is meeting before the Finance Committee 
meeting.  
 
12. Public Comment 
Mary Foyle, 985 Flat Hill Road I am speaking as a parent, with the knowledge of an employee, as well as a high school 
employee particularly.  I am from a small town, half the size of Lunenburg.  I am from a public non-regional high school that 
had classes well under half the size of what Lunenburg offers.  I never took an AP class, we only offered one math, it was 
many years ago.  As a teacher now I realize how lacking my high school career was and not becau se my teachers didn’t work 
hard, they were simply working with the resources that they had.  I am a small town girl, but I did not apply there and I do 
not live there, that is not by accident.  I am sitting here now and I am wondering if I am putting my ch ildren in the same spot 
I was as a student.  I appreciate all the work that everyone’s doing and I know right now with the budget process, we are in a 
half marathon, because of the timelines but looking out into the future we need to be thinking like ultra marathon or Iron man.  
When the decision was made to not regionalize, it was known we would have to fund our schools a certain way, and that 
might mean for some of those specialized classes you get into high school would have smaller classes.   For one of my 
children this decision will be a deciding factor if they will continue to be schooled in this district.  
 
Mr. Beardmore As a parent, I couldn’t agree more 
 
Ms. Brzozoski Please make sure you all come to town meeting.  It is May 4th at the Lunenburg Middle High School 
Auditorium at 9 a.m., your attendance, support, and votes are so important.  Mark your calendars. 
 
13. Topics for Future Discussion 
Budget 
Override Number 
Budget Hearing 
 
14. Adjournment Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to adjourn at 10:20, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 
 