===PAGE 1===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
        
 
MEETING MINUTES  
 SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEETING  
Wednesday, May 21, 2025 
      LHMS Collaborative Room #D132 
6:30 – Hybrid 
 
School Committee    Superintendent  
Anthony Sculimbrene Chair - Present   Dr. Kate Burnham  
Laura Brzozoski, Vice Chair - Present 
Mandy Gilman Secretary - Present    
Emily Young, Member - Present 
George Yapp, Member - Present 
     Recording Secretary 
     Courtney Fuller 
Guests: 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast  live over 
the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page. ( http://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-
Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be taken as a 
result of these discussions.  Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may be brought up for discussion to the 
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law 
 
1) Call to Order by Mr. Sculimbrene at 6:37 
 
2) Pledge of Allegiance 
 
3) Public Comment –Ms. Brzozoski would like to welcome the three new members and thank you for stepping up 
and volunteering. 
 
4) Chair’s Report Mr. Sculimbrene (after elected) I am super glad that everybody who is here tonight is here.  One 
of the things that I have learned on school committee is everybody brings something different to the table and 
everybody brings something that matters.  When Peter joined and then Laura joined they brought real and 
different skill sets to the job.  It made us better and I think that one of the things that we do that maybe not every 
committee does in town is we work with comedy and respectfulness.  I think we are going to do that going 
forward and as I have said to many people, it is not what you believe, it is how you believe it.  If we are going to 
be respectful then I think this going to work, so thank you for coming. 
 
5) Student Representative Report None 
 
6) Review & Approve Minutes 
a) Regular Session 3/5/25 & 3/12/25 Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to approve, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds 
the motion, the motion passes with two yes’s and 3 abstain 
 
7) Review & Approve Warrants, Line Item Transfers & Donations 
a) Warrants 5/6/25 – 5/16/25 $130,589.17 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
 
 Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools  

===PAGE 2===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
8) Superintendents Report Welcome to the new members of the committee.  Cruise night has been rescheduled to 
5/28. We have received 1006 transportation forms so far, which is down from 1450 last year. Kindergarten 
screening is June 2, the Middle High School concert is on May 29th, chorus at 5:30 and band at 7 pm.   Eighth 
grade is currently out on their annual Washington DC trip.  
 
There was a bus accident today, and a special thanks to everyone who coordinated around it.  I was not in as I was 
out on bereavement.  Thank you Dr. Gilson, Juliana Hanscom, our SRO Brad McNamara, Chief Sullivan from the 
fire department, Sandra Martin from Dee Bus, and Liz Peterson.  There was a lot of outgoing communication and 
coordination back and forth.  Congratulations to the bus driver for handling the bus in a way that kept all the kids 
safe. 
 
Upcoming Dates 
5/26/25 All schools and offices are closed for Memorial Day 
6/4/25 School Committee Meeting 6:30 and Annual Retiree Celebration 6:00 
6/4/25 Last day of school for seniors and motorcade in the morning 
6/5/25 Senior Awards 
6/7/25 Graduation 
6/18/25 Last School Committee meeting for the school year 
 
9) New Business 
Action 
a) Committee Reorganization 
i) Election of Offices & Appointment of Sub-Committee Members Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to 
nominate Mr. Sculimbrene as Chair Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve via roll call vote. 
Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to nominate Ms Brzozoski as Vice Chair, Ms. Young seconds the 
motion all approve via roll call vote.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to nominate Mandy Gilman as 
Secretary, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion, all approve via roll call vote.    The committee goes through 
all sub committees and assign a member to each one Ms. Gilman makes a motion to accept all 
appointment of subcommittee, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion, all approve 
 
ii) Authorize Policies & Procedures to Remain in Force Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to continue as is 
Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
 
iii) Annual Student Activity Accounts Authorization Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to authorize  
annual student activity accounts, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
 
iv) Annual Town Meeting – Auditorium Waiver  Ms. Gilman makes a motion to continue waiver, Mr. 
Yapp seconds the motion, all approve 
 
v) Grant Approval – Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion for the school committee to authorize the 
superintendent and those delegated by the superintendent to pursue all grants for the next 12 
months that promote Lunenburg School Districts strategy for continuous improvement, Ms. Gilman 
makes a motion to approve,  Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
 
b) Letter to Legislature – Funding Reform Commission Ms. Gilman has drafted a letter in regards to Chapter 
70 funds. She can forward the letter to Liz Peterson to be sent out to delegates.  Ms. Brzozoski makes a 
motion to accept the letter with revisions as stated, Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion all approve 
===PAGE 3===
 
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103 
c) Review of Operating Protocols discussion over present protocols and possibilities to streamline meetings and 
try to get more public attendance and participation Ms, Brzozoski makes a motion to accept protocols as is 
and bring back for review at next meeting, Mr. Yapp seconds the motion all approve 
 
d) SC Draft Meeting Calendar 2025-2026 discussion about adding a meeting in August for budget discussion, 
email sent to Town Manager for ideas. 
 
10) Old Business 
Action 
 
a) Evaluation/Audit Reports a report in in the committee’s packet   
b) 3601.01 Third Read Bus Fee Policy Mr. Sculimbrene reads the policy aloud Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion 
to approve the Bus Fee Policy 3601.01 as written, Ms. Gilman seconds the motion all approve 
 
Mr. Sculimbrene makes a motion to allow a public comment, Ms. Brzozoski seconds the motion all approve 
 
 Justin Reppuci, 1147 Mass Ave I have put in a waiver for fees, due to unsafe sidewalk, when will I know if it 
is approved Committee responds the waiver needs to go to superintendent’s office and will be notified of a 
decision, and if you are unsatisfied you can appeal 
 
c) Finalized Superintendent Contract The contract has been signed, our lawyer came to us after the fact with 
multiple changes to the contract.  The committee agrees to allow the contract that was ratified to be the final 
contract 
 
Discussion 
d) Curriculum Office Update there is a link to a video in the committees folder any questions can be referred to 
Dr. Bookis 
e) Strategy Action Plan Update- Core Values Members will review the information and if there is any 
feedback with send to superintendent 
f) Budget Task Force Charge uncertain if the task force will be starting up again 
 
11)  Reports None 
 
12) Public Comment Mandy Gilman In regards to the state budget, there are two areas I would like to talk about.  
There may be some money coming through Special Ed Circuit Breaker for the current fiscal year.  There is also a 
one-time millionaire’s tax, it could mean some money for Lunenburg. When the final budget is signed, if we have 
more money than we are currently expecting, we as committee should have a plan of spending.  I’d like to know 
when we get this money, what it will be used for. 
 
13) Topics for Future Discussion  Possible increase in funding for Lunenburg and a plan of how it will be spent 
 
14) Adjournment Ms. Brzozoski makes a motion to adjourn at 9:08 pm Mr. Sculimbrene seconds the motion, 
all approved 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
 
 
Courtney Fuller 