===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes
August 16. 2010
Lunenburg Town Hall
Iviembers present: Tania Femandez, Rhonda Lisio, Lance May, Martha Cheesman, Freu
Crellin
Also in attendance: John Dextraze, Ernie Sund
The meeting was called to order at 7:05
Public Comments - John said that he might have a candidate for coordinator. He looked
at the proposed job description and indicated his approval.
The minutes were read and accepted.
The job description for a part-time coordinator was discussed, moved and accepted.
Funding for final-cut pro workshops was discussed. John indicated an interest in
attending. It was moved and accepted to appropriate a sum not to exceed $500 for
training in the use of final-cut pro software.
New equipment -- Ernie reported that the selectmen feel that there is a need for better
microphones and/or speakers. The problem is apparently one for people in the live
audience, not for TV viewers. It was feit that this should be addressed by the new
coordinator. Also, mention was made about the possibility of a studio in the corner of the
Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room.
Ernie indicated that the Selectmen would like to see more meetings broadcast in the
interest of transparency. There was a lengthy discussion concerning the broadcast of
additional meetings as well as some of the selectmen workshops. There was a consensus
that there was need for a specific policy.
Public Comments: Lance mentioned the desirability of a program around the 50* LHS
Homecoming (Sat. Oct. 23""). If FATV were available to film it, the cost would be $700.
There was aiso a discussion of the free programming from Fegiviedia.org currently being
broadcast on Ch. 9, as well as the possible use of Drawing with Mark, Dick's Gardening,
and the potential for a program on Lunenburg's history. There was aiso a discussion
about acquiring an intern from the Fitchburg State media program.
The meeting was adjourned at 8:44.
The next meeting will be held on September 13*
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 4 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
