===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes
September 10, 2012
Brooks House
Members Present: Rhonda Lisio, Lance May, Fred Crellin
Also Present: John Destraze, JoMcLaughlin, Ernie Sund
Call to Order: 7:07pm
Secretary's Report: The minutes were read and approved as amended.
Public Comments: Fred noted with sadness the passing of Paul L'Ecuyer.
Old Business:
• Update on bidding process for mobile studio.
• After discussion, a motion was made and seconded to delete the DAC
analog converter ($447) from the package and to accept the bid as
amended ($33,530). The motion passed.
After Jo informed us that Access AV had informed us (after the fact) that
the Tricaster 300 is being discontinued and will soon be unavailable, a
motion was made and seconded to rescind the original motion. The
motion passed.
A new motion was made and seconded to accept the bid minus the Data
Video Dac 50, Tricaster 300, Editor and the extended warranty on the
Tricaster, bringing the new total to $19,257. After discussion the motion
was withdrawn.
A motion was made and seconded to table acceptance of the bid
pending additional information. The motion passed and the decision
was tabled.
• Jo will contact Access AV asking for information on the replacement
equipment for those things being discontinued.
• Studio Update
• Theovas a report on a visit by John, Lance and John Londa with an
electrician.
• It will need a black ceiling, blackout curtains or (black plywood or foam
board)
• There will need to be a meeting with the building inspector, anad
electiricain.
• A decision on the future of the elementary school would tentatively occur
in May 2014.
• Martha Cheesman indicated a willingness to be a liason with the high school. She
could be at the next meeting.
===PAGE 2===
•
Programming Update
Homecoming
FATV is set with the truck. There will be three cameras (Jason
/ill man one of them; the others tba) The announcers are set. W
rea still looking to acquire a scissor lift. Jo will call Home Depo
the Hoghway Dept. etc.
Other
A Turkey Hill Middle School weekly podcast will be available
(Steve Archambault)
• 51% of programming is now local.
The Special Town Meeting will be filmed and broadcast.
• Jo described a tentative underwriting program and a free t-shirt
drawing
New Business:
The meeting was adjourned at 9:45pm.
