===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes
January 9* 2012
Brooks House
Members Present: Lance May, Rhonda Lisio, Fred Crellin
Also Present: Ernie Sund, Jo McLaughlin
Call to Order: 7:01pm
Public Comments: Jim Normandin came to complain about the Comcast service
in the weeks following the October snowstorm. While PACC was unable to offe
any direct help, they did offer sime suggestions. Lance suggested that Mr
Normandin send a written complaint to the Selectmen to add to any record that
should be kept prior to the renegotiation of the contract. Ernie suggested that next
time he contact Verizon, as they own the polls. Rhonda recommended that they
contact the state regulators in Boston, and Fred suggested that in addition, they
contact Representative Benson's office.
Old Business:
• Blackboard Update - According to records, one payment of $7,900 has
been made and there is a similar bill outstanding. PACC authorized Lance
May to ask Kerry for a letter indicating that it is legal for us to make such
a payment (which would end our financial commitment to the project.)
Logo Update - none
•
New Equipment Update - tabled until the Feb. meeting
Step Program Student Evaluation Format - There was a discussion of the
tormat and procedures tor evaluation. It was reported by Jo that our
current intern, Mike Wallman has been working on a drunk driving PSA
nd a possible quarterly program on the public safety departments. It wa
uggested that Mike be invited to our April meetins
• Repair Costs for GLZ Camera - Jo said that it was her assumption that it
will be covered under the warranty. She will attempt to confirm this for
the next meeting.
• Volunteers - Jo talked to Jason Kearns about possible volunteering and/or
contract videographer work. He seemed interested. It was suggested that
we check on availability for high school basketball broadcasts, etc.
New Business:
Next Meeting: Feb. 6* at 7:00pm
Meeting Adjourned: 9:00
PACC phone #978-582 #CEIVED & FILED
FEB 0T 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
