===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Je Rd tom
PACC Meeting Minutes
June 11th, 2012
Brooks House
Members Present: Rhonda Lisio, Lanace May, Fred Crellin
Also Present: Jo McLaughlin, John Dextraze
Call to Order: 7:15 pm
Secretary's Report: Minutes read and approved.
Old Business:
• Mobile Studio Equipment Package -- A Vote on the package was tabled til the
July meeting, so that we can get clarification from Kerry on the bid process.
• Camera Upgrade - any new cameras will be for studio use, with the GL2's used
in the field. No vote was taken.
• MacBook -There was a discussion concerning the size. The vote was tabled til
July.
• Jamie Rowe shot the "Talk of the Town" footage at Cherry Hill and will be
filming at Lanni's and Dick's and doing the editing.
• Jason Kearns taped and edited the Memorial Day exercise. The CORI check or
Jason is still not done, but will be completed by the July meeting.
• Brian McCarthy (FSC) is still interested in doing some work for PACC.
• Programming Update - The July "Talk of the Town" will include interviews with
2012 LHS grads. A suggestion was made to do a feature on Lunenburg's
Summer Rec Basketball League.
• Step Program Update - Jo met with Pete McCauliff -- A Step intern will
hopefully be available before the end of the school year.
• Production Technician/Coordinator - There was a discussion about future needs
for a staff production/technician person. There were a number of variables that
wee discussed. Many would have budget implications. Three options were
outlined: (1) increase Jo's hours, (2) create a part-time technical coordinator, and
(3) contract individuals for specific projects.
New Business: PACC Coordinator Compensation -- After a discussion, a motion was
made and passed to (1) increase the PACC Coordinator's hours to 19 hrs/week, (2) to
rewrite the job description to more accurately reflect the current reality of that
position, and (3) communicate with the Personnel Board concerning the job
description, demonstrating the increase in programming
that has occurred as
well as projecting our needs going forward. Rhonda and Fred agreed to work on the
job description prior to our next meeting. (July 94).
Meeting Adjourned: 9:53 pm
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 10 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
