===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LOm
RoK
PACC Meeting Minutes
April 19", 2012
Brooks House
Members Present: Lance May, Rhonda Lisio, Fred Crellin
Also Present: Jo McLaughlin, John Dextraze, Ernie Sund, Dave McDonald
Call to Order: 7:01 pm
Secretary's Report: Minutes read and approved.
Old Business:
• Blackboard Connect Update: After a discussion of e-mails from Kerry Speidel, it
was moved, seconded and approved (by a 2 - 1 vote) that PACC pay the
Blackboard Connect bill ($7,707).
• By-law changes: There was a discussion of the proposed changes to our by-laws.
All PACC members said that we would appear before the BOS on May 1" to
present the changes that will be on the warrant. (The changes were passed at the
annual town meeting).
• Remote participation by members missing from meetings that PACC covers was
discussed. Skype, speakerphones, etc. were discussed as alternatives. Meetings
would have to be held at Town Hall with some advance notice. Jo and John will
check it out. Jo will report back in May.
• Logo Update: The Logo selected was shown. Everyone agreed it was "pretty
spiffy". Jo will check into signage and report back.
• STEP Program Update: Jamie Rowe will not be an official PACC intern due to
lack of time, but he will be editing tapes of the Mr. LHS contest. There is a need
for a meeting with Pete McCauliff to discuss next Fall's intern. Two or three
students will be needed next year.
• Studio Equipment: Jo and John met with Robert Haigh from Access Video. He
recommended a "studio package" as opposed to our itemized list. All equipment
would be semi-portable and would enable us to go live anywhere there is an
internet connection. He will be invited to the May 17* meeting to make a
presentation.
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 18 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
• Programming: Jo mentioned two programs borrowed from FATV (The British
Are Coming) and LATV (It Happened in Leominster).
Dave McDonald was present to discuss "Talk of the Town" a proposed series
about Lunenburg, with the first episode concerning the proposed Prop 2½ Override.
After a discussion, it was moved, seconded and approved that the series
should go forward. PACC will revisit this decision next September. Jo asked
PACC members to look at the budget report and pointed out that we were at or
below budget in every category.
New Business: None
Meeting Adjourned: 9:23 pm
Next Meeting May 17'h
at 7:00 pm
