===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC/BOS Workshop Meeting Minutes
October 15, 2013
8:00 PM - Joint Meeting with Public Access Cable Committee:
Mr. Alonzo opened the Joint Meeting with Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) at 8:07PM
and asked the PACC if they would please open their meeting at this time
The Public Access Cable Committee called their meeting to order at 8:08PM
In attendance: Chairperson Lance May, Vice Chairperson Rhonda Lisio, Secretary Fred Crellin,
Troy Daniels, & Program Coordinator Jo McLaughlin.
1. Review of charge to committee- BOS vote, Town Charter, Bylaws, State Law
Discussion: Mr. May began by citing a section of the PACC By-Law which reads "Vacancies
shall be filled on the recommendation of PACC which will pass on those recommendations for
review and approval by the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen". Mr. May's belief is that the
Selectmen appointment of Mr. Daniels is not valid due to the fact that the PACC did not meet to
recommend this appointment to the BOS
Mir. Ebersole spoke and reaffirmed to the PACC that they now have 4 board members.
2. Financials - process by which information is shared with members, approval of
purchase orders & invoices, budget & policy development, documentation & adoption
process
Discussion: PACC makes purchases by going out to bid and by following the procurement
procedure. They remain concerned that their funding future is uncertain and have conflicting
views on how their budget should be spent either for staffing or equipment
Ms. McLaughlin mentioned the fact that it is very time consuming for staff to train volunteers on
how to operate equipment. She presented the BOS with a PAC Overview report that she had
prepared, which has not been officially adopted by the PACC. PACC members will receive a
copy at their next meeting. (See Attached)
Ms. Speidel stated that the PACC has $250,000 in their budget and wonders why they have
uncertainty of spending for extra staffing and equipment.
The BOS recommended that the PACC get a recommendation from the Town Manager on how
to receive their budget. Some suggestions were to put forth a budget article at Town Meeting,
make a budget report through the Town Report, or be considered as an Enterprise Fund.
The BOS suggested that the PACC develop a policy for setting permanent board meeting dates
and times for their committee.
Mr. May mentioned that they have a monthly calendar which shows all programming needs of
the Town and it is reviewed with the staff
Town Boards/Commissions will be surveyed on their thoughts on televising their meetings.
Policies should also be developed concerning equipment use by Town departments.
3. Open Meeting Law- Update on requirements for agendas, executive session, minutes
& quorum: Discussion: PACC & the BOS discussed the definition of quorum and the confusion
of what the legal definition is. According to the Open Meeting Law a quorum is considered a
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 11 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
'majority of the total membership, whether those seats are filled or not. The PACC is a 7
member board, which until recently had only 3 members. With the recent appointment of Troy
Daniels to the PACC they now have 4 members which constitutes a quorum.
PACC members voiced their concerns with the difficulty their board is having filling board
vacancies. Suggestions were made for PACC to familiarize themselves with the Open Meeting
Law updates, perhaps change the membership to a 5 member board at the next Town Meeting
and to publicize the need for new members through Public Service Announcements and at all
BOS meetings.
The BOS suggested that a short job description be developed of what a PACC board member's
responsibilities
would consist of to aid in recruitment of new members.
In regards to agendas Mr. Ebersole suggested that the Town Clerk be contacted for "agenda
examples" that would comply with the open meeting laws.
Mr. Daniels reminded the PACC that concerning minutes, they need to be made available for
the public to review and that if it is recorded in the minutes "see attached document", that
document or copy of must be submitted with the minutes.
BOS thanked the PACC for coming forward this evening.
Mr. May asked for a motion to close the PACC Meeting. Mr. Crellin moved to close the
meeting. Ms. Lisio seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 9:38PM.
as submittaly fred Celli, Sect.
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 1 1 2013
LUNENBURG TOW Y
CLERK OFFICE
