===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes
June 24th, 2013
Passios Studio
Lam Was
Members Present: Lance May, Fred Crellin, Rhonda Lisio
Also Present: JoMcLaughlin,
Call to Order: 7:04 pm
Secretary's Report: The minutes for May 6th were approved.
Public Comments: None
Old Business:
• Studio Update:
• Dave Macdonald's donation of a carpet for the studio has been approved
by the Selectmen and has been installed.
• Mike and Jamie are training on the tricaster.
• Brian McCarthy has accepted an internship with NH Public TV and will
not be available this Summer.
• Programming Update
There is a gardening show in progress.
A cooking show is described in the July Progress Report.
The Alumni Hall of Fame Ceremony is coming up.
John filmed the Memorial Day Exercise and Jo edited it
Bea Adams at the Historical Society and the third grade tour are on
YouTube.
The Graduation Program is in progress (John Dextraze)
• The Fire Safety program with Chief Sullivan is in progress, as are the
Special Service interviews.
Jo received a resume from Mandy Lawson looking for employment.
• Jo indicated that she needs to touch base with Jason Kearns about summer
programming.
• Summer Events include the band concerts, the Hiackory Hills boat parade,
the Alumnit Hall of Fame Ceremony.
• Jo will check to see if FATV's tape of the July 4*' parade is available.
Tim Murphy indicated a desire to do "man on the street" interviews.
There was a discussion about religious programming. Expressions were
made to the effect that there is no problem, especially if it is local and if it
does not crowd out other programming.
===PAGE 2===
• Equipment Update:
• There was a discussion of the need for two PC's, compatible with the
dome cameras etc. It will be brought up again in the August meeting.
A motion was made (and passed) to direct Jo to call B&H to see if a
$65 extended warranty can be rescinded. Pending their response, the
Chair will sign the appropriate voucher making a correction (if
needed).
Jo's Progress Report
• Municipal Meetings will be uploaded to YouTube starting the week of
6/24.
There agent problem in the idea Altin a bo explore tended
for the next meeting
New Business:
• Lance May, as Chair, approved the PACC Coordinator's step increase form for
the Personnel Board.
The next meeting will be July 16'h
, 7:00pm at the Studio.
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 pm.
