===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes
December 2, 2013
The Eagle House
Members Present: Lance May, Rhonda Lisio, Troy Daniels, Fred Crellin
Also Present: Jo McLaughlin, John Dextraze, Bob Ebersole
Call to Order: 7:05
Secretary's Report: The April 6' and August 20 minutes were read and approved.
The minutes from Oct. 15" the joint meeting with the Board of
Selectmen) was tabled.
Public Comments: Mr. Daniels raised questions about the meeting schedule and the lack
of handicap accessibility at the Eagle House.
Ms Lisio sought to clear the air about comments made in the
newspaper about members. "It is a dangerous slope to criticize volunteers, especially
without first raising those concerns in a
meeting." She stated that we
have done the best we can to follow the rules, to increase programming and to build a
studio. She also credited the Chair for his efforts.
Old Business: There was a brief discussion about by-law changes being placed on the
warrant for the Special Town Meeting. Mr. Ebersole indicated that while the Selectmen
were recommending a change in the number of members, they were sending it back to
committees to come up with specific language. It was determined that there was
inadequate time to place it on this warrant, while complying with the open meeting law.
• A motion passed unanimously to table further discussion of by-law changes
until a future meeting. Troy Daniels will offer suggestions as to specific
language at that meeting.
• Ratification of votes from the August Meeting: Mr. Daniels raised questions
about the Open Meeting Law, especially the lack of specificity on agenda items.
Mr. Ebersole pointed out that the law has changed and all boards are learning to
deal with the changes. A motion passed unanimously to table the ratification
of the August votes until the next meeting (Dec.9).
• Budget follow-up: The B & H credit -- "The check is in the mail".
• Programming Update -
• The Homecoming Parade was well-done. Jason Kearns filmed the game
(no narration) video was "great".
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 10 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
• Jason came to film the flag football game, but the game was cancelled. It
was moved and passed unanimously to pay Jason Kearns for 4 hours
work for the game.
• Lance raised the question about what we can do to increase use of the
studio. Jo described possible studio programs with Jake (?) playing guitar,
Linda Malcomb (yoga), Rich Letarte (baseball) and a program with Jen
Benson and/or Kerry Speidel.
• Mike Wallman is working out well, but Jo McLaughlin recommended
using Liz Cameron as an additional part-time vendor. (This will be put on
the Dec. 9"' agenda)
• Rhonda Lisio questioned paying people to do community programming
vnen our goal is to encourage the community to come forth as volunteer
, Fred Crellin mentioned the need to keep offering training programs even i
there is little, or in some cases no demand.
PACC Administrative Coordinator position Evaluation Instrument: A motion
was made and passed unanimously to accept the instrument that has been
discussed. The exact process and timetable will be determined at a future
meeting.
New Business:
• The next meeting was scheduled for Dec.9th
Public Comments: Mr. Ebersole thanked the PACC for their patience in dealing with the
new open meeting law.
Meeting Adjourned: 9:43pm
