===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC meeting minutes
Dec 15, 2014
Non committee members in attendance were: Jo McLaughlin, Bob Ebersole, John Henshaw, Pete
Lincoln and John Dextraze.
Organization Election:
A) This was the first time the committee met since the re-approval of the PACC. The meeting was
called to order by the town clerk, Kathy Herrick. Rhonda Lisio was elected Chairman, Steve
Walker was elected Vice-Chairman, and Jeffrey Bajko was elected Secretary. All members
accepted their nominations.
Financial Overview:
A) Jo McLaughlin; director of Lunenburg Public Access, presented the committee with FY 2014
operational budget. After looking over the FY 2014 budget, the PAC is in a good financial
situation.
B) Joe also presented her proposed FY 2015 budget. Joe recommended for increasing the
equipment budget from $18,000 to $30,000 due to improvements needed to the control room
in the town hall. Joe also suggested that the advertising budget could be adjusted. That line
item is listed as $3000.00. The committee will review the budget before next meeting. At the
meeting, the committee will discuss changes if needed and vote to approve the FY 2015 budget.
Equipment needs:
A) Jo bought 3 new Macbooks, two tripods with the allotted equipment money from the FY2014
budget. It was approved by the Town Manager; Kerry Spiegel. All Purchased orders were given
to the committee for review. Final Cut software still needs to be purchased for 4 MacBooks.
B) The PAC needs to purchase a desk and four chairs to meet the state's non-sprinkler system fire
code. Jo is looking into that.
C) The committee approved to get an official proposal from Robert Hague of Access/AV to update
the control room in the town hall. The proposal will be submitted to the committee at the
February meeting for review and approval.
Discussion of various Policies:
A) The board created a master list of policies to be reviewed and approved. The policies are:
producer's agreement, public access equipment rental, political coverage, membership,
programming, bulletin board, and purchasing.
B) The PACC discussed a new policy that should be written: studio access policy. It will be
discussed at a later date.
C) The PACC will review, make corrections and approve four policies at the January meeting. The
policies are as followed: bulletin board, purchase, membership, and equipment rental.
D) The PACC also decided that new policies will be added when needed.
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 07 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
E) Bob Ebersole recommended going on other cities public access website and look at their policies
to get ideas.
Public Comments:
A) Pete Lincoln, a former member of the PACC, briefed us on the history of Lunenburg's public
access channel. (Channel 9). He stressed how important it is for the town of Lunenburg to have
a PAC. He thanked the members for joining the committee. He also mentioned that he hopes
the new committee will take its duties seriously to continue the growth and improvement of
Lunenburg's PAC. He also hopes that the committee can actively pursue more members and
volunteers.
B) In the financial packet that Joe gave the committee at the beginning of the meeting, she
included charts of the increasing programming originating from Lunenburg.
Next meeting agenda:
The board discussed next meeting's agenda and once it is approved, will be broadcast at the town hall.
Some of the items the committee will be discussing are policies, FY 2015 budget, open houses,
equipment training, and PAC marketing strategies.
Meeting adjourned at 7:38pm.
Feb 28,2015
