===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC meeting minutes
February 25, 2015
Roll Call:
A) Committee members present were Jeff Bajko, Rhonda Lisio, and Steve Walker.
B) Non committee members present were Jo McLaughlin, John Henshaw, and Pete Linclon.
Public comments:
A) Rhonda suggests that regular meetings should not be schedule due to lack of members. She
also has concerns about discussing minutes over emails, but can communicate meeting agenda
over emails. The minutes will be discussed at the beginning of each meeting.
B) Concern about lack of help to continue the success of the PACC.
Review and approve meeting minutes of December 15, 2014:
A) Meeting minutes were approved.
Discussion of role of public access in the community:
A) Accessible communication is the chain to the community. It is a place for town folks to be
informed of upcoming community events.
B) A high priority is for all community meetings to be broadcast. A high priority for spending to
cover town meetings.
C) Channel 9 is a place for members of the community to produce, see and be involved.
D) Handling community submission for material for channel 9 is another high priority of the
committee. What is acceptable content broadcast is also a high priority of the committee.
E) Producer certification should be offered for the community to get trained before they have
access.to the equipment.
F) PAC positions will be as hired as needed.
Coordinator's monthly budget report:
A) February is the month the PAC gets its payment from Comcast. The committee reviewed the
budget for January and February and approved the budget.
B) Jason has been running the Sports programming for PAC and has incurred the largest charge.
Review and approve budget for FY 2015:
A) The committee reviewed the FY 2015 budget and approved it.
B). Waiting for a proposal from A/C access by John to renovate the control room in town hall
Start discussion for planning FY 2016 budget:
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 07 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
A) Presentation of the proposed FY 2016 will be presented to the Finance committee on March
19th
B) Start paying people in 2017 due to lack of volunteers.
C) More effort was suggested for trying to get volunteers: training, broadcast, newspaper ads,
Facebook ads, and bulletins.
D) Jo will present a capital planning chart at the next meeting.
Review and approve following policies: bulletin board, purchase, membership, and equipment rental:
A) Jeff will re-format one policy and presents it to the committee for agreement.
B) Steve will make changes on Bulletin board policy, send it to Jeff for formatting and will present it
at next meeting.
C) Jo will re write the purchasing policy and present to the committee for review.
D) Membership Policies: get the software for updates to keep current.
E) The Equipment rental policy will be formatted for next meeting.
Discuss ideas for volunteering at Lunenburg's PAC:
A) Advertising at public events
B) Try to recruit high school students to help volunteer to run equipment at games.
C) Flyers are around town.
Discuss marketing ideas for Lunenburg's PAC:
A) Personally contact people to volunteer to run equipment and join the PAC.
B) Time consuming and tedious to learn how to edit.
C) Mugs were ordered for open house which is Feb 26th.
Adjournment:
A) Next meeting is Mar 9t for budget review.
B) Adjourned At 7:47pm.
As Pa Api ,2015
