===PAGE 1===
PACC Meeting Minutes 
December 7, 2015 
Roll call: 
1.  Meeting called to order at 6:04 
2.  PACC members present were Jeff Bajko, Steve Walker, and Faith Beall. 
3.  Non-members present were Jo McLaughlin and Bob Ebersole.  
Public comments: 
1.  Jeff shared his concern about if the meetings contained too many agenda points to cover. 
2.  Jeff felt that sometimes the end of the meetings were rushed going over important information 
due to time restraint.   
Review and approve meeting minutes from Oct 5 th , 20th , and Nov 2 nd , 2015: 
1.  Committee reviewed and approved all meeting minutes with recommended changes. 
Coordinator's monthly report: 
1.  Jo edited purchased line item due to mistake by accounting department. 
2.  Jo’s health insurance must be added and pulled from another line item: committee approved to 
pull from the purchase of service line item.  
3.  Karen had a discussion with Jo about keeping a reserve fund. 
4.  PAC did receive a payment from Comcast: $24,752.76. 
5.  Ending budget of November is $290,606.23. 
6.  Jo and Jason have been training on tricaster to stay up with their training. 
7.  Jo produced a PDA and posted it on Facebook for trying to get people to produce their own 
shows. 
8.  PAC is not producing any new shows.  Jo will start to really market for volunteers. 
9.  Faith suggests being more specific when posting for help. 
10.  Emily is doing great as an intern.  Her project is about the safety center. 
11.  A parent came in to borrow a camera for a sporting event, but was not used correctly. 
12.  PAC is sponsoring letters to Santa. Jo scans them on the PAC Facebook page and got 38 new 
likes. 
13.  Jo will meet with Bridging the Gap after the holidays and discuss options to help out. 
14.  Studio visits are Weds. at Wakefield (11am) and Reading (1pm). Jo, Steve, and Faith are going. 
15.  Mass meet and greet was attended by Jo.  More of a sales meeting. 
Discussion of strategic plan:  
1.  Jeff presented a plan with a general specific idea. 
2.  Steve presented a more technical plan. 
a.  HD channels 
b.  Educational channel 
c.  Mobile\portable equipment.(multi camera) 
d.  Get on Comcast’s guide. 
e.  Studio space: town own space\commercial space 
Review of results from CAC’s town-wide department survey: 
1.  Steve reviewed the survey:  Some highlights are below 
a.  Discussion of studio in the new school 
b.  Will there be an interest in an education channel? 
c.  Regular PDA safety to run regularly. 
d.  Interest in Mobile unit\portable equipment.   
e.  Most safety program will be outside the studio: would like wireless microphones. 
f.  The PAC can do more with the fire department. 
g.  More filming at the council of aging is being conducted. 
===PAGE 2===
h.  Field hockey coach enjoys the videos.  Helps the girls improve their skills. 
i.  Training videos for contractors. 
j.  Sense of more departments would like to are interested in working more with the PAC. 
 
Discussion of Castus and Telvue: 
1.  Faith suggests tabling the discussion until after Telvue gives the PACC a demo of their server. 
Discussion of Business Plan: 
1.  Faith suggests tabling the discussion until the PACC strategic plan is set in place. 
Adjournment: 
Next meetings are scheduled for Jan 4, 2016 and Feb. 1, 2016. 
Discussion of budget will be on the agenda for the next meeting.  
Meeting adjourned at 7:48pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted, Jeffrey Bajko, PACC Clerk 1/1216.  
 