===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
PACC
Meeting Minutes
July 6, 2015
Roll call:
1) Meeting started at 6:02pm.
2) Committee members present were Jeff Bajko, Rhonda Lisio, and Steve Walker.
3) Non committee members present were Jo McLaughlin, Bob Ebersole, Pete Lincoln, and Faith
Beall
Vote to recommend Faith Beall for appointment to the PACC:
1) PACC nominated and approved Faith Beall to join the committee.
Public comments:
1) Rhonda contacted the board of selectmen about proper form distribution.
Review and approve meeting minutes from June 6, 2015: s
1) Minutes were approved with approved changes.
Coordinator's monthly report:
1. Upgrade to control room in town hall is completed. John and Mike Wallmann
have been trained and recorded several town meetings.
2. Andrea and Jo went through the bulletin board policy. Andrea agreed and
signed the agreement.
3. Kate's violin concert was recorded and broadcast.
4. Kevin completed and edited the Boy Scout hike at Isacc trail and is being
broadcast.
5. High school video contest has one entry.
6. Mike is training Mario Lanni in recording meetings.
7. High school open house had two students show up to volunteer. One student
from Fitchburg state will be working with John.
8. Loxi wants a teacher to be recording a lesson for students to watch and
discuss it the next day. Jo will get more information.
9. Ending balance of June is $299,793.86.
10. Jo went over the monthly line items. Saved some money on the Town
control room overhaul.
11. Andrea and Jo discussed the three month renewal in the bulletin board
policy. It could be more work on Andrea's end.
12.
Jason is starting to tape the town concerts.
13. Jo broadcast the Hickory hill boat parade.
14. Jo would like a production manager to work under her, Help with
coordinating student activities and tie in with the schools. 80% local
broadcasting.
15. Some confusion with line items of FY16 budget were discussed. Discussion
resumed with original approved FY16.
16. Jo submitted her job description to the committee. Rhonda presented the
committee to the town description of the coordinator. Jo will revise her job
description and present it to the PACC organizational committee.
17. Rhonda will contact the personel committee about Jo's job description.
===PAGE 2===
Discussion of organizational meeting:
1) The committee unanimously voted to keep the organizational roles as is: Rhonda
Lisio as chairman, Steve Walker as vice-chairman, and Jeff Bajko as secretary.
Discussion of HD channel vs. purchase of equipment to offer programming in HD:
1) Rhonda researched equipment to broadcast non HD channels in HD.
2) Comcast is not broadcasting in HD.
3) Rhonda will email the committee the website with the information.
Review and finalize purchasing policy:
1) Jo will check with the town of purchasing and will update the policy.
Cable advisory committee update:
1) The business plan will come out of the PACC.
Agenda:
1) HD discussion
2) Purchasing update app
3) CAC
4) Potential job description.
5) Aug 10t is the next meeting.
6) Sept. 14th
7) Oct 5th
Adjournment:
1) Adjourned at 7:31.
9/18/15
