===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	November	7,	2022		Suldonik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:		a. Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas		3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	None		Communications:			1. S.Walker	raised	questions	concerning	inappropriate	language	by	a	videographer	during	the	taping	of	a	meeting.	Town	has	referred	him	to	legal	council.		Motion	was	made	to	allow	S.Walker,	J.McLaughlin	&	one	committee	member	to	meet	with	Heather	&	town	council	to	discuss	open	meeting	compliance	with	regards	to	videotaping	town	events.	(motion	F.Beall,	2nd	S.Archambault,	passed)		Approval	of	Minutes:		• October	3rd	minutes	approved	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln	passed		Manager’s	update:	1. Added	several	political	debates	to	Oct.	programming.	2. Working	to	set	up	hybrid	school	committee	meeting	logistics.	3. Two	students	from	Fitchburg	State	are	doing	PR	projects.	4. Met	with	P.Sarapas	to	discuss	Boy’s	&	Girl’s	Club	project.	5. Worked	with	S.Walker	to	test	new	transmitters	and	receivers.		Issue	with	battery	power.	Working	out	logistics.	6. Created	an	Apple	account	(difficult	process).	7. Worked	with	the	ACD	Program	on	a	“clone”	project	using	green	screen.	8. Still	having	bulletin	issues.	9. A	Skate	Park	update	was	done	and	another	is	in	the	works.	10. Began	prepping	for	Special	Town	Meeting	logistics.	11. There	is	a	balance	of	$893,760.22	12. October	local	programming	was	up	(60%)	Drone	Policy:		• P.Sarapas	is	spearheading	a	PAC	Drone	policy.	J.McLaughlin	will	submit	questions	to	the	forum,	S.Walker	will	bring	up	the	issue	with	town	council	&	P.Sarapas	will	create	a	draft	policy	to	present	to	the	committee.		Staff	Use	of	Personal	Equipment:		
===PAGE 2===
• Tabled	for	future	discussion.	Concerns	were	raised	about	liability	and	legal	ramifications.			Adjournment:	1. Next	meeting	is	December	5th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	2. Meeting	adjourned	at	6:59	pm		a. (motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).	