===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	July	11,	2022	 	TC	Passios	School,	Room	11	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	2:05	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:		a. Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Paul	Sarapas,		b. Faith	Beall,	Peter	Lincoln	3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• P.Sarapas	highlighted	letter	from	school	and	school	committee	thanking	PAAC	for	a	positive	ACE	program	experience.				Communications:			• Received	a	letter	from	school	and	school	committee	thanking	PAAC	for	a	positive	ACE	program	experience.		Approval	of	Minutes:	• July	11th	minutes	approved	(P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed	• P.Lincoln	asked	for	J.McLaughlin	for	clarification	concerning	the	recent	bulletin	board	glitch.		It	has	been	resolved		Manager’s	update:	1. Working	to	get	studio	keys	for	videographers	2. ACE	student	done	for	the	year	–	letter	of	thanks	received	from	school	committee	3. Resolved	problems	with	video	uploads	and	Live	Zoom	Broadcasts	with	CASTUS	and	Suzor	IT	4. Band	Concerts	begin	July	11th		5. Continuing	Production	Technician	and	videographer	interviews	6. Working	on	OneDrive	shared	folders	for	staff	7. New	email	address	jmclaughlin@lunenburgma.gov	8. Added	7	new	programs.		There	was	a	33%	increase	in	local	programming	9. Kayla	is	working	on	a	compilation	of	activities	and	events	at	the	Eagle	House	10. Dan	Seminatore	is	working	on	farmer’s	Market	Project	11. Worked	on	PAAC	Powerpooint	Presentation	12. Recorded	and	draft	edited	General	Cornum	interview	with	P.Sarapas	13. Working	on	FY23	financial	spreadsheets	and	Line	items	POs	14. Researching	MacBook	and	camera	purchase	15. CASTUS	CH8	backups	will	be	finished	by	week	3	of	July	16. Reviewing	live	zoom	broadcast	procedures	with	videographers	17. Ordering	business	cards	for	videographers	in	July	
===PAGE 2===
18. Cleaning	out	2	MacBooks	for	optimal	efficiency	and	upgrading	op	sy	and	drives	19. There	was	a	Comcast	outage	of	Ch99	on	July5,	back	up	on	July	6.	(Head	End	issue)	20. Outstanding	expenses	and	interest	for	June	waiting	to	be	processed	21. Working	on	Live	stream	from	TriCaster	to	CASTUS	System.	22. Had	July	videographer’s	meeting.		Requested:	Air	Conditioning	23. Ending	Balance	$935,581.73		Future	Studio	Space:		• P.Sarapas	asked	if	PAAC	had	explored	503©	status.	F.Beall	explained	that	they	had	looked	into	the	possibility	and	looked	at	the	pro’s	vs	the	con’s.		Staying	under	the	“Town”	umbrella	was	the	best	option	at	that	time.		Election	of	FY23	Officers:		• Motion	to	allow	Secretary	to	cast	vote	of	FY23	slate	of	officers	(S.Walker,	2nd	P.Sarapas	–	passed)	o Steve	Walker	–	Chair	o Pete	Lincoln	–	Vice	Chair	o Steve	Archambault	–	Secretary	• F.Beall	asked	that	the	record	state;	o Thank	Steve	Walker	for	his	outstanding	effort,	commitment	and	attention	to	details	on	behalf	of	the	myriad	outside	PAAC	responsibilities.	o Thank	Jo	McLaughlin	for	her	excellence	in	managing	a	successful	Public	Access	Studio.		Adjournment:	1. Next	meeting	is	August	1st,	time	2:00	pm	2. Meeting	adjourned	at	2:59	pm		a. (motion	-	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Sarapas	-	passed).	