===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	March	13th,	2023		Suldonik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas	(via	Zoom)	3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	None		Communications:		None		Approval	of	Minutes:		• February	6th,	2023	minutes	approved		• motion	-	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln,	passed			Manager’s	update:	• Video	file	accidentally	deleted	in	the	process	of	recreating	• 15	new	programs	this	month	(mostly	basketball	with	Girl’s	BB	interviews)	• Working	on	Auditorium	simulation	in	studio.	Will	be	ordering	more	equipment	and	doing	a	simulation	at	the	high	school	in	March	• Added	APDC	meetings	to	the	monthly	schedule	(1st	Tues.	of	month	@	7:30)	• M.Monroe	is	working	on	a	new	Movie	Review	show	• L.Holden	project	still	in	the	works	• Adding	police	interviews	(re:	drunk	driving)	• New	round	of	Production	Technician	interviews	were	held	• Working	on	a	volunteer	video	about	station	• Beginning	to	compile	a	Manager’s	“Bible”,	with	job	descriptions,	list	of	subscriptions,	“how	to”	to	do	things,	etc.	• Earmark	State	funds	may	be	available.	Town	requested	PAC	submit	a	proposal.	J.	McLaughlin	will	look	into	possibility	of	a	PAC	Van.	o Motion	to	approve	J.McLaughlin	to	research	the	possibility	of	and	Earmark	project	(used	van).	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Sarapas	–	passed	• Budget	$961,566.40	• 68%	local	programing		Budget	Review:		• The	PAC	budget	was	presented	and	discussed.		• Motion	to	approve	and	have	S.Walker	present	the	Budget	Presentation	packet	to	Fin	Com	and	at	Town	Meeting	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Sarapas	–	passed)		PAC	staff	use	of	personal	equipment	policy;	-	tabled	
===PAGE 2===
	Adjournment:	• Next	meeting	is	April	10th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:01	pm		o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall	-	passed).	