===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	June	12th,	2023		Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas		3. Manager:	Jo	McLaughlin		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:		• P.Lincoln	mentioned	that	we	have	missed	a	typo	on	our	agenda	all	year.	The	Suldonik	(sic	Sudolnik)	Conference	has	been	misspelled.	It	will	be	corrected	for	future	agendas.	• P.Lincoln	commented	that	Nate’s	Assessment	report	concerning	abatements	to	the	Selectboard	during	the	live	broadcast	was	muffled	and	difficult	to	understand.	J.McLaughlin	will	check	into	it.	• S.Archambault	commented	that	the	live	stream	from	the	LHS	Graduation	ceremony	was	excellent.	Special	thanks	to	Eric	for	his	attention	to	details	and	preset-up.	• P.Sarapas	reported	the	guidelines	for	monetizing	our	Youtube	channel.	J.McLaughlin	was	given	specifics	and	info.		Communications:		None		Approval	of	Minutes:		• May	8th,	2023	minutes,	motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln,	passed		• P.Sarapas	asked	about	the	status	of	reconfirming	3	PACC	members.	Still	no	word	from	Town	Hall.		Manager’s	update:	• Working	on	priorities	with	new	Technical	Production	person.	He	is	helping	to	reorganize	the	studio	and	is	interested	in	setting	up	a	content	contest	with	the	staff.	Motion	S.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln	to	allow	PACC	to	speak	to	Town	Council	concerning	the	legality	of	creating	a	prize	using	either	PACC	money	or	donations	(passed).	• Updated	CASTUS	Software.	Thing	are	running	smoothly.	• Was	able	to	get	“GO	Live”	broadcast	to	work	on	TriCastor.	• Updated	Financials	do	not	include	Comcast	deposit	or	interest	accrued	since	March.	J.McLaughlin	will	check	in	with	Town	Hall.	• Budget	Balance	-	$948,396.51	• Need	to	do	a	$2000	Line	item	transfer	into	Payroll	Videographers	as	there	is	only	$553.94	in	the	account	and	more	is	needed	to	meet	payroll	for	the	last	few	weeks	of	the	year.	• Local	programming	continues	to	do	well.	This	year,	to	date,	we	are	at	105.	Last	year	total	was	82.	
===PAGE 2===
• Will	be	reviewing	the	CASTUS	encoder	when	it	becomes	available.	• Worked	on	ARPA	presentation	for	the	Select	Board,	which	contained	information	on	Studio	enhancements,	Videographer	GO-Bags,	Town	Hall	audio	improvements.	S.Walker	presented	it	on	06/06/2023.	• Interviewed	several	people	for	videographer	openings	–	no	hires.		Enterprise	Fund	Investment:	• S.Walker	met	 with	 Bartholomew	 Financial	 people.	 They	 modified	 our	proposal	to	maximize	interest.	• Motion	S.Walker,	2nd	S.Archambault		-	passed	o "To	 accept	 the	 Bartholomew	 recommendation	 of	 investing	 $240,000	of	the	PEG	Enterprise	Fund	in	a	two	month	Treasury	Bond,	$240,000	in	a	four	month	Treasury	Bond,	and	$240,000	in	a	6	month	Treasury	Bond.	 After	 two	 months,	 re-invest	 the	 proceeds	 of	 the	 two	 month	bond	 into	 a	 six	 month	 bond,	 and	 after	 four	 months,	 reinvest	 the	proceeds	 on	 the	 four	 month	 bond	 into	 a	 six	 month	 bond.	 Thereafter,	every	 two	 months,	 as	 a	 six	 month	 bond	 matures,	 reinvest	 the	proceeds	into	a	six	month	bond."			• S.Walker	with	contact	Bartholomew	to	set	up	new	accounts.		PAC	Equipment	set	up	policy	review/update:		• S.Walker	reported	information	obtained	via	Town	Council.	Results	were	mixed.	The	Water	Dept.	does	have	a	say	in	set-up	but	based	on	past	case	histories	and	open	meeting	laws	we	are	allowed	to	set	up	appropriately.	Town	Council	recommends	and	PACC	agrees,	that	we	should	meet	with	the	Water	Dept.	in	advance	to	discuss	set-up.		Personal	Use	Policy	Update:		• Approved	by	PACC	at	our	April	10th	meeting.	• Policy:	“PACC	requires	its	employees	and	volunteers	to	use	PAC	equipment	for	PAC	assignments.	Exceptions	to	this	can	be	made,	with	prior	managerial	approval,	provided	the	individual(s)	sign	a	waiver	relieving	PACC	of	all	liability.”	• S.Archambault	will	send	it	to	Heather	and	ask	for	Town	Council	review.	Future	meeting	date:	• Next	meeting	is	July	10th,	6:00	pm.		Please,	note	it	will	be	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:23	pm		o (motion	–	P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).	