===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	January	8th,	2024		Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:08	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Pete	Lincoln.	Faith	Beall	via	zoom,	Paul	Sarapas	via	zoom.	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-	• P.Lincoln	wanted	to	thank	Kayla	for	her	“Century	Club	Member’s”	video.		Communications:			• Steve	Walker	has	been	following	Mass	Access.	There	is	a	potential	new	law	(HR3557	–	American	Broadband	Deployment	Act),	that	could	threaten	PACC	funding.	He	presented	a	short	video	produced	by	a	NJ	Access	group.	There	was	a	short	discussion	concerning	the	possible	funding	issues. • A	motion,	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln,	was	made:	Allowing	S.Walker	to	bring	the	video	and	information	concerning	HR3557	to	the	Select	Board	&	Town	Manager.		The	motion	passed. Approval	of	Minutes:		• 12.4.2023	minutes	approved	with	corrections	(motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Sarapas),	passed		Manager’s	update:		• Castus	issue	–	Dec.	11th,	HDD	partition	failed.	Rebuilt	and	resolved	12.12	• ARPA	spending	for	videographer’s	kit	-	$5,211.82	• Will	be	ordering	studio	equipment	in	the	next	few	weeks.		• Researching	Audio	Options	for	Billota	Room	• Annual	report	is	due	2.15.24	• Water	District	Meeting	1/10.	Dan	is	bringing	a	wireless	microphone	to	record	audio.	• Hudl	expense	–	researching	download	option.	Currently	there	is	a	fee.	• Recorded	the	Centry	Clubs,	CPR	Updaate	and	Basketball	in	Dec.	• Ran	the	Yule	Log	on	Christmas	Eve	and	Christmas.	• Attended	an	Intermediate	Excel	class.	Kayla	attended	a	beginner	Excel	class.	• November	Franchise	Fee	not	posted	yet.	• Balance	$988,203	plus	potentially	COMCAST	fee	will	put	Enterprise	Fund	balance	over	$1M	• Current	at	64%	local	programming	–	ahead	of	last	year.			
===PAGE 2===
Enterprise	Fund	Investment:		• By	Virtue	of	timing	status	is	unknown	at	this	time.		Member	question:	• P.Lincoln	announced	that	the	300th	Committee	is	planning	on	using	Town	Hall	for	many	activities	and	was	wondering	if	the	Town	Hall	Control	Room/Studio	would	still	be	available?	S.Walker	relayed	that	the	Town	Hall	Control	Room	would	be	the	last	thing	moved	if	and	when	PACC	has	new	studio	space.		Next	meeting:	-	February	5th,	6:00	pm.			In	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:59	pm	o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o February	5	o March	4	o April	1	o May	6	o June	3	o Meetings,	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	