===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	May	6,	2024	 	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:00	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Pete	Lincoln.	Faith	Beall,	Paul	Sarapas	(arrived	a	few	minutes	late)	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• S.Archambault	congratulated	PAC	for	excellent	Town	Meeting	production	• P.Lincoln	asked	if	music	could	be	added	to	the	“down	time”	of	the	town	meeting	video.	At	Saturday’s	meeting	there	was	a	20+	minutes	break	in	action,	as	there	were	private	meetings	and	discussions	with	the	town	lawyer.	During	this	time	any	one	viewing	the	video	feed	might	not	realize	the	reason	for	the	pause.	J.Toale	stated	that	PAC	is	not	allowed	to	change	anything	and	can	only	post	the	unedited	version.	There	was	discussion	to	possible	add	a	banner	stating	action	was	suspending	and	would	resume	momentarily.		Communications:			• S.Walker	received	several	emails o The	town	manager	wanted	a	test	of	the	electronics	being	used	for	town	meeting	ahead	of	time.	PAC	reports	this	was	done	and	PAC	was	well	prepared	for	several	senarios. o Received	the	comcast	form	300.	It	is	supposed	to	be	issued	each	year	and	acts	as	the	comcast’s	financial	statement	to	PAC o Received	several	emails	concerning	the	current	open	cemetary	position.	The	person	requesting	PAC	is	a	write	in	canidate.	PAC	policy	is	equal	give	air	time	to	all	official	canidates	but	only	if	all	the	canidates	agree	to	be	interviewed.	J.Toale	will	check	with	town	hall	and	ask	for	clarification.	S.Walker	will	answer	the	emails	advising	the	person	that	he	will	be	consulting	with	Kathy	Herrick,	town	clerk,	and	will	get	back	as	soon	as	possible. (SA	needed	to	leave	the	meeting	at	6:30	PS	continued	to	record	the	minutes)  Approval	of	Minutes:		• 4-1-2024	minutes	approved	with	corrections		• (motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed		Manager’s	update:		• Thank	you	to	P.	Sarapas,	S.	Archambault,	E.	Foster	and	everyone	who	helped	with	town	meeting.	
===PAGE 2===
• Hiring	new	videographer	to	start	on	5/16/24	• 5/16	water	district	meeting	with	Hickory	Hills	Lake	Community	will	be	covered	• Added	2	new	programs	last	month,	now	at	76%	local	programs,	110	total	programs	for	year,	ahead	from	last	year		Master	Plan	Steering	committee	report:	P.	Lincoln	• May	30th	meeting	at	coffee	roasters	6	PM	to	share	survey	results	with	the	community.	PAC	is	covering.		• All	PACC	members	can	find	v.3	of	questionnaire	on	town	website	and	fill	it	out	please		Town	meeting	report:		• PACC	budget	was	passed	through	consent	calendar		Enterprise	fund	status:		• Interest	as	of	March:	$26,728.13;	balance	as	of	3/31:	$746,728.13		FY’25	Meeting	Dates:	• Setting	of	FY	'25	meeting	dates	and	times	TABLED	for	full	committee	input		Next meeting: - June 3th, 6:00 pm.  	In	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:53	pm	o (motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o June	3	o Meetings	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	