===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	March	11th,	2024		Passios	PAC	Studio	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:03	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Steve	Archambault,	Pete	Lincoln.	Faith	Beall	via	zoom),	Paul	Sarapas	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-	None		Committee	Comments:	-		• P.Lincoln	asked	if	PACC	was	invited	to	participate	in	the	Master	Plan	SteeringCommittee.	No	communication	was	sent.		• Motion	to	have	P.Lincoln	represent	PACC	on	the	Master	Planning	Committee	(S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Sarapas),	passed.	• P.Sarapas	wanted	to	commend	both	J.Toale	and	the	entire	PAC	crew	for	their	great	coverage	of	all	the	town	committees	and	events.		The	turn	around	for	posting	the	videos	has	been	quick	and	efficient.		Communications:			• S.Walker	received	a	letter	asking	PACC	to	write	a	letter	to	Hon.	Michael	Moore	concerning	H74	S34.  Approval	of	Minutes:		• 2-5-2024	minutes	approved	with	corrections	(motion	–	F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed		Manager’s	update:		• PAC	Staff	busy	with	lots	of	town	government	meetings.	A	bit	stressful	but	everything	is	being	recorded	• ARPA	Fund	update	–	continued	work	on	all	phases.	Quotes	are	in	and	now	obtaining	PO’S.	• Met	with	S.Walker	to	work	on	the	FY	25	PAC	Budget.	• Met	with	2	House	Reps.	To	discuss	H74	S34	Bill.	They	would	like	more	letters	from	communities.	They	also	asked	if	PAC	could	produce	a	short	PAC	PSA.	• Worked	on	schedules,	upgrades	and	general	administrative	duties.	• Balance	$1,006,400.74	• There	is	an	indirect	cost	surplus	in	the	FY	23	budget	due	to	a	vacant	position.	• Posted	an	updated	calander	of	PAC	activities	• Currently	at	73%	local	programming	–	97	shows	with	91	affililates	nationwide				
===PAGE 2===
	FY	25	Budget		• Reviewed	PAC	FY	25	Budget	presentation	for	Fincom	and	possibly	for	Town	Meeting.	• P.Lincoln	expressed	concern	over	the	$6,000	rent	cost.	• Motion	to	increase	Jo	Toale’s	hours	as	manager	of	PAC	to	36	hours	per	week.	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln	–	passed)	• Motion	to	approve	the	budget	as	discussed	and	modified	at	the	PACC	meeting	of	March	11th	2024.	(S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	–	passed)	• Motion	to	approve	the	PACC	Chair	to	make	the	presentation,	with	the	updated	budget	numbers	and	calculations	as	needed,	to	the	Finance	Committee	and	elsewhere	as	needed.	(P.Sarapas,	2nd	P.Lincoln	–	passed)		PAC	Rebranding	• P.Lincoln	advised	against	rebranding	citing	the	current	confusion	concerning	the	newly	renamed	Lunenburg	Adult	Activity	Center.	• Motion	to	table	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Sarapas	–	passed)		Enterprise	Fund	Investment:		-	tabled				Next meeting: - April 1st, 6:00 pm.  	In	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	at	the	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	7:30	pm	o (motion	–	S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Sarapas	-	passed).			Future	FY23-24	meeting	dates:	o April	1	o May	6	o June	3	o Meetings	held	in	the	Sudolnik	Conference	Room	will	begin	at	6pm,	