===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes		 Monday,	September	9,	2024		Eagle	House,	Lunenburg,	MA	Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:01	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Steve	Archambault,	Paul	Sarapas	3. Excused	Absence:	Faith	Beall	4. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• P.Lincoln	expressed	that	there	is	a	spike	in	Storytime	viewings.	During	a	chance	meeting	at	the	Post	Office	it	came	to	his	attention	that	there	is	a	group	of	Senior	Citizens	enjoying	the	show!	• S.Walker	announced	that	P.Sarapas	will	be	officially	resigning	from	the	board.		Each	board	member	expressed	there	pleasure	in	working	with	someone	who	brought	a	lot	to	the	table,	kept	us	on	our	toes	and	helped	with	issues	in	a	fair	and	equitable	way.	P.Lincoln	also	mentioned	he	will	miss	Paul	as	a	friend.		Communications:			• None	 Approval	of	Minutes:		• 8-5-2024	tabled	(Lack	of	eligible	quorum)			Manager’s	update:		• Started	recording	Football	games	using	the	new	ATEM.	It	was	the	first	attempt	and	a	great	learning	experience.	PAC	is	setting	up	to	record	the	Sept.	20th	game	using	the	ATEM.	• The	Bilotta	Audio	upgrade,	using	ARPA	Funds,	received	3	quotes.	Ockers	was	selected.	• $34k	plus	of	ARPA	Funds	have	been	used.	PAC	needs	to	finalize	final	amounts.		• Three	more	Sony	Field	cameras	&	batteries	were	purchased	using	ARPA	Funds.	• Eric	did	2	ATEM	training	sessions	with	videographers	and	will	continue	to	aid	them	in	the	field.	• PAC	added	the	Council	on	Aging	to	its	meeting	calendar.	• PAC	recorded	the	“Unit	Substation	Improvement”	session	at	the	library.	• PAC	is	working	with	facilities	to	extend	the	Comcast	Internet	connection	to	the	new	Passios	studio	location.		Also	checking	into	long	term	internet	connection	options.	• PAC	is	working	with	Town	Hall	on	closing	the	FY24	budget.		
===PAGE 2===
• Presently	the	August	ending	balance	is	$1,011,842.12.Current	budget	numbers	may	change	as	the	July	and	August	Enterprise	Fund	interest	and	the	August	Comcast	payment	has	not	been	added.	• Summer	was	slow	as	there	not	of	new	shows.	Things	will	pickup	this	fall.		Master	Plan	Steering	Committee	report:	P.	Lincoln	• P.Lincoln	reported	that	the	committee	has	not	met	since	April	and	that	the	300th	Committee	is	planning	on	heavily	involving	PAC.		Enterprise	fund	status:		• S.Walker	met	with	Jo,	Eziquiel	and	the	Bartholomew	Rep.	Topics	included;	o Why	are	reports	so	late?	o SW	asked	for	internet	access	to	information	(declined)	o Reported	that	to-date	we	have	invested	$720,000	and	have	received	$$36,	044.36	in	interest.	All	interest	is	presently	being	re-invested	into	the	account.	PAC	is	using	6	month	bonds	with	a	2	month	ladder.		Special	Town	Meeting	Report:	• Presently	there	is	no	need	for	PAC	to	submit	a	warrant.		Next meeting: - October 7, 6:00 pm.  	In	the	Lunenburg	Senior	Activity	Center		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:34	pm	• (S.Archambault,	2nd	P.Lincoln	–	passed)		2024-2025	PACC	Meeting	dates:		2024	Mon.	October	7th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	November	4th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	December	2nd	6pm	Sudolnk	Room		2025	Mon.	January	6th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	February	3rd	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	March	3rd	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	April	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	May	5th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	June	2nd		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	
===PAGE 3===
Mon.	July	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	August	4th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room		