===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes	Monday,	April	7,	2025	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:02	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln	(zoom),	Faith	Beall	3. Steve	Archambault,	(excused)	4. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• None		Communications:	-		o S.Walker,	J.Toale	and	Town	Manager	finalized	PAC	Warrant	wording	and	numbers		Minutes:	-		• Motion	to	accept	the	amended	3/3/2025	minutes	(F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed.		Manager’s	Report:		• Slow	month	• The	“Welcome	to	PAC”,	video	came	out	great	and	was	posted	on	the	Youtube	PAC	Channel	• Worked	on	finalizing	the	PAC	Warrant	with	S.Walker	and	Town	Manager	• Pre-production	work	on	the	new	show	“New	England	Knitters”,	was	ready	to	go	but	the	host	put	it	on	hold	due	to	logistical	issues	• Pre-production	work	is	starting	on	“Talk	of	the	Town”.	o It	is	being	revamped	and	reorganized	o Possible	conflict	of	interest	with	Town	Manager	so	looking	to	have	the	Town	Moderator	be	the	MC	o Hopefully	will	start	in	June	• Received	free	“set”	material	from	The	Eagle	House.	• Changed	the	Storytime	set	(added	rocking	chair,	softer	lighting,	table,	etc.)	• Staff	is	prepping	for	Town	Meeting	–	a	major	event	• Updated	PAC	Schedules,	Financials	and	Reports	• According	to	the	town,	the	current	PAC	balance	is	$1,009,379.94	o Some	info	still	not	posted	o Should	have	an	additional	$40,000	o March	interest	is	not	posted	• Finalized	and	posted	the	“Welcome	to	PAC”	video	on	youtube	• Program	analysis;		o 70%	local	
===PAGE 2===
o Researching	new	programs	from	outside	sources	o Added	-	Irish	Dances,	Fire	Department	video,	etc.	• Reviewed	March	and	April	calendar			FY	’26	Budget:		• S.Walker	announced	that	the	PAC,	FY	’26	budget	is	set		Studio	Space	Update:		• No	formal	update.			Enterprise	Fund	Investment	Status:	• No	update	at	this	time				Next meeting: - May 5th, 2025 6:00 pm.  	The	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:30	pm	• (F.Beale,	2nd	P.Lincoln)	–	passed)		2024-2025	PACC	Meeting	dates:		2025	Mon.	May	5th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	June	2nd		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	July	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	August	4th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	