===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes	Monday,	May	5,	2025	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:00	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker	(zoom),	Pete	Lincoln	(zoom),	Faith	Beall,	Steve	Archambault	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• P.Lincoln	was	concerned	about	the	talk	of	tearing	down	the	Passios	building.	Where	would	the	PAC	Studio	be	moved?	S.Walker	mentioned	that	the	Town	Manager	was	supportive.	P.Lincoln	was	concerned	about	the	time	line	and	the	reorganization	of	space.	J.Toale	will	discuss	it	with	the	facility	director.		Communications:	-		o S.Walker,	met	with	the	Town	Manager	regarding	the	renewal	of	the	Comcast	Contract.	Starting	soon	and	looking	for	volunteers	to	be	part	of	the	committee.		Minutes:	-		• Motion	to	accept	the	amended	4/7/2025	minutes	• (F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed.		Manager’s	Report:		• Quite	month	• Eric	and	crew	did	an	outstanding	job	prepping	and	running	the	logistics	for	recording	the	annual	town	meeting	and	J.Toale	commended	them.	• J.Toale	did	lots	of	administrative	work	o Program	updates	o Video	back	ups	o MacBook	updates	o Overseeing	a	few	programs,	etc.	• PAC’s	current	balance	is	$1,054,776.25	o Comcast	payment	was	posted	$44,509.53,	$100	less	than	last	quarter	• No	major	purchases	planned	• Currently	at	71%	local	programming	• Started	season	11	of	“Talking	Baseball”	• During	the	next	month	J.Toale	will	be	taking	several	vacation	days.	• Planning	on	recording	“Are	You	Smarter	Than	A	6th	Grader”	• Produced	a	promo	for	the	All-Vendor	Fair	on	May	10th	• Plan	is	to	do	more	local	promo’s	with	other	organizations	
===PAGE 2===
• F.Beall	asked	about	staffing	levels.	J.Toale	reported	that	they	are	in	good	shape	but	dealing	with	a	few	scheduling	issues	due	to	unforeseen	circumstances	making	general	scheduling	a	bit	tricky		FY	’26	Budget:		• Passed	at	Town	Meeting	:	)		Studio	Space	Update:		• Up	in	the	air	as	funding	for	the	new	municipal	building	did	not	pass	• J.Toale	will	contact	the	facilities	manager	for	updates	ad	plans		Enterprise	Fund	Investment	Status:	• PACC	received	an	updated	dated	3/31/25	(3rd	quarter).	• Balance	of	$781,018.45	• S.Walker	wanted	to	note	that	some	funds	were	being	redirected	to	finance	the	current	budget	• F.Beall	asked	if	there	were	any	major	purchases	planned.	S.Walker	&	J.Toale	said	no	unless	there	was	a	major	failure	of	current	equipment		Final	Comment:	• P.Lincoln	mentioned	that	in	listening	to	town	meeting	it	seems	that	the	public	does	not	really	understand	what	PAC	is	or	what	it	does	for	the	community.			Next meeting: - June 2, 2025 6:00 pm.  	The	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:31	pm	• (F.Beale,	2nd	P.Lincoln)	–	passed)		2024-2025	PACC	Meeting	dates:		2025	Mon.	June	2nd		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	July	7th		6pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	August	4th	6pm	Sudolnk	Room	