===PAGE 1===
PACC	Meeting	Minutes	Monday,	June	2,	2025	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Roll	call:	1. Meeting	was	called	to	order	at	6:03	pm.	2. PACC	members	present:	Steve	Walker,	Pete	Lincoln,	Faith	Beall,	Steve	Archambault	3. Manager:	Jo	Toale		Public	Comments:	-		• None		Committee	Comments:	-		• P.Lincoln	announced	that	his	term	was	up	and	he	would	not	be	submitting	his	name	to	renew.	He	has	been	involved	with	PAC	since	1986	and	was	one	of	the	signers	of	the	first	contract.	He	has	served	4	terms,	has	enjoyed	working	with	all	the	groups	and	personally	thanked	everyone	for	helping	to	bring	communications	in	Lunenburg	to	the	21st	century.	S.Walker	thanked	P.Lincoln	on	behalf	of	the	committee	for	all	of	his	wonderful	service.	• S.Archambault	asked	if	the	July	and	August	meetings	could	be	moved	to	3pm	to	avoid	conflict	with	the	Town	Band.	• F.Beall	was	asked	to	serve	and	accepted	another	term	on	the	committee.	• J.Toale	mentioned	that	2	people	have	expressed	interest	in	serving	on	the	committee.	S.Walker	will	check	with	town	hall.	• S.Archambault	brought	up	that	as	of	today	he	has	had	no	communication	with	regards	to	serving	as	the	PAC	liaison	on	the	new	Comcast	contract	negotiations.	S.Walker	will	bring	it	up	with	the	Town	Manager.		Communications:	-		• J.Toale	reported	that	the	Town	Manager	had	informed	her	of	2	people	interested	in	serving	on	the	committee.	S.Walker	will	check		Minutes:	-		• Motion	to	accept	the	amended	5/5/2025	minutes	• (F.Beall,	2nd	P.Lincoln),	passed.		Manager’s	Report:		• Reviewed	space	at	TCPassios	for	studio	move	in	early	August	• Will	be	starting	work	on	FY27	budget	and	Annual	Report	per	Town	Manager	request	• Eric	is	putting	together	a	surplus	list	of	equipment	per	Town	Manager	request	• Preparing	to	cover	LHS	Graduation	–	4	camera	shoot,	Police/Fire	Memorial,	Baccalaureate,	Honors	Assembly,	etc	• Will	be	covering	Accounts	Payable	Training	in	June	at	Town	Hall	
===PAGE 2===
• Covered	all	the	Superintendent	interviews	and	special	School	Committee	meetings	in	May	• Planning	the	new	“Talk	of	the	Town”	this	month	with	Tom	Alonzo	• Replaced	broken	EarTech	headset	and	gooseneck	mic	at	Town	Hall	• May	programs	covered	included:	Spring	Health	Update,	Vendor	Fair,	Are	You	Smarter,	Memorial	Day	Ceremony,	Cruise	Night,	LHS	Spring	Chorus/Band	Concert	• Will	be	backing	up	and	doing	maintenance	on	Castus	at	the	end	of	June	• J.Toale	on	vacation	3rd	week	of	June,	Eric	on	vacation	last	week	of	June	• Comcast	May	payment	not	posted	yet	• Current	PAC	balance	$1,037,960.51	• Program	analysis	at	69	total	for	year,	last	year	at	110.	Still	73%	local	produced.	PAC	asked	to	cover	more	meetings	than	usual		Studio	Space	Update:		• Covered	during	manager’s	report		Enterprise	Fund	Investment	Status:	• No	update		Next meeting: - July 7, 2025 3:00 pm.  	The	Sudolnik	Conference	Room,	Lunenburg	Town	Library.		Adjournment:	• Meeting	adjourned	at	6:49	pm	• (S.Archambault,	2nd	F.Beall)	–	passed)		2024-2025	PACC	Meeting	dates:		2025	Mon.	July	7th		3pm	Sudolnk	Room	Mon.	August	4th	3pm	Sudolnk	Room	