===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION
November 16, 2017 Meeting Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:03pm. The approval of minutes was tabled to the next
meeting. A discussion of the Lunenburg Community Farmers Market season report began with
M. Dupuis. She reported that this year went really well. We will be looking into accepting SNAP
option at Market as the equipment is provided by the program for. This information will be
forwarded to other produce vendors. The Healthy Incentive Program- HIP- is for SNAP,
participants could spend $40 at farmers market and get reimbursed. Vendors have to be signed
up for both to enable this.
It has come to our attention that the state has approved the sale of beer from local micro-
breweries at farmers markets. Discussion followed concerning moving the location and time of
Market due to the Sunday alcohol law. River Styx Brewery has expressed interest in having their
product in Lunenburg Farmers Market.
A. Steele mentioned that we could make money for our committee by selling bags and t shirts
with our logo. R. Stober recommended a one-time indoor winter market or craft fair each year.
H. Bowen drafted a letter to Heather Lemieux to request a walk-through of TC Passios kitchen.
Applying for funds to upgrade the kitchen from Green Communities Commission was
suggested. M. Allison informed us that he met with town council and found that we could add
alternate AgCom members without changing quorum requirements with an amendment to the
bylaw. The potential of Farming Beyond Borders hosting the annual MAAC meeting of 150
people in February was discussed.
A vote expressing unanimous support for Article 11 was taken following discussion of the
Article and upcoming Special Town Meeting. Looking for recommendations on topics. The
implications of Lunenburg's population exceeding 10,000 and the potential benefits afforded by
MGL was proposed as a topic for discussion. The next AgCom meeting is scheduled for
December 21$ 7pm. Motion to adjourn by A. Steele, second R. Stober. Meeting adjourned.
Respectfully submitted,
RECEIVED & FILED
Ashley Steele, Clerk
JUN 2 1 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
