===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
NOTICE OF MEETING
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION
7:00 PM Thursday October 5, 2017
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Minutes
Meeting Poster: Yes
Place: The Ritter Building
Time: 7:00 p.m.
Present: J. Mendoza, R. Stober, A. Snow, M. Dupuis, A. Steele
The meeting was called to order at 7:00pm by Chairman Mendoza. A discussion began about our partnership with
It was confirmed that setup would begin at 8am and that venders would park along edges and across the street. A
map was provided to visualize the vendor setup for Family Market Day. Though Market typically ends at 1:00pm,
everyone is welcome to stay until 3:00pm. M. Dupuis confirmed that she will bring hay bales for seating of
Vegetable Circus at 11:30am. A. Steele will bring a wooden sign for the event and sell waters and color Halloween
masks with kids near the vendors. R. Stober will bring tractor for event. J. Mendoza will play music and have
instruments for children near the Yard and Craft Sale.
Meeting minutes for June 15, 2017 and July 20, 2017 were approved with corrections.
The recap of the Band concert was that it was very successful as the second year. Next year we will add food and
water. Hot dogs using steamer with popcorn machine was suggested.
J. Mendoza mentioned the Chase road complaint has not shown up after us moving our meeting 2 times.
J. Mendoza discussed that our commission needs a better understanding on what we can do and are expected to do.
We need to continue to discuss with Town Counsel the administration of the Right to Farm Bylaw wit respect to
appropriate interaction with Animal Control, Police, Zoning Enforcement and Board of Health. Right to Farm
Bylaw indicates that regulatory agencies are to forward a written copy of any grievance. AgCom can host a forum,
decide on a recommended course of action and forward the recommendation to the appropriate regulatory agency.
As we currently understand, we are not authorized to perform farm visits, unless invited by the proprietor. Acreage
requirements remain in question.
Chairman Mendoza is to schedule a meeting with Town Counsel.
of Clerk vacant. Jeff accepted the M. Dupuis' nomination of A. Steele as Clerk, R. Stober seconded, and A. Steele
was unanimously elected.
Public comment- Heather Bowen announced Community Kitchen in Bolton. Working to get Community Kitchen at
old Elementary School- T.C. Passios. Matthew Allison reported a Special Town Meeting November 28, 2017, at
7pm in the High School Auditorium. Petition going around about placing moratorium on sale of town property.
===PAGE 2===

