===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION
June 8, 2017 Meeting Minutes
RECEIVED & FILED
FED 0 7 2010
LUNENBURG TONS
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: The Ritter Building
Time: 7:00 p.m.
Present: J. Mendoza, D. MacMillan, R. Traikimas, M. Dupuis
The meeting was called to order at 7pm by Chairman Mendoza. The minutes of the April meeting were
read and citing no errors or omissions, D. Macmillan motioned to approve the minutes, R. Traikimas
seconded, and the minutes were approved unanimously.
During Public Comment, Miss Jillian Philbrick, resident at 234 Chase Road, came to the commission with
concerns regarding a neighbors complaint about the noise her rooster makes during the early morning
hours. It was determined by Planning Board liaison Matthew Allison that her address is in fact in the
outlying district and according to the zoning bylaw 4.2.1.1, homesteading is permitted at this address.
Ms. Philbrick is well within her rights to raise a rooster though some suggestions were made to lessen the
effect of the noise neighbors, i.e. ensuring all birds are roosted safely and securely in a hen house until a
reasonable morning hour and/or moving the birds to a part of the property further from the complainant.
Miss Heather Bowen of H&M Farm on Flat Hill Road was in attendance to report that the Unifier Roots
Festival will in fact be happening at the Lane Property on Holman Street. The event organizers have
secured all necessary permits and have met all safety and security requirements set forth by the LPD,
LFD, and the LBoH. The weekend long festival uses earthy, cultural, worldly music as a backdrop for the
development, dance workshops, children's activities, and much more! The festival is drug and alcohol
free and family friendly. Chairman Mendoza noted that the support Unifier Roots Festical organizers
have shown to local farmers and producers highlights the many necessities available right here in
Lunenburg.
Janine LaValley of Maplecrest Farm on Elmwood Road, manager of the LCFM provided her report on the
market to the commission. Ms. LaValley has given promotional materials for the market a make-over and
is reaching out to a long list of local vendors to participate in this year's market. Chairman Mendoza
noted that when the BOS appointed the Ag Com to oversee the Farmers' Market, a LFM Administrator
position had been created, but with Ms. LaValley stepping forward to take the reigns, this may no longer
be necessary.
The Agricultural Commission sponsored refreshments at town Band Concert will be Monday July 315!. M.
Dupuis will gather supplies for root beer floats which were a tremendous hit last year, Miss Bowen and
Chairman Mendoza will be providing baked goods as well as assisting at the booth. There will be a 50/50
raffle and a fabulous half-time performance by our own lyrical leader! Everyone is encouraged to come
out to the Gazebo for a fun, family friendly evening. All proceeds raised from this event will continue to
support the LHS horticultural classes and agricultural programming throughout town.
In new business, commission restructuring was tabled to an evening when all members are present.
===PAGE 2===
B B H
made a motion to adjourn, D. MacMillan seconded. Meeting adjourned 9:10pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Maureen C. Dupuis
RECEIVED & FILED
FEЗ 0 7 2018
LUNENBURGTIN
CLERKO! : !
