===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION
July 20, 2017 Meeting Minutes
RECEIVED & FILED
FED 0 5 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: The Ritter Building
Time: 7:30 p.m.
Present: J. Mendoza, A. Snow, M. Dupuis
The meeting was called to order at 7:32pm by Chairman Mendoza. The minutes of the June meeting
were not available and approval was tabled for the next meeting.
During Public Comment, Miss Heather Bowen of H&M Farm on Flatt Hill Road shared about Farming
Beyond Borders. A group of North Central Mass famers and farm supporters started by the Westminster
Agricultural Commission. The group's goal is to join together folks in North Central Worcester County to
support each other in Agricultural endeavors. The next meeting is to be held Sunday August 20 at MLs
Greenery In Motion, Westminster MA and all are invited to attend!
Janine LaValley of Maplecrest Farm on Elmwood Road, manager of the LFM provided her report on the
market to the commission. Ms. LaValley reported that to date, $350 had been collected in vendor fees
with 10 permanent vendors. All fees had been deposited to a Farmers Market account with Town Hall.
She has a key from the Town Hall and is able to open and secure the facilities weekly. August 6-12 is
National Farmers Market week and the Ledger is hoping to write a "Locally Grown" column. Because
some vendors filed verbal grievances against another vendor for intimidation and misrepresentation, and
because four weeks into the season, said vendor was still not in compliance with multiple market policies
including, no 2017 season application filed, non-payment of 2017 vendor fee, resale of product without
required labeling, and using a scale that had not been certified by the Department of Weights and
Measures, the manager's recommendation was to remove the vendor from the market for the health and
success of the Market. M. Dupuis made a motion to have the LCFM Manager write a letter to the vendor
in question, citing the 2017 LFM policies, highlighting those listed above that are still delinquent, and
further noting that said vendor will not be permitted to participate in the LCFM until the LFM Manager
has reported back to the Commission that all concerns have been rectified to management requirements.
A. Snow seconded the motion and with no discussion on the topic, the motion passed unanimously, 3-0.
The Agricultural Commission sponsored refreshments at town Band Concert will be Monday July 31st.
Dupuis will gather supplies for root beer floats which were a tremendous hit last year, Miss Bowen and
Chairman Mendoza will be providing baked goods as well as assisting at the booth. There will be a 50/50
raffle and a fabulous half-time performance by our own lyrical leader! Everyone is encouraged to come
out to the Gazebo for a fun, family friendly evening. All proceeds raised from this event will continue to
support the LHS horticultural classes and agricultural programming throughout town.
In new business, commission restructuring was tabled to an evening when all members are present.
The Lunenburg Historical Society has reached out to join forces for an amazing event on Sunday October
g"* in conjunction with the LCFM. The Commission is excited to begin planning this wonderful day!
===PAGE 2===
missing and sadly, evidence suggests that one of the four had been attacked by something. Please
make note and bring your small animals in at night for security.
Tonight's meeting marks the end of term for Ms. Rene Traikimas who will not be running for re-
appointment. Additionally, Mr. Doug MacMillan submitted his verbal resignation. The Agricultural
Commission would like to thank Ms. Traikimas and Mr. MacMillan for their years of service to the town
and for all you've done to support, promote, and help to grow our Agricultural character. We wish you
both the best of luck in all endeavors.
The next meeting of the Agricultural Commission was scheduled for Thursday August 18, 2017. A. Snow
made a motion to adjourn, M. Dupuis seconded. Meeting adjourned 9:30pm.
laureen c. Duoul
RECEIVED & FILED
FES 0 7 2010
CLERA 1:
