===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
June 20, 2019 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Present: M. Allison, R. Stober, G. Burns 
Guests: M. Fontaine, Y. Fusaro, S. Donahue, M. Stewart –Lunenburg Ledger 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:35pm.   
 
R. Stober moved to approve minutes of April 18, G. Burns 2nd, all aye 
 
Re-organization 
R. Stober nominated M. Allison for chair, G. Burns 2nd, all aye 
G. Burns nominated R. Stober for vice chair, M. Allison 2nd, all aye 
R. Stober nominated G. Burns for clerk, M. Allison 2nd, all aye 
 
Jerry Lanni was again on the agenda but not present.  M. Allison updated the commission on 
discussions at Planning Board, separately with DPW and Sewer Commission.  Market update 
was there are now 22+ vendors expected for opening day.  Vegetables, meat, eggs, bread and 
baked goods, cheese, honey and more will be available.  Y. Fusaro proudly stated that Gove 
Farm actually reached out to us to vend.  Scale has been certified for use at the market.  
Managers requested a monthly reimbursable spending limit.  R. Stober moved to allow up to 
$100 reimbursable expenses on the market by the managers, G. Burns 2nd, all aye.  S. 
Donahue volunteered to bring Cherry Hill hay bales to the Sunday markets.  R. Stober moved to 
gather for site prep at the Ritter Saturday 6/29/19, G. Burns 2nd, all aye.  M. Allison relayed a 
request from Town Manager to gauge interest in ‘dementia friendly’ training for vendors.  
Discussion revealed that both current market managers have previously had such.  M. Allison 
suggested that the AgCom members receive training and offer same to vendors.  R. Stober 
moved that AgCom meeting time be changed back to 7pm, G. Burns 2nd, all aye. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, A. Snow second, adjourned at 9:00pm. 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Arthur Snow, Vice-Chair  
Ryan Stober, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
Greg Burns, Member 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 