===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
May 16, 2019 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Present: M. Allison, A. Snow, R. Stober, G. Burns 
Guests: M. Fontaine, Y. Fusaro, J. Chabot, W. Newcomb 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:31pm.   
 
Jerry Lanni of Lanni Orchards was not able to attend, but did submit a letter, which was read to 
the commission.  LCFM update was over 10 vendors were signed up, with over 30 no or no 
response.  M. Fontaine presented new market sign design, the group liked it.  R. Stober moved 
to approve $200 for 20 new market signs, G. Burns 2nd, all aye.  Mike also reported finding a 
grant for up to $1,000 for farmers markets.  G. Burns moved to approve application for the 
grant, R. Stober 2nd, all aye.  Y. Fusaro reported that the scale we had was “not for trade” and 
another will be needed and certified for Cherry Hill to sell meat.  Discussion of raffle basket, 
tickets given for purchases at vendor booths.  Managers to draft letter to vendors and rules for 
next meeting.  Remaining agenda items tabled to next meeting. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, A. Snow second, adjourned at 9:38pm. 
 
 
 
Letter from Jerry Lanni: 
 
From a Lanni Orchards stand point: 
We are in the process of APR that should finish up in the next couple of months.  Much like 
other wholesale commodity agriculture, wholesale apples is no longer a sustainable venture.  We 
are planning on being 100% retail going forward-Pick Your Own, CSAs, Retail Farm stand, 
Farmers Markets, and Ag Entertainment. 
In order to be competitive in this market with farms that are not in Lunenburg, we want to 
petition the town for public utility services on Chase Road. 
This will allow for our growth and expansion of what we can offer to guests visiting our farm in 
terms of board of health regulation restrictions. We feel this will give us equal competitive 
footing with other farms in Massachusetts like Davis Farm and Bolton Orchards, and Wilson 
Farms. 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Arthur Snow, Vice-Chair  
Ryan Stober, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
Greg Burns, Member 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
There are many possibilities for expansion-ice cream, coffee, bakery, deli, concession foods, 
cider making (again), farm to table dinners, commercial kitchen, winery, and many others that 
I’m forgetting at the moment. 
I’m not saying these are all definite things we are going to do, I’m saying that these would be 
possible with public utilities. 
I have the support from the Sewer Commission, the Water Commission and from Senator Tran. 
They all believe it would be good for the town. 
  
From a Town of Lunenburg/Other Lunenburg Farms and Businesses standpoint: 
The Town of Lunenburg, and thus all of the businesses and farms in town are missing out on a 
huge market in the way of the Travel and Tourism industry in Massachusetts. 
We have been involved with Visit North Central Massachusetts (formally the Johnny Appleseed 
Trail Association) for the last few years. We attend their annual Travel and Tourism Breakfast 
every year. A representative from MOTT has spoken every year we have gone and has great 
actual figures on the travel and tourism industry in Massachusetts. It’s a 23 Billion dollar 
industry. He also had figures for tax revenue that that resulted in for the state as a whole and for 
some of the cities and towns individually. He had figures for Fitchburg and Gardner this year for 
local tax revenue generated by travelers from 2017. 
Fitchburg 2017-$935,444.39 in tax revenue from travel and tourism 
Gardener 2017-$240,228.05 in tax revenue from travel and tourism 
One of the major draws that Massachusetts has in the travel and tourism sector is Agriculture. 
Lunenburg is blessed to have a tons of great farms that tourists would love to come and visit and 
spend their money at. 
Not only would the farms benefit but the small shops, gas stations, restaurants, and everything 
else this town has to offer. 
This would all translate into tax revenue for Lunenburg. 
We need to encourage our Lunenburg representatives to get involved in the Travel and Tourism 
industry. No town officials from Lunenburg attend this tourism breakfast that was host by Visit 
North Central Mass. 
On the contrary the Mayors of Fitchburg, Leominster, and Gardner were in attendance and 
countless representatives from other surrounding towns, pepperel, Groton, Harvard, 
Sterling,….and many others. 
Lanni Orchards want to become a larger family oriented tourist destination in the state. We feel 
that if we can get public utilities and become a destination for travelers it will benefit the entire 
Town of Lunenburg. We want to encourage people to take advantage of all the town has to offer 
and ALL of the farms in our town. 
Sincerely, 
Jerry Lanni 
Lanni Orchards 
 
 