===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
7:30 PM Thursday April 18, 2019 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Present: M. Allison, A. Snow, R. Stober, J. Marzuca 
Guests: M. Fontaine, Y. Fusaro, G. Burns 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:31pm.   
 
A. Snow moved to accept the minutes of Jan 17, 2019 R. Stober 2nd, J. Marzuca abstained, all 
aye.  A. Snow moved to accept the minutes of Feb 21, 2019 R. Stober 2nd, all aye.  A. Snow 
moved to accept the minutes of March 21, 2019 R. Stober 2nd, all aye 
 
LHS student did not attend to discuss their project.  Economic Development Committee 
discussion included mention that it had been initiated, created and then unanimously tabled by 
the BOS.  Description by the Town Manager and Land Use Director sounded like it would be a 
positive thing for farms and agriculture in Lunenburg.  Land Acquisition Committee discussion 
included description of the focus parcels.  M. Fontaine and Y. Fusaro were in attendance for 
LCFM(Lunenburg Community Farmers Market) management discussion.  Both are educators 
and business owners, they have worked well together in the past and are each interested in 
being manager of the farmers market.  R. Stober moved that both be appointed the market 
management team, A. Snow 2nd, all aye.  G. Burns expressed interest in becoming member to 
the AgCom.  He is 5th generation farmer in Lunenburg, is a blacksmith, owns his own business.  
A. Snow moved to recommend G. Burns for appointment to AgCom, R. Stober 2nd, all aye.  R. 
Stober volunteered to retrieve 2018 market signs, credentials for the market facebook page, and 
key to the Ritter from the previous market manager.  LCFM discussion ensued that consumed 
the rest of the meeting.  All other items were tabled to the next meeting. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, A. Snow second, adjourned at 9:41pm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Arthur Snow, Vice-Chair  
Ryan Stober, Clerk 
Jorge Marzuca, Member 
-VACANCY-, Member 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
-VACANCY-, Alternate 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 