===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
February 18, 2021 
Zoom Meeting 
 
Present: M. Allison, R. Stober, G. Burns, M. Holman, K. McClellan, S. Schofield 
Chair called the meeting to order at 7:05pm.   
 
Public Comment/Open Discussion: M. Holman has invited a graphic designer to join the 
discussion on a flyer. 
 
-Recent court finding, dog breeding is agriculture discussion.  K. McClellan stated some friends 
in Ashby who breed dogs have won a case against the town.  The finding was based on them 
breeding domestic animals for profit. 
-Economic Development Comm. Appointment update:  M. Allison repeated that planning board 
had officially changed the requirement of being a business owner for the AgCom appointment.   
This discussion was tabled to welcome a guest speaker. 
-Draft flyer discussion: Chris Caswell, a graphic designer, offered help on the flyer.  
Brainstorming and discussion ensued. 
-Returning to the EDC appointment, M. Holman expressed interest in being recommended for 
appointment.  R. Stober moved the recommendation, G. Burns 2nd.  Roll call, all aye. 
-Public market update:  M. Allison corrected himself again.  MGL chapter 40 section 10 requires 
5% of the registered voters signatures.  The Town Clerk said there are just over 8,000 
registered, which would require over 450 signatures.  Further discussion included questions 
about funding, management and oversight of such a market.  M. Allison mentioned the bond bill 
with $350k for a community kitchen.  Locations discussed included TCP, old primary, Brooks 
House, Teen center, and old Stone Farm. 
 
Public Comment/Open Discussion: M. Allison stated that the farmers market season is fast 
approaching and we need to confirm and organize with the management team. 
 
Next meeting set for March 18, 2021. 
 
R. Stober moved to adjourn, M. Holman 2nd.  Roll call, all aye.  Adjourned at 8:13pm. 
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Ryan Stober, Vice-Chair  
Jorge Marzuca, Clerk 
Greg Burns, Member 
Maryrae Holman, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate 
Stephanie Schofield, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 