===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
7:00 PM Thursday February 17, 2022 
ZOOM MEETING AGENDA 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed 
to the public.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open 
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  This meeting will be 
able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.  The 
following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public 
meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347  or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 
475-4499 and enter Meeting ID: 909 174 0347 If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for 
your name and an e-mail address.  Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. 
Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may 
use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
 
1. Call to Order 
2. Public Comment/Open Discussion 
3. Farm complaints 
4. Review/Approve Minutes  
5. Farmers market update 
6. New Business: 
- New talent bank form received 
 - Review & approve flyer to advertise and promote the Agricultural Commission 
- Discuss expanding to 7 members with 2 alternates 
 - Discussion on existing regulations for farms and farming in Lunenburg 
7. Ongoing items: 
- Discuss potential social media for AgCom 
- Community gardens 
- Farm inspections 
 - Hats, t-shirts, bags, marketing for AgCom & market 
 - Bylaw references to farm size –Town meeting article 
 - AgCom holding land -BOS 
 - Map of Lunenburg Farms 
8. Public Comment/Open Discussion 
9. Set Next Meeting Date 
10. Adjourn 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair 
Ryan Stober, Vice-Chair  
Jorge Marzuca, Clerk 
Greg Burns, Member 
Maryrae Holman, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate 
Stephanie Schofield, Alternate 
 
Farmers Market Managers: 
Yanina Fusaro 
Mike Fontaine 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION              
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135  
 
 
 