===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
 
 
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION 
P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
 
 
Commission Members: 
Jennifer Duffy, Chair  
Maryrae Holman, Vice-Chair 
Jackie Chabot, Clerk 
Kathy Dugan, Member  
 Ryan Stober, Member 
Kira McClellan, Alternate 
Vacancy, Alternate 
 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
AGRICULTRUAL COMMISSION 
6:30PM Tuesday, February 24, 2025 
Lunenburg Public Library, Sudolnik Conference Room 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg 
MEETING MINUTES 
Agricultural Commission Members and Attendance 
Function Name Attendant  
Chair Jennifer Duffy ✔ 
Vice-Chair Maryrae Holman   
Clerk Jackie Chabot ✔ 
Member Kathy Dugan ✔ 
Member Ryan Stober ✔ 
Alternate Kira McClellan ✔ 
Alternate Vacant   
Public Dave Passios ✔ 
  
Agenda: 
No. Topic Notes 
1 Call to Order Meeting Commencement Time: 6:41 pm 
2 Public Comment Dave Passios commented on the property at 100 
Townsend Harbor Rd. Discussion about importance of 
this property to maintain farmland. 
3 Announcements None. 
4 Review/Approve Minutes None. 
  
5 New Business:   
  USDA Update None. 
  MDAR Update Farmers Dinner: Planning for the Future of Your Farm 
Tues, April 1 @ 6:00 - 8:00PM 
Berlin 1870 Town Function Hall 
(12 Woodward Avenue, Berlin, MA 01503) 

===PAGE 2===
Farmland Partnership Program 
Webinars Tuesday, March 11th from 1-2:30pm and 
Monday, March 31st from 10-11:30am 
  Community Garden  None. 
  Soils of Local importance Ryan made a motion to approve the document. Kathy 
seconded. Commission unanimously approved. 
6 Current Business:   
  Goals – Review 2024, Draft 2025 Continued to draft 2025 goals 
  MVP Action Grant Jen attended meeting on February 3rd with other town 
interested in grant. Next steps to come. Discussion on 
participation. 
  Spring Event No interest received from local farms wanting to 
participate.  
  100 Townsend Harbor Rd Select Board has not yet discussed this property or asked 
committees for their recommendation. Agricultural 
Commission is not on the list of boards typically asked 
for a recommendation. Bring awareness to the ROFR to 
the town population. 
  
Jackie made a motion to state the recommendation of the 
Agricultural Commission is for the town of Lunenburg to 
preserve the property at 100 Townsend Harbor Road 
citing the reasons stated below. Kathy seconded. 
Commission unanimously approved. 
The town has the opportunity to preserve the 
agricultural aesthetic and open space in this 
Chapter 61a property we should take the 
opportunity considering other properties are 
coming up as private sale (no ROFR). 
Currently, several large properties in town are 
already seeing development such as the stone farm, 
funeral home, and patten's farm (already 
townhouses).  
This property has potential for multiple passive 
recreation and a community garden which would 
serve the entire community.  
Surveys and general comments in town 
consistently express interest to maintain the 
farming community feeling. The town needs to 
step up to take advantage of these opportunities. 
Once farms and open space are subdivided and 
sold, there is not an opportunity to get them back. 
  Lunenburg Farmers' Market Reviewed applications for the following vendors: 
Ena's Handmade Wooly Friends 
Fragments Fine Art 
Jen's Hens and Garden 
Dirty Little Soaps 
Pony Shack Cider 
Wild Brook Honey 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Lunenburg Historical Society 
  
===PAGE 3===
Kathy makes a motion to approve all vendors aside from 
Fragments Fine Art for the Farmers' Market. Noting 
Fragments Fine Art is not within the distance required for 
the farmers' market. Ryan seconded. Commission 
unanimously approved. 
  
Jackie to draft signs for farmers' market. Jen to find 
quote. 
  Membership None. 
  Agricultural Commission Facebook Page Continue to post about farmers' market and 
USDA/MDAR updates 
  Agricultural Commission Mailing List   
7 Committee Reports None 
8 Farming Issues None 
9 Upcoming Meetings/Events Schedule   
 6:30 pm March 24, 2025 Lunenburg Public Library, Sudolnik Conference Room 
  7:00 pm April 14, 2025 Lunenburg Public Library, Wallace Community Room 
  6:30 pm May 19, 2025 Lunenburg Public Library, Sudolnik Conference Room 
  7:00 pm June 9, 2025 Lunenburg Public Library, Wallace Community Room 
10 Public Comment None. 
11 Adjourn Meeting Adjournment Time: Kathy made a motion to 
adjourn; Ryan seconds. Commission unanimously 
approved. Meeting adjourned at 8:16 pm 
  
 