===PAGE 93===
93 
 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
Eight Firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical Rescue and Dive 
Teams. These regional teams respond to high risk and specialized rescue situations, such as Confined Space, 
Rescue from Heights, Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater and Underwater Search and Recovery. In 
conjunction with these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water Rescue Unit and a Collapse/Trench Rescue 
Trailer.  
Our Apparatus fleet is currently in very good condition, with two pumpers and the Ladder truck all under 10 years 
old. Our Rescue Pumper, Squad 3 remains in good condition though it is nearing the end of its projected life 
span. This unit is scheduled for Replacement in FY’27. This unit is a dual -purpose Pumper and Rescue Unit, car-
rying the Jaws of Life, High Pressure Air Bags, and other specialized rescue tools. 
The Ambulances are experiencing increased wear and tear as we see not only more calls for service, but longer 
transport times to more distant hospitals and critical care facilities. 30 years ago, we had four hospitals within a 
10–15-minute transport time. Today there are two. In addition, many cardiac and trauma patients require definitive 
treatment in specialty facilities. This often requires transport to Worcester or occasionally even Boston. Given 
lengthy delays in obtaining new units, a replacement for Rescue 1, our 2014 ambulance was ordered in March of 
2023. Delivery is not anticipated until early 2025. 
Replacement of our outdated Forest Fire protective clothing with a dual -purpose type of clothing that is suitable 
for both brush fires and motor vehicle/technical rescue situations was completed This project was funded 
through a State Grant for Safety Equipment. Though supply chain issues slowed the process, the equipment fi-
nally arrived in Spring of 2023. Several hundred feet of hose and some outdated nozzles were also replaced 
through a State Grant in 2023. A Grant to replace several power saws and some portable radios was applied for in 
late 2023 and is anticipated for early 2024. 
Captain James Ricci retired in March of 2023 after 32 years of Career and Call service to the Town. Jim served as 
our Fire Prevention Officer for 17 years and was well known for his conscientious and down -to-earth approach to 
code enforcement. Jim was instrumental in developing the “Sand for Seniors” program in conjunction with the 
Eagle House Staff. He was also awarded the “Norman Knight Excellence in Community Service Award” in 2014 
for his fire prevention and community education work. While Jim’s retirement left big shoes to fill, we are fortu-
nate that he has chosen to continue to serve the Town as an On Call Firefighter/EMT. 
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their outstanding commit-
ment to the Town. Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to impress me every day. In addi-
tion, I would like to express my gratitude to the members of the Department who have helped make the Paramed-
ic Program a reality. From those who helped develop policies and those who helped procure equipment, to those 
members who endured the challenges of Paramedic training. Your efforts have helped bring about a massive im-
provement in service to our residents. My thanks also to the Town Manager for her unwavering support for this 
vital project. 
I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards, and commissions for their continuing help. The 
level of interdepartmental cooperation that occurs in the daily course of town business is invisible to many peo-
ple, but it is critical to all operations. Finally, my thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for their ongoing 
support of public safety. Such support allows us to continue providing the high level of service you have come to 
expect from us. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 94===
94 
 
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
 Roster of the Lunenburg Fire Department- 2023 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Indicates member of District Technical Rescue Team 
+ Indicates Career/Full Time Staff 
    Patrick A. Sullivan, Chief of Department+*     
    Peter J. Hyatt, Deputy Chief     
    Career Firefighters+     
A Shift   B Shift   C Shift 
          
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT   Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT*   Christos Lekaditis, Lieutenant/AEMT 
Carl Gamberdella, FF/Paramedic   Austin Flagg, FF/Paramedic   Melissa Buchanan, FF/Paramedic 
Andrew Bolton, FF/Paramedic   Jenny Smith, FF/Paramedic   Olivia Hayes, FF/Paramedic 
          
    Karen Weller, Administrative As-     
    Call Firefighters     
Mark Bursch, Captain/EMT       Skyler Kozloski, Lieutenant/EMT 
Paul Duquette, Lieutenant/EMT*       Gregory Dik, Lieutenant/EMT* 
Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain         
          
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT*       Ronald Hyatt, FF/Paramedic 
Robert Barrett, FF/Paramedic*       Samuel Johnson, FF/EMT 
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT       Michael Lemoine, FF/Paramedic 
Benjamin Boudreau, FF/EMT       Mitchell Mabardy, FF/Paramedic* 
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT       Matthew McAuliffe, Firefighter 
Frank Byrne, FF/Paramedic       Daniel Motyka, FF/EMT 
Michael Byrne, FF/AEMT       Stephen Morse, FF/EMT 
Joseph Cardone, EMT       Timothy O’Connell, FF/EMT 
Charles Colburn, FF/AEMT*       Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic 
Philip d’Entremont, FF/Paramedic       James Ricci, FF/EMT 
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT       Ian Wilder, FF/Paramedic 
Matthew Glenny, FF/EMT       Stephen Wright, FF/EMT 
Alan Hyatt, Firefighter/EMT         
          
===PAGE 95===
95 
 
 

===PAGE 96===
96 
 
 

===PAGE 97===
97 
 
 
 

===PAGE 98===
98 
 
 

===PAGE 99===
99 
 
 

===PAGE 100===
100 
 
 

===PAGE 101===
101 
 
 

===PAGE 102===
102 
 
 

===PAGE 103===
103 
 
 

===PAGE 104===
104 
 
 

===PAGE 105===
105 
 
 
===PAGE 106===
106 
 
===PAGE 107===
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLANNING 
===PAGE 108===
108 
 
CAPTIAL PLANNING REPORT
 
Fiscal Year 2024 Capital Plan
 
The Capital Planning Committee met several times during the fall and early winter months to consider capital 
requests that were submitted by department heads.  Following extensive dialogue with department heads and 
revisions to some requests, the committee considered 28 requests and ultimately voted to rank 27 items for 
consideration by the Town Manager, Select Board, and Finance Committee. 
On January 28th, the Town Manager presented her preliminary Capital Plan. Her recommendation included the 
first six items recommended by the Capital Planning Committee, totaling $1,360,500. 
On February 13th, the Capital Planning Committee met to consider the Town Manager’s preliminary capital 
plan and some differences in her ranking of projects. No action was taken, however at the time there were two 
outstanding issues to be addressed before a final capital plan recommendation could be submitted for the war-
rant. 
The first was a request for American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds to purchase three vehicles (an ambulance 
and two 6-wheel dump/spreader/plow trucks). On February 21st, the Select Board committed $986,000 of 
ARPA funds for these projects. This action accelerated ordering the vehicles by several months (demand for 
these items and supply chain issues have resulted in extended delays) and eliminated a need to tap the Special 
Purpose Stabilization Account to fund these items. 
The second issue was the availability of free cash, which the Town Manager had reserved to fund the overlay 
account, relating to the high number of property tax abatement requests. On March 28th, the Town Manager 
presented a revised recommendation that eliminated the $986,000 from the Special Purpose Stabilization Ac-
count, added $467,268.98 from free cash, added $356,789 from tax revenues, and reduced the amount from 
unexpended capital by $2,758.98 to her recommendation for the FY24 Capital Plan to fund six additional pro-
jects. The Town Manager’s new recommendation also removed two items from the priority list (TCP Ansul 
Inspection and Public Safety Building Downspouts) after consultation and further assessment by the Facilities 
Director. The following outlines the Town Manager’s final Capital Plan Recommendation with associated 
Capital Planning Committee rankings and scoring derived from the UMass Collins Center for Public Manage-
ment. There are 12 items, totaling $2,025,010.00. As referenced above, $986,000 of that total does not require 
an Annual Town Meeting appropriation or approval.  
Capital Planning Committee Members: 
Tom Alonzo, Chair, Select Board Representative 
David Passios, Vice-Chair, Finance Committee Representative 
Peter Beardmore, Clerk, School Committee Representative 
Matthew Brenner, Planning Board Representative 
George Martin, Member At Large 
 
 
===PAGE 109===
109 
 
PLANNING BOARD 
Nine (9) ANR Plans (land division plans not requiring approval under the Subdivision Control Law, but still 
requiring Board endorsement) were approved.   
 
Lunenburg’s Stormwater Bylaw requires Board review and approval for any development/redevelopment pro-
ject that disturbs one acre or more of land.  This Bylaw safeguards the public health, safety, welfare and the 
environment by minimizing adverse impacts of contaminated stormwater both off-site and downstream.  These 
updates are more likely to affect large commercial projects and multi -family dwellings; not the average home-
owner wanting to put in a shed, garden, pool, etc.  The Board approved stormwater permits for the following. 
 Development of 5 lots on Holman Street and Northfield Rd 
 Construction of 367,000 sq ft warehouse on Fitchburg/Lunenburg land 
 Construction of a single-family home on Reservoir Rd 
 Construction of a single-family home on Highland St 
 Construction of a contractor yard, personal improvement building, and office building on 
Massachusetts Ave 
 
Lunenburg has four designated Scenic Roads; Lancaster Avenue, Flat Hill Road, Northfield Road, and Le-
ominster Road.  Over the past year you may have noticed building lots, such as some of those mentioned in the 
paragraph above, being created on some of these roads.  As these are Scenic Roads, any repair, maintenance, 
re-construction, or paving work in the Town ’s right-of-way cannot involve the cutting or removal of trees or 
the tearing down or destruction of stone walls without consent of the Planning Board.   
 
The Board submitted four articles for November 2022 special town meeting. 
 Two of the articles, which passed, updated the zoning bylaw to reflect the current zoning; 
 Two articles were submitted on behalf of the Water District to update the Watershed Protection Map.  DEP 
requested additional changes to the proposed bylaw which Board members were not comfortable with; 
therefore, the Board chose to pass over the Water District articles.   
The Land Use Director worked on a new draft for 2023 annual town meeting.  The two Water District articles 
were submitted for May 2023 town meeting, but did not pass.   
 
A third article was also submitted for 2023 annual town meeting which added clarification to the permitting 
process for non-medical marijuana establishments.  That article passed. 
 
An application was received for construction of a 367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution building at 
260 Falulah Road.  The majority of the building was located on Airport Road/Crawford Street in Fitchburg, 
but a portion extended into Lunenburg.   
 
Approval was given for the construction of a 372,000 square foot warehouse and distribution building off Le-
ominster-Shirley Road near the Shirley town line.  As a result of this approval, improvements were made to 
Leominster-Shirley Road with the addition of an eastbound left -turn lane into the project and the widening of 
the road to the north (towards Reservoir Road) on the project side of the street. 
 
The Planning Board requested and was approved for Capital Plan Funding to begin an update of the 2002 Mas-
ter Plan. The process began with selecting outside consultants for Master Planning Services. OverUnder, RKG 
Associates Inc. and Innes Associates joined forces to create an experienced and dynamic team to take on the 
task of updating the Master Plan. They have experience in economic planning and real estate consultancy. 
They have a strong understanding and guiding physical use of land and its impact of regulations on communi-
ties. They stressed their importance of public engagement to reflect the values of community which was 
demonstrated in conducting public surveys to hear from Lunenburg residents how they would like to influence 
the development of their Town in the years to come.  
===PAGE 110===
110 
 
The Master Plan Steering Committee was formed, consisting of 15 voting members. The Master Plan Steering 
Committee advises on the development of the Master Plan document. The Committee also fosters openness 
and inclusion in the master planning process through dialogue and communication with the consulting team of 
OverUnder, RKG, Innes Associates, and various stakeholders in the Lunenburg Community.  
 
Marjorie Boggio retired as Administrative Assistant for the Planning Board in the Spring of 2023. She served 
the Town for 26 years and was appreciated by staff and the Lunenburg Community. Annie Aubrey joined to 
take over responsibilities and has been keeping the office running smoothly. 
 
Meetings resumed at Town Hall with a hybrid model; both in-person and via Zoom.   
 
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be reached 
at 978-582-4146 extension 5.  Various forms are available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/ on the Planning 
Board’s homepage.  The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains the Protective 
[Zoning] Bylaws), Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules & Regulations for Site 
Plan Approval & Special Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online.   
 
 
Matthew Brenner, Chair Matthew Allison, Vice Chair Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Timothy Willsmer, Mbr. Erik Torgersen, Mbr. Richard Harris, Interim Land Use Direc-
tor 
===PAGE 111===
111 
 
MASTER PLANNING STEERING COMMITTEE 
The Master Plan Steering Committee (MPSC) advises on the development of the Master Plan 
document. The committee also fosters openness and inclusion in the Master Plan process 
through dialogue and communication with the consulting team OverUnder, RKG, Innes Asso-
ciates, and various stakeholders in the Lunenburg Community. The Master Plan will develop a 
physical and digital document for the Town of Lunenburg that optimally reflects and supports 
the community’s priorities and goals. A comprehensive plan takes a long range view of the 
Town’s land use, housing, open spaces, natural and cultural resources, public facilities, eco-
nomic development, and transportation—and tries to shape the direction of the Town for the 
next five to fifteen years. The Town completed its last comprehensive plan in 2002, more than 
twenty years ago. The Lunenburg Planning Board initiated this new comprehensive plan pro-
cess, Plan Lunenburg, to explore and define the Town’s shared vision and create an updated 
framework for future Town goals and policies. In 2023, PlanLunenburg.org was developed to 
be the host site of Lunenburg’s Master Plan process. Two Public Meetings were conducted as 
well as surveys in between. The MPSC worked closely with OverUnder to coordinate venues, 
distribute surveys, and encourage community involvement. The MPSC, OverUnder, RKG, 
Innes Associates, along with the energetic involvement of residents of Lunenburg, have suc-
cessfully kept the process on track with each phase originally outlined: Phase 1 in May 2023 
focusing on discovery, Phase 2 in February 2024 focusing on testing and recommending, and 
Phase 3 in August 2024 leading to a report. All throughout each phase, the MPSC actively 
seeks the engagement of the residents of Lunenburg so that their voices can be heard in the 
Master Plan process. 
Report from OverUnder: 
It has been a year since a notice to proceed (March 27, 2023) was issued to the Master Plan 
consultant team (OverUnder, RKG Associates, and Innes Associates). In that time, we’ve held 
three public meetings. Public meeting #1 was held at Town Hall on June 15, with 10 attendees. 
The second public meeting was held at Smokestack Roasters on November 2, 2023 with 30 
participants. The third meeting took place at the Adult Activity Center on February 2, 2024 in 
two sessions, with a total of 35 participants. The team also attended two events on Homecom-
ing weekend in October 2023 (Shrieks & Krieks and Homecoming), during which we solicited 
feedback and passed out information regarding the website and solicited feedback from the 
community while answering questions about the master planning process. The Master Plan 
Steering Committee was established in the fall of 2023, and has held five meetings, with the 
sixth planned for April 5. In the past year, the following tasks have been accomplished: 
· development of a community engagement plan, 
· planning process branding, · publishing of the planlunenburg,org website, 
· construction of large scale (5’ x 8’) model of the Town, 
· completion of the existing conditions report, and 
· two surveys completed (survey #1: 163 respondents, survey #2: 457 respondents) 
 
===PAGE 112===
112 
 
Ad Hoc Open Space Advisory Committee to the Planning Board  
FY 2023 Annual Report 
 
The Open Space Committee’s efforts in FY’23 principally focused on gaining a better understanding of the 
Town of Lunenburg’s portfolio of vacant, undeveloped, “general municipal” lands, and assessing which of 
those properties may be repurposed more specifically to meet needs identified in the Town’s Open Space and 
Recreation Plan. 
The Open Space Committee also reviewed several Chapter 61 withdrawal notifications this past year as part of 
the town’s defined multi-board. 
The Open Space Committee investigated two parcels on Lake Shirley held by the Town and reviewed them for 
possible lake access (cartop kayak and canoe launch) for Lunenburg residents.  The Open Space Committee 
made a recommendation that the two parcels (51 Parmenter Road Assessor Parcel 136-0006 and 0 Shirley Res-
ervoir Lake Assessor Parcel 137-0012) be given to the Care and Control of the Parks Commission, subject to 
Town Meeting Approval. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Michael Toohill, Chair 
===PAGE 113===
113 
 
 

===PAGE 114===
114 
 
===PAGE 115===
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EDUCATION  
===PAGE 116===
116 
 
Lunenburg Public Schools 
Town Report 2023 
Superintendent’s Message 
I am fortunate to have enjoyed six years working in partnership with the Lunenburg School Committee.  Together 
we have remained focused on serving the best interests of the students.  I am appreciative for the support of the 
Town Manager, Select Board and Finance Committee in our work to meet the educational needs of the children of 
Lunenburg. 
 
The district has remained focused on execution of the Strategy for Continuous Improvement, which is aligned with 
our Mission and Vision: 
 
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for 
life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding 
lives. 
 
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its values of attend-
ing to the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and student-centered instruction for 
deeper learning at all levels, and promoting the development of attributes and skills necessary for continuous 
learning for all. 
 
Since the School Committee approved the Strategy for Continuous Improvement in November 2019, we have 
worked with intent to achieve our vision, putting the necessary infrastructure to support the well-being and academ-
ic achievement of all students in place.  The Strategy is a living document reviewed by the District Leadership 
Team each August.  In August 2023, the Strategy objectives were consolidated from four original objectives to a 
singular objective for the next two to three years.  The Strategy is now centered on Cultivating Climate & Culture. 
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create a culture that values data use and fosters continuous learn-
ing in a climate that is safe, caring, inclusive and reflective of our core values.  
 
Over the last five years, we adhered to our Strategy action plans.  Guided by those action plans and our 5-Year 
Staffing Plan, we pursued and secured funding from grants to supplement our local budget in order to execute the 
Strategy.  As a result, the district was able to: 
 Add a Director of Teaching & Learning; Title I Coordinator; Literacy, Math, and Co-Teaching Coaches 
 Increase district behavioral health staffing from six (6) guidance counselors and one (1) social worker to six (6) 
guidance counselors and five (5) social workers 
 Adopt a standards-aligned, rigorous on-grade-level curriculum in ELA/Literacy K-8, math K-5 and pilot math 
curriculum 6-8 for adoption in 2024-2025 
 Adopt a districtwide Tier 1 SEL curriculum 
 Implement district benchmark assessments in literacy and math 
 Add assessment tools to gather data in order to determine need for intervention 
 Create an intervention model for academics and behavioral health 
 Create a referral process for intervention 
 Increase common planning time 
===PAGE 117===
117 
 
Superintendent’s Message 
Now, with staff, curriculum and best practices in place, we are seeing improved student outcomes.  We must con-
tinue to strengthen differentiation in instruction to meet the needs of all learners at all levels. 
The district continues working to build a more inclusive culture in our schools.  We have participated in several 
recruitment fairs to promote Lunenburg Public Schools employment opportunities to a more diverse pool of appli-
cants.  We have also established a Culture & Climate Council comprised of parents/guardians, staff and high school 
student representatives.  This Council is currently working to articulate the roles of the student, parent/guardian, 
and educator in the education of each student.  We believe articulating the roles and responsibilities in the relation-
ship will ultimately foster more family engagement in the education of our students. 
The School Committee has also maintained a focus on the aging Turkey Hill Elementary School.  The building pre-
sents challenges and limitations for our teachers in terms of delivery of instruction in the modern era to elementary 
school-aged students.  Our challenges include limited electrical outlets in classrooms and lack of energy efficiency, 
which is particularly evident with very warm or very cold weather conditions.  The building has aging systems and 
system failures is a concern.  It is important for the administration, School Committee, and other town boards and 
committees to continue to engage in discussion regarding the future of Turkey Hill Elementary School.  
Over the last five years, we have utilized all available resources and worked with intent to impact student achieve-
ment and overall well-being in the post-COVID years and beyond.  We have remained true to the Strategy for Con-
tinuous Improvement.  There are now materials, structures, procedures, and expectations in place; however, if we 
expect to see continued improvement in student achievement, proper staffing levels are necessary.  This will be one 
of our greatest challenges in the next few years as the additional grant funding sources wane. 
“Determination is the product of three elements: a GOAL, a COMMITMENT, and a FOCUS. You have 
to have something to strive for. Then you’ve got to be committed. You’ve got to believe in your goal.” ~ 
Dr. Alan Zimmerman 
 
I want to express my gratitude to the Lunenburg School Committee for trusting me to take their priorities and hopes for 
the district and turn vision into action to bring that vision to life.  I must acknowledge and thank our dedicated staff for 
their professionalism, flexibility, and hard work.  Their commitment and efforts are making the learning experience for 
our students more equitable, meaningful, and impactful.  Collectively, we set goals, committed to those goals and re-
mained focused on those goals to provide a quality education for the children of Lunenburg. 
Finally, each year I conclude my report with the announcement of the Superintendent’s Award.  I am pleased to an-
nounce Brionna Bowser as the recipient of the 2024 Superintendent’s Award.   Brionna’s academic accomplishments 
include serving as National Honor Society President and receiving Academic Excellence Awards in Math, Spanish, Art, 
English and U.S. History.  She was also an Academic All-Star Award recipient in Soccer.  Brionna has a passion for soc-
cer both as a player and as a coaching assistant for the youth league.  She also volunteers her time at the food pantry, 
Kylee’s Kare Kits, and her church.  The accomplishment she is most proud of is attaining her lifeguard certification.  
Brionna believes in being present in the moment and when asked for a quote that best describes her she offered “Enjoy 
your life today, because yesterday has gone and tomorrow may never come.” ― Alan Coren 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Dr. Kate Burnham, Superintendent  
===PAGE 118===
118 
 
 
School Facilities Department 
 
It is my pleasure as your new Facilities and Grounds Director to provide you with an update on the Facilities 
and Grounds Department.  My focus will be to maintain the day-to-day operations as well as streamline the 
services to be more efficient and productive while trying to reduce costs.   
As I come into Lunenburg with 30 days on the job, I will be faced with several major Capital Improvement 
Projects going into 2024.  Below you will find a status update on the Capital Projects that have been approved 
and funded. 
School Truck w/Plow – The new School Truck has been delayed due to COVID-19.  COVID put a huge 
backlog on the production of vehicles.  I am anticipating that we will receive the new truck this summer. 
LMHS Turf Field Feasibility Study (Phase 1) – This Capital Approved project for $50,000 will allow 
Lunenburg Public Schools to engage with a Civil Engineering Study to outline the drainage problems on and 
around the perimeter of the existing turf field.  This will also include drainage issues leading to the failure of 
the small block retaining wall and walkway as well as the Bin-block retaining wall supporting the press box.  
This project has gone out to bid and currently awaiting bid responses. 
 
Grade Level Lunenburg Resident 
Students 
School Choice Stu-
dents 
Total 
PK 48 0 48 
K 107 0 107 
1 115 0 115 
2 124  0 124 
Primary Total 394 0 394 
3 114 0 114 
4 109 0 109 
5 149 0 149 
Elementary Total   372 0 372 
6 111 0 111 
7 122 0 122 
8 133 0 133 
Middle School Total 366 0 366 
9 117 4 121 
10 115 6 121 
11 100 4 104 
12 103 4 107 
High School Total  435 18 453 
  Advanced Community 
Experience Program 
(TCP) 
8 0 8 
All Schools Total  1575 18 1593 
===PAGE 119===
119 
 
THES Exterior Door Upgrades/Replacements – This Capital Approved project of $160,000 will allow 
Lunenburg Public Schools to solicit bids for a newly created vestibule for the front entrance of Turkey Hill 
Elementary School which will provide an extra layer of security for the front entrance.  This project will in-
clude replacing selected exterior doors and hardware around the perimeter of the school.  I am currently work-
ing on the Invitation to Bid documents and will be sent out to bid soon. 
THES Security Upgrades – This Capital Approved Project of $131,000 will allow Lunenburg Public Schools 
to solicit bid to upgrade our Door Access Controls and Security key pads.  I am currently working on the Invi-
tation to Bid documents and will be sent out to bid soon. 
THES Fire Alarm System Upgrade – This approved project of $287,000 will allow Lunenburg Public 
Schools to solicit bids to upgrade existing and/or install additional smoke detectors, pull stations and Horn/
Strobes throughout the building based on building codes and regulations.  I am currently working on the Invi-
tation to Bid documents and will be sent out to bid soon. 
District Window Safety Film – This approved project of $130,000 will allow the School District to solicit 
bids to install Safety Film on all exterior doors and large windows on the first floor of the buildings.  This will 
allow an addition layer of safety where seconds count.  I am currently working on the Invitation to Bid docu-
ments and will be sent out to bid soon. 
Primary School A/C Mini-Splits – This Capital Approved project of $232,800 will allow Lunenburg Public 
Schools to solicit bids for newly installed Air Conditioning Mini-Split throughout the Primary School.  I am 
currently working on the Invitation to Bid documents and will be sent out to bid soon. 
Primary School Security Upgrades – This Capital Approved project of $83,500 will allow Lunenburg Public 
Schools to solicit bid to upgrade our Door Access Controls and Security key pads.  I am currently working on 
the Invitation to Bid documents and will be sent out to bid soon. 
Respectfully submitted,  
Eric Hevy 
Director of Facilities and Grounds 
 
Town Report 2023 
Lunenburg Public Schools IT Review 
The Lunenburg Public Schools Information Technology (IT) Department played a critical role in addressing 
the technology needs both inside and outside of the classroom. The Department also focused heavily on im-
proving the district’s cybersecurity posture. The following projects were completed as part of an emphasis on 
network security: 
1.       Network Upgrade: Hardware that was no longer able to receive security updates was replaced in 
all buildings. 
2.       Segmentation: The district’s network was separated from the town’s network. As a result, both 
district and town are less vulnerable to security threats. 
3.       Consultation: A full penetration test and vulnerability report was performed by an outside vendor 
and delivered to the district. The results provided useful data points and recommendations for further 
improvement. 
===PAGE 120===
120 
 
Solutions supporting student safety were also addressed this year. SaferWatch was made accessible to staff 
throughout the district. This program can be installed on smart phones or PCs and acts as a distress button for 
emergencies. In addition, the Department also implemented GoGuardian to keep students safer on the web. 
Technology continued to be a prevalent tool in the classroom. To support the growing need for devices, the 
district leveraged ECF (Emergency Connectivity Fund) to purchase new end-user devices for staff at Lunen-
burg Primary School. Grades 6 and 9 also received new Chromebooks. 
The IT Department continued to manage and respond to all help desk requests with an extra focus on follow-
ing best practices, student technology usage and excellent customer service. The team will continue to direct 
efforts towards improving end-user experience and protecting the district’s technology environment from po-
tential cyber threats in the new year. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Information Technology 
 
Special Services Department 
Town Report – FY23 (data taken from 2022-2023 school year) 
From the March 1, 2023 report (SIMS Report 5-Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), there are 228 stu-
dents with disabilities receiving special education or related services in Lunenburg (last year there were 211).  
This represents 14.6% of our total student population of 1,560 students (it was 13.2% last year).  The state av-
erage from the 2022-23 Selected Populations Report (data was last updated on Dec. 1, 2022) (https://
profiles.doe.mass.edu/statereport/selectedpopulations.aspx) is 19.4%.  From the March 1, 2023 report (SIMS 
Report 7-SPED Enrollment Statistics – District Summary), the total number of students receiving services out-
side the district was 7 (last year was 8).  Of the 8 students, 3 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 3 are in 
Day Placements and 1 are in Residential Placements.  Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), 
which serves students ages 18-22 years old, had 4 students enrolled last year.  Additionally, from the March 1, 
2022 report, 155 students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg 
(last year was 130).For the 2023 school year, our Accountability Overall Classification was “not requiring 
assistance or intervention”.  The reason for this classification was “Substantial Progress Towards Tar-
gets (57%)”.  Participation rates in MCAS this year were as follows:  High Needs = 100%, Low Income = 
100%, EL and Former EL = n/a%, and Students w/disabilities = 100%. This data can be found at the 
DESE website:  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountability/report/district.aspx?linkid=30&orgcode=01620000&orgtypecode=5&  
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the whole Special Services Department.   
DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are targeting each year.  For our Indicators, the following info rmation 
is available below and also can be found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/sped_map.aspx?orgcode=01620000& 
Indicator 1 – Graduation Rate. For the 2021 -2022 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 77.33% (was 76.33% 
last year). Lunenburg’s rate was 66.7% (was 55.6% last year) and the overall state rate was 82.1% (was 80.4% last year) for Stu-
dents with IEPs.  
Indicator 2 – Dropout Rate.  For the 2021 -2022 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was 13.47% (was 13.97% last 
year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 11.1% (it was 0.0” last year) and the overall state rate was 11.4% (was 10.4% 
last year).   
Indicator 3C – Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS. 2021 -2022 was a benchmark year so there is no state target for 
the Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS in English/Language Arts and in Mathematics.  
===PAGE 121===
121 
 
The 2021 district -level data on the performance of all students with IEPs on MCAS, including Next -Generation MCAS, Legacy 
MCAS and the MCAS-Alt, is available at: 
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/subgroups2.aspx?linkid=25&orgcode=01620000&fycode=2021&orgtypecode=5  
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/mcas/achievement_alt_level.aspx?linkid=116&orgcode=01620000&fycode=2021&orgtypecode=5  
 
Indicator 4 – Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs.  For Lunenburg, our rate was 0.0% (last year it 
was 0.0%).  The state rate was .1%.   Additionally, Indicator 4B records significant discrepancies with the Suspension/Expuls ion 
rates by race or ethnicity.  In 2022, Lunenburg was not found to have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.  
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6 -21 with IEPs. For 2021-2022, the state’s rates are as follows:  for Full 
Inclusion of students = 66.9%, Partial Inclusion = 13.3%, Substantially Separate Placements = 13.6%, and for Separate Schools /
Residential Facilities/Homebound/Hospitals = 6.2%.  In Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows:  Full Inclusion = 69.7%, Pa r-
tial = 7.6%, Substantially Separate = 14.2% and Separate schools, Residential, etc = 8.5%.  
Indicator 6 – Educational Environments for Students Aged 3 -5 with IEPs.  The 2021-2022 state rates showed the percent of stu-
dents receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a Full Inclusion early childhood program was 5 0.4%, 
in a Partial Inclusion Program was 1 6.1%, a Substantially Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or resi-
dential facility) was 1 9.9%, and students not attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service (e.g. 
speech, OT, PT) was 13.4%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 25%, our Partial Inclusion rate was 18.8%, 
Substantially Separate rate was 56.3%, and Related Services was 0%. 
Indicator 7 – Early Childhood Outcomes.  Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of a 4 year cycle in which they 
report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data; exit may occur at any time during the subsequent 
three year period as the children leave the preschool program.  Lunenburg’s 2021-2022 cohort reporting year results are  sup-
pressed for districts reporting 10 or fewer students. 
Indicator 8 – Parent Involvement.  This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving special education who report 
that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving services and results for students with IEPs.  For 20 21-2022 
the state target was 8 9%.  Lunenburg ’s rate was 7.3% and the state ’s rate was 10.7% (from information collected in the Spring 
of 2022).  
Indicator 9 & 10 - Both of these Indicators deal with Disproportionality in Special Education and in Special Education Categories.  
In Lunenburg, the state determined that there was no disproportionality found in either case.  
Indicator 11 – Initial Evaluation Timelines.   T his indicator measures the % of children with parental consent to evaluate, who 
were evaluated within the State established timeline (2017-2018). Data is reported for all initial evaluations initiated in Octo ber, 
November, and December of the reporting year.  Lunenburg was rated 90% in compliance and the state average for this Indica-
tor was 100%.  
Indicator 12 – Early Childhood Transition.  This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part C, found eligible for special 
education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by their third birthdays. The state target for this indicat or 
in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as “Suppressed”(last school year reviewed was 2017 -18). Data is suppressed if the number of 
students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education services is fewer than 10 . 
Indicator 13 – Secondary Transition.  In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.  This indicator measures the 
% of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually  
updated and based upon an age appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will r ea-
sonably enable the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's transition servic e’s 
needs.  Lunenburg was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in compliance.  
===PAGE 122===
122 
 
Indicator 14 – Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs.  This indicator measures the % of students with IEPs who exited 
high school during the 20 21-2022 school year and self -reported post-school engagement in education or employment one year 
after leaving high school. Engagement is defined through three measurements:  
Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.  
Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving high school.  
Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training program; or competi-
tively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high school.  
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a post -secondary activity 
one year after leaving high school. For the 20 21-2022 school year, state targets for the three measurements of Post -School Out-
comes are Measurement A: 50.2%; Measurement B: 7 9.6%; and Measurement C: 87.30%.  Lunenburg rates are as follows (from 
reporting year 2021-2022):  Measurement A = 50%, Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C = 75%.   
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active support group for parents, teachers an d 
administration.  All parents and community members can join the group, which currently consists of parents of students receiv-
ing Title I services and parents of students with disabilities.  Meetings are currently being held quarterly, 6pm, via Zoom.  The 
executive board is made up of a Chairperson: Nichole Camelo.  For more information, go to: https://sites.google.com/a/
lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-directory/special-services/pacsal?authuser=0  In addition to the district PACSAL, Lunen-
burg also participates in a Regional SEPAC group.  Information from this group is on Facebook at “Regional SEPAC – Central MA”  
The Lunenburg Public Schools continues to provide a variety of special needs services to meet the varying needs of our 
students in the least restrictive environment. We have an experienced, hard working staff that works together with parents to  
provide these varied services.   Our parents are equal partners in our efforts to develop challenging and focused educational  
programs for children.  We remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools mission, “The mission of the Lunenburg Public 
Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life -long learning so that they may find their o wn 
paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives. ” We are proud of our staff, students, and families and their 
collaboration and dedication to meet the needs of all students.      
For additional information, please visit our website at: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/department-
directory/special-services, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office, 1025 Massachusetts 
Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 5223. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services 
 
Teaching & Learning Models and PD Update 
Town Report 2023 
 
Teaching and learning is the crux of our school system.  We have been working diligently as a district to pro-
vide high-quality materials and instruction to students, provide targeted interventions and challenges to our 
learners to support the learning process. 
Using high-quality curriculum materials which are standards-aligned, inclusive, rigorous, and engaging is a 
priority for the state of Massachusetts and for our district.  We are in our second year of implementation for 
our new English language arts and math curriculums, Into Reading and Into Math, at grades K-5.  Teachers 
have been making adjustments and refinements to practice, having taught all of the modules at least once. We 
are also in our first year of implementation for Amplify, our new middle school language arts curriculum, and 
we are in the process of evaluating and selecting a high-quality math program for our middle school as well. 
Structured common planning time for teachers in grade level continues for grades K-8.  Our district literacy 
coaches meet with teachers during common planning time to support curriculum development and help foster 
student growth.  High school department heads structure department meeting time to facilitate the necessary 
curriculum work needed to move each department forward and improve learning for students.  
===PAGE 123===
123 
 
The Lunenburg Public School District is participating in the Multi-Tiered Systems of Support (MTSS) Liter-
acy Academy, the Inclusive Practices Academy (based on the Universal Design for Learning), and the Social 
Emotional and Behavioral Academy (SEB) through the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education 
(DESE).  All three academies provide coaching sessions and technical assistance in and assist our district 
with creating action plans. 
Lunenburg Public Schools uses multiple assessments to evaluate student achievement and growth and to be 
able to provide supports and targeted interventions. Students in grades K-8 completed the fall and winter 
iReady diagnostic assessment in both reading and math, and teachers are participating in data cycles to ana-
lyze data, plan for targeted support, and adjust instruction. Personalized learning platforms through iReady 
provide differentiated instruction, systematic practice, and scaffolded feedback in both reading and math. 
We are also using DIBELS (Dynamic Indicators of Basic Literacy Skills)  along with i-Ready to determine 
how students are performing on the critical skills necessary for reading: phonemic awareness, phonics, fluen-
cy, vocabulary, and comprehension. In math, we use the Forefront Universal Screener for Number Sense.   
Lunenburg Primary and Turkey Hill have implemented a multi-tiered support system (MTSS) that provides 
each school with a lead interventionist and two tutors to support students who are struggling to meet grade-
level expectations in reading and math. In order to meet the needs of all students, a team of educators work 
with our literacy and math specialist to analyze multiple data points so that targeted interventions for support 
and/or enrichment can be provided. Student progress is carefully monitored and adjustments are made as 
necessary. 
For professional development, we have been working with Dr. Kalise Wornum, owner of KW diversity.  Dr. 
Wornam has provided district staff with multiple sessions on cultural competence, and we have received 
much positive feedback around the impact of this work.  We have also been working to improve inclusion 
and safety for our LGBTQ students.  Students in our Gender and Sexuality Alliance (GSA) club at LHS 
worked with district staff during our November PD day to present and answer questions, and we recently had 
Landon Callahan from DESE’s Safe Schools for LGBTQ Students present to our faculty from grades 6-12. 
We have continued with our After School Program at Turkey Hill Elementary School, Lunenburg Middle 
School, and Lunenburg High School.  The program provides targeted support in literacy and math in addition 
to academic support for students’ current classes and with executive functioning skills.   
We continue to review and pursue grant opportunities which are presented by the Department of Elementary 
and Secondary Education and have received the Student Opportunity Act - Evidence-Based Practice Grant, 
the Arts and Cultural Vitality Index Grant, the Deeper Learning Grant, and the Accelerating Literacy Grant 
for FY24. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Annica Scott 
Director of Teaching & Learning 
===PAGE 124===
124 
 
 
 Lunenburg School Food Service 
Town Report 2023 
 
Food Service Director 
Nadine Lorenzen 
 
Cook/Managers 
John Terho 
Elin Forgues 
Marlene Aubuchon-Hoaglund 
 
General workers 
Eleni Tsiakalos 
Danielle Leblanc 
Vanessa Cole 
Jessica McCarthy 
Jennifer Cotoni 
John Sharp 
Jewel Healy 
Brenda Maher 
Kathy Dunlop 
 
In September of 2023 Massachusetts legislative leaders announced that universal free school meals would be 
permanent for K-12 students in Massachusetts regardless of household income. Ensuring all students have 
access to the nutrition they need during the school day. As one of the few states continuing this 
transformative program, Massachusetts is leading the way in addressing child nutrition, child hunger, and 
taking a more holistic approach to student needs. As a direct result of universal free meals the Lunenburg 
school lunch program participation has grown substantially.   
 
Lunenburg School Lunch Program continues to participate in Harvest of the month promoting a different 
Massachusetts-produced food each month in our cafeterias. This year we partnered with Fairview Orchards a 
small family farm located in Groton, Massachusetts. A third generation run business, which began in 1945. 
The family’s mission is to bring local fresh fruit to schools in our community and surrounding areas. The 
students and staff have enjoyed the delicious apples from Fairview Orchids. 
 
We welcome some new employee’s to our team Brenda Mahar and Kathy Dunlop.   
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Nadine Lorenzen 
Food Service Director 
 
LUNENBURG PRIMARY SCHOOL 
Town Report 2023 
 
The Lunenburg Primary School is a student focused, early childhood, learning community serving 
students enrolled in preschool through grade 2. Student ages range from three to eight years of age. Our 
community is composed of students, families, instructional and support staff. Our focus is on the 
academic, social emotional growth, and development of the whole child. 
===PAGE 125===
125 
 
The October 1, 2023 student enrollment reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary Educa-
tion was 394 students. With 48 preschool students, 107 kindergarten students, 116 first grade students and 
123 second grade students. Class sizes range in 5 kindergarten classes from 19-23 students, from 18-22 stu-
dents in five grade one classes, and from 20-23 in six grade two classes. 
 
Our professional development has centered on inclusive practices and continuing to refine our instruction 
using the HMH Into Reading and Into Math curriculums. Common Planning Time continues to be a priority 
for our building schedule and the reallocation of existing support staff to address student needs based on stu-
dent performance data. We have been able to access consultants as well district curriculum coordinators so 
that teachers have an opportunity as a whole grade level to develop and provide evidence based instruction, 
common learning experiences, student data analysis and share effective teaching strategies to support stu-
dent academic growth. 
 
Our staff works to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive. We continue to 
implement the Responsive Classroom model in all of our classrooms. We have increased our use of Positive 
Behavioral Interventions and Supports (PBIS). Which is 
an evidence-based three-tiered framework for improving and integrating all of the data, systems, and prac-
tices affecting student outcomes every day. We have added monthly themes for students and staff to discuss 
and complete an activity about. Working with our SRO and his emotional support canine, Hank, we recog-
nize students monthly with Hank’s Helper awards. The awards are presented to students who exemplify the 
qualities of being a helper and consistently showing kindness and respect to themselves, their building, and 
to the people in their school community. During these assemblies we also select students to have Snack with 
the Principal, a way to connect with small groups of students about their school experiences. We continue to 
use Trails to Wellness, which is a whole-school/district-wide approach to teaching social emotional learn-
ing. It is designed to help students recognize, understand, describe, communicate and regulate their emo-
tions and provide them with the tools they need to create and maintain positive social interaction with their 
peers. 
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to ensure 
that all students have the services they need to be successful. Common assessments are completed in the fall, 
winter, and spring for all children in grades K -2 in the areas of reading, writing, and math. These common 
assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and the progress of students. Struggling 
students are identified based on assessment data for access to our current Multi Tiered Support System 
(MTSS) in Reading, Math, Speech, Occupational and Physical Therapy. The MTSS model is also used to 
provide social emotional support for students that are referred to our building Behavioral Health Support 
Team. 
===PAGE 126===
126 
 
The Primary School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns. Serving as an advisory 
group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the 
school improvement plan. 
 
Members of the Council for the 2023-2024 school year are: 
Principal: Chad Adams 
Assistant Principal: Gina Kutarnia 
Teachers: Kirsten Snape, Kara Slattery, Nicole Bienvenu, Tara Bas-
tien, Jillian Lundstrom 
Parents: Gretchen Moscon, Shaunna Baril, Laura Kelly Ruth Isaac 
 
School Committee Rep: Brian Lehtinen 
 
We are truly grateful for the opportunity to work with our highly dedicated district wide colleagues and a 
caring community in order to provide the best possible educational opportunities for our youngest students. 
For more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our website: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/ 
Respectfully submitted, 
  Chad Adams, Principal 
PRIMARY SCHOOL STAFF ROSTER 
 
Central Office 
  Second Grade Teachers 
3171 Chad Adams - Principal 1254 2A - Gabrielle Letarte - Teacher  
3100 Gina Kutarnia - Asst. Principal 1245 2B - Julie Hudson - Teacher 
3101 Krissy Carbone - Admin Secty 1273 2C - Sara Kenney - Teacher 
3104 Chelsea Drake - Nurse 1264 2D - Nicole Bienvenu - Teacher 
1260 Stephanie Miller- Counselor / LCSW 1255 2E - Brittany Gibbons -Teacher 
3110 Linda Scardigno - Psychologist 3105 2F - Melissa Bourgeois-Teacher 
3102 Karen Tata - Office Clerk 
  Kaitlin Clement - Para       Kirsten Lind - Para 
Pre-School 
    
1151 Jessica Coelho- Teacher Special Education   Patti McColl - Para 1262 Kristin Anthony - Kindergarten   Mary DeConinck - Para 
  Karen Turley - Sped Para   Mari Braithwaite - Para 1124 Laura Refrigeri - Grade 1 
1159 Jill Lundstrom - ACH Teacher 
  Nichole Camelo - Sped Para   Shannon Loughlin - Para 1223 Michelle Withers - Grade 2   Sarah Call - Para 
  
Meighan Ouellette - Sped Para 
===PAGE 127===
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School 
Town Report 2023 
 
Turkey Hill Elementary School is an elementary school serving students in third grade through fifth grade.  In 
the fall of 2023, Turkey Hill Elementary School welcomed 369 enrolled students. There are five sections of 
grade 3 and grade 4, with a total of 113 students and 109 students respectively.  There are six sections of 
grades 5 with147 students. Our unified arts areas include physical education, art, music, library, STEM, and 
SEL (social emotional learning). We are also served by a full time assistant principal, full time nurse, a psy-
chologist, a full time adjustment counselor/social worker, guidance counselor,  and 23 full time teachers.  Oth-
er support personnel who work across the district include a co-teaching coach, a math coach, ,a Director of 
Teaching and Learning, two EL teachers, a speech and language pathologist, BCBA, OT, and PT.  In addition, 
we have two interventionist tutors providing targeted support for small groups of students.  
Achieve 
  
Physical Education/Health 
1201 Brittany Pepoli - ACH Teacher 2108 Julie Ferdella   
Melissa Nolan - Para Art   Sherry Williams - Para 1137 Heidi Quinlivan   
Bessie Grippo- Para Music 
1160 Alexis Wasiuk - TLC Teacher 2205 Debra DiFruscia   
Maureen Dupuis - Para STEM   Skye Abreu- Para 1234 Tara Bastien   
Haylee Myers- Para Library / Media     3106 Erin Mack 
Kindergarten SEL 
1104 K1 - Kirsten Snape - Teacher 
  Alyssa Mulone 
1102 K2 - Carly Surrette - Teacher Reading Specialist 
1101 K3 - Allison Doherty - Teacher 1126 Nancy Murray 
1103 K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher 
  Juan Rojas - Tutor 
1136 K6 - Amy Raffaele - Teacher 
  Nicole Vautour - Tutor   Kristine Hall - Para 
    
  
Julie Drake- Para Specialists   Cailey Powell- Para 3108 Mary Sieling - Speech   Kelsey Bertram - Para 2509 Sue Richards - Phys. Therap 
First Grade Teachers 3109 Jayne Dusek - COTA 
1225 1A - Michael Cour temanche 3107 Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap. 
1233 1B - Patti Kilcommins 1261 Samantha Delano - BCBA 
1202 1C - Kara Slattery 1239 Elena Oksanish - Speech 
1204 1D - Christa Palma / Powell 
    
1203 1E - Jackie Favreau 2204 Planning Room Upstairs   
TBD - Para 2120 Teacher's Dining Room     
1147 Time Out Room     
3112 Conference Rm     
2101 Cafeteria   ELL Teachers 3111 Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager   Meredith Weiss 
  Jessica McCarthy / Jewel Healy   Christina Kim 
    
      Custodians     2123 Jose Marcial Allende       
Leesa Glenny 
===PAGE 128===
128 
 
Staff continually work on the development of the whole child by supporting students' development and growth 
in the areas of social emotional learning, literacy, math, social studies and science.  We are able to meet stu-
dent needs with the support of the district curriculum of teaching and learning and the two coaches which ena-
bles teachers to have the opportunity to meet at grade levels to develop and provide evidence based instruction, 
common learning experiences, student data analysis and share effective teaching strategies to support student 
academic growth.  Students continue to have benchmark assessments three times throughout the school year 
(beginning, middle and end of year) that are used to help us celebrate students’ academic growth and effort.   
The data provided by these assessments also helps refine our focus for interventions.   
This fall our fifth grade students had their annual trip to Nature's classroom. It was a successful week with 
good weather, community building, and the creation of fond memories of a unique time together, thanks to the 
combined efforts of our entire fifth grade staff. 
We held an in-person open house in early September. It was a well-attended event and for many parents their 
first opportunity to be physically present in our building.  It was accompanied by a book fair facilitated by our 
new librarian, Mrs. Mack. Parent conferences in October offered both in person and virtual options and ap-
pointments were fully booked within a few days.  
Other highlights from the fall season included the Girls on The Run program, a research based program de-
signed to help girls understand themselves better, value their relationships and teamwork, and recognize how 
they can shape the world to be a better place! Over 30 girls participated, with the assistance of many parents 
and volunteers, headed by Amber Gothie and assistant coaches Kathy Jones and Principal Squier.  
We held our annual Penny Wars fundraiser, it was a huge success and the money raised will be put toward the 
development of our outdoor classroom.  As always, our PTO assisted in the weeklong collection, headed by 
parent Alex Lind; we could not be successful without their efforts. We were able to bring back a fifth grade 
band and all students will be performing in an upcoming spring concert under the direction of our new music 
teacher, Mr. Anthony Balester.   
Turkey Hill also held its annual Turkey Trot in November.  This year due to the weather we had to pivot and 
held the race indoors with a portion outside. 
Our PBIS committee has led the staff in the effective implementation of both PBIS and restorative justice at 
Turkey Hill.  Positive Behavioral Intervention Supports (PBIS) involves using evidence-based prevention and 
intervention practices to support academic, social, emotional and behavioral competence of all students.  This 
year our students voted on a mascot name “Tom Turkey” and rotation stations were held in January to rein-
force the expected behaviors in school.  Our students are caught “SOARing” which stands for Be Safe,Own it, 
Act Responsibly, & Be  Respectful.   Restorative justice focuses on mediation and agreement rather than 
punishment. It’s about accepting responsibility for harm and making restitution. Our focus has shifted from a 
penalty to “how can we make it right?”  Students have been remarkably engaged in offering apologies, clean-
ing up, and making appropriate amends.  
===PAGE 129===
129 
 
The Turkey Hill School Council meets each month to discuss school related concerns.  Serving as an advisory 
group to the principal, the council is charged with reviewing the school building budget and developing the school 
improvement plan.   
 
Members of the Council for the 2023-2024 school year are: 
Principal:                Carla Squier 
Assistant Principal:   John Palumbo 
Teachers:      Quinn Cavaco, Rhonda Connery, Julie Ferdella 
Parents:         Gretchen Moscon, Matthew Brenner, Meryeme 
Benharoune  
School Committee Rep:     Laura Brzozoski 
Our school’s success relies upon the combined and collaborative efforts of our wonderful staff, parents, and 
community members.  We continue to seek out opportunities to engage and effectively communicate with our 
families. I am honored to be chosen as your principal. 
For more information about the work that we do at the Turkey Hill Elementary School please visit our website: 
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/thms/welcome 
Respectfully submitted, 
Carla Squier, Principal 
 

===PAGE 130===
130 
 
 

===PAGE 131===
131 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 132===
132 
 
Lunenburg Middle School 
Town Report 2023 
Lunenburg Middle School provides a rigorous academic curriculum as well as strong programs that support 
students’ social and emotional growth. These programs ensure that each child becomes a self-motivated, crea-
tive, lifelong learner in a safe, stimulating environment that encourages diversity and open honest communica-
tion.   The dedicated and accomplished staff of professionals within the school embraces the philosophy of ed-
ucating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This philosophy is a means by which all stu-
dents become positive community members that possess the skills to be successful in high school and beyond. 
 Lunenburg Middle School is a co-located middle - high school serving grades six through eight. Our effective, 
student centered middle school embraces interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable teachers to work with 
smaller groups of students. Smaller groups of students allow teachers to learn and engage students in their pre-
ferred learning style, making them more confident and successful. 
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of differ-
ent interests and talents through special areas and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities. One of our 
goals is for students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue exploring as they 
move through high school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for students that foster criti-
cal thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high school and beyond or where their passion 
may lead them to. 
Our grade eight team of teachers continue to implement a schedule that mirrors the high school schedule. Our 
philosophy is to ease the difficult transition from middle school to the first year of high school by developing 
student’s independent skills they will require to be successful in high school. Grade eight teachers function as 
one inclusive team where students take classes with a variety of different teachers as they would in a high 
school setting. This differs from our two interdisciplinary team of teachers that have been a successful model 
in grades six and seven.     
LMS continues to utilize the i-Ready learning platform to provide an additional learning component in addi-
tion to classroom instruction.  i-Ready is being implemented during our intervention blocks and provides 
teachers with individualized learning paths based upon the students individual learning needs.  Parents will be 
provided fall, winter and spring benchmark assessment reports created by I ready so they too can monitor stu-
dent progress.          
Lunenburg Middle School has benefited from a top notch guidance support team.  Two guidance counselors, a 
school social worker coupled with our shared school psychologist has been able to provide a level of social 
emotional support to our students and their families that we have not been accustomed to. Data supports the 
need for these positions as during the pandemic, the number of students experiencing anxiety and depression 
has significantly increased nationwide and in our own community. Our guidance team has been able to meet 
the needs of our students while preparing them to be available for academic learning.  
===PAGE 133===
133 
 
2023 Spring MCAS Score 
     % Meeting or Exceeding        % State Meeting or Exceeding                              
Grade 6 ELA                         40                                            42                           
Grade 6 Math         58                                             41 
Grade 7 ELA                         46                                            40 
Grade 7 Math                      49                         38 
Grade 8 ELA                        56                                      44 
Grade 8 Math                        41                          38 
Grade 8 Sci/Tech/Eng        54                                              41 
 2023 Spring MCAS testing at LMS shows the percentage of students who scored in the “ meeting or Exceed-
ing” category and then the column next to it shows our scores in comparison with the state scores in schools 
who service similar grade levels. As you can see, LMS scores are above the state percentage in six out of the 
seven areas tested. In grade 6 Mathematics, our scores are over 17 points higher than the state average, an im-
pressive number. Lunenburg Middle School continues to be a high performing school when compared to other 
schools in the state that service similar grade levels. 
Athletics and clubs 
LMS successfully participated in middle school Field Hockey and Boys and Girls Cross Country and this win-
ter we will continue with middle school basketball. The opportunities middle school sports provides students 
to participate, learn and become part of an effective team atmosphere is immeasurable.                                 
Science Olympiad, Drama Club, Yearbook Club and middle school Student Government return as favorite ac-
tivities for students to engage in. Student Government continues to provide opportunities for students to en-
gage in age appropriate extracurricular activities like dances, spirit weeks and movie nights.                      
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that ensure stu-
dent success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our success continue to be 
our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community who sup-
port our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learn-
ing. Together we continue to make a difference in the lives of students.  
Respectfully Submitted, Tim Santry, Principal 
===PAGE 134===
134 
 
 

===PAGE 135===
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg High School 
Town Report 2023 
Lunenburg High School and its faculty continue to focus on rigorous curriculum, high standards and opportu-
nities for students, both academic and extracurricular, so that every student feels supported and included in our 
community. LHS faculty strives to reflect on their teaching practices, to learn and to change in order to best 
serve all of our students.  
2023-2024 School year 
 Lunenburg High School returned this August with a renewed philosophy of support for our school communi-
ty. We have assembled an outstanding, talented faculty with a shared vison of supporting students academical-
ly, socially and emotionally as they tackle a rigorous and challenging curriculum.  With our renewed sense of 
support, students are able to acquire the skills necessary to earn a high school diploma as well as be successful 
in post-secondary education as well as in the work force.  
One pillar of support that has proven to be successful for students is the LHS Intervention Teacher. This teach-
ing position provides direct instruction to students who were identified by their teachers as to needing addi-
tional support to be successful in the classroom. Students report to the Interventionist during their study skills 
block and receive assistance to the specific class or classes they are struggling in. The data show the students 
participating in the intervention classroom show substantial improvement in the completion of classwork and 
in their overall grades.  

===PAGE 136===
136 
 
We have reorganized our Algebra classes to ensure all students are successful. With the addition of a class-
room teacher we were able to reduce class sizes in Algebra II and allow teachers to provide more personalized, 
individualized instruction while working with smaller groups of students in a traditionally academically de-
manding course. This has been an effective strategy as you can see though our results in the MCAS table be-
low.  
 The addition of faculty and courses at Lunenburg High School have allowed students a more varied options 
for course selection, provided individualized and programmatic support and structure for students to be suc-
cessful.  
MCAS RESULTS 
Lunenburg High School - Spring 2023 MCAS Results (Grade 10) 
 
 
The results indicate the LHS percentage scores for meeting and exceeding expectations are high, higher than 
the state average and in mathematics, over 15 percentage points higher than the state average when compared 
to schools who serve students in similar grade levels. Investing in a sixth math teacher that reduced class sizes 
and provided students with additional individual classroom support was a successful strategy. The percentage 
of grade 10 students scoring in the meeting and exceeding expectations category in mathematics is the highest 
percentage in the district.  
We were also very pleased to learn that 30 students at Lunenburg High School received the state ’s John and 
Abigail Adams Scholarship this year.  The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS performance puts 
them at the top 25 percent of their district.  To be eligible, students must either score Advanced on one exam 
and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.  That is approximately 30 % of 
grade 10 students receiving the award.   
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES 
Homecoming weekend was a wonderful and well attended by students, families and alumni. We were lucky 
we were able to reschedule the event and get such nice weather. The parade was a huge success with the col-
lection of candy the biggest hit with the children in town. Many community members noticed the care and time 
that were placed into the floats at each grade level.  The Blue Knights played well and were victorious in the 
football game and we always enjoy watching the LHMS Marching Band perform.    
 
Lunenburg High School Athletic Accomplishments 
The athletics department has had a great fall season.   Girls soccer, boys soccer, and field hockey all won their 
league titles.  Our cheer team competed in the Wachusett Invitational competition and took home a 2nd place 
trophy, their first such accomplishment since 2008.  Golf placed 3rd overall in the league match.   Cross Coun-
try competed in the Mid -Wach championship meet prior to all of the homecoming festivities.   Football fin-
ished their season with a 4 -7 record. Girls soccer and field hockey took their seasons all the way to the Sweet 
16, while boys soccer made it to the Elite 8!  What an accomplishment by all three teams.   
Subject Test Exceeding Expectations / State Average (EE/ME) 
ELA 62% 58% 
Math 65% 50% 
Science 52% 47% 
===PAGE 137===
137 
 
Our middle school field hockey and cross country teams have also had great seasons.   The Cross Country 
team competed in the Central Mass Championship and had some individual accomplishments. Our middle 
school students have grown a tremendous amount over the course of their respective seasons, and we look 
forward to watching these young athletes for years to come.   
Winter: 
Our winter teams have started their season, and we already have some fantastic highlights. 
 Boys & Girls indoor track have four race days under their belt.   Some highlights include: Carli Stanford 
setting the school record in the 300m with a time of 41.63; 4X400 girls relay team of Rylan Arnold, Emma 
King, Olivia Coronella, & Carli Stanford set a meet record at the MSTCA Speed Classic with a time of 
4:18; Lauren Long won the girls 2 mile at the MSTCA Winter Festival 
 Our Boys Hockey team is 6 -0-1, and has shown an explosive offense that highlights a mix of veteran's as 
well as some dynamic younger players.    The team is coming off of a Mark Bushnoe tournament champi-
onship.  This was Lunenburg's first Bushnoe tournament win in five years. 
 Our Boys & Girls Basketball teams both competed in the championship game of the inaugural Bud Tackett 
Memorial Tournament, a tournament that benefits local students while honoring the life of formal official 
Bud Tackett. 
 Girls Basketball currently sits at 2 -3, having already matched their win total of last year.   Girls basketball 
won the championship in the Bud Tackett tournament. 
 Boys Basketball is 3 -2, and is showing signs of steady improvement.   We look forward to seeing them 
compete in upcoming games.  They just beat North Middlesex in a buzzer beater thriller. 
 Our middle school basketball teams are off and running as well.   The first games of their season were 
home in Memorial Gymnasium.   
 Our ski team has a few practices under their belt, but are waiting for the weather to cooperate to start com-
peting. 
Lunenburg has two players competing with Leominster girls hockey team as part of our co -op.  They have 
started the season 3-1. 
CURRICULUM 
Teachers and administrators continue to refine, revise and create curriculum that is aligned to the state frame-
works and is rigorous and challenging. This year ’s focus is to work in vertical content area teams to ensure a 
smooth transition for students as they advance grade by grade. This process also ensures that students will 
have and build upon the educational skills that they will need to be successful in future grades. Scope and se-
quence maps have been created in order to assist in this grade level curriculum mapping.  
 
Lunenburg High School continues to provide a high quality education that ensures student success and promotes a passion for l ife-
long learning.  The key components to our success continue to be our talented faculty, our parents and our community members 
who support our teaching and learning. Most of all, our students who inspire us through their commitment to learning. Togethe r 
we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.   
Respectfully Submitted, 
Tim Santry, Principal 
===PAGE 138===
138 
 
2023 - 2024 Lunenburg High School Staff Roster 
           
 
          Kelly Scott  
 
Principal Timothy Santry Admin. Assistant Tina Cooney 
Assistant Principal Karma Tousignant Secretary Sandra Sheehy 
Assistant Principal 
Nurse 
Yanina Burns 
Lisa Lavery 
    
Math       
Sarah Sabatini   Language Arts   
Andrew Cantatore   Erinanne Burroughs   
Jennifer Miller*   Timothy Macuga   
Eric Short 
Jennifer Morse 
  Mike Estabrook 
Mary Foyle 
  
Jacob Lanpher   Paul Harmon 
Julia Callahan* 
  
        
Science   Social Studies   
Dawn Gearin*   Warren Stevenson*   
Mitchell Friedman   Bradford Hausler   
Craig Pingsterhaus   Timothy Normandin   
Jennifer Biery   Hailee Martin   
Robert Hill   James McSweeney   
Elizabeth Bendler       
    Brent Coxall IT Dept. 
Foreign Language   Unified Arts 
Alexis Pukaite 
  
  
Peggy Proctor   Steven Boone*   
Jessica Beardmore*   Derek Guimond   
Tamara Yourk   Cameron Rodriquenz   
Lynn Radford   Scott Barry-Grove   
Maria Flores   Karyn Giuliani 
Pamela Vallee 
  
===PAGE 139===
139 
 
 
  
  
Special Services 
    
  
Athletic Director 
Kevin Bigelow 
  
  
Joshua Koziol*       
Jessica Walker 
Bryan Speck 
Amanda Duggan 
  Athletic/Secretary 
Courtney Fuller 
  
Christina Conklin       
Jon Malloy 
Todd Foster 
Stacey Canfield 
Mary Young 
Lori Shea 
  
  
Social Worker 
BCBA 
School Psych 
Media Specialist 
Pamela Vallee 
  
    Guidance   
    Jeff Dionne   
    Gail Okerman*   
*Department Head 
  
Paraprofessionals 
  Jonathan Ciullo   
Lauren Portillo 
KimberlyPoli-Monsini 
  Guidance Secretary 
Patricia Foster 
  
Samantha Collyer       
Laurian Goode   Cafeteria Manager   
Lisa Szocik- Maillet   John Terho   
Casey McDonnell   Jen Cotini   
Joseph Adamowicz 
Elizabeth Hofer 
Lyndsi Smith 
James Cooney 
Lyndsi Smith 
  Eleni Tsiakalos 
  
  
  
  
Dana LeMarbre      
Lindsey Hughes 
Ashley Hale 
Dennis McDonnell 
  Head Custodian 
Renee Lafontaine 
  
    Custodians   
    Richard Krafve   
    Tanner Cote   
===PAGE 140===
140 
 
 

===PAGE 141===
141 
 
 

===PAGE 142===
142 
 

===PAGE 143===
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 144===
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 145===
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 146===
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 147===
147 
 
 

===PAGE 148===
148 
 
 

===PAGE 149===
149 
 
 

===PAGE 150===
150 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 151===
151 
 
  
 
 
 

===PAGE 152===
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 153===
153 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 154===
154 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

===PAGE 155===
155 
 
 

===PAGE 156===
156 
 

===PAGE 157===
157 
 
 

===PAGE 158===
158 
 
 

===PAGE 159===
159 
 
 

===PAGE 160===
160 
 
===PAGE 161===
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN CLERK 
===PAGE 162===
162 
 
 
TOWN CLERK  
VITALS REPORT: 
 
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND US DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF TOWN, NAMES OF INDIVIDUALS HAVE 
BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURENCES OF EACH BIRTH, MARRIAGE AND 
DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR. 
DURING 2023 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING: 
 
BIRTH –112  DEATHS –105  MARRIAGES –24 
 
2022 TOWN MEETING EXCERPTS 
 Annual Town Meeting – May 6, 2023  
The Moderator called the meeting to order at 9:02 AM declaring a quorum, announced that the war-
rant was properly served, then led the assembly in the Pledge of Allegiance. Moderator went over the 
ground rules of the meeting, then made announcement about vacancies on various committees and 
thanked the Finance Committee, Finance Director, etc. for their efforts. Then the retiring accountant, 
Karen Brochu, was recognized for her years of service to the town. The Moderator then had the meeting 
test the keypads (clickers) for recording the vote taken on each article. Robert Bowen was made the 
Deputy Moderator and the Moderator explained the Consent Calendar. And Articles 1, 2, 10, 15, 16, 17, 
18, 19, 20 were VOTED by Voice Vote (Unanimous but one) and articles 3, 11, and 12 were held.  
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town Offic-
ers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact 5-0 
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
(to Pass Over having already accepted the regular written reports of the Town Officers and Commit-
tees). 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, com-
mittees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the fiscal 
year beginning July 1, 2023 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town ’s General Bylaws; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT 
to re-authorize the revolving funds for certain town departments, boards, committees, agencies or offic-
ers for the spending limits as follows: 
 
 
 

===PAGE 163===
163 
 
 ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:   Deferred 5-0     
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Deferred 4-0 VOTED (99 YES, 4 NO) to transfer the sum of 
$4,000 from Free Cash for payment of prior year expenses. 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary 
to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2023 Budget, under Article 8 of the May 7, 2022 Annual 
Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action rela-
tive thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:  Recom-
mend Approval 5-0      
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (100 YES,  6 NO) to transfer 
from line #5/Workers Compensation the sum of $25,377.77; transfer from #29/Technology Department 
the sum of $14,229.73; transfer from line #13/Reserve Fund the sum of $75,000; transfer from line #40/
Police Lockup the sum of $33,184.96; transfer from line #41/Injury Leave sum of $4,000; transfer from 
line #46/Radio Watch the sum of $15,853.80; transfer from line #75/Veterans Benefits the sum of 
$30,922.80; and transfer to line #73/Recycling Program the sum of $38,000.46; transfer to line #6/Health 
Insurance the sum of $63,576.68; transfer to line #70/Snow Removal the sum of $96,991.92; all to amend 
the amounts voted under Article 8 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the No-
vember 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a sum of money to the Over-
lay Account for all anticipated costs associated with FY 2023 abatements; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend 
Approval 4-0-1 SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (98 YES, 
12NO) to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $1,500,000 to the Overlay Account for all anticipated costs 
associated with FY 2023 abatements. 
 
ARTICLE 6.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money for the FY 2024 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report; 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0         
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (103YES, 6 NO) to raise and 
appropriate the sum of $556,789.09; transfer from Free Cash the sum of $467,268.98; transfer from Ar-
ticle 14 of the  5/2/15 Annual Town Meeting the sum of $8,800.26; transfer from  Article 14 of the 5/7/16 
Annual Town Meeting the sum of $5,117.67; transfer from Article 6 of the 5/4/19 Annual Town Meeting 
the sum of $1,034; for a total appropriation of $1,039,010 to fund the FY24 Capital Plan, as follows: 
 

===PAGE 164===
164 
 
 
ARTICLE 7.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2024 and to fix the salaries and compensation 
of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take 
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMEN-
DATION:  Recommend Approval 5-0      
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (98 YES, 8 NO) to raise and 
appropriate $41,362,299.88, transfer $746,368.15 from the Sewer Enterprise Fund, transfer $59,968.64 
from the Reserve for MSBA Debt, transfer $39,321.78 from the Artificial Turf Revolving Fund, transfer 
$47,503.00 from PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund, transfer $271,000 from the Health 
Stabilization Account, and transfer $57,587.50 from Water Betterment Revenue to defray the charges 
and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2024 of $42,584,048.95, and to fix the salaries and compensa-
tion of all elected officials of the Town as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 165===
165 
 
 

===PAGE 166===
166 
 
 

===PAGE 167===
167 
 
 

===PAGE 168===
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to fund the first year of the FY 24-FY 26 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2023 – June 
30, 2026 with the Lunenburg Professional Firefighters, PFFM Local 5369; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Approval  SELECT 
BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Approval 4-0 
VOTED (98 YES, 3 NO) to transfer from Article 7 of the 5/6/23 Annual Town Meeting, line #13A/Salary 
Reserve the sum of $26,022.69 to fund the first year of the FY24 -FY26 Collective Bargaining Agreement 
dated July 1, 2023 – June 30, 2026 with the Lunenburg Professional Firefighters, PFFM Local 5369 Un-
ion. 
 
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunen-
burg, Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A, entitled “Salary Administration Plan”, Schedule A, with a  FY 2024 Salary 
Schedule as recommended by the Personnel Committee, which authorizes wage increase for Fiscal Year 2024, 
for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract, and fur-
ther transfer a sum of money from the FY2024 Salary Reserve Fund to fund the wage increase for Salary Ad-
ministration Plan employees. (Submitted by Personnel Committee) $38,095.13. FINANCE COMMITTEE 
RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0  SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend 
Approval 4-0 VOTED (86 YES, 7 NO) to replace the current Salary Schedule in Chapter 70, Section 70-
8.A, the Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws, with a  FY 2024 Salary Schedule as recom-
mended by the Personnel Committee as printed in the Annual Town Meeting Warrant Booklet, which 
authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2024, for permanent employees not covered by a collective 
bargaining unit agreement or individual contract, and further to transfer from Article 7 of the May 6, 
2023 Annual Town Meeting, line #13A/Salary Reserve, the sum of $38,095.13 to fund the wage increases 
for Salary Administration Plan employees. 
 
ARTICLE 10.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0      
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to 
transfer from Free Cash the sum of $100,000 to the Stabilization Fund.  
ARTICLE 11.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, 
a sum of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  
(Submitted by the Town Manager)FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approv-
al 5-0 SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (63 YES, 26 NO) to 
transfer from Free Cash the sum of $250,000 to the Special Purpose Stabilization fund.  
  

===PAGE 169===
169 
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take 
any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMEN-
DATION: Recommend Approval 5-0  SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0
 VOTED (69 YES, 19 NO) to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $282,855, and transfer 
from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $1,000.00 to the OPEB Trust Fund established at 
the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting.  
 
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c.40, §5B, to create a new 
special purpose stabilization fund, to be known as the Opioid Settlement Stabilization Fund, which may be ex-
pended for all of the purposes allowed by law, including those outlined in applicable opioid-litigation settle-
ment documents, a document prepared by the Substance Abuse Bureau of the Commonwealth’s Office of 
Health and Human Services Department, found at https://www.mass.gov/doc/massachusetts-abatement-terms/
download entitled “Abatement Strategies”, and consistent with any state guidelines or regulations further clari-
fying allowable uses of opioid litigation settlement funds; and further, to adopt the last paragraph of said §5B 
and dedicate to such fund, without further appropriation, 100% of the opioid litigation settlement funds re-
ceived by the Town; and further, to transfer from available funds a sum of money equal to that received or to 
be received by the Town from opioid litigation settlements resulting from the Town’s participation in the na-
tional Opioid Multi-District Litigation into said Opioid Settlement Stabilization Fund; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recom-
mend Approval 5-0 SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (80 YES, 
11 NO), pursuant to the provisions of G.L. c.40, Section 5B, to create a new special purpose stabilization 
fund, to be known as the Opioid Settlement Stabilization Fund, for dedication, without further appro-
priation, of 100% of opioid litigation settlement funds received by the Town, which may be expended for 
Opioid Use Disorder (OUD) treatment, support programs for people with OUD in treatment and recov-
ery, connects to care for people with or at risk of developing OUD, harm reduction efforts to prevent 
overdose deaths or other opioid-related harms, support of diversion and deflection programs and strate-
gies for criminal-justice-involved persons with OUD, support of pregnant or parenting women and their 
families, including babies with neonatal abstinence syndrome, and preventing misuse of opioids and im-
plementing prevention education; and further, to transfer the sum of $84,740.25 from Free Cash, repre-
senting opioid litigation settlements received in FY23, into said Opioid Settlement Stabilization Fund.     
 
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of 
money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2024; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted 
by the Sewer Business Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECCOMMENDATION: Approval 5-0  SE-
LECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Approval 4-0 VOTED (72 YES, 8 NO) to appropriate  from Sewer 
Enterprise revenues the sum of  $89,891.85; transfer from the  Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund the 
sum of $9,900.00; transfer from the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund the sum of $35,000.00; 
transfer from the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund the sum of $20,962.40; and appropriate 
from Sewer Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $382,096.70 for a total appropriation of 
$1,339,850.95 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY24; and further that $746,368.15 be included 
in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sewer enterprise 
Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a sum of money into the 
Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Business Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0  SELECT 
BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer 
from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $36,621.37 into the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabili-
zation Fund.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 170===
170 
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of 
money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2024; or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Rec-
ommend Approval 5-0    SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED 
UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Revenues the sum of 
$302,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program for FY24. 
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a 
sum of money to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2024; or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
5-0   SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 
VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of $25,000 
to operate the Water Department for FY24. 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the FY 2024 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and 
capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the PAC Committee) FINANCE 
COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to 
appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related revenues the sum of $163,261.00 to fund the operating 
and capital budgets of the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund for FY24; and further that 
$47,503.00 be included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the 
PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund. 
 
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery 
Lots account to be used for the care, improvement, and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0       
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to 
appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery Lots account to be used for the care and im-
provement and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries. 
 
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of $25,000 for consultant services to complete a survey program to inventory historic homes 
within the Town; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Historical Commission) FI-
NANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 5-0      SELECT BOARD RECOM-
MENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED UNANIMOUS CONSENT to transfer from Free Cash the 
sum of $25,000 for consultant services to complete a survey program to inventory historic homes within 
the Town. 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board, on behalf of the Town, to peti-
tion the General Court for the enactment of special legislation substantially as provided below, provided that 
the General Court, with advance approval by the Select Board, which is hereby authorized, may reasonably 
vary the form and substance of the requested legislation within the scope of the general public objectives of the 
petition: 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG TO ESTABLISH A MEANS TESTED SENIOR 
CITIZEN PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION.  
SECTION 1. With respect to each qualifying parcel of real property classified as class one, residential in the 
town of Lunenburg, there shall be an exemption from the property tax in an amount to be set annually by the 
board of assessors as provided in section 3. The exemption shall be applied to the domicile of the taxpayer on-
ly. For the purposes of this act, “parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as defined by the board of assessors 
under the deed for the property and shall include a condominium unit. The exemption provided for herein shall 
be in addition to any other exemptions allowed under the General Laws.  
===PAGE 171===
171 
 
SECTION 2. The board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg may deny an application for exemption if the 
board finds that an applicant has excessive assets that place the applicant outside of the intended recipients of 
the senior citizen tax exemption created by this act. Real property shall qualify for the exemption under section 
1 if all of the following criteria are met: 
  
 1. The qualifying real property is owned and occupied by an Applicant who has applied for and 
 been granted the State’s Senior Circuit Breaker Tax Credit; 
  
 2. Each Applicant named in an application who has attained the eligibility age of  
70 years for an elderly exemption in Luneburg under M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 41(C) 
must have applied for and been granted this exemption; 
 3. Each Applicant named in an application has attained the age of 65 years by the close of the cal-
endar year immediately preceding the year of application;   
 
 4. The Applicant has owned and occupied a home in the Town of Lunenburg, as his or her primary 
residence, for at least 15 consecutive years pre-dating and including the date of application; 
 
 5. The Applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Lunenburg Board of Assessors that (s)
he, and each co-applicant, owns no other significant assets such as, by way of nonlimiting example, 
a second home, a trust fund, securities, equities, and bonds. 
 
 6. The amount of relief granted to each Applicant under this program shall not exceed 100 percent 
of the Circuit Breaker Tax Credit for which the Applicant qualified in the previous year. 
SECTION 3. The board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg shall annually set the exemption amount pro-
vided for in section 1 relative; provided, however, that the amount of the exemption shall not exceed the 
amount of the circuit breaker income tax credit pursuant to subsection (k) of section 6 of chapter 62 of the 
General Laws for which the applicant qualified in the previous year. The total amount exempted by this act 
shall be allocated proportionally within the tax levy on all residential taxpayers and shall not exceed 1 percent 
of the town-wide real property tax levy.  To the extent that the total value of exemption requests timely re-
ceived by the board of assessors exceeds 1 percent of the levy, the exemption amount for which each applicant 
has otherwise established eligibility shall be proportionally reduced by multiplying the established eligibility 
amount by a quotient equal to 1 percent of the levy divided by the total town-wide dollar value of exemption 
requests for which Applicants in the aggregate would be eligible in the absence of the cap represented by 1 
percent of the levy.   
 
SECTION 4. A person who seeks to qualify for the exemption under section 1 shall, before the deadline estab-
lished by the board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg, file an application, on a form to be adopted by the 
board of assessors, with the supporting documentation of the applicant’s income and assets as described in the 
application. An applicant must submit an application, and demonstrate eligibility, for each year for which the 
applicant seeks the exemption.  
 
SECTION 5. No exemption shall be granted under this act until the department of revenue certifies a residen-
tial tax rate for the applicable tax year where the total exemption amount is raised by a burden shift within the 
residential tax levy.  
 
SECTION 6. This act may be revoked by an affirmative vote of a majority of town meeting voters at any annu-
al or special town meeting. Any such revocation shall take effect 30 days after an affirmative vote of town 
meeting. or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-1        
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (77 YES, 11 NO) [with 
amendment (passing 74 to9) to eliminate “residential” in the 2nd sentence of Section 3] to authorize the 
Board of Selectmen, on behalf of the Town, to petition the General Court for the enactment of special 
legislation substantially as printed in the Annual Town Meeting Booklet to authorize the Town of 
Lunenburg to establish a means tested senior citizen property tax exemption. 
===PAGE 172===
172 
 
ARTICLE 22. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250 -4.1, which 
is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Permitted and prohibited uses,” by adding a new §250-4.1K(20), 
entitled “Self-Storage,” and inserting the same into the accompanying “Use Table,” all as shown below; or any 
other action relative thereto. 
 
 
 
4.1K(20) 
Self-
Storage: A building or group of buildings of a controlled- access and/or fenced compound that contains com-
partmentalized and controlled-access stalls or lockers¸ for the storage of customers’ goods or wares. FI-
NANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact 5-0    SELECT BOARD REC-
OMMENDATION: Recommend Approval 4-0 VOTED (66 YES, 8 NO – 50 needed for 2/3rds majority) to 
amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.1, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled Per-
mitted and Prohibited Uses”, by adding a new section 250-4.1 K(20) entitled “Self-Storage,” and insert-
ing the same into the accompanying “Use Tables”. 
 
Meeting Adjourned at 12:08 P.M. 
 
Excerpts:  SPECIAL TOWN MEETING November 14, 2023 
The meeting was called to order at 7:01PM in the Middle/High School Auditorium. The Moderator de-
clared that we had a quorum present and that the warrant was properly served. We then pledged alle-
giance to the Flag; we were reminded of committee vacancies and the need for volunteers and finally we 
tested the electronic devices to be used for voting. The Moderator explained the Consent Calendar and 
moved same:  that Town Meeting advance for consideration Articles  2, 7, and 8  and that it take action 
on said Articles without debate:  VOTED (DECLARED CARRIED BY 9/10ths) on a voice vote. 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, 
all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2024 Budget, under Article 7 of 
the May 6, 2023 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD: Recommend Approval. VOTED (126 YES, 13 NO 93 needed 
for 2/3rds majority) to raise and appropriate the sum of $319,000 as follows: to line #13/Reserve Fund, 
the sum of $200,000; to line#13A Salary Reserve, the sum of $99,000; to line #31/Town Clerk Salary, the 
sum of $20,000; for a total increase of $319,000 in the amount raised and appropriated under Article 7 
of the May 6, 2023 Annual Town Meeting  
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Approval  SELECT BOARD RECOM-
MENDATION: Deferred  VOTED (9/10ths DECLARED) to raise and appropriate the sum of $1,423.52 for 
payment of prior year expenses. 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a 
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 24, FY 25, and FY 26 Lunenburg Municipal Employees Collec-
tive Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2023 – June 30, 2026 with AFSCME, Council 93; or take any other 
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FINANCE COMMITTEE  & SELECT BOARD 
RECOMMENDATION: Approval VOTED (132 YES, 11 NO) to transfer from Article 7 of the May 6, 2023 
Annual Town Meeting, line #13A/Salary Reserve, the sum of $58,431.03 to fund the first year of the FY 
24, FY 25, and FY 26 Lunenburg Municipal Employees Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 
2023 – June 30, 2026 with AFSCME, Council 93.  
4.1K COMMERCIAL RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VC SS TT W 
4.1K(20) Self-Storage - - - - SP-ZB SP-ZB - - - - - 
===PAGE 173===
173 
 
 
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to transfer a sum of money from the Special Purpose Stabiliza-
tion Fund to pay for a new ambulance to replace Rescue 1 and two new dump trucks to replace two de -
commissioned dump trucks; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) FI-
NANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: Not Recommended  SELECT BOARD RECOMMEND AP-
PROVAL . (Motion was for $986,000). ARTICLE 4 WAS DEFEATED (29 YES, 92 NO) 
 
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer $80,000 from the Opioid Settlement Stabilization 
Fund to be used to fund the Police Department ’s Mental Health Co -Response program, contingent upon the 
Town of Lancaster’s approval of 50% of the program cost; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Police Chief) FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION Approval  VOT-
ED (125 YES, 2 NO  85 needed for 2/3rds majority) to transfer the sum of $80,000 from the Opioid Set-
tlement Stabilization Fund to be used to fund the Police Department ’s Mental Health Co-Response pro-
gram, contingent upon the Town of Lancaster ’s approval and reimbursement of 50% of the program 
cost; and to re-appropriate such reimbursed amount(s) to the aforesaid Opioid Stabilization Fund for its 
established purposes.  
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer $232,800 from the FY23 Capital Plan, as voted un-
der Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting, to the Lunenburg School District for the purpose of 
installing ductless split climate control systems at the Lunenburg Primary School; or take any other action rela-
tive thereto. (Submitted by the Lunenburg School Department) FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT 
BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Approval   VOTED (104 YES, 16 NO) to transfer the sum of $232,800 
from the FY23 Capital Plan, as voted under Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting, to the 
Lunenburg School District for the purpose of installing ductless split climate control systems at the 
Lunenburg Primary School.  
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $1,851.30 into the Sewer 
Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Approval VOTED 
UNANIMOUS  (but one) CONSENT to transfer the sum of $1,851.30 from Sewer Enterprise Re-
tained Earnings to the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund. 
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $5,340.00 into the Sewer 
Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: Approval VOTED 
UNANIMOUS  (but one) CONSENT to transfer the sum of $5,340.00 from Sewer Enterprise Re-
tained Earnings to the Sewer Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund. 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -4.9, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Water Supply Protection District,” by deleting the same in its entirety 
and by substituting therefor a new Section 250-4.9, as follows: 
250-4.9 WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT 
1. PURPOSE OF DISTRICT 
The purpose of this Water Supply Protection District is to: 
 promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the community by ensuring an adequate quality and quantity of drinking water 
for the Town of Lunenburg. 
 preserve and protect existing and potential sources of drinking water; 
 conserve natural resources in the Town of Lunenburg; and 
 prevent temporary and permanent contamination of the environment. 
===PAGE 174===
174 
 
SCOPE OF AUTHORITY 
The Water Supply Protection District is an overlay district superimposed on the zoning districts.  This overlay dis-
trict shall apply to all new construction, reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings and new or expanded us-
es. Applicable activities and uses in a portion of one of the underlying zoning districts that fall within the Water 
Supply Protection District must additionally comply with the requirements of this bylaw. Uses prohibited in the un-
derlying zoning districts shall not be permitted in the Water Supply Protection District. 
DEFINITIONS 
Automobile Graveyard: An establishment that is maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying, or sell-
ing wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or motor vehicle parts as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1. 
Aquifer: A geologic formation composed of rock, sand or gravel that contains significant amounts of potentially re-
coverable water. 
CMR: Code of Massachusetts Regulations. 
Commercial Fertilizer: Any substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients which is used for its plant 
nutrient content and which is designed for use, or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth, except un-
manipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl, lime, limestone, wood ashes, and gypsum, and other products ex-
empted by state regulations. 
Discharge: The accidental or intentional disposal, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, pouring, or placing 
of toxic or hazardous material or hazardous waste upon or into any land or water such that it may enter the surface or 
ground waters. 
Dry Well: A subsurface pit with open-jointed lining or holes through which storm-water drainage from roofs, base-
ment floors, foundations or other areas seep into the surrounding soil. 
Water Supply Protection District: The land area consisting of aquifers, Zone II recharge areas, and Zone III areas, all 
ass approved by MassDEP and identified on a map and adopted pursuant to this bylaw. 
Hazardous Material: Any substance in any form which because of its quantity, concentration, or its chemical, corro-
sive, flammable, reactive, toxic, infectious or radioactive characteristics, either separately or in combination with one 
or more substances, constitutes a present or potential threat to human health, safety, welfare, or to the environment, 
when improperly stored, treated, transported, disposed of, used, or otherwise managed. Hazardous material includes, 
without limitation, synthetic organic chemicals, petroleum products, heavy metals, radioactive or infectious materi-
als, and all substances defined as toxic or hazardous under MGL c. 21E. This term shall not include hazardous 
waste or oil.  
Historical High Groundwater Table Elevation: A groundwater elevation determined from monitoring wells and his-
torical water table fluctuation data compiled by the United States Geological Survey. 
Hazardous Waste: A substance or combination of substances, which because of quantity, concentration, or physical, 
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase 
in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human 
health, safety, or welfare or to the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, used or disposed of, or 
otherwise managed. This term shall include all substances identified as hazardous pursuant to the Hazardous Waste 
Regulations, 310 CMR 30.000. 
Impervious Surface: Material or structure on, above, or below the ground that does not allow precipitation or surface 
water runoff to penetrate into the soil. 
Interim Wellhead Protection Area (IWPA): The MassDEP designated protection radius around a public water well 
that lacks a Zone II.  
===PAGE 175===
175 
 
Junkyard: An establishment that is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for 
the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, as defined in MGL c.140B, s.1. 
Landfill: A facility established in accordance with a valid site assignment for the purposes of disposing solid waste 
into or on the land, pursuant to the Solid Waste Regulations, 310 CMR 19.006. 
MassDEP: Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection.  
MGL: Massachusetts General Law. 
Petroleum Product: Includes, but not limited to, fuel oil; gasoline; diesel; kerosene; aviation jet fuel; aviation gaso-
line; lubricating oils; oily sludge; oil refuse; oil mixed with other wastes; crude oils; or other liquid hydrocarbons 
regardless of specific gravity. Petroleum product shall not include liquefied petroleum gas including, but not limited 
to, liquefied natural gas, propane or butane. 
Non-Sanitary Wastewater: Wastewater discharges from industrial and commercial facilities containing wastes from 
any activity other than collection of sanitary sewage including, but not limited to, activities specified in 310 CMR 
15.004(6). 
Open Dump: A facility operated or maintained in violation of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act 42 
U.S.C. 4004(a)(b), or state regulations and criteria for solid waste disposal. 
Recharge Areas: Land areas, such as a Zone II or an Interim Wellhead Protection Area, where precipitation and sur-
face water infiltrates into the ground to replenish groundwater and aquifers used for public drinking water supplies. 
Septage: The liquid, solid, and semi-solid contents of privies, chemical toilets, cesspools, holding tanks, or other 
sewage waste receptacles. This term shall not include any material that is a hazardous waste, as defined by 310 CMR 
30.000. 
Sludge: The solid, semi-solid, and liquid residue that results from a process of wastewater treatment or drinking wa-
ter treatment including wastewater residuals. This term shall not include grit, screening, or grease and oil which are 
removed at the headworks of a facility. 
Treatment Works: Any and all devices, processes and properties, real or personal, used in the collection, pumping, 
transmission, storage, treatment, disposal, recycling, reclamation, or reuse of waterborne pollutants, but not includ-
ing any works receiving a hazardous waste from off the site of the works for the purpose of treatment, storage, or 
disposal. 
Utility Works: Regulated activities providing for public services, including roads, water, sewer, electricity, gas, tele-
phone, transportation and their associated maintenance activities. This term shall include the installation of detention 
and retention basins for the purpose of controlling storm water. 
Very Small Quantity Generator: Any public or private entity, other than residential, which produces less than 27 gal-
lons (100 kilograms) a month of hazardous waste or waste oil, but not including any acutely hazardous waste as de-
fined in 310 CMR 30.136. 
Waste Oil Retention Facility: A waste oil collection facility for automobile service stations, retail outlets, and mari-
nas which is sheltered and has adequate protection to contain a spill, seepage, or discharge of petroleum waste prod-
ucts in accordance with MGL c.21. s.52A. . 
Zone II: The delineated recharge area to a public drinking water well as approved by MassDEP and defined under 
the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. 
Zone III: An area beyond a Zone II recharge area, as approved by MassDEP and defined under the Massachusetts 
Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00. 
===PAGE 176===
176 
 
ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF WATER SUPPLY PROTECTION DISTRICT 
For the purposes of this bylaw, there are hereby established within the Town of Lunenburg certain water supply pro-
tection areas consisting of aquifers or recharge areas (Zone II) and certain protected areas beyond those Zone II areas 
(Zone III). These areas are delineated on a map entitled Lunenburg Water District Aquifer Protection Zones dated 
July 2021 which is hereby made part of the Water Supply Protection District Bylaw and is on file in the office of the 
Town Clerk. 
DISTRICT BOUNDARY DISPUTES 
 
If the location of the Water Supply Protection District in relation to a particular parcel is in doubt, resolution of the 
boundary dispute shall be through a Special Permit application to the Special Permit Granting Authority. Any appli-
cation for a special permit for this purpose shall be accompanied by adequate documentation. 
Burden of proof shall be upon the land owner to demonstrate that the location of the Water Supply Protection Dis-
trict with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land is uncertain. At the request of the land owner, the Town may en-
gage a professional engineer, hydrologist, geologist, or soil scientist to determine more accurately the boundaries of 
the Water Supply Protection District with respect to a particular parcel(s) of land, and may charge the owner for the 
cost of the investigation. Changes to the Water Supply Protection District require town meeting approval. Changes 
to the Zone II boundary requires approval from the MassDEP. 
Where the Zone II boundary line of the Water Supply Protection District divides a lot or parcel, the requirements es-
tablished by this bylaw shall apply to the land 20 feet beyond the Zone II boundary. 
PERMITTED USES 
The following uses are permitted within the Water Supply Protection District, provided that all necessary permits, 
orders, or approvals required by local, state, or federal law are also obtained: 
 conservation of soil, water, plants, and wildlife; 
 outdoor recreation, nature study, boating, fishing, and hunting where otherwise legally permitted; 
 foot, bicycle and/or horse paths, and bridges; 
 normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards, and other water control, supply 
and conservation devices; 
 maintenance, repair, and enlargement of any existing structure, subject to Section 7 and Section 8 of this bylaw; 
 residential development, subject to Sections 7 and 8 of this bylaw; 
 farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting, and grazing, subject to Section 7 and Section 8 of this 
bylaw; 
 construction, maintenance, repair, and enlargement of drinking water supply related facilities such as, but not limited 
to, wells, pipelines, aqueducts, and tunnels; and 
 any use permitted in the underlying zoning by-right or by special permit, except for those uses specifically prohibited 
in Sections 7 and 8 of this bylaw. 
===PAGE 177===
177 
 
PROHIBITED USES 
 
The following land uses and activities are prohibited in Zone II unless designed in accordance with the specified per-
formance standards: 
 landfills and open dumps; 
 automobile graveyards and junkyards; 
 landfills receiving only wastewater residuals and/or septage, including those approved by MassDEP pursuant to 
MGL c. 21 s.26 through s.53, MGL c.111 s.17, and MGL c.83 s.6 and s.7;  
 facilities that generate, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste that are subject to MGL c.21C and 310 CMR 
30.000, except for:  
 very small quantity generators as defined under 310 CMR 30.000; 
 household hazardous waste centers and events under 310 CMR 30.390; 
 waste oil retention facilities required by MGL c. 21, s.52A; and 
 water remediation treatment works approved by MassDEP for the treatment of contaminated waters. 
 petroleum, fuel oil, and heating oil bulk stations and terminals including, but not limited to, those listed under North 
American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Codes 424710 and 454311, except for liquefied petroleum gas.  
 storage of liquid hazardous materials and/or liquid petroleum products unless such storage is above ground level and 
on an impervious surface and either: 
 in container(s) or above ground tank(s) within a building; or 
 outdoors in covered container(s) or above ground tank(s) in an area that has a containment system designed and op-
erated to hold either; 10% of the total possible storage capacity of all containers or 110% of the largest container’s 
storage capacity, whichever is greater. 
however, these storage requirements shall not apply to the replacement of existing tanks or systems for the 
keeping, dispensing or storing of gasoline provided the replacement is performed in a manner consistent 
with state and local requirements; 
 storage of sludge and septage, unless such storage is in compliance with 310 CMR 32.30 and 310 CMR 32.31;  
 storage of deicing chemicals, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for application, 
unless such storage, is within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of contaminated runoff or 
leachate 
 storage of animal manure, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for application, un-
less contained within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of contaminated runoff or leachate; 
 storage of commercial fertilizers, with the exception of small quantities stored in containers and ready for applica-
tion, unless such storage is within a structure designed to prevent the generation and escape of contaminated runoff 
or leachate; 
 stockpiling and disposal of snow and ice containing deicing chemicals brought in from outside the Water Supply 
Protection District; 
===PAGE 178===
178 
 
 earth removal, consisting of the removal of soil, loam, sand, gravel, or any other earth material to within 4 feet of 
historical high Water Supply as determined from monitoring wells and historical water table fluctuation data com-
piled by the United States Geological Survey, except for excavations for building foundations, roads, utility works or 
wetland restoration work conducted in accordance with a valid Order of Condition issued pursuant to MGL c. 131, 
s.40; and 
 treatment or disposal works subject to 314 CMR 5.00, for non-sanitary wastewater, including those activities listed 
under 310 CMR 15.004(6), except for:  
1. treatment works approved by MassDEP designed for the treatment of contaminated ground or surface water and op-
erating in compliance with 314 CMR 5.05(3) or 5.05(13); and 
2. publicly owned treatment works. 
USES AND ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A SPECIAL PERMIT 
In Zone II the following uses and activities are permitted only upon the issuance of a Special Permit by the Special 
Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under such conditions as they may require: 
1. enlargement or alteration of existing uses that do not conform to the Water Supply Protection District; 
2. except as prohibited under Section 7 of this bylaw, activities that involve the handling of toxic or hazardous materials 
in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use and which are permitted in the underlying zon-
ing district; 
3. rendering impervious any lot or parcel more than 15% or 2,500 square feet, whichever is greater; unless artificial 
recharge, that will not degrade water quality, is provided using methods demonstrated to be capable of removing 
contaminants from storm water and which are consistent with methods described in MassDEP's Stormwater Hand-
book, Vol. I, II and III, as amended. 
4. In Zone III, the aforementioned uses and activities are permitted only upon the issuance of Site Plan Approval by the 
Planning Board under such conditions as they may reasonably require. Site Plan Approval will be granted, with the 
input of the Building Commissioner, Board of Health, Conservation Commission, and Department of Public Works, 
that the intent of the Bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met. The submitted Site Plan Approval application 
will comply with the requirements of Section 9.5 of this Bylaw. If there are material changes to the categories of po-
tentially hazardous materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with nor-
mal household use after Site Plan Approval is granted, the owner/operator will file updated information on those cat-
egories of hazardous materials with the Fire Department, Board of Health, and the Planning Board.  
PROCEDURES FOR ISSUANCE OF SPECIAL PERMIT 
The Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) under this bylaw shall be the Planning Board.  
1. A special permit shall be granted if the SPGA determines, with advisement from the Lunenburg Water District, 
Building Commissioner, Conservation Commission, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health, that the intent of 
this bylaw, as well as its specific criteria, are met. The SPGA shall not grant a special permit under this section un-
less the petitioner's application materials include, in the SPGA's opinion, sufficiently detailed, definite, and credible 
information to support positive findings in relation to the standards given in this section. 
2. The SPGA shall document the basis for any departures from the recommendations of the other municipal boards, de-
partments or commissions in its decision. 
 
===PAGE 179===
179 
 
3. The SPGA may grant the required special permit upon finding that the proposed use meets the following standards, 
those specified in Section 7 of this bylaw, and any regulations or guidelines adopted by the SPGA. The proposed use 
must: 
in no way, during construction or thereafter, materially adversely affect the quality or quantity of the water supplies 
protected by the Water Supply Protection District; and 
be designed to avoid substantial disturbance of the soils, topography, drainage, vegetation, and other water-related 
natural characteristics of the site to be developed, except as depicted on an approved site plan. 
4. The SPGA may adopt controls to govern design features of projects. Such controls shall be consistent with the Town's 
subdivision regulations, Site Plan Approval, and Stormwater Bylaws. 
5. The applicant shall file 10  copies of a site plan and attachments. The site plan shall be drawn at a proper scale as de-
termined by the SPGA and be stamped by a professional engineer. All additional submittals shall be prepared by 
qualified professionals. The site plan and all supporting materials must meet the requirements outlined in the Plan-
ning Board Rules & Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit and at a minimum include the following 
information where pertinent: 
 a complete list of the categories of chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, fuels, and other potentially hazardous 
materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use; 
and 
 for activities using or storing hazardous materials or wastes, a management plan shall be prepared and filed with the 
Fire Chief and the Board of Health. The plan will be consistent with the requirements of Section 7 and shall include: 
 provisions to protect against the discharge of hazardous materials or wastes to the environment due to spillage, acci-
dental damage, corrosion, leakage, or vandalism, including spill containment and clean-up procedures; 
 provisions for indoor, secured storage of hazardous materials or wastes with impervious floor surfaces; 
 evidence of compliance with the Massachusetts Hazardous Waste Regulations 310 CMR 30.000; and 
 proposed down-gradient location(s) for groundwater monitoring well(s), should the SPGA deem the activity a poten-
tial groundwater threat. 
6. The SPGA shall hold a hearing, in conformity with the provision of MGL c.40A s. 9, within 65 days after the filing of 
the application. Notice of the public hearing shall be given by publication and posting and by first-class mailings to 
"parties of interest" as defined in MGL c.40A s.11. The decision of the SPGA and any extension, modification, or re-
newal thereof shall be filed with the SPGA and Town Clerk within 90 days following the closing of the public hearing. 
Failure of the SPGA to act within 90 days shall be deemed as a granting of the permit. 
7. If there are material changes to the categories of potentially hazardous materials to be used or stored on the premises 
in quantities greater than those associated with normal household use after the Special Permit has been granted, the own-
er/operator will file updated information on those categories of hazardous materials with the Fire Department, the Board 
of Health, and the Planning Board.  
===PAGE 180===
180 
 
ENFORCEMENT 
Written notice of any violations of this bylaw shall be given by the Building Commissioner  
 
to the responsible person as soon as possible after detection of a violation or a continuing violation. Notice to the 
assessed owner of the property shall be deemed notice to the responsible person. Such notice shall specify the re-
quirement or restriction violated and the nature of the violation, and may also identify the actions necessary to re-
move or remedy the violations and preventive measures required for avoiding future violations and a schedule of 
compliance. 
A copy of such notice shall be submitted to the Land Use Director, Building Commissioner, Conservation Commis-
sion, Department of Public Works, and Board of Health. The cost of containment, clean-up, or other action of compli-
ance shall be borne by the owner/operator of the premises. 
 The Building Commissioner may use any portion of Section 250-8.2 of these Zoning Bylaws to assist in the en-
forcement of the requirements of this Bylaw.  
SEVERABILITY 
If any provision of this bylaw is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the bylaw shall 
not be affected thereby. The invalidity of any section or sections or parts of any section or sections of this bylaw 
shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this bylaw. 
and, further, by adopting same boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District as presently shown on the Town’s offi-
cial zoning map; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE 
RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact  SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDA TION: Deferred  AR TICLE 9 
WAS PASSED OVER (80 YES, 29 NO) 
ARTICLE 10 To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the Municipal Building Design 
Committee; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Municipal Building Design Commit-
tee) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact  SELECT BOARD RECOM-
MENDATION: Recommend Approval  ARTICLE 10 W AS P ASSED OVER (UNANIMOUS VOICE VOTE) 
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money for repairs to a portion of the TC Passios Building roof, located at 1025 Massachusetts 
Avenue; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  Approval  VOTED (81 YES, 11 NO ) to transfer the sum 
of $300,000 from the FY23 Capital Plan, as voted under Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meet-
ing, to fund repairs to a portion of the TC Passios Building roof, located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue.  
 
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote: (i) to reauthorize raising and appropriating of the sum of 
$184,000 for final engineering and design services for certain recreation and open space areas at the property 
known as Marshall Park, located at 100 Chestnut Street, as shown on Assessor’s Map 060, Lot 018, as previously 
voted under Article 4 of the November 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting warrant, which would be in addition to the  
sum of $1,000,000 being already committed by the Select Board from available American Rescue Plan Act 
(ARPA) funds for associated improvements to said Marshall Park, specifically including the construction of a play-
ground, multi-sport courts and pavilion, for a total amount of $1,184,000 committed to the aforesaid project, repre-
senting one hundred percent of the total cost thereof; (ii) to dedicate the aforementioned 100 Chestnut Street prop-
erty to active recreation purposes pursuant to G.L. c. 45, § 3, consistent with said property’s present restriction to 
park and playground purposes forever per the deed to the Town dated March 18, 1913 and recorded with the 
Worcester Northern District Registry of Deeds at Book 291, Page 497;  
 
 
===PAGE 181===
181 
 
and (iii) to authorize the Parks Commission and/or the Select Board, on behalf of the Town, to apply for and accept 
any and all grants deemed necessary under the Urban Self-Help Act, 301 CMR 5.00, et seq., as reimbursement for 
project costs and expenses, and to enter into all agreements and execute any and all instruments as may be neces-
sary on behalf of the Town to effectuate the same; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Park 
Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE & SELECT BOARD  RECOMMENDATION: Approval  VOTED (90 
YES, 4 NO  63 needed for 2/3rds majority) to: (i) to reauthorize raising and appropriating of the sum of 
$184,000 for final engineering and design services for certain recreation and open space areas at the proper-
ty known as Marshall Park, located at 100 Chestnut Street, as shown on Assessor’s Map 060, Lot 018, as 
previously voted under Article 4 of the November 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting warrant, which would be 
in addition to the sum of $1,000,000 being already committed by the Select Board from available American 
Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds for associated improvements to said Marshall Park, specifically including 
the construction of a playground, multi-sport courts and pavilion, for a total amount of $1,184,000 commit-
ted to the aforesaid project, representing one hundred percent of the total cost thereof; (ii) to dedicate the 
aforementioned 100 Chestnut Street property to active recreation purposes pursuant to G.L. c. 45, § 3, con-
sistent with said property’s present restriction to park and playground purposes forever per the deed to the 
Town dated March 18, 1913 and recorded with the Worcester Northern District Registry of Deeds at Book 
291, Page 497; and (iii) to authorize the Parks Commission and/or the Select Board, on behalf of the Town, 
to apply for and accept any and all grants deemed necessary under the Urban Self-Help Act, 301 CMR 5.00, 
et seq., as reimbursement for project costs and expenses, and to enter into all agreements and execute any and 
all instruments as may be necessary on behalf of the Town to effectuate the same. 
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being the Protective Bylaw, 
also entitled “Zoning,” by: 
amending the definition of “Farm” in Article II, entitled “Definitions,” Section 2.1, entitled “Terms defined; 
word usage,” as follows, with additions underlined and deletions stricken-through: 
 
“Farm 
A parcel of land of five acres or more  at least five acres or two acres qualified under MGL c. 
40A, § 3, used primarily for gain in the commercial raising or production of agricultural 
products, livestock, poultry, dairy products, viticulture, horticulture and floriculture. It 
includes necessary farm structures and the storage of equipment used.” 
 
amending the provisions of Article IV, entitled “Use Regulations,” Section 4.1, entitled “Permitted and prohibit-
ed uses,” Subsection C(2), as follows, with additions underlined and deletions stricken-through: 
 
“C. Nothing in this bylaw shall prohibit, regulate or restrict the use of land or structures in 
any district for the following uses: 
(2) Agriculture, horticulture, floriculture and viticulture as their primary purpose , 
provided that such uses shall be limited to parcels of land containing at least 
five acres or at least two acres qualified under MGL c. 40A, § 3.”and 
amending the provisions of Article V, entitled “Dimensional Regulations,” Section 5.1, entitled “Lot area,” Sub-
section B(5), as follows, with additions underlined and deletions stricken-through: 
“B. 
(5) In case of a farm exempted from the provisions of the zoning by statute, the 
minimum lot area, width and frontage requirements shall be in addition to the 
five acres as or two qualified acres  required under MGL c. 40A, § 3 and MGL 
c. 61A.” 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Agricultural Commission) FINANCE COMMITTEE REC-
OMMENDATION: No Direct Financial Impact SELECT BOARD & PLANNING BOARD RECOMMENDATION:  
Approval. VOTED (81 YES, 2 NO  56 needed for 2/3rds majority) to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, being 
the Protective Bylaw, also entitled “Zoning”. 
===PAGE 182===
182 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -6.4, which is a Section of 
the Protective Bylaw entitled “Driveways and entrances,” Subsection C, entitled “Off-street parking design standards; 
general parking and loading provisions,” by deleting further Subsection (5)(k) thereof in its entirety and by and substitut-
ing therefor the following new further Subsection 7: 
(7) Common Driveways 
A common driveway is an access drive to be used for vehicular access to two or more primary dwellings or places of 
business. No person will develop or construct a driveway serving two or more lots or properties without first obtaining a 
Special Permit from the Planning Board in accordance with this Section 250-6.4C(7).  
The Planning Board may issue a Special Permit to allow a common driveway upon finding that the driveway will: 
Promote efficient traffic flow, 
Reduce traffic hazards from numerous individual driveways, 
In the judgment of the Planning Board, such an arrangement will be more advantageous to the neighborhood than indi-
vidual driveways, 
Consolidate access to lots across/near wetland resources, and  
Provide sufficient access to emergency vehicles and responders. 
 
(b) Special Permit Requirements 
The driveway will be located entirely within the lots being served. 
A common driveway will be considered satisfactory only if: 
It has been constructed in accordance with the provisions of the Special Permit 
There is a recorded access easement outlining the right of access and including clear provision for maintenance and snow 
removal; running with the land.  
A common driveway will not be used to provide lot frontage required by this Bylaw or by the Subdivision Control Law.  
Where the access to structures or uses provided by the driveway is substantially different from that which would be pro-
vided through the required lot frontages, the Special Permit will not be issued unless the Planning Board finds 
that the proposed shared driveway and its location are in the public interest.  
Each lot that shares a common driveway will meet the minimum dimensional requirements for the Zoning District in 
which it is located as outlined in this Bylaw. Specifically, each lot will have the required amount of frontage lo-
cated on the street which connects to the common driveway. 
The Planning Board will submit a copy of the Special Permit and approved plans to the Building Commissioner. No 
building permit will be issued until receipt of the Special Permit and plan.  
No occupancy permit shall be issued for any uses or structures utilizing the common driveway until evidence of record-
ing of the required utility, access and maintenance easement has been filed with the Building Commissioner and 
Planning Board. 
(c)Design Criteria 
i.Residential  
Minimum pavement width 18 feet 
Minimum easement width 24 feet 
Max grade 10% 
Curb Cut no closer than 100 feet from centerline on intersection 
===PAGE 183===
183 
 
Max number of lots 4  
Max length 1200 feet  
ii. Commercial 
Minimum pavement width 24 feet 
Minimum easement width 40 feet 
Max grade 10% 
Curb Cut no closer than 100 feet from centerline on intersection 
Max number of lots 6 with public water available, 4 without public water available  
Max length 1800 feet with public water available, 1200 feet without public water available  
iii. No grade will exceed 2% within 75 feet of the street right -of-way lines.  
iv. All common driveways will be rounded at street intersection or cutback to provide a curb radius of not less than 
30 feet.  
v. The address of all buildings accessed off the common driveway shall be posted on a sign at the entrance of the 
driveway that is visible for residents, employees, visitors, and public safety 
vi. The common driveway will be constructed of materials resistant to erosion and frost heaving and sufficient to 
support an axle load of 34,000 pounds under all weather conditions. The common driveway will be paved with 
a 3 inch minimum thickness layer of bituminous concrete.  
vii. Turnouts will be provided along the common driveways at intervals of 300 feet. The turnouts will be 8 feet 
wide and 25 feet long.  
viii. All shared driveways will be provided with a provisions for drainage sufficient to prevent deterioration of the 
driveway and to prevent any erosion, flooding, or other problems on any property beyond that of the owners of 
the driveway including the street which it intersects.  
All curves will be designed with a twenty-five foot minimum inside turning radius. 
The common driveway shall be clear of vegetation and overhead obstructions allowing for a vertical clearance of not 
less than 13ft, 6in. 
The SPGA will require that utilities (if any) to the lots be located directly adjacent to or within the common driveway.  
Each branch of the common driveway will be designed such that a twenty-one-foot wheelbase fire truck or other emer-
gency vehicle can safely enter and exit the branch.  
A common driveway must originate on approved frontage and must observe a twenty-five-foot setback from the side 
line between the lot of origin and a lot not served by the common driveway.  
Entrance to driveway shall have a sign indicating the addresses located on the common driveway, to include a diagram 
map showing their locations. Additionally, each branch of the Common Driveway will have a sign at the inter-
section with the main driveway noting the address of the property. 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMEN-
DATION: No Direct Financial Impact SELECT BOARD & PLANNING BOARD  RECOMMENDATION:  Approval.  
VOTED (60 YES, 14 NO  50 needed for 2/3rds majority) to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-6.4, 
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Driveways and entrances,” Subsection C, entitled 
“Off-street parking design standards; general parking and loading provisions,” by deleting further 
Subsection (5)(k) thereof in its entirety and by and substituting therefor a new further Subsection 7.  
