
Economic Development Committee Meeting Minutes
November 10, 2022
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462

Call to order at 6:05PM.
I. ROLL CALL
Matt Brenner (Planning Board), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Cathy Clark (Economic Development Chair), Jeanne Dupre (Economic Development Member), Lou Franco (Select Board), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Anna Lockwood (Open Space Representative).
II. PUBLIC COMMENT
There was a reminder of the upcoming town meeting on November 15th.
III. REVIEW OF MEETING WITH THE LBA
Joeci Gilchrest and Adam Burney met with Wendy Drennan from the Lunenburg Business Associates (LBA) in October. The LBA is looking to help connect businesses with assistance, support, and exposure to other businesses. These businesses are mainly small but are eager to work with the town and community to give back, especially since these local businesses revolve around the people who live and work in the community.  
A priority of the LBA is to create more community-focused events within the town as well as starting new events. The LBA is interested in re-starting the town fair with the help of the Lions club and town participation. Additionally, Anna Lockwood and the parks commission have shown interest in hosting events such as movies at Marshall Park. 
The LBA also wants to collaborate and provide material for the Information packet that is being created. 
IV. EDC MISSION STATEMENT 
Additional discussion about creating a town mission statement specifically for this group. Without the people, business owners don’t have anything and without businesses, we don’t have an economy. Cathy Clark proposed a drafted mission statement to “help facilitate economic growth in the community and provide resources and tools to promote future growth”. 
The goal of the mission statement must place emphasis on: 
Present and future business and growth within the town.
Facilitating economic growth in the community.
Attracting new business.
Provide, identify, and connect businesses with resources.
Facilitate mutual awareness of existing businesses and cross-pollination of businesses.

Cathy Clark will type up her statement and provide an email with a rough draft for members to review and add additional information.
V. PROPOSED ZONING CHANGE 199 
This location is formally the Chapdelaine auto dealership. A smaller portion of the land abutting the street is listed as commercial land. The remaining acreage is listed as residential. A citizen petition was presented at a town meeting to rezone the entire 16 acres as commercial land. There may potentially be a change of use or expansion of use for this location. The planning board is petitioning to change the use to a special permit. 
VI. BUSINESS UPDATES
A. LUFA Farms, 361 Mass Ave.
No additional updates besides the purchase and sales agreement have been signed.
B. Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirley Rd. 
A large building is in the process of being constructed. Currently, the use of the building has not been specified. There are roughly a half dozen residents looking into occupying this building. Once the building is weathered tight, they will start negotiating leases. The anticipated date of operation is April 2023. 
C. 88 Mass Ave.
The final approval and special permit have been completed by the planning board for their site plan. A special permit from the zoning board is for a shopping center.  In addition to the businesses already at this location, the new addition will be dividing the building into 2 to 3 uses. All the property line issues have been squared away.
VII. COMMITTEE DISCUSSION/CONCERNS
The primary school is potentially getting torn down starting in the spring. The bids have been awarded.   
Cathy Clark has created a Facebook page but has not been published. Adam Burney has researched and investigated social media policy and believes it should be okay if it’s informational and not editorial. Adam Burley will speak with Heather Lemieux to confirm endorsement. There will be restrictions on not letting the public post pictures and publish comments. 
Feedback on Business Development Guide 
There was a brief discussion about the Business Development Guide.  An email with a rough draft will be sent to board members to review and submit feedback to Adam Burney. 
VIII. MEETING SCHEDULE
The next meeting is scheduled for December 22nd at 6 PM.
Roy Nascimeto at December Meeting?    
Roy Nascimeto has reached out to Cathy Clark regarding attending the upcoming meeting. Roy is the head of the North Central Chamber of Commerce and has previously presented to the Lancaster Economic Development Committee.  Cathy Clark will email the economic development plan that was developed by the North Central Chamber of Commerce for members to review prior to meeting. 
IX. PUBLIC COMMENT
There was no public comment. 
X. ADJOURN
Motion to adjourn made at 7:40 PM by Anna Lockwood, seconded by Joeci Gilchrest. 












