
Economic Development Committee MeetingApril 27, 2023
Ritter Memorial Building960 Massachusetts Ave.Lunenburg, MA 01462
Call to order 6:05 PMI. ROLL CALL
Matt Brenner (Planning Board), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Cathy Clark (Economic Development Chair), Jeanne Dupre (Economic Development Member), Lou Franco (Select Board), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Anna Lockwood (Open Space Representative). 
II. PUBLIC COMMENT
There has been concern related to the lack of parking in the center of town. Board members have agreed that a MASS DOT fluorescent sign would be ideal, creating a crosswalk between The Village Plaza and the old primary school location. This would be created to slow down traffic and create ease of access crossing the street. Ultimately, this will help create and facilitate additional parking for local businesses. Cathy Clark will get input from the DPW, Police, and the Selectboard regarding the next steps. 
Joeci Gilchrest wants to hold an event for local business owners to meet and greet. Joeci Gilcreth will meet with the LBA (Lunenburg Business Association) to discuss plans and set a date in the near future. 
III. BUSINESS UPDATES 	A. LUFA Farms 361 Mass Ave 		No additional updates and no additional filings.  
B. Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster-Shirley Rd. 		 The site and shell have been created and built. The site is now looking for     			clients/tenants who may be interested in renting a portion of the location. Once 			a tenant has been obtained, the interior design and layout will take place based 			on the individual’s business plan. The company that built this structure is also 			looking into potentially purchasing the land across the street.  	C. Site Preparation Grant
A pre-application for Leominster Shirley Road has been submitted to address current and future potential issues at Reservoir Road and Fort Pond Road intersections. A planning grant will be used to create a road and design an intersection to address some of the site distance issues at Shirley Leominster Road and the intersection issues at Fort Pond Road and Reservoir Road. This design will be used in the future to require mitigation from future developments or apply to mass works for construction funding. 

Currently, there is a 10% design set for Fort Pond Road. This will assess potential issues of traffic impacts from the Lunenburg central project. Geometric changes may need to take place based on the volume of truck and car traffic. The town will likely apply for the grant if the select board members are supportive. 
D. Children’s Play Place – 88 Mass Ave.								 There has been an inquiry about putting a children’s play place. This 			would be a creative space with a make-believe town. 
E. Ninja Academy												A new business in town that is now open. They are located at 321 					Massachusetts Ave.
 	F. Lakeview Plaza on Electric Ave.  		There has been interest in opening a salon at this location.
 	G. 466 Electric Ave.
 		Ruby’s Donuts has shown interest in opening at this location.  
 	H. Il Forno
The owner has been talking to the building commission regarding expansion. 
 	I. Gas station – 451 Mass Ave.
The tank and awning will be removed in the next few months. The structure itself will be staying and eventually will be up for rental.
 	J. 43 Summer Street
 		The building is making process.

IV. Master Plan Update
A public forum will kick off in June. This will be used to get people’s input and collect data. The committee will regroup in early fall. Ultimately, the full plan will be ready to present at the Town Meeting in 2025 
V. COMMITTEE DISCUSSION/CONCERNS
Feedback on Business Development Guide 	Email addresses will be added under Key Contacts in Lunenburg page.
Members have raised concerns that there are additional materials that are listed on the development guide that may not apply to all businesses. Adam Burney will add the caveat that not all materials apply to everyone’s situation.
Adam Burney will ensure that all linkable items in the guide are linked.
Lou Franco inquired into who the “us” is on the introduction page. This will be changed to add Adam Burney as the contact info.
Matt Brenner will be sending a pdf with potential formatting issues. 
VI. MEETING SCHEDULE 	May 18 at 6 PM.
VII. PUBLIC COMMENT
	Adam Burney will be creating a Zoom option for upcoming meetings. 
VIII. ADJOURN 
Motion to adjourn at 8:12 PM by Anna Lockwood, seconded by Joeci Gilchrest.
















