
Economic Development Committee Meeting
August 24, 2023
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 

Call to order at 6:10 PM
ROLL CALL 
Matt Brenner (Planning Board), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Cathy Clark (Economic Development Chair), Jeanne Dupre (Economic Development Member), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Anna Lockwood (Open Space Representative).

PUBLIC COMMENT
LBA’s Fabulous Fall Cleanout fundraiser was successful.  

TOWN OFFICIAL MEET &amp; GREET
Maryrae Holman and Low Places Ranch are covering the cost of the porta-potties. A headcount is needed to estimate the amount of food. The beverage options being considered are hot cider, wine, and seltzer. Tables are being supplied by Anna Lockwood and Joeci Gilchrest will inquire with local churches for chairs to borrow. 
Joeci Gilchrest has already sent invitations to the town officials. For officials who have accepted the meet and greet, Adam Burney will ask them to bring their business cards. Joeci Gilchrest will reach out to the employee who runs the town's social media pages to promote the event. A post will be created stating there are sponsorship opportunities available and for individuals to reach out to the committee. 

Adam Burney will create the program and Matt Brenner will write a short speech. Joeci Gilchrist asked if there is access to a speaker/microphone/sound system that will be available to borrow. There will be availability for town officials to give a short speech.  Programs will be made to display at the entrance along with a sign-in sheet to be used for follow-up emails.  
MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS	
Matt Brenner shares that the planning board is looking into green initiatives and proposed alternatives to the Solar Bylaw. Voting will take place at the fall town meeting.  

NEW BUSINESS UPDATES
88 Mass Ave
Grand Rental Station is going to be a liquor store. The planning board has approved their change of use and their site plan. 

3 Lancaster Ave
The construction is almost completed, and an anticipated opening date is September. This location will include One Family Insurance and a headquarters in the basement for a construction company. There is no update for the other 3 available spaces.

525 Chase Rd
New England Powder Coating is now in this location. They anticipate expanding the building and adding an additional 3,000 square feet. 
MASTER PLAN UPDATE
Adam is looking to find a date for the Steering Committee to meet. The committee is trying to find someone to build an affordable 5-foot by 7-foot topographic model of the town. At the end of the project, the model will be donated to the town for display. In late September/early October another survey will be sent out. They are in the process of securing web hosting and domain name for the Master Plan website.

COMMITTEE DISCUSSION
No committee discussion.

PUBLIC COMMENT
No public comment.

NEXT MEETING
September 14, 2023, at 6 PM.

ADJOURN
Motion to adjourn by Jeanne Dupre, seconded by Anna Lockwood.
The meeting adjourned at 7:39 PM.












