
Town of Lunenburg
Economic Development Committee
June 27, 2024

Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462

Present Members:  Chair Cathy Clark, Member Jeanne Dupre, Master Plan Steering Committee Representative Joeci Gilchrest, Agriculture Commission Representative Maryrae Holman, Open Space Representative Ana Lockwood, Planning Board Representative Glenn McLeod, Select Board Representative Amanda Moore
CALL TO ORDER 	The meeting opened at 6:11 PM.
APPROVAL OF MINUTES
There was a motion by Ana Lockwood to approve the minutes for the June 6th meeting, seconded by Maryrae Holman. Roll call vote. Joeci Gilchrest aye, Maryrae Holman aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Cathy Clark aye.

NEW BUSINESS UPDATE 	Cathy Clark spoke with the owner of Ruby’s Donuts and was told they  	anticipate opening in 3 months. 
Mike from Il Forno purchased the land next door to their restaurant.
Cathy Clark has yet to speak with Mike from “Mikes Random Stuff” about the July 8th meeting but will suggests he attend. 

Joeci Gilchrest would like to collaborate with the Economic Development Committee as the Master Plan Committee Chair. Joeci Gilchrest is unable to attend the July 8th meeting but plans on taking notes to provide to the Master Plan Steering Committee. 

MEET AND GREET DISCUSSION
Maryrae Holman confirms that she will again host and has open availability. Once a date is set Maryrae will start to get the property ready with tents, tables, chairs, and a port-a-potty. Additionally, Maryrae will have the DJ from last year at this event.
Joeci Gilchrest suggests having the Meet and Greet on a weeknight. After discussion, the Meet and Greet was scheduled for September 26th from 5:30 PM to 8:30 PM.
The Committee agrees to fund the Meet and Greet solely through donations just like the prior year. All members will reach out to local businesses to inquire about getting a business donation to help offset the out-of-pocket cost. 
Joeci Gilchrest will create a flyer with general information on the front with a section regarding sponsorships and either monetary or food sponsorship for the event. Promotion and distribution of advertising will start as soon as possible.
The Committee agrees to send a flier to the Chairs of every Committee to request that a member attend.
Maryrae Holman suggests creating an event on Facebook to get an idea for a headcount of people.
Amanda Moore will make an announcement at the next Board of Selectmen’s meeting. 
Ana Lockwood agreed to sponsor and will contribute $100. 
PUBLIC COMMENT 	There were no public comments.
MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS 	Ana Lockwood suggests planning the reorganization of members in advance 	as it needs to be on the agenda.
Cathy Clark questions if the members need to be re-appointed prior to re-organization.
Joeci suggests reviewing the charge at the next meeting.
The meeting with the Planning Board is scheduled for July 8.
The next scheduled Committee meeting is July 25 at 6PM.
ADJOURN 	There was a motion to adjourn by Maryrae Holman, seconded by Jeanne          	    	Dupre. All in favor. 
          The meeting closed at 7:00 PM.












