===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Economic Development Committee 
January 25, 2024 
 
Planning Board Member Matt Brenner, Chair Cathy Clark, Member Jeanne Dupre, 
Member Joeci Gilchrest, Member Maryrae Holman. 
I. CALL TO ORDER  
The meeting opened at 6:14PM 
 
II. APPROVE MEETING MINUTES  
Cathy Clark has physical copies of the meeting minutes but wants to wait 
until the next in person meeting to approve. These minutes will be shared 
digitally prior to the meeting to the Committee.  
 
III. MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS  
Joeci Gilchrest will get an update from the North Central Chambers for the 
next scheduled meeting. 
 
Joeci Gilchrest and the Lunenburg Business Association are discussing 
upcoming events including meeting the new LBA members drive and an 
all-vendors market. Since their elections in November there have been 
many new members. The LBA is working on getting a subscription button 
on their webpage where residents can sign up for updates. Additionally, 
the LBA has a very active Facebook page.  
 
Joeci Gilchrest also shared that state representatives, and their teams 
have created a round table including all of the First Middlesex District. 
Representatives from each town work together and collaborate. 
Additionally, they format a hub of information and post information about 
local events. Cathy Clark shares that there are also the Nashoba 
Chambers and North Central. Cathy Clark will look into attending a future 
meeting. 
Maryrae Holman shares that Jackie for In the Meadow Farm has 
discussed having an agricultures fair unlike the farmer’s market. This will 
include all things agricultural from town.  
Maryrae Holman also shares the idea of organizing a holiday business 
crawl. This would include holiday shopping while supporting local business 
while also creating marketing ties. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
IV.  GOALS 2024  
Goals for 2024 include planning a holiday business crawl in December 
and the Town Official Meet & Greet in September. 
 
V. PUBLIC COMMENT  
No public comment. 
 
VI. MEETING SCHEDULE 
February 22nd at 6PM - Ritter Memorial Building. 
 
VII. ADJOURN 
Motion to adjourn the meeting by Joeci Gilchrist, seconded by Maryrae 
Holman. Roll call vote.  
The meeting closed at 7:01 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 