===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Economic Development Committee
April 25, 2024
Present Members: Chair Cathy Clark, Member Jeanne Dupre, Member Maryrae 
Holman , Member Ana Lockwood
I. CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:15 PM .
II. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
Cathy Clark  emailed the C ommittee the m inutes from January , A pril, M ay, 
July, and A ugust of 2023 . There w ere  no meeting s  in September and 
December of 2023. Additionally, minutes are missing for October and 
November of 2023.
Regarding the minutes there were minor amendments including spelling of 
names and not including members as present during a meeting. 
There was a motion to approve the minutes as amended for January 26 , April 
27, M ay 18, July 27 , and August 24 of 2023 by Jeanne Dupre , seconded by  
Ana  L ockwood . Roll call vote. Cathy Clark  aye , Jeanne Dupre  aye , Maryrae 
Holman  aye, Ana Lockwood aye.
The approval of minutes f rom 2022 will be deferred to the next meeting.
III. PUBLIC COMMENT
Ana Lockwood questions when members get reappointed . Cathy Clark asks 
Lou Franco if anyone from the Planning Board needs to be present when  the 
Committee goes through reappointment of a new term. Lou Franco states if 
any of the terms are up then someone from the Planning Board needs to be 
present. After appointments and re-appointments, the Committee can re-
organize positions.  Cathy Clark suggests making reappointments and 
reorganization in May when all Committee members will be present. 
Cathy Clark will email the master charge form with the  1- and 3-year  terms 
along with the 2022 minutes to cover at the next meeting.
There is a discussion about adding additional members  or alternates  in case  a
member is absen t.
Lou Franco states this is  his last meeting as he will no longer be on the S elect
B oard .
IV. MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS
===PAGE 2===
There was a brief conversation relating to signage in town.  Ana Lockwood 
confirms signs can only be put up in commercial, industrial, or the village 
district . Ana Lockwood suggests members travel  around and look at what 
other towns are doing and how they balance.  Cathy  Clark  recalls there b eing  
an issue specifically with light up signs. She will print out the sign by laws and 
bring them to the next meeting.
There was a discussion about traffic issues and crosswalks in the town 
center. Michael Ray suggests creating a speed bump where the convenience 
store is to slow down traffic.
Cathy Clark suggests creating a QR  code for a brief survey addressing 
parking. The Committee agrees that signs for public parking and availability of
parking in the rear would be helpful. 
Cable access is filming a show called “Open for Business ” where they film 
some of the local businesses  and available spaces . Maryrae Holman will be 
meeting with them next week.
V. PUBLIC COMMENT
Cathy  Clark  asks if anyone has heard anything  about the land use director 
p osition being filled.  The Committee members deny hearing any news.
There was a discussion  about the annual town meet and gre e t. Cathy Clark 
believes the LBA should be the lead while the Economic Development 
Committee be a collaborator. 
The next Economic Development Committee is scheduled for May 23, 2024,  
at 6 PM.
VI. ADJOURN
There was a m otion to adjourn b y Ana L ockwood, seconded by Jeanne 
Dupre .
The meeting closed  at 6:55 PM.