
TOWN OF LUNENBURGEconomic Development CommitteeTuesday, December 9th, 2025 5:30 PM Virtual Via ZoomLunenburg, MA 01462
Members Present: Chair Joeci Gilchrest, Vice Chair Ana Lockwood, Planning Board Representative Matt Brenner, Member Cathy Clark, Member Judy Dragoslis, Member Jeanne Dupre, Select Board Representative Glenn McLeod
The meeting opened at 5:33 PM.
1) Public Comment 	There were no comments from the public.
2) NCMCC Regional Presentation/Discussion 	Director of Public Affairs, Travis Condon, and the Manager of Economic 	Development, Sandie Cataldo, from the North Central Massachusetts Chamber of 	Commerce were present and provided information. 
The North Central Chamber of Commerce (NCMCC) covers 27 cities and communities across north central Massachusetts. They hold business and educational events with tailored programming.
NCMCC has a regional economic development plan entitled One North Central. The 4 main areas of focus include: 	- Increase Advanced Manufacturing   	 - Logistics and Distribution 	 - Health Care 	 - Tourism and Hospitality
Sandie Cataldo discussed multiple loan programs that are available to small businesses through the lending arm at the Chamber of Commerce. 
Ana Lockwood inquires whether the Committee can participate in events. Joeci Gilchrist confirms the town does have membership but there is a gray area regarding volunteering on a committee and being able to benefit from their membership.
3) Updates from Planning Board 	Matt Brenner states there have been upgrades at the Ritter Memorial Building and 	the building looks more modern. Additional progress has taken place regarding 	OpenGov.
The Building Commissioner, Brian Gingras, has been working on streamlining the process to make the building and planning department digitalized.  This has simplified the application process.
To conclude, the Land Use Director position has been changed to the Director of Planning and Economic Development as voted at town meeting.
4) Business overview - Cathy Clark 	Cathy Clark has provided the latest business updates below. 		- Conrads: The owners plan to share some news after the first of the year. 		 - Ruby Donuts: The owner is waiting for electrical and fire to sign off then 				they need to complete inspection. They are hoping to open in January. 		 - Previously known as the Bootleggers Restaurant: There is a new owner who 				has a permit and is working with contractors.  		 - Kabob-e-Licious: This location is still up for sale. 		 - Athletica (previously Dollar Tree location): The owners anticipate opening in 				the next few months.		 - Busy Bees: This business is an indoor play area for young children. They				 intend to open in the next 2-3 months.		 - Lunenburg Central Building: This location currently has 1 tenant, Berlin 				Manufacturing, and there is an additional attendant interested. 		 - Lufa Farms: There is a new representative, and they have confirmed this 				project is on hold. 	Cathy Clark suggests having a ribbon cutting when new businesses open in town.
5) MPSC Implementation 	This topic was postponed and discussion will ideally take place when the Director of		 Planning and Economic Development position is filled. 
6) EDC Bylaw Review  	 	The discussion is postponed until the Planning and Economic Development Director 	role is filled.
7) Next meeting schedule 	January 13th at  530 PM
8) Agenda items for next meeting 	-. MPSC Implementation 	-  EDC Bylaw Review
9) Committee Comment	There were no Committee comments.
10) Review and Approve Minutes 	There was a motion to approve the minutes of October 14, 2025, by Ana Lockwood, 	seconded by Cathy Clark. Joeci Gilchrest aye, Cathy Clark aye, Ana Lockwood aye, 	Jeanne Dupre aye, Judy Dragoslis aye.
There was a motion to adjourn by Cathy Clark, seconded by Jeanne Dupre. Joeci Gilchrest aye, Cathy Clark aye, Ana Lockwood aye, Jeanne Dupre aye, Judy Dragoslis aye.
The meeting closed at 6:56 PM.












