===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Economic Development Committee
Tuesday, April 14 th, 202 6,  5:30 PM Virtual Via Zoom
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Members Present: Chair Joeci Gilchrest, Planning Board Representative Matt Brenner, 
Member Cathy Clark, Member Judy Dragoslis, Member Jeanne Dupre , Director of  
Planning and Economic Development  Stephen Wallace
Absent Member s : Vice Chair Ana Lockwood , Select Board Representative Glen n
McLeod
The meeting opened at 5:3 4  PM .
1. Public comment
 There were no comments from the public.
2. Vote to approve minutes
 There was a motion to approve the minutes of January 13, 2026,  by  Jeanne 
Dupre  Dupre, seconded by Cathy Clark . Roll C all V ote: Joeci Gilchrest  aye, Jeanne 
Dupre  aye, Judy Dragoslis  aye, Cathy Clark aye .
3. Update from Planning Board & Director - bylaw  changes, etc.
Stephen Wallace confirmed that the Planning Board has approved 4 zoning 
amendments to be reviewed over the summer in anticipation of fall town meeting.
Ma tt Brenner shares that the Massachusetts legislators are reviewing Bill H  3680  
to extend commuter rail services to bring revenue from a hypothetical casino. The
location proposal considers a location in Fitchburg, Leominster, Ashburnham, 
Westminster or Lunenburg.  Due to this information, Stephen Wallace will be 
updat ing  the development constraints map  for the commercial and industrial 
districts.   This map will include all water and sewer lines. It will also show how 
much buildable land there is in the commercial and industrial districts.
4. EDC related  changes in Planning Office - notifications of new businesses, etc.
 Going forward, Stephen Wallace  will b e getting notification s from the Clerk ’s 
Office  when a business fills out a business certificate. This information will then 
be relayed to the Economic Development Committee.
There was discussion about the possibility of hosting ribbon cuttings. Stephen 
Wallace and Joeci Gilchrest will obtain additional  information from  Nashoba 
Valley Chamber of Commerce a nd the N orth Central Massachusetts  Chamber of 
Commerce .
===PAGE 2===
 Stephen Wallace confirms a warrant article has been put forward to create a 
revolving fund for the Economic Development  Committee . The article proposes a 
$3,000 budget.
O n April 21 at 6:30  PM there will be a public forum at the library to obtain 
community  input regarding the old gas station site located at 925 Mass Ave.
5. EDC ’s “wishlist ” in Planning Dept.
 Stephen Wallace has reviewed the business guidelines  created by the 
Committee and suggests trimming down th e document.
Cathy Clark suggests  adding information to the Economic Development 
Facebook page she created years ago. Cathy Clark will send an invite to Judy 
Dragoslis  and Joeci Gilchrest,  so they can  edit and create posts.
Stephen Wallace provided information about the SCORP program that 
businesses can utilize. It consists of retired business executives that can help put 
together a business plan.
6. Business Overview from Cathy Clark
 Ruby Donuts , Empire Athletics, and Busy B ee s Preschool  are now open for 
business.
The Freedom of Movement pilates  studio located in the village will be closing on 
May 1 st . Elena ’s  Gourmet Grocery , also located in the village, is still vacant and is now
listed on MLS.
Dunkin Donuts has pulled their application for the former Main Street Bank 
location.
7. LBA updates - 2026 Fair, LBA resource page on EDC web
 Joeci Gilchrest received permission from the Committee to share  LBA updates.
The Lunenburg Business Association has been sponsored by the Parks 
Department to partake in the 2 nd  annual Lunenburg Fair taking place on May 30 th  from 
11 AM- 5 PM.
8. Topics for next meeting
 - Review and approve minutes of February 10, 2026  
 - Information session regarding the old gas station in the center of town.
 - Ribbon cutting discussion 
- Updates regarding the Town Meet and Greet
9. Committee  comment
 There were no Committee comments.
10. Adjourn
 There was a motion to adjourn by Cathy Clark, seconded by Judy Dragoslis . Roll 
===PAGE 3===
C all V ote: Joeci Gilchrest  aye, Judy Dragoslis  aye, Jeanne Dupre  aye, Cathy Clark 
aye .
 The meeting closed  at 6: 22  PM .