===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes
November 1, 2010
Present: C.Foltz, B. Lantry, P.Slattety, R. McGrath
1. Meeting called to order at 6:35PM(
2. Minutes were reviewed and approved for 10/4/2010 meeting with one typo noted.
3. Correspondence was noted as receipt of 2 magazines related to Preservation.
4. A brief follow-up discussion was held about the Demolition Delay vote for 86 Lakefront
Avenue. P. Slattery questioned why another patcel was allowed to be dismantled and sold ir
lieu of waiting thru the 6 month period while the subject parcel was not allowed the same
provisions. C. Foltz & B. Lantry stated that it was because the vote had already been taken
for the Lakefront property and could not be redone. Because of other considerations related
to the Developers of Emerald Place and their funding of the digitizing project the matter
was tabled.
5. A discussion of the Jones House article for the Town Meeting was held. C. Foltz will
provide a statement from the Commission for the Town Meeting outlining the historic
nature of the property. P. Slattery questioned the status of the tenants for the property. C.
Foltz reported that the expectation is that the property will be vacant by the end of the
P. Slattery reported that the proposal to have ScanSmart digitize the 34 rolls of microfilm
had been presented to the Developers of Emerald Place and they have agreed to donate the
money to cover the entire cost. The Commission voted unanimously to accept the donation
pending approval by the Town Manager. P. Slattery will contact K. Speidel.
7. B. Lantry distributed an article on the Houghton House for publication in the Lunenburg
Ledger for the town wide edition at Thanksgiving. C.Foltz requested that it be sent to her
electronically so she could review it further. The Town Hall article by P. Slattery is still
pending release. No articles have been submitted for an extended period.
P. Slattery presented the preliminary layout plans for the proposed addition to the
Congregational Church on Main Street for which he is the Architect. He noted that the
presentation was informational only and no action is required by the Commission.
9. B. Lantry to investigate brass plaques for historic properties, noting that the Jones House
already has a plaque in waiting.
10. Discussion of MHC grant possibilities was held. C. Foltz to update grant outline
pt
Respectfully submitted,
Patrick J. Slattety, Acting Secretary
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 18 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
