===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes
January 3, 2011
Present: C.Foltz, B. Lantry, P.Slattery, R. McGrath
1. Meeting called to order at 6:35PM
2.
Minutes were reviewed and approved for 12/6/2010 meeting.
• Postetporn denoted hat tine exty the recit Demo Beagion manent and attempts to sell
and move the property at 86 Lakefront Avenue have been unsuccessful.
5.
The Jones House project was discussed. P. Slattery will research available advertising
Lunenburg Historical Society, P. Slattery will deliver. Final flash drive will be delivered to
the Lunenburg Library by C. Foltz. Chairman C. Foltz will send a thank you letter to
Emerald Place Development.
7. The Town Hall article by P. Slattery and Houghton House article by B. Lantry are still
pending release. No articles have been submitted for an extended period.
8. The Broadband installation project was discussed. C. Foltz will investigate its impact further
and whether it requires a response from the Historical Commission.
9. B. Lantry will teport at the next meeting about brass plaques for histotic properties.
10. P. Slattery advised again that the Montachusett Society tor the Preservation of Historic
Buildings is entertaining projects for grant consideration. C. Foltz to contact Owners of
Methodist Church to inquire about interest.
11. Town wide photo inventoty of historic properties was discussed. P. Slattery will get a copy
of the Composite Map of the Town for use at a planning workshop at the Februaty meeting.
Town areas will be identified at that time. It was felt that 5 teams of 2 people could do the
work. Adequate notice of the photo inventory needs to be advertised
12. C. Foltz reported that ethics tests still need to be completed by V. McCarthy and R.
McGrath
13. The Annual Report was reviewed and approved by the Commission. P. Slattery will deliver
to Selectmen's office.
14. P. Slattery questioned the installation of a new antenna on the own Hall and why the
Commission was not notified or asked for an opinion. C. Foltz will confer with the Town
Manager.
15. The primary project for 2011 will be the management of the photo inventory of historic
• Meeting adjourned at 7:50 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Patrick J. Slattery, Acting Secretaty
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 18 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
