===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Histotical Commission
Meeting Minutes
March 7, 2011
Present: C.Foltz, P.Slattery, R. McGrath
1. Meeting called to order at 6:35PM
Minutes were reviewed and approved for 2/7/2011 meeting
3. No correspondence of note was received.
4. C. Foltz shall check the available Talent Bank Forms to see who is interested in serving in
the vacancy on the Commission brought upon by the untimely passing of Vera McCarthy.
5. C. rese ested oh thai you 8 a we s to product fandhe id Form aid. D. sentery
as presented was incorrect. The letter was torn up by C. Foltz with the announcement that it
would be another 4 weeks before it was revised for signature.
6. P. Slattery questioned why the flash drive containing the digitized Town records had not
been given to the Library noting that 8 ½ weeks had passed since C. Foltz received it. C.
Foltz announced that the Librarian had it as of tonight's meeting.
7. P. Slattery advised of a discussion he had with the Assessor's office. He suggested that in lieu
of the planned photo inventory project planned by the Commission, a much simpler, cost
and time effective way to secure the information was to have the Assessors office download
the photo file they have as part of theit online GIS database. All agreed and C. Foltz will
deliver a flash drive to David at the Assessor's office for the download of photos.
8. C. Foltz will follow up on the advertising schedule for the Jones House with K. Speidel.
9. The Lunenburg Ledger articles were discussed noting that the Houghton House article had
been published and the Town Hall article was pending the next Town wide edition.
Discussion of future articles was tabled until a future direction and contact with the Ledger
is determined.
10. C. Foltz teported that no further action is required by the Commission relative to the
Broadband installation project.
11. C. Foltz reported that the recent antenna installation on the Town Hall clock tower was
done by the Fire Dept at will and no input ot approvals were sought.
12. Next meeting will be posted as April 4, 2011.
13. Meeting adjourned at 7:40 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Patrick J. Slattery, Acting Secretary
O4 RM
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 18 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
