===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes
November 4, 2014.
Becky tantry, Amory Phelps, Lois Lewis. Cullen Dwyer was in attendance.
Members Absent:
Richard McGrath.
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order at 6:35 p.m.
Minutes Approval:
October 7, 2014 minutes were approved.
December 2, 2014 minutes were approved.
Correspondence and Communications:
Received a request from the Lunenburg Planning Board asking for input regarding the
classification of Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road as scenic roads. (Cyrus Kilburn,
1833 map)
Received notice for the Historic Preservation Conference at the University of
Massachusetts, Amherst November 7, 2014.
Old Business:
Demolition Delay Requests:
713 Rear Reservoir Road: The Commission voted the demolition delay request did not
quality. Although historically significant, the buildings are no longer structurally sound
due to tree damage.
New Business
Adam Burney, the Land Use Director, attended the meeting to discuss the proposed
Village Center District By law, as well as, this proposed district being the extent of the
Architectural Preservation District for some continuity between the two proposals.
Discussion of making available electronically Damon McQuaid's town survey, (CD), to
the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Becky to send letter to Freedom's Way Heritage Area for information about the program
for area's "hidden treasurers" public program May 16" and 17", 2015.
===PAGE 2===
2
Becky to submit letter to the Planning Board, as so requested by the Board, for the
designation of Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road as scenic roads consistent with the
1833 Cyrus Kilburn map.
Becky to write a letter to Kerry Speidel, the town manager, to recommend Cullen Dwyer
for membership on the Historical Commission.
Lunenburg Ledger newspaper articles, Historically Speaking.
Richard to write for November
Becky to write for December
Cullen to write for January
Amory to write for February
Lois to write for March
Becky and Amory to attend the Historic Preservation Conference November 7, 2014.
Meeting Adjournment:
Meeting adjourned at 8:50 p.m.
Next meeting scheduled for December 2.
, 2014 @ 6:30 p.m. in the Ritter Building.
