===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Joint Meeting Minutes with the Planning Board
March 19, 2015
Members Present: Amory Phelps, Cullen Dwyer, Richard McGrath, Lois Lewis
Planning Board: Nathan Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison
Adam Burney, the Land Use Director, was also present.
Call to Order: 7:10 p.m.
Present Business/Unfinished Business
The Architectural Preservation District Bylaw draft was reviewed.
Comments were received from Bob Ebersole, Damon McQuaid and Nathan Lockwood.
Amory Phelps from the Historical Commission stated the purpose of this Bylaw was to
preserve the historical treasures in the proposed District and to retain the character of the
Town.
There was a discussion of substantial alteration and minor alteration and the manner in
which these alterations would be treated under the Architectural Preservation District
Bylaw.
Changes: (based partially on the March 2, 2015 meeting with the Planning Board)
Page 1: Section 1 Purpose (d), (e) and Section 2 Substantial Alteration
Page 2: Certificate to Alter: Contributing Property revised to encompass more than just
buildings and to include stone walls.
Page 3: Substitute Siding deleted and Section 6(h) deleted as to substitute siding and (i).
Section 5 Powers and Duties edited to include both minor/substantial alteration and
demolition.
Page 4: Section 7 Administrative Review/Determination of Applicability to include
minor alterations. A Determination of Applicability will either be for a binding review or
for a negative determination.
Page 5: Binding Review. The written Determination of Applicability shall be no later
than 90 days after the application is filed instead of 60 days as previously provided. (The
===PAGE 2===
same applies in Section 10: Procedures for Issuance and Filing of Architectural
Preservation District Commission Determinations).
Page 6: Section 11: Enforcement changed to include demolition by neglect and no
building permit for up to two years.
A motion to submit the Architectural Preservation District Bylaw as amended with
changes as discussed was passed unanimously.
Meeting adjourned at 10:30 p.m.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 09 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2
