===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes:
March 2, 2015
Joint Meeting with the Planning Board and the Historical Commission
Members Present:
Planning Board Members: Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan Lockwood, Damon
McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis and Matthew Allison
Historical Commission: Rebecca Lantry, Amory Phelps, Lois Lewis, Richard McGrath
and Cullen Dwyer.
Members Absent:
None.
Discussion of the Village Center District Bylaw (VCD) and Architectural
Preservation District Bylaw (APD)
Rebecca Lantry, Chairperson, of the Historical Commission expressed concern the VCD
Bylaw would encourage commercial growth in the village center district and change the
Damon McQuaid responded the VCD bylaw would actually promote a sense of
community and encourage walkability despite the Route 2A's running through the center
of the Town.
Matthew Allison opined the effect of the VCD Bylaw would be centered on new
structures whereas the APD Bylaw would be on the reuse of already existing buildings.
Rebecca Lantry gave an overview of the APD Bylaw. The APD Bylaw was in response
to the VCD Bylaw and had to be crafted very quickly by the Historical Commission.
The APD would overlie the VCD and encompass the Historical District which is the
center of the Town down to Leominster Road to Fairview Road then down Lancaster
Avenue to Rolling Acres Road then to Massachusetts Avenue and include the Brooks
House, down Oak Avenue to just before Passios and then down to Massachusetts Avenue
in the opposite direction just missing St. Boniface, but not include the old primary school
(high school).
The APD Bylaw provides for a five member commission to be appointed by the Town
Board of Selectmen, and, the Commission would be composed of a member of the
Historical Commission, a design professional, a crafts person familiar with historical
restoration and two residents of the APD.
===PAGE 2===
2
There was a discussion as to when review should be recommended versus being required.
It was suggested that Section 7 and Section 8 be combined and note alterations that
would require review. Review, if required, would be triggered when a building permit
was pulled. Section 9 (a) change "should be compatible" to "shall be compatible".
There was discussion regarding enforcement. The Historical Commission wanted the
APD to specify that enforcement shall be compatible with the demolition delay bylaw,
and that if violated, no building permit would be issued for two years. Various other
opinions were discussed for enforcement, including fines. The Historical Commission
will discuss further options.
Adjournment:
Meeting adjourned at 9:45
