===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes:
June 7, 2016
Members Present:
Becky Lantry, Amory Phelps, Lois Lewis, Richard McGrath and Cullen Dwyer.
Members Absent:
None.
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order at 6:40 p.m.
Minutes Approval:
Minutes were approved for May 3, 2016.
Correspondence and Communications:
Notice was received the Lunenburg Planning Board held a Public Hearing May 23, 2016
and discussed a storm water management special permit under Section 6.7 of the
Protective Bylaw of the Town. This special permit is for development of nine single
family home lots and associated site work at 175 Northfield Road.
At this Hearing the Planning Board also discussed a site plan review under Section 8.4 of
the Protective Bylaw of the Town. This site plan review is to replace the existing retail
facility with a single family home at 234 Summer Street.
The Department of Public Works submitted a brief comment on the Tennessee Pipeline.
New Business/ Present Business:
Richard McGrath reported there have been no new demolition delay requests.
Two properties under the Demolition Delay Plan Review, 37 Burrage Street and 203
West Townsend Road, have failed to comply with the Plan at present. As provided in the
Bylaw a failure to do so will mandate a two year waiting period for a building permit.
The Building Inspector, Michael Sauvageau, advised Richard McGrath may use the
current forms for his restoration work at the North Cemetery.
Richard McGrath will discuss the maintenance and preservation of the Town Pound with
Jack Rodriquenz, the Operations Director, of the Department of Public Work. The Towr
Pound. comprised of a stone walled keeping area secured with an iron gate and a house
has a storied history dating back to 1750. The Town owns the land and is responsible for
===PAGE 2===
2
its care, but not the house. In the past the present owner of the house has contributed to
the upkeep of the land, but being retired is not able to do so.
Becky Lantry stated the five hundred dollars ($ 500.00) from the Historical Commission
for the restoration of the receiving tomb at the North Cemetery is to be specified as a gift
from the Historical Commission.
The historical marker program for the buildings and residences will be sponsored by the
Historical Commission.
Lunenburg Ledger, Historically Speaking articles:
July
Becky Lantry
August
Richard McGrath
September Cullen Dwyer
Meeting Adjourned:
The meeting adjourned at 7:25 p.m.
The next meeting will be September 6, 2016 (or as needed in July or August and an
announcement will be posted)
