===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes:
April 5, 2016
Members Present:
Becky Lantry, Amory Phelps, Lois Lewis, Cullen Dwyer and Richard McGrath.
Members Absent:
None.
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order at 6:40 p.m.
Minutes Approval:
Minutes were approved for March 1, 2016.
Correspondence and Communications:
Material received from the National Trust for Historic Preservation was reviewed.
New Business/ Present Business:
Richard McGrath has received a demolition delay request for 206 Leominster Road (an
old barn).
Voted: Demolition Delay Review does not apply even though the property dates to 1934
or 1940 as represented on the Town Assessors Listings.
Richard McGrath reported although 37 Burrage Street has been under demolition delay
review no changes have occurred to date.
Notice has been received from the Town for the demolition of the old Junior-Senior High
School Building (1955). The only historical value of this building is in its paintings,
photographs and sports legacies of trophies and memorabilia. Richard McGrath will
forward a letter requesting these items be preserved, boxed and transferred with the
utmost care to the newly constructed Junior-Senior High School.
Amory Phelps advised the Editor of the Lunenburg Ledger, David Grossman, has
requested the Historically Speaking articles be submitted to him by the First Tuesday of
the month in which the article is to appear. Mr. Grossman's e-mail address is:
dgink(@verzon.net
===PAGE 2===
2
Articles are scheduled for:
April
Cullen Dwyer
May
Amory Phelps
June
July
Lois Lewis
Becky Lantry
August
Richard McGrath
Voted: The members of the Historical Commission elected Officers:
President
Becky Lantry
Vice President
Amory Phelps
Secretary
Lois Lewis
Cullen Dwyer reported the Architectural Preservation District Commission members are
meeting twice monthly to draft and promulgate its new rules and regulations.
Becky Lantry said the Building Reuse Committee has discussed a new and separate
committee may be formed to consider the transfer of the Town's offices to the Passios
School (projected cost 4.5 million dollars), the repair and maintenance of the Town Hall
(estimatéd cost 1.5 million dollars), and the marketing process for the Town Hall and the
Ritter Building.
Adjournment:
Meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
The next monthly meeting will be May 3, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the Ritter Building.
:
