===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes:
September 6, 2016
Members Present:
Becky Lantry, Amory Phelps, Lois Lewis, Richard McGrath and Cullen Dwyer.
Members Absent:
None.
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order at 6:45 p.m.
Minutes Approval:
Minutes were approved for June 7, 2016.
Correspondence and Communications:
There was no correspondence.
New Business/ Present Business:
Richard McGrath reported there have been no new demolition delay requests.
Two properties under the Demolition Delay Plan Review, 37 Burrage Street and 203
West Townsend Road, still have not complied with this Plan. As provided in the Bylaw a
failure to do so mandates a two year waiting period for a building permit. Michael
Sauvageau, the Building Inspector, has been so notified.
Richard McGrath has intended and will discuss the maintenance and preservation of the
Town Pound, an important historical site, with Jack Rodriquenz, the Operations Director,
of the Department of Public Work.
Richard McGrath updated the ongoing process for the restoration of the receiving tomb at
the North Cemetery. Although his services as a master mason have been offered without
expense to the Town, numerous discussions and requirements have caused him to
voluntarily withdraw his offer of services for the project.
Voted: The specified gift of five hundred dollars ($ 500.00) from the Historical
Commission for this restoration is rescinded.
Richard McGrath will so advise Lance May, Chairman of the Cemetery Department, and
the Town Manager for the Board of Selectmen.
===PAGE 2===
2
Cullen Dwyer and Richard McGrath, members of the Architectural Preservation District
Commission, reported the Commission's rules and regulation are almost completed for
submission to the Board of Selectmen. Adam Burney, the Land Use Director, has
expressed an interest to review these rules and regulations prior to this submission to the
Board of Selectmen.
Becky Lantry said the Building Reuse Committee will have a presentation for its
proposed plan to sell the Town buildings, (Town Hall, Ritter Building and the former
primary school building) and the possible transfer of Town offices to the Passios School
for the Board of Selectmen September 13h
Amory Phelps listed the schedule for the Lunenburg Ledger, Historically Speaking
articles:
September
Cullen Dwyer
October
Becky Lantry
November
Lois Lewis
December
Richard McGrath
January
Amory Phelps
Meeting Adjourned:
The meeting adjourned at 8:00 p.m.
The next monthly meeting will be October 4, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the Ritter Building.
