===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
 
Lunenburg Historical Commission 
 
Meeting Minutes: 
December 12, 2016 
 
Members Present 
: 
Becky Lantry, Lois Lewis and Richard McGrath 
 
Members Absent : 
Cullen Dwyer 
 
Call to Order :  
Meeting called to order at 7:15 p. m. 
 
Minutes Approval: 
Minutes were approved for November 9, 2016 as corrected. 
 
Correspondence and Communications : 
There was no correspondence received. 
 
New Business/ Present Business 
Lois Lewis will inquire from the Town Moderator, Attorney Timothy Murphy, about the 
Lunenburg Ledger  article for the Special Town Meeting, November 28, 2016, and the 
vote and amendment to limit the authority of the Board of Selectmen to determine the 
value of the Town Hall, Ritter Building and the Primary School (the old high school) 
building for the listing and sale of these town buildings. 
 
Becky Lantry will inquire why the property at 925 Chase Road was demolished prior to a 
review by the Historical Commission. 
 
Although a demolition delay request was filed for the property at 203 West Townsend 
Road the house and barn have been sold.  The new owner must now file another or 
second application to demolish the barn. 
 
Becky Lantry is preparing a notice for public dissemination to explain the demolition 
delay review plan for residential and commercial properties over seventy five years of 
age or possessing historical value. 
 
The Boy Scouts will publicize for the town residents the availability of historical plaques 
for older buildings.  Becky Lantry will order the requested plaques.  The Boy Scouts have 
offered to mount the plaques.  The Historical Commission will research the names, if 
requested, of the early or first owners of the buildings for inclusion on the plaques. 
===PAGE 2===
 2
Richard McGrath advised there has been nothing done as yet at the Town Pound due to 
work and vacation schedules. 
 
Lunenburg Ledger Historically Speaking  articles: 
 April  Richard McGrath 
 May   Cullen Dwyer 
 June  Becky Lantry 
 July  Lois Lewis 
 
Meeting Adjournment: 
The meeting adjourned at 7:50 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next monthly meeting will be January 3, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. in the Ritter Building.  