===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Lunenburg Historical Commission
Meeting Minutes:
February 2, 2016
Members Present:
Becky Lantry, Amory Phelps, Richard McGrath, Cullen Dwyer and Lois Lewis
Members Absent:
None
Call to Order:
Meeting called to order at 6:40 p.m.
January 6, 2016 and the January 25,2016 minutes were approved.
Correspondence:
Kinder Morgan letter on proposed pipe line. There was no further information.
Old Business:
Richard McGrath said the demolition delay is in effect for the property at 37 Burrage
Street.
Richard McGrath has discussed the restoration of the North Cemetery town tomb with
the Public Works Director of Operations, Jack Rodriguenz. No bond is needed, and the
town insurance coverage has been resolved with the town manager, Kerry Speidel. The
building at the North Cemetery continues to be a question due its deteriorating condition.
Present Business/New Business:
The Town Pound is in need of some restoration especially for the stone walls. The Town,
as the owner, has offered its assistance in this restoration.
Richard McGrath reported some town markers are missing.
Becky Lantry suggested the Historical Markers could be a simple bronze circle plaque
with the year inscribed, and could be noticed in the Ledger.
Amory Phelps provided information about the Community Preservation Act. The
Community Preservation Act would require residents to contribute to a fund based on a
certain percentage of the assessed value of the owner's real estate. This fund, with some
state support, would then be able to finance approved town projects. Approximately one
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 2 3 2016
LINENBURG TOWN
===PAGE 2===
2
hundred sixty Massachusetts towns and cities have enacted such an Act. The city of
Medford's Act was used as an example to discuss its implications for Lunenburg.
Further information is available on the Internet search "cpa.org/project/new"
Richard McGrath suggested a "walkabout" within the District would be of assistance to
the Architectural Preservation District Commission.
A demolition delay request has been received for the property at 203 West Townsend
Road. Richard MeGrath reported this forty five acre property has been neglected. It is
comprised of a house, barn and outhouse. The request will be considered at the March 1,
2016 monthly scheduled meeting.
The Historically Speaking articles for the Lunenburg Ledger are for:
February
Becky Lantry
March
Richard McGrath
April
Cullen Dwyer
May
Amory Phelps
June
Lois Lewis
July
Becky Lantry
Adjournment:
Meeting adjourned at 8:10 p.m.
Next meeting scheduled for March 1, 2016 @ 6:30 p.m. in the Ritter Building.
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 2 3 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
