===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
IS INCORP
Meeting Minutes
12-5-17, 6:30PM, Ritter Building, 960 Massachusetts Ave.
Meeting called to order by Chair Lantry at 6:55. McGrath, and Dwyer present.
Review of Minutes: Minutes from November 7th, 2017 were read and approved unanimously.
OLD BUSINESS:
Lantry spoke with the town manager's office and confirmed that the historic commission again has a budget of
$3,000 for July 2017-July 2018. The amount of $500 from last year's budget has been encumbered for use on the
town pound project, and remaining $2,500 was reserved/encumbered for the bronze marker project.
Historic Marker Project: Lantry got a quotation from plaque company for 7x10" bronze plaques. She will request
a revised quote with a discount for historical commissions and bulk orders. Lantry obtained PO # 17002392 in the
amount of $2,500 to be sent to Zimmerman Foundries. There is expected to be leftover money in the account with
he foundry for future orders.
New Member search: Lantry has posted fliers at the Historic Society.
APDC update: McGrath reported the support of the BoS and town council in getting the rules and regulations
approved. He expects that Dwyer will be reinstated as a Commissioner. Lantry expressed concern over certain
properties that she felt were being demolished by neglect. She explained how the Community Preservation Act
might be utilized for recreational spaces, elderly services and historical preservation. Funds are matched by the
state.
Review of Mass Historic's Demo Delay Bylaw handbook:
Discussion of ways to strengthen our use of the bylaw. Lantry suggested extending delay to 1 months by vote at
town meeting. Discussed past failures and possible remedies. Suggested ideas: stay in communication with Adam
Burney to ensure the procedure is being followed and that we are informed of demo-requests; deal with the
problem of unresponsive applicants; establish working relationship with fire marshal.
Lantry reviewed the form she completed from the selectmen's workshop on the town board.
Next meeting: January 2nd
ADJOURNMENT: 8:25PM
