===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Meeting Minutes
11-7-17, 6:30PM, Ritter Building, 960 Massachusetts Ave.
Meeting called to order by Chair Lantry at 6:38. McGrath, and Dwyer present
Review of Minutes: October meeting was canceled. Lantry did not have a copy of the minutes from the Septem-
ber Sth, meeting, so review of minutes was postponed.
Correspondence:
Planning Board: notice of two public hearings 11-13, not of concern to the commission
Planning Board: notice of decision to approve construction at 40 Pioneer Drive
Planning Board: notice of public hearing 10-23, not of concern
Council on Aging: request for participation in Senior Citizen Tax Work Off Program
OLD BUSINESS:
Update on Town Pound: McGrath postponed physical work on the town pound until spring, due to personal work-
load. Jack Rodriquenz acts as the town tree warden, and generally does not cut healthy trees on town property, but
may make and exception for those that endanger historic structures.
Update on Town Tomb Project: Rodriquenz also told McGrath that he is the superintendent of all buildings on
buildings on
town property, and that cemetery commission acted improperly in requiring McGrath to submit a bid to volunteer
his time in renovating the town tomb at north cemetery. He asked McGrath to reconsider his withdrawn offer.
McGrath reported that he was willing to do so. McGrath is also keen to restore the Fish Street cemetery by clearing
brush, restoring the monuments, enclosing it with a stone wall and iron gate. Historic commission may have funds
available to help with these projects, though it was not clear if town funds had been allocated for the commission as
they had last year. Lantry said she would speak to the town manager about it.
The preceding topics led to discussion of the old family burial plot recently publicized by William Tyler of the His-
torical Society. The Commission agreed that it was interested in learning the location of the plot, the names of those
buried there, and assisting in protection and restoration. Dwyer agreed to contact Tyler about the matter.
Historic Marker Project: Lantry reported that thirteen respondents have requested bronze plaques to mark build-
ings in the historic district that are recognized by the national register of historic places.
NEW BUSINESS:
Lois Louise has submitted her resignation from the historic commission. Lantry will ask the Historic Society if any
members are interested in serving on the Historic Commission. Dwyer will, for now, act ask clerk in Louise's stead.
Lantry read McGrath's letter to the BoS, explaining the difficulties that the APD faced in fulfilling its mission.
Dwyer noted that the language of the APD bylaw was weak, and left ambiguities as to how or whether the APDC
===PAGE 2===
ADJOURNMENT: 8PM
