===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Historical Commission 
September 4, 2018 
Rebecca Lantry, Chair 
Richard A. McGrath, Member 
Cullen Dwyer, Member 
Jennifer L. Sanderson, Member 
C. William Lakso, Member 
 
 
 
Minutes 
 
The regular monthly meeting of the Lunenburg Historical Commission was held this date at the 
Riter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg.Chairperson Rebecca Lantry 
called the meeting to order at 7:35 o’clock, p.m with a quorum present (Lantry, Sanderson & 
Lakso.) Present and representing the Cemetery Commission was William E. Tyler and citizen 
guest, James J. Larkin. 
 
A representative of Troop 1728 of the Boy Scouts presented a donation of $90.00 to Ms. Lantry, 
for the commission, representing the excess amount of a fund raising event related to the survey 
and installation of National Historic plaques to qualifying homes in the Historic District. 
 
Minutes of the special meeting of August 7, 2018 were reviewed and accepted by unanimous 
vote. 
 
Mr. Lakso presented copies of a report on progress being made on the inventory of homes of the 
community, referred to as the Form B Project.  The report was accepted by unanimous vote. 
 
On the subject of organizing a plan of action relative to the Primary School, a number of 
possibilities accomplished by cities and towns was presented by Mr. Lakso.  He is also 
contacting Mr. Skelly of MHS, inquiring if information is available of potential developers of  
school buildings for re-use. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Mr. Tylere and Mr. Larkin joined in the discussion of how to identify what is known as the 
Arnold – Litch burial ground.  It is understood that a blank headstone is available to the 
Cemetery Commission, and a suitable memorial plaque design has been drafted.  On motion 
regularly made and seconded, it was unanimously voted:  To arrange for the acquisition of the 
stone, create a bronze plaque to be secured to it, secure approval from the town planning board, 
and determine from the department of public works, the best location within the right of way of 
West Street Terrace to position it. 
 
There being no further business to come before the commission, the meeting was adjourned at 
7:25 o’clock, p.m. 
 
Attest: 
 
 
 
C. William Lakso 
 