===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
FIB INCORPOR
Meeting Minutes
3-12-18, 6:30PM, Ritter Building, 960 Massachusetts Ave.
Meeting called to order by Chair Lantry at 6:38. McGrath, Lakso and Dwyer present.
Review of Minutes: Minutes from February 6th, 2018 were read and approved unanimously.
Correspondence:
Lantry read the summary she had written of the Commission's activities during 2017, that she
had sent to Elaine Peterson for inclusion in the 2017 Town Report.
McGrath spoke with Land Use Director Adam Burney, who said that the town planning workshops had
generated ideas for future use of downtown properties that included demolition of the Brooks House and
the Old Primary School. McGrath contacted Mr. Skelly of Mass Historic for advice on how to handle the
matter, and Skelly referred him to Mr. Paul Hoats for advice. McGrath intends to confer with Mr. Hoats
regarding the best way to address the town's intentions, which run contrary to those of the Historical
Commissions's.
Lantry shared the Preservation Newsletter from Mass Historic.
Historic Marker Project:
Production of the bronze markers has been delayed due to questions the foundry had regarding exact
wording on the plaques and credit from over-payment. Lantry expects them to be ready for installation in
April.
Demolition Requests:
McGrath reported that he had very recently been contacted by Lisa in the Building Department regarding
99 Boucher Street. She was calling to confirm that the owners had been invited to the meeting. McGrath
did not know what matter this was in regards to, and intended to find out.
Arnold Litch Cemetery:
Lantry noted that the Mass Dept. of Conservation and Recreation DPR Freedom's Way project had
sought applications in recent years for the Heritage Landscape Inventory Program. This program would
inventory and recognize places of historical and cultural importance, including cemeteries. Lantry sug-
gested that this might be a good fist step for preserving and restoring the Anrold Litch Cemetery.
-
===PAGE 2===
limited time-frame. Once the applicant has requested a Demolition Plan Review, the current bylaw does
not allow sufficient time to announce and prepare for the review, nor does it require notification of abut-
ters or the planning board. All these problems would need to be resolved in a new version of the bylaw.
Lantry also stated that the applicants' development plan would need to be concluded before the Historical
Commission would even consider reviewing a demolition plan. She also felt that the applicant should be
required to attend the meeting in person before the Historical Commission should be required to rule on
applicability of demolition delay. These proposals inspired much debate regarding how the procedure
would worded in the bylaw. Mass Historic's suggestion of a $300/day fine for violations also inspired
debate.
The commission agreed that more time would be needed to consider, discuss and research changes to the
bylaw before an agreement could be reached as to its revision. Lakso also noted that the APDC would
need to agree to the changes as well. It was felt among members present that a revised bylaw would not
be submitted to the Town Warrant before the fall of 2018.
New Business:
McGrath observed that a historic stone wall had been demolished on the corner of Holman and Northfeild
roads, in violation of the scenic ways bylaw. He attributed it to ignorance of the law, and planned to dis-
cuss it with the Building Department, to ensure that the wall was restored to its original condition.
Next meeting: April 3rd, 2018
RECEIVED & FILED
Adjournment: 8:35PM
APR 05 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
