===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INCORPO
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Meeting Minutes
4-3-18, 6:30PM, Ritter Building, 960 Massachusetts Ave.
Meeting called to order by Chair Lantry at 6:55. All members present.
Review of Minutes: Minutes from March 12th, 2018 were read and approved unanimously.
Historic Marker Project: Lantry reported that the markers had arrived from the foundry.
Demolition Requests:
John and Brian Herrick appeared to defend their application for demolition of a house at 99 Boucher Rd.
McGrath had inspected the property from the outside. It appeared to be a very simply built house from
the 1940's on a rubble foundation. After several questions and some discussion, the Commission decided
that the house was of little historical value and voted unanimously to permit demolition. McGrath was to
inform the building inspector of the decision the following day.
The applicants complained that they found it difficult to find contact information for the Historical Com-
mission. Lakso had noticed that the information on the town website was in need of revision, and provid-
ed a list of improvements for Dwyer to complete. Dwyer will contact Steve Malandrinos to update the
web page, and Lantry will ensure that the Demolition Delay Determination form used by the Building
Department is revised to include contact information as well.
Form B project:
Chair Lantry requested that the commission proceed in taking inventory of all historic properties in the
town, especially the "K-houses" noted on the 1934 map of Lunenburg by Cyrus Kilburn. Sanderson and
Lakso, also of the Historical Society, had much material prepared for the project. The Commission dis-
cussed the Form B format used by Mass Historic to inventory significant historical resources. Former
commissioner Damon McQuaid had made some progress on the project; Dwyer and Lantry agreed to lo-
cate his electronic files on the project.
Stone Walls:
Richard McGrath contacted the building department regarding the demolition of a protected stone wall on
Northfield and Holman roads. The building department explained that the demolition was done for for-
estry purposes, and referred the matter to the Conservation Commission. McGrath contacted Matt Mar-
row who agreed to require the logger to restore the wall. McGrath noted that the wall was casually built
and that restoration could also be casual.
Sanderson noted that another wall had been demolished on Northfield across from the golf course.
Mcgrath agreed to investigate the matter.
===PAGE 2===
Brooks House and Primary School:
McGrath had not contacted Mr. Hoats of Mass Historic yet, but requested that Lakso and Sanderson write
articles for the Lunenburg Ledger on these historic buildings to make people aware of their historical im-
portance.
Franklin S. Francis house:
McGrath inspected the work in progress at 944 Mass Ave. He noted a grand fireplace with a granite man-
tel and Lyre-shaped brickwork. He also reported that, contrary to what is written in the Heritage of the
Turkey Hills, the house is not balloon-framed.
Historic Milestones:
McGrath reported that he had undertaken painting in the letters of the historical milestones in town with
archival lithographic paint. The markers at Flat Hill, Reservoir, and Fish streets had been painted, but the
one on Page street still needed attention. Also, the one on Fish Street has a fissure on the top that threat-
ened to break the stone, which he intended to fill with waterproof epoxy.
He also offered to replace two milestones that currently sit out in back of the Historical Society building.
Sanderson and Lakso expressed enthusiasm for this endeavor, and agreed to vote on the measure at the
Historical Society meeting the following day. Lantry motioned to encumber the Commission's budget to
the limit of current available funds for the project. The motion carried unanimously.
Arnold Litch cemetery:
McGrath intended to speak to Jack Rodiquenz regarding the Commission's rights and responsibilities in
protecting and restoring the cemetery. Lakso quoted a passage from Mass General Law explaining that
construction and use of such sites must stop until the state archeologist was able to inspect and report on
the site. He said the state archeologist was willing to visit and help the cause.
Next meeting: May Ist, 2018
Adjournment: 8:25PM
