===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HISTORICAL COMMISSION 
SEPTEMBER 7, 2021 
MINUTES 
 
Chairman Richard McGrath opened the monthly meeting at the Ritter Memorial Building at 7:01 p.m. with a 
quorum present. 
Minutes of the June 23, 2021 meeting we read and amended.  On motion regularly made and seconded, it was 
unanimously VOTED:  To approve the minutes as amended. 
No correspondence was introduced.  Public Comment was passed by, there being no public present. 
New business introduced:  The Pond View 40B project of Mr. Kevin O’Brien was introduced by Mr. McGrath 
and discussed. Mr. Lakso was requested for formulate a response to the town manager, citing the commission’s 
experience in working with Mr. O’Brien during his application for demolition of the former Aro Poultry Farm 
home at 400 Howard Street. O’Brien’s failure to properly secure the house and lack of response to the 
demolition delay requirements of Chapter 134-4 of town bylaws will be included in the response. 
That same discussion segued into the APDC update listed in the agenda.  Mr. McGrath indicated that to reach 
the required percentage of Chapter 40B housing, eighteen units are required.  The Primary School, he stated, 
could accommodate low-income housing to satisfy the requirement, if renovated for that purpose.  It is apparent 
that the select board favors demolishing the building at present. Should the select board appeal a negative ruling 
by the APDC, a vote of the people at town meeting will be the deciding factor. 
Jennifer Sanderson and Megan Lordan were asked to research the residency if African Americans in town.  It 
was noted by Mr. McGrath that historically, there were “indentured servants” engaged here.  It was suggested 
that the Fitchburg Historical Society may have additional information. 
Demolition Delay Bylaw amendments were sent to the town manager March 30 by Mr. Lakso.  He was asked to 
follow up to determine the current status.  
Mr. McGrath reported the memorial stone and plaque for the Arnold-Litch burial ground are ready for 
installation, tentatively on September 20.  A proper base has been prepared. Kevin Boussom is invited to be 
present to video record the installation. 
Additional restoration work on the Goodrich family burial ground requires the removal of brush, to be 
accomplished by the DPW. Mr. McGrath has obtained a blank marble headstone and will recreate the badly 
damaged Captain Goodrich stone. 
The Cemetery Commission, with the assistance of Mr. McGrath, is working on preparing a Form E for the town 
tomb at North Cemetery, which will be submitted to the Massachusetts Historical Commission. 
Mr. Lakso reported that articles for the “Historically Speaking” are completed and ready for publishing, ending 
in January 2022. 
The next meeting of the commission was established as October 5, 2021 at 7:00 p.m. 
With no further business at hand, the meeting was adjourned at 7:55 p.m. 
 
  