===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Public comment consisted of status reports by guest William E. Tyler, chairman of the Lunenburg Cemetery
Commission, of work being accomplished at the Goodrich family burial ground and the Arnold-Litch burial
ground. Tree work at the Goodrich site was accomplished March 24 by Flagg Tree Service. An excavation will
be requested of the DPW for a trench to serve for stone wall replacement. Necessary clearing at the Arnold-
Litch site will be executed soon by Mr. McGrath and volunteers. It was also noted that member Kevin
Boussom will be videotaping work at the sites.
Mr. Tyler reported he is also executing MHC forms B and E in hopes of applying for National Register
Recognition of North and South cemeteries.
Mir. McGrath reported that the Primary School is a topic of interest in discussions relative to the T C Passios
project/new town hall reported in the Lunenburg Ledger. He also mentioned activity by the APDC relative to
save the Brooks House building, now on the same lot as the TC Passios building.
Mr. Lakso reported that the Ledger and the Fitchburg Sentinel-Enterprise will be running articles on historic
houses on a monthly basis, with articles already prepared taking the series into August.
On the subject of the town survey of K-houses for inventory purposes for submission to MHC, Mr. Lakso
reported a binder with substantial information had been located at the local historical society and will prove to
be a valuable aid in determining a course of action to complete surveys. Mr. Lakso and Mr. McGrath will meet
separately to examine the information.
Demolition Delay bylaw amendments which have been proposed, dated March 24, 2021, and accompanying
questionnaire of the same date were read by Mr. McGrath. On motion made and seconded, the amendments
were unanimously voted approved
Mr. McGrath commented on the residence at the corner of Whiting Street and Lancaster Avenue, that shingles
were falling from the roof, exposing wood sheathing. He will contact the owner and offer to repair the
condition. He also noted seeing a plaque mounted on a home, recognizing efforts of the homeowner to restore
and maintain a historic home in good condition, and rendering an opinion that the commission might wish to
consider doing the same locally, bringing attention to the public, of the owner's effort.
There being no further business, the meeting was then adjourned.
C. William Lakso
Vice Chairman
