===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
McGrath called the meeting to order at 7:12 p.m. with a quorum present. Also present were Ms.
Megan Lordan and William Tyler, chairman of the cemetery commission.
Mr. McGrath welcomed all, particularly Ms. Lordan, who is interested in possibly filling the
vacancy on the commission. She commented that her interest had been peaked by the articles
being published in local media, featuring some of the historic homes in town. Mr. McGrath
stated he will communicate with the select board, recommending her appointment.
Mr. McGrath reported the town is moving to demolish the old primary school in the town center,
and create an open space park. He also confirmed the passage of Article 24 at the recent town
meeting, granting appeal process to town meeting as opposed to the current authority of the
Architectural Preservation District Commission.
Mr. Tyler and Mr. McGrath reviewed conditions and status of preservation efforts at the Arnold
- Litch burial ground on West Street Terrace, and the Goodrich cemetery on Fish Street. Each
will be videotaped by member Kevin Boussom for a documentary he is producing. Mr. McGrath
confirmed he will be volunteering to do repair work in restoration of gravestones, and a stone
wall at the Fish Street Site.
As noted in a previous meeting records, Mr. McGrath effected a temporary roof repair at a home
situated at the intersection of Lancaster Avenue and Whiting Street.
Several properties within the APD are "in danger" reported Mr. McGrath. In particular, the
steeple on the former Methodist Church; stone walls at the town pound, and the Brooks House,
situated on school property. From a preservation standpoint, the Brooks House deserves to be
preserved, in the opinion of this commission and the APDC.
"There should be better communications between the several town boards and commissions,"
stated Mr. McGrath, who will endeavor to seek details pertinent to the work of each, relative to
what might be significant to this commission, and of value to all.
There being no further business before the commission, the meeting was adjourned at 8:02 p.m.
C. William Lakso
Vice Chairman
