===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG HISTORICAL COMMISSION 
MINUTES OF MEETING 
APRIL 5, 2022 
Meeting called to order at 7:10 by Chairman Richard McGrath with a quorum present. No public 
present. Minutes of February 15th meeting were read by Secretary Jennifer Sanderson and 
unanimously accepted. 
No new correspondence, no public present. 
NEW BUSINESS:  Richard McGrath has received a talent bank form from William Loyd of 
Highland St. Mr. Loyd is a member of the US Airforce, with a background in construction and 
civil engineering in addition to human resources and project management. A copy of the agenda 
was sent to him by Richard, but he is not present. 
AFRICAN AMERICANS IN LUNENBURG:  Richard has been in contact with the architect 
who has worked with both the Medford and Townsend Historical Societies who informed him 
that the census of 1740-1760  has all slaves listed in Mass.Mass was the first colony to outlaw 
slavery in 1783. Negroes are identified by the letter C in these censuses. 
LITCH CEMETARY: Richard will be finishing up over the course of the next few weeks, at 
which point we will take photos to accompany a press release.  
Not much public attendance for the APDC CTA meeting about 30 School St. Strong support in 
favor of tearing it down. The general consensus is that it is beyond repair, and only going to 
attract more vandalism. The town never properly mothballed the property, which would have 
improved its current condition. The vote has been postponed for several weeks. The Selectboard 
has complained that the APDC is violating the rules by continuing to advocate for saving the 
building. Will go to town meeting in November. 
K HOUSE SURVEY:  Jennifer Dougherty has suggested that we check the Mass Historical 
Preservation website for names of consultants, and send out an inquiry detailing our needs.  
Richard spoke with Ryan Hayward of the Medford Society and learned that several planning 
grants are coming up. 
Still nothing happening with 68 Elm St.  
Motion to adjourn. Next meeting May 3,2022 