===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Historical Commission 
 
 
Richard McGrath, Chair 
Bill Lakso, Vice Chair 
Kevin Boussom, member 
Jennifer Sanderson, member 
Megan Lordan, member 
                           
  Meeting Minutes 
Thursday, May 2, 2024 
Ritter Building 
 
Present: McGrath, Lakso, Sanderson 
Call to Order at 7 pm 
Correspondence 
- Chair McGrath received an email from Anna Lockwood requesting the recording of meetings. 
- Chair McGrath received an email from Tony Sculimbrene, chair of the APDC, stating that Town Council said 
that it is possible to extend the APD to include 763 Massachusetts Ave, transferring the Demo Delay authority 
to the APDC. He also said that the APD could be extended town wide, but would require a warrant and vote at 
Town Meeting. 
- Chair McGrath spoke at the Cemetery Commission informing them of progress at the Litch and Goodrich 
cemeteries, discussing historic status and condition of North and south cemeteries, and the Town Tomb at 
North Cemetery. McGrath documented the North Cemetery for the Mass Historical Commission. Possible grant 
sources were discussed. The Cemetery Commission wants to replace the overgrown hedge along Holman 
Street with a stone wall. McGrath commented that it was a good choice in keeping with the historic nature of 
North Cemetery, other cemeteries in town, as well as throughout Massachusetts. McGrath commented on his 
experience with towns and viewing projects that other towns have adopted and received funding from the 
Community Preservation Act. He pointed out that cemeteries in Medford, Boxboro, Somerville, and Stoneham 
have received money for wall repair and restoration, as well as gravestone and general cemetery restoration, 
survey, and documentation. 
Public Comment 
- Ana Lockwood spoke concerning perceived misinformation in the minutes regarding the underground 
structures at Marshall Park and the testimony of members of the Park Commission in attendance at the 
Historical Commission meeting. She would like to see the Commission meetings video recorded. 
Town Wide Survey 
- no new information 
Hometown Heroes Banners  
- expect progress in June 
763 Mass Ave Demo Delay 
- Someone wishing to purchase and restore property was told it was under contract, despite a for sale sign in 
front of the property. 
Budget 
- Fund to be used for Hometown Heroes Banner program 
 

===PAGE 2===
Other Business 
- McGrath and Commissioners to clean and restore antique directional markers being stored at the Historical 
Society, with the intention to reset them in their original positions in town. 
- McGrath reported that the historic home at the corner of Lancaster Ave and Goodrich St was experiencing 
Demolition by Neglect, as the barn has a large hole in it. 
Meeting Adjournment 7:26 pm 
 