FY27 Budget Presentation
Sewer Enterprise
Bill Bernard, DPW Director, March 12, 2026

Department 
Overview
Key Services
The Sewer Commission bears the responsibility of overseeing the Sewer Enterprise Fund, planning for the future, and developing and implementing rules, regulations, and policies. Under the Town’s Charter, responsibility for the day-to-day operation, care and maintenance of the sanitary sewers are under the supervision of the Town Manager who delegates the responsibility to manage and maintain the operational side of the system to the Department of Public Works’ Director. The Town of Lunenburg does not operate a sewer treatment plant. Approximately 87% of Lunenburg sewer is discharged to the City of Leominster, and the other 13% is discharged to the City of 
Fitchbur

Organizational Structure
Staffing
 
Overview
The Sewer Commission oversees the operation of the Sewer Enterprise.  
The DPW Director oversees the operation of the sewer system.  
A 
full-time Sewer Business Manager assisted by a part-time Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager and a part-time Clerk oversee the business functions of the Sewer Enterprise.
A specialty contractor oversees the operation and maintenance of the sewer systems.

Betterments VS Debt Service
Revenues      vs      Expenses

Disposal Costs to Leominster and Fitchburg

Retained Earnings

Total FY27 Budget Request
The proposed budget of 
$
1,981,993.06 
reflects
 a 4.71% 
increase
 from 
the
 prior year, ensuring continued delivery of essential services and addressing rising operational costs.
$1,981,993.06
Major cost drivers 
Disposal Costs
Shrinking Betterments
Not using Retained Earnings

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Fiscal Year 2027 Sewer Budget

Funding Sources
The department’s funding sources include User Charges, Fees, Betterments, Interest, and other sources ensuring fiscal responsibility and transparency while maintaining essential services for our community.

User Rate Increase

User Rate Increase
Leominster increased their rate to us by 16.17% in FY 25 and 3% in FY 26
Fitchburg increased their rate to us by 7% in Fiscal Years 24-29

FY27 Summary &amp; Recap
Increasing costs, decreasing betterment revenues, and not using retained earnings to balance the budget resulted in the need to increase user rates to balance the budget.

THANK YOU!
ANY QUESTIONS?
Bill Bernard, DPW Director, March 12, 2026