===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES
DECEMBER 9, 2024 Lunenburg Adult Activity Center 7:00 p.m.
Members present: Cathy Clark, Lois Filiau, Dawn Johnson, Debbie Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Chris 
Sullivan, Bill Tyler, Tony Sculimbrene, Liaison Caesar Nuzzolo
Members absent: Michelle Belleza, Laura Brzozoski
Guests: Hailee Attorri, Jeanne Dupre
The meeting was brought to order at 7:07 by Chairman Pete Lincoln.
COMMITTEE COMMENTS:
Cathy Clark brought a variety of Lunenburg Christmas ornaments and suggested they would be a 
good fundraiser.
Pete Lincoln announced the next meeting would be 4/28/25, and that would be the ﬁrst true 
organizational meeting. He also reported that Oﬃcer Sean Zrate would be your liaison for the Police, 
Fire and DPW. Our job as a Committee is not to do everything ourselves, but to encourage 
townspeople and organizations to get involved and have as much community participation as 
possible.
The most-wanted event is the bonﬁre, but where it can be held is a persistent problem. The Fire 
Department is now unionized and not anxious to support the event. Town owned land does not 
seem a feasible location at this time, or even in the near future. Privately owned land would raise 
insurance questions. Bill and Tony are going to look into this, and Dawn will talk with Jim Lattanzi.
Debbie mentioned an encounter with Marc Valentine, the “Flag Truck Guy,” in Halifax, and the 
possibility of his bringing 90’ ﬂags for our birthday celebration.
Dawn suggested a Scavenger Hunt with signs placed around town, and Cathy suggested they be 
sponsored by local businesses.
Hailee is going to try to bring the schools into the celebration, teaching Lunenburg History, also 
involving the Drama Club, and potential Community Service.
All agreed publicity was essential through The Ledger and Facebook and the Committee spreading 
the word.
MINUTES
Motion to approve minutes by Dawn, seconded by Bill, and were approved unanimously with the 
correction of one typo.
PROGRESS ON PROJECTS
Pete and Debbie will fund the signs and the cairn as their personal projects, so no fundraising will be 
necessary for those projects. Pete has several leads on providers for signs.
Dan Proctor is looking for a potato-shaped rock.

===PAGE 2===
There is an All Vendors Fair May 10th sponsored by Parks and LBA. There is a $40 fee. We should 
be a presence at that event. There will be a follow-up to see if we need to pay the fee.
The Marshall Park completion date is still TBD, so there is no certainty we can plan events at that 
venue, which leaves the question of where can large groups assemble?
ACTIVITIES SUGGESTIONS
Tony suggested the use of Memorial Drive for events such as community suppers.
Tony thought an Informational Bulletin Board would be useful, and Chris recommended a Town 
Calendar of Events and volunteered to head up a Facebook page.
An agenda item for the next meeting is how do we best connect with other town organizations and 
committees.
There were street-wide banners for the last celebration, and Lois wondered where they were, and if 
we could do something similar for the 300th.
Dawn motioned to adjourn at 8:06, Cathy seconded, and the motion passed unanimously.
NEXT MEETING: MONDAY , APRIL 28, 2025, 7:00 LUNENBURG LIBRARY , SUDOLNIK ROOM 