===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 300TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE MEEETING MINUTES
FEBRUARY 26,2024  Sudolnik Room, Lunenburg Library 7:00 p.m.
Members Present:  Michelle Belleza, Kathy Comeau, Dawn Johnson, Debbie Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Tony 
Sculimbrene, Bill Tyler, Liaison Lou Franco
Members Absent:  Laura Brzozoski, Cathy Clark, Lois Filiau, Chris Sullivan
Guest: Ana Lockwood
The meeting was called to order at 7:07 by Chair Pete Lincoln. He stated the general feeling that the 
Committee had been formed prematurely, and probably should not have been organized until 2026. For the 
past two celebrations, teams began meeting three years out. What members can do in the meantime is get 
ideas as to events and places to hold them.
Minutes were approved with the parade date corrected to Sunday, 9/10/2028.
Guest Ana Lockwood presented the idea of a Carnival on Whalom Lakefront, closing Lake Front Avenue. 
Parking could be made available at local businesses and shuttle buses used. Facilities Manager Chris Ruth 
is familiar with ﬁreworks set-ups and has contacts. They would cost $12,000 with barges on Lake Whalom, 
and $6,000 without the barges. We would need to factor cost of the shuttles.
Ana also suggested multiple rides reminiscent of Whalom Park, and perhaps a bouncy house. There are 
vendors who would give us 20% of gross event proﬁts, and pay 50% of ﬁreworks if we held a multi-day 
event. A potential Whalom Day in years leading up to 2028 would help us gauge the event and build up 
anticipation, likely in May with ﬁreworks to begin the tradition.
Ana indicated the biggest park area in town is Northﬁeld Park - 64 acres on the left just before Settlers 
Crossing. Debbie asked if the Selectboard could do a walk through and Lou indicated he would bring it up 
at the next meeting.
COMMITTEE PROGRESS REPORTS
Bill noted the Historical Society is at work on a n update to the “Red Book,” so there is no need for 
Committee involvement at this time.
Dawn said the Lions Club would be available for food booths. 
Kathy said she would work with the Humane Society to set up an Adoption Week.
Pete spoke with a representative from the Woo Sox. Lunenburg can arrange for a Sunday to have a 
Lunenburg Day with a kids run the bases and have the oldest veteran throw out the ﬁrst pitch.
Debbie got the approval from the Cemetery Commission for the Halloween Ghost Walk. It was suggested if 
there was enough interest and resources, there should be walks at both North and South Cemeteries.
Debbie also spoke with Robin Venezia, who oﬀered to spearhead a Colonial Community Garden, with crops 
grown during the 1720s such as ﬂax and potatoes.

===PAGE 2===
NEW IDEAS
Pete suggested Luther Burbank Week, with events such as potato races and a stone marker at the 
Burbank House, and one at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center where the potatoes were actually grown. 
Dawn mentioned the Lions Club had already talked of having a Potato Festival.
Debbie showed pictures of various styles of historical markers and referred to the Athol Historical Trail, 
which has 24 signs around Athol delineating various homesteads and events. Sign placement could be 
Town Pound, Luther Burbank House, West St. School, Whalom Park, Site of Buttonwood Tree, etc.
Bill brought up the “Ice Out,” where a dummy is placed on Whalom Lake and bets are placed when it will 
fall through the ice. Could also be one on Marshall Pond. 
FUNDRAISING SUGGESTIONS
Michelle suggested namig the “Ice Out” dummy, with prize for the winner
Dawn had looked into what Westminster did for their dogs for the Westminster Cracker sponsorship, but it 
didn’t seem that they made money on it
Dawn  suggested a Facsimile of New Yorker magazine cover made as Lunenburg as a poster.
A motion for adjournment was called for and seconded at 8:39.
The next meeting will be September 9, 2024 at 7:00 at the library in the Sudolnik Room.
