
TOWN OF LUNENBURG, MASSACHUSETTS
FIRE DEPARTMENT
                   655 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
       CHIEF
Patrick A. Sullivan
 TEL: (978) 582-4155
 FAX: (978) 582-4033







Budgetary Impacts of No Override Budget- Fire Department

SUMMARY- The main effect visible to the public in this budget as proposed will be the loss of some Per diem coverage to supplement the Career Staff.  The other changes, while still important are things that will be happening “behind the scenes”.  They will result in less training opportunities for staff and deferred replacement and maintenance of equipment, especially in EMS Equipment Maintenance if not funded at the requested level.

Line- Call Firefighter Salaries

Reduction- $66,070.34

IMPACT- This decrease effectively decreases the planned per diem coverage in the FY 2027 Budget request from 112 hours/week to 70 hours/week.  The effect of this cut is as follows:
The Career Staff will be supplemented by a Per diem FF/EMT 10 hours/day instead of 16 hours/day.  
While the exact hours that are covered are yet to be determined, the Per diem Firefighter coverage would supplement the Career Staff during the day.  This would leave evening coverage at 3 Career Staff.
Without the 4th Per Diem Firefighter in the evening, it will be more difficult to staff the 2nd ambulance or have at least 2 Firefighters to respond on an initial Fire call if the 1st ambulance is out.  If we have insufficient callback for calls during that time, we will be relying more on mutual aid.  This will further strain an already taxed mutual aid system.
While this may not be visible to the average resident, it may be very visible to someone waiting for an out of town ambulance vs. an immediate response by our second ambulance.
In short, combined with the 4th shift, there is still an overall improvement in service, but not to the extent that would have been possible under the 2027 Budget Request.
The Nashoba Mitigation Funds (if ever released by the State) will temporarily cover this gap, but it will only cover it until the end of FY 2027





Line- Out of Grade Pay- 

Reduction- $2000

Impact- While this line is reduced by $2000, it should be noted that with the addition of the 4th shift, there will be an additional shift officer.  This will result in additional out of grade pay for some coverage for this individual.  While the total amount in the line appears to be adequate, if it is exceeded, the funding will have to be drawn from another line as this is a contractual item.

Line- Training Firefighters-

Reduction- $25,473.13

IMPACT- While this line has been underspent for several years, it is primarily due to not needing to cover overtime and shift coverage for a member attending Paramedic Training.  With the addition of the 4th shift, it is more than likely that one or more hires will have to attend said training.  While the amount in the balanced budget should cover a Paramedic Student, it leaves very little funding for other members attending training such as:

Bi-weekly training (For both Call and Career Staff)
EMS Training (Required for all EMS Staff 40-48 hours every two years)
Fire Prevention Officer 1 & 2 recredentialing for two Fire Prevention Officers
Other Fire and EMS related training as available
It should be noted that some of the above training is contractually mandated
While the restrictions on training may not be visible to the public, it may penalize the Department in an Insurance Services Office (ISO) Grading inspection.  This sets the fire insurance rates for many insurance companies and may have an indirect effect on resident’s insurance premiums.  It is one factor among many in a review, but would be noted.

Line- Equipment Maintenance-EMS-

Reduction- $1000

IMPACT- This has been the most volatile line in our expense budget as far as anticipating and controlling costs.  Our EMS call volume has continued to grow, and the cost of consumable supplies and medications has continued to skyrocket.  Annual maintenance on some EMS equipment such as cardiac monitors, stretchers and other hardware has also seen significant increases in recent years.  While this line does have an increase it is not in line with the FY 2027 Request.  In years past, this line has gone over budget and we have had to transfer from other lines to cover expenses.  The line we often draw from to do this has also been cut in the FY 2027 balanced budget.  This may necessitate drawing from more critical expense lines, further reducing our ability to maintain and/or replace firefighting equipment.  









Line- Outside Training- EMS- 

Reduction- $6000- 

IMPACT- This line has been for hiring in outside instructors for training and covering tuition for Paramedic Students.  It has been underspent in past years since we have not had to send anyone to Paramedic school since FY 2023.  With the addition of the 4th shift it is anticipated that we will have to train at least one or more new hires as Paramedics.  The amount left in the line should just cover one person for Paramedic School Tuition. This leaves no additional funding for bringing in outside instructors for EMT and Paramedic Continuing Education Training.  Outside Instructors are critical to providing a balanced mix of inhouse, outside and online training for our EMS personnel.

Unfortunately, this is another line that is generally invisible to the public but has a significant impact on our operations.  Quality training for our staff is critical for our staff to continue to provide the high level of service we provide to the residents.


Line- Recertification- EMS- 

Reduction- $1,150

IMPACT-While this line is reduced to being inline with recent actual expenditures, it should be noted that we may potentially add 3 new Full Time Staff.  While the Full Time staff do not receive recertification bonuses, we do cover their recertification costs.  At $150/person, this may slightly exceed the budgeted amount, requiring us to draw from another line.
Again, while not directly visible to the public, the effect of the cut is it may requiring transfers from other sources to cover the expenses.  This in turn may further limit other parts of the operation depending on what line we have to draw from.


Line- Firefighter Training/Supplies- 

Reduction- $2000

IMPACT- This line covers training expenses such as textbooks and other materials for Firefighter training.  Other materials often includes materials to build training props and other consumable supplies.  While not a cut visible to the public, it is another potential limitation on training possibilities for Staff.


Lines- Meetings/School Firefighters & Meetings/School- 

Reductions- $2565 & $600 respectively

IMPACT- These lines cover tuitions and similar expenses for members attending seminars, training, etc.  The difference in the lines is the Meetings/School line pertains specifically to the Fire Chief, while the other line covers the remaining staff.  While the cut is inline with past expenditures, costs have risen for many of the training seminars.  There are also many new trainings which are coming to the forefront.  (Lithium Ion Batteries, active shooter incidents, photovoltaic systems to name a few) These trainings were not “on the radar” a few years ago.  Again, while not visible to the public, the cuts further restrict our personnel training to stay current with emerging safety threats.


Line- Capital Protective Equipment- 

Reduction- $2000

IMPACT- While not a significant cut, it is also balanced against ever increasing costs of Personal Protective Equipment.  This line was increased last Fiscal Year, and is just keeping pace with inflation with the goal of purchasing 4-5 sets of PPE per year.  Even a small reduction cuts into what we can replace each year.  It should be noted that Firefighting Protective Equipment has a lifespan of 10 years.  And the generally recommended practice is to have a spare set for personnel to allow proper decontamination and cleaning after each fire or hazardous materials incident.


Line- Capital Replacement Equipment- 

Reduction- $0 from FY 26, $3400 decrease from FY 27 request

IMPACT-This line covers replacement of worn and obsolete firefighting equipment, such as hose, nozzle, thermal imagers and other miscellaneous tools.  Like most other items, this equipment has seen significant cost increases in the last few years.  We have been fortunate that this has been offset by the State Firefighting Safety Grant, however it is unknown whether this grant will continue in FY 2027.  While this line stays stable with FY 2026, the requested increase in the FY 2027 budget was to get ahead of expected cost increases.  Again, not something that may be obviously visible to the public.  It is more of an effect behind the scenes in either increased maintenance costs for older equipment or delayed replacement of broken/failed equipment.

Salary Reserves/Call FF- While this is listed with my budget, I believe this is part of the front desk watch for PD.  Not sure why it’s listed with the FD or mentions Call FF’s.


Line-Vehicle Maintenance Supplies- 

Reduction- $4000

IMPACT- This line covers purchase of supplies and parts (components, filters, fluids, light bulbs, etc) that generally be repaired in house or by the DPW Mechanic.  While Vehicle Maintenance as a whole shows a slight increase from FY 2026, it is still short of the FY 2027 request for overall vehicle maintenance.  While Purchase of Service shows the requested increase for repairs that must be outsourced to outside vendors, it is offset by a decrease in Supplies.  Vehicle Maintenance is always a moving target as to what can be fixed in house and what much be sent out.  While the last two years have seen overruns in sending equipment out, there have been years where in-house costs have been significant as well.  The total increase in the Vehicle Maintenance line was intended cover anticipated cost increases due to inflation.  The ultimate effect of the reduction in the balanced budget may be deferred maintenance on some apparatus.  Again, something the public may not see every day.  Unless they are waiting for an out of town unit due to something of our being out of service due to delayed maintenance.

Line- Radio Maintenance- 

Reduction- $0 from FY 26, $5000 form FY 27 request

IMPACT- This line covers maintenance, replacement and repair of radio system components, including portables, mobile radios, repeater systems and pagers

Leaving the budget at FY 26 levels will limit us on replacement and repair of broken or worn out portable radios, mobile radios and pagers.  Costs on these items, like everything else have increased dramatically in the last few years.  And the line has not been increased in over 10 years. The goal has been to replace 1-2 portable radios per year, but as the cost now stands at around $4500/radio for a fireground quality radio this is becoming increasingly difficult.









PAGE  







