
Budget Task Force
Thursday, July 11, 2024
5:30 PM
Revised AGENDA
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall

Budget Task Force Members
Anthony Sculimbrene, School Committee
Evan Watters, Finance Committee
Ezequiel Ayala, Jr., Director of Municipal Finance/Town Accountant
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Kate Burnham, Ed.D., Superintendent Lunenburg Public Schools
Renee Emkey, Select Board
Susan Gilson, Ph.D., Director of Administration and Finance Lunenburg Public Schools

In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meeting

To join the meeting remotely, via Zoom: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607?omn=88372359382 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Meeting ID: 766 316 7607# If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to speak.

Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.

The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.

Agenda
Open meeting						6. Comment
Election of chair, vice chair, and clerk				Public
Discussion of logistics:						Budget Task Force
Meeting frequency and time			7. Adjourn
Setting up a drive to share documents (Google drive, Sharepoint, ?)
Discussion of strategy and plan to accomplish charge
Action items for next meeting












