FY27 Budget Presentation
Department Of Public Works
William Bernard, DPW Director, March 12 , 2026 

Department 
Overview
Key Services
Highway Division – Roads and all Appurtenances
Pavement Management
Stormwater
Bridges/Culverts
Trees
Roadside Vegetation Maintenance
Landfill monitoring
Recycle and Trash Program
Lake Shirley Dam
Winter Operations
Cemetery
Wastewater
Fleet Maintenance

Organizational Structure
Staffing
 
Overview
The staff consists of one Director, one Executive Assistant (shared with the Facilities Department), one Highway Superintendent, 4 Heavy Equipment Operators, one Driver/Laborer, one Mechanic, one Cemetery Superintendent, two Seasonal Cemetery Laborers, one Sewer Business Manager, and one Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager. 
New for Fiscal Y
ear 2027 is a Part-Time Clerk (non-benefitted). 

Service Trends by Fiscal Year
Increasing costs for:
Pavement Management
Snow and Ice
Stormwater
Trees

Total FY27 Budget Request
The proposed budget of 
$
3,178,177.51 
reflects
 a 28.31
% increase
 from 
the
 prior year, ensuring continued delivery of essential services, addressing rising operational costs, restoring Pavement Management Funding, and adding funding for MS4 Compliance.
  Note the FY 27 Budget is only 9.19% greater than the actual spending in FY 25.
$3,178,177.51
Major cost drivers 
Restore Pavement Management
Add to Stormwater to meet MS4 compliance
Unknown Salary Increases
Note:  
This budget is the same as the Town Manager’s Preliminary Budget dated 03/03/2026 with one exception.
This budget restores Pavement Management to where it would have been with the regular $50,000 per year increases ($650,000).  The Preliminary Budget has $279,000 for paving. 

Trees

General Highway

Garage Supplies

Highway Salaries

Highway Salaries
The Collective Bargaining Agreement for the DPW Workers Union expired in 2024.  Therefore, they have not had any cost-of-living increases in two years.  They are actively negotiating a new agreement at this time.  All potential salaries increases are unknown at this time.  To give a sense of how much funding might be required, a 3% increase was assumed for FY 25,  FY 26, and another for FY 27.  
The Collective Bargaining Agree for the Clerical Unition expires in FY 26.  They are actively negotiating a new agreement at this time.  All potential salaries increases are unknown at this time.  To give a sense of how much funding might be required, a 3% increase was assumed for FY 27. 
There are no cost-of-living increases for the SAP at this time. To give a sense of how much funding might be required, a 3
% increase 
was assumed for FY 27.
A total costs of $51,696.16 was calculated.  This does not include any potential retroactive pay for overtime.

Snow and Ice

Traffic Signs

DPW Vehicle Maintenance

Cemetery 

Recycling Program

Trash (PAYT)
Note:  this is a self funding program outside of the DPW Budget



Funding Sources
The DPW’s funding is from the General Fund
 
ensuring fiscal responsibility and transparency while maintaining essential services for our community.
Chapter 90 funds are used for pavement management and construction projects.
The DPW applies for grants for construction projects whenever possible.

Active Grants
MassDOT Small Bridge Grant for $600,000
Flat Hill Road over the 
Catacoonamug
 Brook
 Asset Management Grant from Mass Clean   Water Trust for $59,565
Map Catch 
basins and connecting pipes
The grants the DPW receive and the Chapter 90 funds do not supplement the Operational Budget.
The grants and Chapter 90 funds supplement Capital Funding requests as they are used for bigger projects that are not done using operational funds.
Grants and Other Funding
Overview of Funding Sources
Applied for a MassDOT Community Culvert Grant Program, $150,000 for engineering
Goodrich Street over Easter Brook
Applying for a MassDOT Complete Streets grant for sidewalk construction for $1,000,000
Northfield Road, Chestnut Street, etc.
Future Grants to Explore

Chapter 90 Spending Plan
This assumes the Pavement Management Line Item is Reduced

Chapter 90 Spending Plan
This assumes the Pavement Management Line Item is Restored

If 
the Pavement Management line item is not restored, Chapter 90 funds will be used for pavement management.  Future bridge/culvert/drainage projects that have been earmarked for Chapter 90 funds will need to be funded by increased Capital Funds.
If the additional $340,000 is not added to the Stormwater line item, we will continue to NOT meet the requirements of the MS4 Permit.  This will result in further impairment of the Town’s water bodies and risk expensive fines from the EPA.
FY27 Summary &amp; Recap

THANK YOU!
ANY QUESTIONS?
William Bernard, DPW Director, March 12 , 2026