===PAGE 1===
1 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
FISCAL YEAR 2016 
 
 
 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 
& 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
Annual Town Meeting
   
May 2, 2015 - 9:00 AM 
Lunenburg High School Auditorium 
 
Annual Town Election  
May 16, 2015 
T.C. Passios Elementary School 
 
POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M.  -  CLOSED AT 5:00 P.M.
 
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN MEETING 
 
 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FINANCIAL TERMS 
 
UNRESERVED FUND BALANCE - Previously referred to as Surplus Revenue, Excess and Deficiency Account, 
or E & D Account.  The amount by which the cash, account s receivable and other assets exceed the liabilities and 
reserves. 
FUND BALANCE AVAILABLE FOR APPROPRIATION  - (Free Cash) Unreserved Fund Balance less any 
uncollected prior year’s property taxes, and less any unprovided for or overdrawn accounts.  This mus t be certified 
as available funds by the State Director of Accounts before it can be voted in lieu of taxes. 
PROVISION FOR ABATEMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS  - (Overlay) Provision by Assessors for abatements 
and exemptions.  This m ay not exceed 5% of the tax levy u nless otherwise authorized by the State Tax 
Commission. 
FUND BALANCE RESERVED FOR ABATEMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS SURPLUS  (Overlay Reserve) 
Any unused balances in the Provision for Abatements and Exemptions Account is available for appropriation. 
RESERVE FUND  - This fund is used by the Finance Committee to provide for extraordinary or unforeseen 
expenditures.  The total amount appropriated in any one  year may not exceed 5% of the tax l evy.  No direct drafts 
against this fund can be made, but transfers from the fund can be authorized by the Finance Committee. 
STABILIZATION FUND - Monies placed (voted) into a Stabilization Fund may be appropriated at an Annual 
Town Meeting by a two -thirds vote for any lawful purpose.  This account is sometimes referred to as the “To wn’s 
savings account”. 
CHERRY SHEET - The Cherry Sheet is named for the cherry colored paper on which the State notifies  the cities 
and towns of the estimated County and State Assessments and the estimated State distributions  to be used in 
determining the tax rate as an offset to amounts that would otherwise be raised by taxation. 
 
 
CITIZEN’S CHECK LIST - to be considered on each vote 
 
 IS IT NECESSARY?  Or is it something that is not really needed or perhaps already being provided by 
a private or public group? 
 
 CAN WE AFFORD IT?   Remember, there is no limit to what we would like, but there is a limit on 
what we can afford. 
 
 WHAT WILL IT COST ULTIMATELY?   Many proposals are like icebergs -- only a small fraction 
of the total cost is apparent on the surface. 
 
 HOW WILL IT AFFECT BASIC LIBERTIES ?  If it imposes unreasonable or illegal restraints on 
your life or that of others, it should be vigorously opposed. 
 
 IS IT IN THE BALANCED BEST INTEREST OF ALL?  If it is designed to benefit a small group or 
special interest, while taking unfair disadvantage of others, work for its defeat. 
 
 IS IT A“FOOT-IN-THE-DOOR” PROPOSITION?  Comprising a little now may bring an oppressive 
burden later, either in more regulations or more taxes or both. 
 
 DOES IT PLACE TOO MUCH POWER IN THE HANDS OF ONE INDIVIDUAL OR GROUP?   
Once decisive power is granted to a non -elected public official, a commission or a municipal authority, 
the private citizens lose effective control. 
 
 DOES IT RECOGNIZE THE IMPORTANCE OF THE INDIVIDUAL AND MINORITY 
OPINION? 
 
 This is the cornerstone of our Republic.  
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
 
 
Finance Committee Report 
Fiscal Year 2016 
The needs of the Town of Lunenburg continue to outpace growth in revenues, resulting in difficult decisions to get to a 
balanced budget, which is our mandate.  The Town Manager has again used “target budgets” to guide the budget process 
and provide a framework for department heads to assess the level of service they are able to provide within the target 
amount.  Unfortunately, early projections of revenue fell short of these targets.  This required the Town Manager to 
recommend a balanced budget that does not fully fund these target amounts.  The net effect is a preliminary budget 
recommendation that is essentially a level service budget.    
Note that level service and level funding is not the same thing.  A level service budget attempts to keep service levels 
(such as staffing) at or above current service levels.  A level funding budget constrains funding to the same funding level 
as last year.  Once again, the budget as presented here is a level service budget.   
Since the Town Manager’s preliminary budget recommendation in February, we received better estimates of projected 
revenues and expenditures.  Estimates of new growth from the Assessors’ office were up from the initial estimates, as 
were estimates of State Aid.  These increases in revenue were partially offset by revised estimates of expenditures that 
also were increased.  The result left us with a small surplus of $129.6k in the Town Manager’s balanced budge t 
recommendation as of April 2, 2015. 
At our meeting of April 2, 2015, the Finance Committee voted 5-0 in favor of recommending that we appropriate these 
funds to maintain or increase service levels as follows: 
 Fire Department:  $48,000 increase to weekend  EMT coverage at the Public Safety building; 
 Police Department:  $26,000 increase to desk coverage and $10,000 for additional lock -up coverage; 
 DPW:  $9,849.40 increase in the vehicle maintenance account; 
 Library:  $14,250.60 increase to cover increased energy costs and materials; 
 Snow and Ice Removal Account:  $15,000 increase to partially close the gap between budget and actual costs 
over the past several years; 
 Stabilization Account:  $6,478 increase to maintain stabilization account balance at target 5 % of operating budget 
in accordance with Town’s financial policies. 
 
While these adjustments are reflected in the proposed budget accompanying this letter, the budget you vote on at Town 
Meeting may very well be different.  
In this level service budget, revenues are projected to increase by $1,579,411, or 4.7%, to a total of $35,282,477. Here 
are the revenue highlights: 
 Property Tax is increasing by $2,288k, or 10.8%, driven by a 3.9% increase in the prior year levy ($748.1k), a 
2.5% increase in this year’s levy ($504.3k), and a 2.9% increase in revenue from New Growth ($57.5k).  Note that 
this includes an increase of $1,463.7k in excluded debt for the new MSHS building.  Factoring out excluded debt, 
property taxes are increasing 4.1% ($824.3k) 
 State Aid is increasing by $156k or 2.2%, driven by increases in Chapter 70 ($202k or 3.6%), Charter Tuition 
Reimbursement ($3.9k or 7.7%), Unrestricted General Government Aid/Lottery ($33.9k or 3.6%) and Veteran 
Benefits ($14.7k or 36.3%), offset by decreases in Choice Receiving Tuition (-$25.5k or -10.6%) and a potential 
reduction in 40S (-$67.6k or -36.8%). 
 Local Receipts are increasing by $240.8k or 9.6%, driven primarily by Motor Vehicle Excise (up $64.2k or 4.5%) 
and Solar Net Metering Credits of $130k. 
 Available Funds  are down (-$1,105.5k or -39.4%) due to less Borrowing (-$825.8k or -77.3%) and a decrease in 
unexpended articles (-$40.6k or -56.9%). 
 
Projected expenditures are estimated to be $35,282,477, reflecting a balanced budget. This repr esents an increase of 
$1,780,621, or 5.31%.  Here are the major changes in expenditures: 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 General government and central purchasing expenses are down slightly (-$6k or -0.5%), which is the net impact 
of restructuring several positions in the Town Manager’s office, the Town Accountant’s office and the 
Treasurer/Collector’s office. 
 Police spending is increased $59.9k or 4.7%, driven by step increases for newer officers and specialized training 
requirements. Police lockup is increased by $18.9k or 37.1% to better align with historical spending. 
 Fire is increased $75k, or 11.1%, to fund contractual increases and additional hours of EMT coverage.  
 Radio watch is up $38.5k or 15.4%, due to a small increase in the regional assessment and additional police desk 
coverage. 
 DPW is up $80.8k or 8.7%, primarily due to storm-water management, hazard tree survey and salaries.  Snow 
and ice removal has been increased by $15k, or 5.8%, to better reflect our historical spending.  Vehicle 
maintenance is up $17.1k, or 10.0%, to reflect higher costs associated with aging vehicles. 
 Solid waste is down -$46.8k due to better estimates of recycling expense. 
 Council on Aging is seeing a small dollar increase of $4.4k for an increase in clerical hours.  
 Veteran’s expense is estimated to increase $33.6k next year, or 146.7%, due to an increase in claims.  Note that 
75% of this expense is reimbursable next year. 
 Lunenburg Public Schools spending is budgeted to increase $644.4k, or 3.8%, which is well short of the 
superintendent’s needs budget recommendation and slightly short ($74.7k) of the District’s level service budget. 
Work continues to find opportunities to close this gap. 
 Monty Tech Assessment for FY16 is up $90.7k (12.8%).  Monty Tech’s budget reflects state mandated minimum 
net spending requirement, no more, no less. Lunenburg’s increase is driven primarily by an increase of 7 
students. 
 The Library is funded at the minimum level to assure state aid which represents an increase of $10.6k or 3.0%.  
This increase is driven by increased energy costs and a small increase in required materials. Note that Public 
Buildings is increased $14.3k to absorb some of the library energy cost increase.  
 Debt service increases significantly due to the financing of the new Fire Engine, the Lane Property and bonding of 
the new MSHS project.  
 Unclassified will increase $170.4k, or 7.7%, driven by Health Insurance Premiums, which are up 10.1%.  
 Retirement Assessment is up $154.5k, or 18.6%, due to a disability retirement and several regular retirements.  
 Non-appropriated expenses are up $26.1k, or 1.7% (primarily Cherry Sheet Charges and Offsets) 
 
The Capital Planning Committee has prioritized 11 items to be included in this year’s Capital Plan, with a total of 
$1,051.6k of requests.  Town Manager recommends approval for all 11 items, with financing recommended for two of 
these items (dump truck, street sweeper).  Cash impact of this recommendation is $511.6k, with financing over three 
years proposed for the dump truck and street sweeper.  Funding for the Pavement Management Plan is included in Article 
15, FY2016 Operating Budget. We support this recommendation. 
In summary, we simply don’t have enough money to do all the things we need or want to do. We have to continue finding 
ways to live within our means.  This budget relies only on recurring revenues to fund operating costs and includes funding 
to cover all contractual increases.  We do not recommend a draw on stabilization; but we  do recommend we deposit 
$97,923 to maintain the Stabilization Fund at our 5% target.  One risk in this budget is that we have significantly overspent 
in Snow and Ice. We have applied for reimbursement of $304.8k in expenses at a rate of 75%.  If this is approved, we 
could receive up to $228.6k in reimbursement.  If reimbursement is not fully approved, we  will have to find additional funds 
elsewhere. 
The Town Manager has recommended we discuss fiscal goals outside of the budget s eason so that we can be clear on 
our priorities and use this information to inform the budget process.  Some of this has already has been done, such as 
giving high priority to funding the Pavement Management Plan. For the Finance Committee, we have placed this on our 
agenda as a standing item and will discuss it at every opportunity. We wish to thank all of the dedicated public serv ants 
for their continued hard work and diligence. 
Mark Erickson, Chair  Terri Burchfield, Vice Chair  John Henshaw, Secretary  
Karin Menard   Jay Simeone    Caroline Griffis 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CAPITAL PLANNING REPORT 
CRITERIA: SAFETY, MANDATES, CRISIS, NEED, COST, EFFECTIVENESS AND ABILITY TO FUND 
The Capital Planning Committee has presented the Fiscal Year 2016 plan to the Town Manager as required by Charter. 
The committee has recommended the following items be included in the FY 2016 Capital Plan. 
 
 
 
Capital Planning Committee 
Jamie Toale, Chairman- Board of Selectmen Representative 
Dennis Mannone Jr., Vice Chairman- Citizen at Large Representative 
John Henshaw, Clerk- Finance Committee Representative 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Member- Planning Board Representative 
Heather Sroka, Member- School Representative 
Kerry A. Speidel, Town Manager- Ex Officio Member 
 
 
 
Capital Planning Committee Recommendation
Funding Source Cash Outlay Debt Total
1 Pavement Management 250,000.00$       Operating Budget
2 6-Wheel Dump & Sander 190,000.00$       Capital Budget, Debt 82,332.00$         107,668.00$       190,000.00$       
3 Backhoe 120,000.00$       Capital Budget, Cash 120,000.00$       -$                  120,000.00$       
4 Police Vehicles, Marked 96,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 96,000.00$         -$                  96,000.00$         
5 Drainage Culvert Repair, 2-Phases 43,728.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 43,728.00$         -$                  43,728.00$         
6 Municipal Buildings, Feasibility Study 28,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 28,000.00$         -$                  28,000.00$         
7 Intersection Reconfiguration, Plan & Implementation 40,850.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 40,850.00$         -$                  40,850.00$         
8 Technology, Town Departments 34,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 34,000.00$         -$                  34,000.00$         
9 DPW, Street Sweeper 180,000.00$       Capital Budget, Debt 64,950.00$         115,050.00$       180,000.00$       
10 Police, Speed Sign 12,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 12,000.00$         -$                  12,000.00$         
11 Technology, School Department 30,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 30,000.00$         -$                  30,000.00$         
12 Replace Gas Burner, Library 15,000.00$         Capital Budget, Cash 15,000.00$         -$                  15,000.00$         
13 HVAC Management System 12,000.00$         Capital Budget Cash 12,000.00$         -$                  12,000.00$         
Total: 1,051,578.00$    578,860.00$       222,718.00$       801,578.00$       
Sources of Funding
Prior Year Unspent Capital 67,284.64$         
Cash Outlay 511,575.36$       
Borrowing 222,718.00$       801,578.00$                
Operating Budget, Department of Public Works 250,000.00$       
1,051,578.00$    
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
2015 ANNUAL TOWN ELECTION WARRANT 
Worcester, ss: May 16, 2015 
  
To John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings: 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the inhabitants of 
the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Thomas C. Passios 
Elementary School in said Lune nburg on Saturday, the 1 6th day of May next, at 7:00 o'clock in the forenoon, and 
then and there to act on the following: 
 ***************************************************************************************************************************** 
                    POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M.  POLLS SHALL BE CLOSED AT 5:00 P.M. 
      ***************************************************************************************************************************** 
Shall the Town vote to choose by ballot the following officers? 
MODERATOR                                   3  YEARS 
SELECTMAN              3  YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER               3  YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER               3  YEARS 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER         3  YEARS 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER         3  YEARS 
ASSESSOR         3  YEARS 
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER   3  YEARS 
PARK COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
PARK COMMISSIONER 1  YEAR 
COMMISSIONER OF TRUST FUNDS 3  YEARS 
CEMETERY COMMISSIONER 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 3  YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE 1  YEAR 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 5  YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 2  YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 1  YEAR 
    HOUSING AUTHORITY MEMBER 5  YEARS 
 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public places in the 
Town, seven (7) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which places shall be at the Town 
Hall, one at Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom -Bakerville District, one at Powell’s, and one at Centre Pizza and 
Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town in which a registered voter resides at least seven 
(7) days prior to such election. 
 
Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings thereon, to the Town Clerk at the time and  
place aforesaid. 
 
Given under our hands, this 7th day of April in the year two thousand and fifteen, 
   
A True copy attest:  Thomas A. Alonzo, Chairman    
Kathyrn M. Herrick, Town Clerk  Paula J. Bertram, Vice-Chairman 
  James E. Toale, Clerk  
  Robert J. Ebersole, Member 
  Phyllis M. Luck, Member 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
INDEX OF MAY 2, 2015 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
ARTICLE 1.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – Ambulance Billing 
ARTICLE 2.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – Timber Rights 
ARTICLE 3.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – Custodial Special Detail 
ARTICLE 4.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – Green Thumb Program 
ARTICLE 5.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – Library Revolving Fund 
ARTICLE 6.  CC   Reauthorize Revolving Fund – MART Transportation  
ARTICLE 7.          Hear/ Accept Reports of Certain Committees  
ARTICLE 8.          Payment of Prior Year Bills 
ARTICLE 9.          FY2015 Budget Adjustment Article 
ARTICLE 10.        FY2016 Lunenburg Professional Firefighter’s Collective Bargaining Agreement  
ARTICLE 11.        FY2016 Public Employees, Local Union 39 Collective Bargaining Agreement, DPW Employees  
ARTICLE 12.        FY2016 Public Employees, Local Union 39 Collective Bargaining Agreement, IBPO  
ARTICLE 13.        FY2016 Collective Bargaining Agreement, AFSCME 
ARTICLE 14.        FY2016 Capital Improvements Plan 
ARTICLE 15.        FY2016 Operating Budget 
ARTICLE 16.        Transfer to/ from Stabilization Fund 
ARTICLE 17.        FY2016 Lunenburg Sewer Department/ Enterprise Fund 
ARTICLE 18.        FY2016 Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund 
ARTICLE 19.        FY2016 Lunenburg Water Department/ Enterprise Fund 
ARTICLE 20.        Appropriation to Special Police (Detail) Fund 
ARTICLE 21.        Vote to create Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund and appropriate fro m available funds $617.10 to place in RCSF 
ARTICLE 22.        Vote to establish a Revolving Loan Program under the jurisdict ion of the Board of Selectmen for purposes of assisting  
                              income qualified town residents to replace or upgrade septic systems or connect to town sewer system 
ARTICLE 23.        Grant non-exclusive, perpetual easement to Boston Gas Company across LPS campus  
ARTICLE 24.        Grant non-exclusive, perpetual easement to UNITIL Corporation across LPS Campus 
ARTICLE 25.        Appropriate Bond Premium and Rescind Borrowing Authorization for MS/HS Property 
ARTICLE 26.        Amend General Bylaws, by adding Section XXXII, entitled Architectural Preservation District  
ARTICLE 27.        Amend Zoning Bylaws by adding Section 4.17, Village Center District 
ARTICLE 28.        Amend Zoning Bylaws by adding to Section 3.1, a new sub section 3.1.o, “Village Center District” 
ARTICLE 29.        Amend Zoning Bylaws by deleting the words “May 3, 2008” in section 3.2.1 and replac ing with the words “May 2, 2015” 
ARTICLE 30.        Amend Zoning Bylaw Section 4.16 “Registered Marijuana Dispe nsaries,” to correct numbering sequence     
ARTICLE 31.        Amend Zoning Bylaw by adding to Section 5.2, “Setbacks and Yards,” a new Subsection 5.2.5.1.e,“ Village Center  
                             District.” 
ARTICLE 32.        Amend Zoning Bylaw by amending Section 8.4, Development Plan Review Subsection 8.4.2.1.a, to add after “Retail  
                             Commercial District” and “Village Center District.” 
ARTICLE 33.        Amend Zoning Map to show the new delineation of the Village Center District of the Town  
ARTICLE 34.        Vote to designate Flat Hill Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL Chapter 40, §15C 
ARTICLE 35.        Vote to designate Northfield Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL Chapter 40, §15C  
ARTICLE 36.        Vote to Accept White Tail Crossing as a public way 
ARTICLE 37.        Amend Zoning Map to show the Commercial District located at or about 790 Massachusetts Avenue be changed to  
                             Limited Business/Residential District 
ARTICLE 38.        Vote to appropriate funds to finance the design, permitting, bidding and construction, including acquisition of land for  
                              sewer collection system in the area of Pleasant View Avenue and establish betterments 
ARTICLE 39.        Authorize Bylaw Regulating the Use of Vehicles on Whalom Lake 
ARTICLE 40.        Authorize Bylaw Restricting Public Consumption of Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol  
ARTICLE 41.        Authorize Bylaw Giving Board of Selectmen Authority to License Suitable Persons to Carry on the Business of   
                             Pawnbroker, Buyers and Sellers, or Dealers in Metal as Provided by MGL, Chapter 140 
ARTICLE 42.        Authorize Bylaw to Restrict Sex Offender Residency and Create Sex Offender Safety Zones  
      ARTICLE 43.        Vote to rescind the sum of $284,263.59, the remaining borrowing authorization, from Article 2 of the November 6, 2001  
                                    STM for engineering and construction of sewers; or take any other action relative thereto 
      ARTICLE 44.        Vote to rescind the sum of $28,708.00, the remaining borrowing authorization, from Article 4 of the May 5, 2005 STM  
                                    for engineering and construction of sewers; or take any other action relative thereto 
      ARTICLE 45.        Vote to rescind the sum of $125,000.00, the remaining borrowing authorizati on, from Article 5 of the October 1, 2002  
                                    STM for the renovation of the Turkey Hill Middle School heating system; or take any other action relative thereto  
      ARTICLE 46.        Vote to rescind the sum of $56,550.00, the remaining borrowing authorization, from Article 4 of the 5 May 3, 2003 STM  
                                    for the construction and/or renovation of the heating system at the Thomas Passios Elementary School; or take any  
                                    other action relative thereto 
      ARTICLE 47.        Vote to amend Article XXIX, Section 1 of Agricultural Commission by adding “to oversee, operate or run a Farmers’         
                                    Market”; or take any other action thereto 
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
        
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
 
May 2, 2015
Worcester, ss: 
To:  John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings:  
 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby dir ected to notify and warn the inhabitants to the Town of 
Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the Lunenburg High School Auditorium in said Lunenburg  on 
Saturday, the 2nd day of May next, at 9:00 o'clock in the morning (9:00  A.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Town Meeting 
Warrant, and then and there to act on the following articles, viz: 
 
 
CONSENT CALENDAR    
In an effort to streamline Town Meeting, the Board of Selectmen will once again try the concept of a Conse nt Calendar.  The use of this Calendar 
speeds the passage of articles, which the Selectmen feel in consultation with Town Counsel and the Finance Committee should g enerate no 
controversy and can be properly voted without debate.  The purpose of the Consent  Calendar is to allow motions under these articles to be acted 
upon as one unit and to be passed without debate. 
THE CONSENT CALENDAR WILL BE TAKEN UP AS THE FIRST ORDER OF BUSINESS AT THE COMMENCEMENT 
OF THE ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ON SATURDAY, MAY 2, 2015. 
 
At the call of the Consent Calendar, the Moderator will call out the numbers of the Articles, one by one.  If two or more vot ers object to any particular 
Article being included in the Consent Calendar, they should say the word  “HOLD” in a loud voice when t he number is called.  The Article is then 
removed automatically from the Consent Calendar and restored to its original place in the Warrant, to be debated and voted in  the usual manner.  
After the calling of the individual items in the Consent Calendar, the Moderator will ask that the voters pass all items remaining AS A UNIT.  
 
Please review the list of articles and motions proposed for each Consent Item which follows.  
 “I move that ARTICLES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 be passed by consent” 
 
CONSENT ARTICLES TO BE PASSED OVER IF THEY ARE “PASSED BY CONSENT”  
 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½ the Ambulance Billing  Revolving 
Fund.  The purpose of this fund will be to cov er the cost associated with compensating third party advanced life support companies and third party 
billing companies that contract and supply services to the Town.  Five percent (5%) of the total revenue generated by ambulan ce services rendered 
and 100% of the revenue generated by Advanced Life Support services rendered shall be deposited into said revolving fund.  The proceed s of said 
Revolving Fund shall be expended by the Fire Department without further appropriation for the sole purpose of reimbursing  the aforementioned 
companies for services rendered to the town; expenditures from the revolving fund may not exceed  $60,000 during the fiscal year without the 
approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee or take any other action relative there to. (Submitted by Fire Chief)  Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0.  
 
ARTICLE 2. CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½ the Timber Rights Revolving  Fund, 
such fund to be credited with the proceeds of sale by the Conservation Commission of the rights to harvest timber; funds in th e account to be 
expended for the acquisition of land for conservation purposes and associated costs of such acquisitions, including  but not limited to appraisals and 
payment of accrued taxes; such funds may also be expended for improvements on land already under the custody and control of t he Conservation 
Commission; the Conservation Commission may expend such funds without further ap propriation; expenditures from the revolving fund may not  
exceed $10,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relativ e 
thereto.  (Submitted by Conservation Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0.  
 
ARTICLE 3. CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½, the Custodial Special Detail  
Revolving Fund, for the purpose of paying s pecial detail salaries for outside functions.  Charges and money received from outside organizations in 
connection with this program are to be deposited in said revolving fund and expended by the Lunenburg School Committee withou t further 
appropriation for the sole purpose of paying personnel for hours worked.  Said revolving account expenditures shall not exceed  $25,000 per year 
without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto . (Submitted by Sc hool 
Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0.  
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
 
ARTICLE 4. CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½, the Green Thumb Revolving Fund,  to 
support the Gr een Thumb Program at Lunenburg High School.  Fees, charges, and money received from sales of items in connection with this 
program are to be deposited in this Revolving Fund Account and expended for the operation of this program by the Lunenburg Sc hool Committee 
without further appropriation; said revolving account expenditures shall not exceed  $20,000 per year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen 
and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by School Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, 
Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0.  
 
ARTICLE 5. CC  To see if the Town will re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½, the Library Revolving Fund, to receive funds 
from library fines and penalti es, donations and bequests up to $12,000, said funds to be expended by the Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library for 
the purchase of library and information materials and document information and electronic data delivery .  Expenditures from the revolving fu nd may 
not exceed $12,000 during the fiscal year without the approval of the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee; or take any other action relative 
thereto.(Submitted by Library Director) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0.  
 
ARTICLE 6.  CC  To see if the Town will vote to re -authorize in accordance with MGL Chapter 44, §53E ½, the Council on Aging/Montachusett 
Area Regional Transit (MART) Elderly Transportation Revolving Fund ; the operation of said acc ount shall be conducted by the Council on Aging, 
and the Senior Center Director; funds in this account shall be spent on the dispatch, operation, maintenance and record keepi ng of the MART 
vehicles for the elderly transportation program; all receipts resul ting from MART reimbursements shall be credited to this account; said revolving 
account expenditures shall not exceed  $45,000 per year without the prior approval of the Board of Selectmen and the Finance Committee; or take 
any other action relative thereto .  (Submitted by Council on Aging)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance Committee recommends 
approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town Officers and Committees ; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen)  
 
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds  the sum of $1,782 for payment of prior year 
expenses; or take any other action relat ive thereto. (Submitted by the Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance 
Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate and transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary  to amend the 
amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2015 Budget, under Article 19 of the May 3, 2014 Annual Town Meeting;  or take any other action relative 
thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make recommendations at town meeting.    
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money  to fund the first year of 
the FY’15, FY’16 & FY’17 Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM, Local 4358A Collective Bargain ing Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – 
June 30, 2017; or take any action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager )  Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee to make 
recommendations at town meeting.    
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money  to fund the first year of 
the FY’13, FY’14 & FY’15 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2012 – June 30, 2015 with Public Employees Local Union 39 of the 
Laborers’ International Union of North America; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  Board of Selectmen and Finance 
Committee to make recommendations at town meeting.    
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of 
the FY’14, FY’15 & FY’16 Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2013- June 30, 2016 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO; 
or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee to make 
recommendation at town meeting.    
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of 
the FY’15, FY’16 & FY’17 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2014 – June 30, 2017 with AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal 
Employees Union; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval 4-0, 1 
abstain (Bertram); Finance Committee to make recommendation at town meeting.    
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money for the FY 2016 Capital 
Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Capital Planning Committee)  
Board of Selectmen recommends approval of $801,578, 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval of $801,578, 5-0. 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to defray the charges 
and expenses of the Town for FY 2016 and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any ot her items 
included in the budget of the Town Manager, or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager)  Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval of $32,025, 894, 5- 0, Finance Committee recommends approval of $32,025, 894 , 5-0.  
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money to the Stabilization 
Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager )  Board of Selectmen recommends approval of $$98,231, 5- 0, 
Finance Committee recommends approval of $98,231, 5-0.  
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds $810,317 to operate the Sewer Enterprise 
Fund for FY2016; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Sewer Commission)  Board of Selectmen recommends approval  5-0, 
Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
ARTICLE 18 . To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds $265,000 to operate the Solid Waste 
Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY2016,  or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen)  Board of 
Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, $25,000 to operate the Water Department/ 
Water Enterprise Fund for FY2016, or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen)  Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds $10,000 in accordance with MGL Chapter 
44,§ 53C for the Police Detail Special Fund, for the purposes of payin g special detail salaries  for off duty details  (outside functions) of 
members of the Police Department. Charges and money received from outside organizations in connection with this program are t o be deposited in 
said special fund and expended by the Lunenburg Police Department without further appropriation for the sole purpose of paying personnel for hours 
worked; or take any action  relative thereto. (Submitted by Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5 -0, Finance Committee 
recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote, pursuant to General Laws Chapter 40, § 5B, to create a Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund and 
further to raise and  appropriate from available funds the sum of $617.10 into the Reserve Capacity Stab ilization Fund; or take any other 
action relative thereto (Submitted by Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 22. To see if the Town will vote to establish a revolving loan program under the jurisdiction of the Board of Selectmen for purposes in 
assisting income qualified town residents to replace or upgrade septic systems or connect to town’s sewer system;  and to authorize the 
Board of Selectmen to enter into an agreement with Montachusett Regional Planning Commission to administer said fund; and to provide 
funds for such purpose to transfer the funds recorded in Account 2575 of the  Town Accountant’s books, which funds represent the repaid 
monies from a grant program provided by the former Massachusetts Executive Office of Communities and Development (EOCD)   for a revolving 
fund for septic systems upgrades, or to take any other action thereto.(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Finance Committee will report at town 
meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 23. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody and control from the Board of Selectmen for the purpose for which it 
is currently held to the School Committee for school purposes, the property at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, for the purpose 
of granting a non-exclusive, perpetual easement to Boston Gas Company to construct, install and maintain gas facilities upon said 
property shown on a plan entitled “C200 and C210 dated 11/14/14 Conformance Set and As Built of the Gas Line Installation,” which plan is on file 
with the Town Clerk, on such terms and conditions which the Board of Selectmen/School Committee may determine, or take any ac tion relative 
thereto. (Submitted by School Committee)Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 24. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody and control from the Board of Selectmen for the purpose for which it 
is currently held to the School Committee for school purposes, the property at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, for the purpose 
of granting a non-exclusive, perpetual easement to UNITIL Corporation, to construct, install and maintain  electric facilities upon the 
portion of said property shown on a plan entitled “C200 dated 11/14/2014 Conformance Set,” which plan is on file with the Town Clerk, on such 
terms and conditions which the Board of Selectmen/School Committee may determine, or take any action relative thereto. (Submi tted by School 
Committee) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of amount of $105, 975.36, the premium paid to the Town upon the sale of 
bonds or notes issued for the construction of a new Middle School/High School, which are subject of a Proposition 2 ½ debt exclusion, to 
pay costs of the project being financed by such bonds or notes and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for such pr oject, but 
not yet issued by the Town, by the same amount. (Submitted by Town Accountant) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee 
recommends approval 5-0. 
 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws of the Town by adding Section XXXI I entitled Architectural Preservation 
District, as follows: 
Section XXXII ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT 
Section 1: Purpose 
This bylaw is enacted under the Home Rule Amendment of the Massachusetts Constitution for the purposes of:  
(a)  Preserving, restoring and protecting groups of historically and/or architecturally significant buildings and the characteristics of their 
neighborhoods that are important to the town’s architectural, cultural, economic, political and/or social history;  
(b)  Fostering wider public knowledge and appreciation of such neighborhoods and Contributing Properties;  
(c)  Limiting the detrimental effect of alterations (substantial & minor), additions, and demolitions on the character of such Con tributing Properties 
and their neighborhood settings;  
(d) Reviewing proposed alterations (substantial and minor) including demolition of or to any Contributing Property located within  the APD, for 
appropriateness and compatibility with the existing buildings, setting and neighborhood chara cter; and  
(e) Facilitating the protection of the APD through a regulatory review.  
To achieve these purposes, the Town of Lunenburg may designate APDs to be administered as set forth in this bylaw.  
Section 2: Definitions  
For the purpose of this bylaw, the terms and words listed below shall have the following meaning:  
 
ADDITION: Any addition to a principal or accessory Contributing Property that is enclosed by walls and which increases the existing gross floor area. 
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW/DETERMINATION OF APPLICABILITY: Pursuant to Section 7 of this bylaw, a process to review proposed alterations 
to Contributing Properties and identify the need for Binding Review.  
AGGRIEVED PARTY: The owner of the subject property or an owner of real property located within the APD or within three hundred feet of the 
subject property. 
ALTERATION, MINOR: Replacement, modification or material change to existing architectural features on a Contributing Property, which retains the  
character of the property as determined by the Architectural Preservation District Commission. Examples include, but are not limited to windows, 
doors, roof material and trim work.  
ALTERATION, SUBSTANTIAL: A change to a Contributing Property or part thereof, such as removal, reconstruction, restorati on, replication, 
rehabilitation, addition, or demolition; and/or a change to a site that includes, enlarging or moving a building and other si milar activities.  
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT (“APD”): An area of historic and /or architectural significance determined by the Town’s residents 
to be worthy of preservation. 
BINDING REVIEW: Pursuant to Section 8 of this bylaw, a mandatory process which applies to substantial alterations of contributing propertie s, 
including demolition, in the APD.  
BUILDING: A combination of materials having a roof, the purpose of which is the shelter of persons, animals, property, or processes, in cluding any 
other permanent structure.  
CERTIFICATE TO ALTER: A document issued by the APDC allowing Alterations pursuant to Secti on 8 of this bylaw.  
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY: Any building or stone wall within an APD, which is older than 75 years and contributes to the Architectural 
Preservation District’s historical character as determined by the Architectural Preservation District Co mmission. 
DEMOLITION: The act of removing or razing structures or significant parts of structures, or commencing the work of total or substantial  destruction 
with the intent of completing the same.  
DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT: Destruction by failure to maintain roof, siding, foundation or any other aspect that requires upkeep, which could 
ultimately result in the Contributing Property being condemned. These include but are not limited to:  
1. Facades which may fall and injure members of the public or property. 
2. Deteriorated or inadequate foundation, deteriorated flooring or floor supports, deteriorated walls or other vertical structural su pports. 
3. Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to deterio ration. 
4. Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof, foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors.  
5. Improper or insufficient waterproofing or exterior wall covering, including lack of paint or weathering due to lack of pain t or other protective 
covering. 
===PAGE 12===
12 
 
6. Any fault or defect in the Contributing Property caused by alteration or neglect of maintenance, which renders it not properl y watertight or 
structurally unsafe. 
7. Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to deterioration. 
DESIGN GUIDELINES: A public document which provides further detail and illustration of the design standards established in Section 9 of this 
bylaw. Such guidelines, by facilitating the APDC’s determination as to whether proposed alterations are appropriate and compatible with the existing 
Contributing Property’s, setting and neighborhood character of the APD, will ensure fair, reasonable and objectiv e preservation practices by the 
APDC.  
 
DRAFT MAP 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3: 

===PAGE 13===
13 
 
Designation of Architectural Preservation District (APD)  
The APD shall, by Town Meeting vote, encompass the areas shown on the map entitled “Town of Lunenburg, Architectural Preservation District,” 
and appended to this bylaw. Amendments to the district boundaries may be made only by vote of Town Meeting.  
 
Section 4: Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC)  
The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a five-member APDC to oversee the APD pursuant to this bylaw. Initially, two members shall be appointed for 
one year, two for two years, and one for three years; each successive appointment shall be made for three years. The Board of  Selectmen may also 
appoint up to two alternate members, initially for terms of one, two and three years, and for three-year terms thereafter. If members are absent, 
unable to act, or recused from voting due to a conflict of interest, the APDC chair may designate one or both of the alternat e members to serve in 
their place. To the extent achievable, the APDC shall be comprised of the following persons: a member of the Lunenburg Historical Commission; a 
design professional; a craftsperson or building contractor familiar with historic restoration; and two residents of the APD. Members and alternates of 
the APDC shall by reason of experience and/or education have demonstrable knowledge, interest, and ability to effectively carry out the APDC’s 
responsibilities.  
 
Section 5: APDC Powers and Duties  
The APDC shall exercise its powers in reviewing the alteration (substantial or minor) , including demolition of contributing properties within the APD 
as set forth in this bylaw, and in accordance with the standards described in Section 9. Within 180 days of its establishment , the APDC shall adopt 
design guidelines to assist the APDC in determining whether the proposal satisfies the standards described in Section 9, as well as to facilitate 
owner understanding of, and compliance with, those standards. The APDC may also promulgate rules and regulations consistent w ith the provisions 
of this bylaw, or set forth such forms and procedures as it deems appropriate for the regulation of its affairs and the condu ct of its business, including 
requirements for the contents and form of applications for certificates, hearing procedures and othe r matters. In adopting design guidelines and rules 
and regulations, including any subsequent amendments, the APDC shall first hold a duly posted public hearing advertised at le ast fourteen (14) days 
in advance within a newspaper of local circulation.  
The APDC shall not adopt or amend any design guidelines or rules and regulations until at least 35 days after the APDC has provid ed a copy of 
those proposed guidelines or rules and regulations to the Board of Selectmen.  
 
Section 6: Exemptions  
The following are exempt from the requirements of this bylaw:  
a) Routine maintenance of Contributing Properties. 
b) Repairs or improvements which do not require a building permit from the Building Inspector.  
c) Temporary buildings (subject to time and size limits imposed by the APDC).  
d) Interior building alterations.  
e) Exterior building colors.  
f) Installation, removal or replacement of storm windows and storm doors, screen windows and screen doors.  
g) Installation, removal or replacement of gutters, downspouts, window shutters and door shutters.  
h) Structures not defined as Contributing Properties.  
 
Section 7: Administrative Review/Determination of Applicability  
Minor alterations such as like for like replacement of architectural features and other minor work ( as outlined in the APDC regulations) shall be 
reviewed through this process to ensure consistency of the property’s character and appropriateness of the proposed materials . The APDC shall 
make a determination that the proposed work is exempt or that it does not retain the character of the Contributing Property. In the case where the 
work does not retain the character of the Contributing Property it shall be determined to equate to a substantial alteration and require a binding 
review per Section 8 of this Bylaw. 
Property owners considering substantial alterations to a Contributing Property are strongly encouraged, but not required, to request an 
Administrative Review from the APDC. This review would focus on directing the applicant toward developing a propos al that would be compliant with 
the Binding Review Process in Section 8.  
Administrative Review does not require a public hearing and can be requested electronically. In providing Administrative Revi ew for a proposed 
Alteration, the APDC shall make a finding as to whether or not the proposed Alteration is compatible with the standards in Section 9 and the 
associated design guidelines. The APDC shall provide its finding in writing, as a Negative Determination or a Requirement of Binding Review, and 
within 20 days of receiving a request for Administrative Review. The Requirement of Binding Review may include recommendations on how t he 
proposed Alteration could be made more consistent with the standards and the design guidelines.  
 
Section 8: Binding Review  
The following Alterations require the submittal of an application for binding review by the APDC:  
(a) Demolition of all or a part of a Contributing Property.  
(b) Substantial Alterations to a Contributing Property.  
Applications should include a completed application form and photographs showing existing buildings and site conditions. For substantial alteration, 
including additions and demolition, applicants should also provide building elevations showing the proposed configuration and  building materials; a 
plan showing the approximate footprint and relationships of buildings to other structures, exterior circulation, and points of  entry; and any other plans 
===PAGE 14===
14 
 
which may help to demonstrate the proposed building design. Applications can be submitted electronicall y, but applicants shall also provide one hard 
copy of the application to the Planning Office. If appropriate, the APDC may waive any or all of the requirements for design submittal and review.  
Within thirty (30) days of the application submittal, a copy of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk, the APDC shall hold a public hearing on the 
application, said hearing to be noticed by an ad published at least once in a newspaper with local circulation fourteen (14) days or more before the 
hearing. Following the hearing, the APDC shall determine whether or not the proposed Alteration is consistent with the standards set forth in Se ction 
9 and the associated design guidelines. If the APDC determines by majority vote that the Alteration adheres to the standards and the design 
guidelines, it shall issue a Certificate to Alter, which may be subject to reasonable conditions that the APDC deems necessar y and appropriate. If the 
APDC does not achieve a majority vote that the Alteration is compatible with the standards  and the design guidelines, it shall make a negative 
determination. The APDC’s written determination shall be submitted to the property owner within twenty (20) days of the close  of the public hearing, 
and no later than ninety (90) days after the submittal of an application, unless granted a time extension by the owner. In making its determination, the 
APDC shall provide a rationale for its action, including a description of how the alteration does or does not meet the standa rds set forth in Section 9 
and the design guidelines. If the APDC denies a Certificate to Alter, it may include non - binding advisory only, recommendations on how the 
proposed Alterations may be modified to satisfy the APDC. Once the applicant modifies the Alterations in a manner that th e APDC finds acceptable, 
the APDC shall issue a Certificate to Alter. The determinations of the APDC relative to Alterations described in this Section  8, whether positive or 
negative, shall be binding on the applicant.  
 
Section 9: Design Standards When reviewing an application, the APDC shall consider the following standards, which are intended to guide the 
property owner in the site development and building design, as well as the APDC in its review of proposed actions as describe d in Section 8 above:  
(a) Height and Proportions – The height, proportions, and relationship of height to width between windows, doors, signs and other architectural 
elements should be compatible with the architectural style and character of the building or structure.  
(b) Relation of Structures and Spaces – The relation of a structure to the open space between it and adjoining structures should be compatible 
with such relationships in the district.  
(c) Shape – The shape of roofs, windows, doors and other design elements should be compatible with the architectural style and character of the 
building.  
(d) Scale – The scale of a structure alteration should be compatible with its architectural design style and character and that of the di strict.  
(e) Directional Expression – Building facades and other architectural design elements should be compatible with those of others in the district with 
regard to the dominant vertical or horizontal expression or direction related to use and historical or cultural character, as  appropriate.  
(f) Garages and Accessory Buildings – Garages and accessory buildings shall be sensitively integrated into the overall development, and should 
not be the predominant design feature when viewed from the street. 
(g) Materials & Methods of Construction – Materials used shall be consistent with the appearance and character of the surrounding properties and 
contribute to historic nature of the area. Construction methods shall meet Building Code requirements and visually resemble h istoric patterns but 
may use contemporary technology.  
Section 10: Procedures for Issuance and Filing of APDC Determinations : Each Certificate to Alter or negative determination issued by the 
APDC shall be dated and signed by its chair or such other person designated by the APDC to sign cert ificates on its behalf. The APDC shall send a 
written copy of its actions to the property owner and shall file other copies with the office of the Town Clerk and the Build ing Inspector. The date of 
issuance of a certificate or negative determination shall be the date of its filing of other said copy with the office of the Town Clerk. If the APDC 
should fail to submit a written determination within twenty (20) days of closing its public hearing, or within ninety (90) da ys of the submittal of a 
Certificate, or within such further time as the applicant may allow in writing, a Certificate to Alter shall be waived in favor of the prop erty owner.  
Section 11: Enforcement In addition to the duties previously set forth in this Bylaw, the APDC or the Building Inspect or shall issue enforcement 
orders, with an immediate cease and desist order directing compliance with this Bylaw and shall undertake any other enforceme nt authorized by law. 
Upon request of APDC, and with the approval of the Board of Selectmen, the Town Co unsel shall take legal action on behalf of the Town for 
enforcement of this Bylaw, or any order issued hereunder, in any court of competent jurisdiction.  
In the case of demolition, including demolition by neglect, without approval of the APDC no building p ermit shall be issued with respect to any 
Contributing Property within the APD that caused a demolition of its building, structure or Contributing Property for a perio d of up to two (2) years 
after the date of the violation. 
The APDC or its designee may use any and all of the aforementioned enforcement methods to address the contributing factors of demolition by 
neglect for purposes of preventing a Contributing Property from becoming structurally deficient or economically infeasible to  repair.  
 
Section 12: Coordination with Other Town Boards and Bylaws  
(a) Except as stated in “(b)” below, the APDC’s authority as established in this bylaw shall not supersede or interfere with the regulatory authority of 
other local or state boards or APDCs.  
(b) By exercise of this bylaw, the APDC assumes the authority of the Lunenburg Historical Commission pursuant to Chapter XVI of these General  
Bylaws, relative to the proposed demolition (including demolition by neglect) of buildings that are over 75 years of age and located within the APD.  
(c) The APDC shall coordinate its review with that of other Town Boards.  
(d) The APDC shall be included as an advisory review entity in new construction projects that move through the Planning Board  Development Plan 
Review and/or Special Permit processes.  
  
===PAGE 15===
15 
 
Section 13: Appeal Procedure  
Any aggrieved party may appeal the action of the APDC in accordance with the General Laws.  
Section 14: Validity and Separability  
The provisions of this bylaw shall be deemed to be separable. If any of its provisions, sections, subsections, sentences or clauses shall be held to be 
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this bylaw shall continue to be in full force and effect.  
 
Section 15: Appendices  
Appendix A: The location and boundaries of the Town of Lunenburg Architectural Preservation District are defined and shown on the T own of 
Lunenburg Village Center District Map and the Town of Lunenburg Historic District Map, which is a part of this bylaw.” or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Historical Commission and the Planning Board)  Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Board of Selectmen 
recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 27. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding Section 4.17. Village Center District, as follows:   
4.17. VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT 
PREAMBLE 
The Lunenburg Town Center region has tremendous importance in symbolizing the unique character and he ritage of Lunenburg.  As residents 
engage with the historic buildings and streetscape of this area in the course of their routine daily business, be it school r elated, recreational, 
commercial, or even just driving through, the experience greatly reinforce s a profound bond with the town’s present community and past heritage.   
There is an opportunity to significantly improve the quality of this already poignant civic experience and increase the numbe r of people who will be 
drawn to share in it by expanding the businesses and other attractions in the area.  There is also a key challenge to preserving this critical 
embodiment of our town. Appropriate new uses or remedies must be found to the increasing number of underutilized buildings located about th e 
town center.    
Town planning experience and best practices, as exemplified in the state’s model bylaw for Village Center Districts, demonstr ates some key 
ingredients to sustaining and enriching this type of environment in small towns.  One of these is careful s tewardship through clear guidelines for 
development consistent with what the area means to the community.  Another is encouraging a level of intensive mixed use deve lopment, so that the 
critical mass of social and economic activity can be reached that will  naturally provide the resources and inspiration required to maintain and 
organically adapt the area landmarks, buildings, and infrastructure without excessive burden on the Town’s public finances.  
4.17.1. Purpose 
In pursuit of this opportunity and to addr ess this challenge, the Town implements this bylaw and designates this zoning district as Village Center 
District in order to encourage economic and residential growth that fits the character of the Town.  
The purposes of the Village Center District are to: 
a. Build upon the historic development patterns in the existing village centers to create attractive, walkable neighborhoods;  
b. Encourage adaptive reuse of abandoned, vacant or underutilized buildings or structures where appropriate;  
c. Allow for a mix of new land uses that are appropriate to both the needs of the community and the scale of surrounding neighborhoods;  
d. Provide incentives to develop larger parcels at higher densities and in a coordinated, planned approach;  
e. Maintain a consistently high level of design quality throughout the district; 
f. Encourage the development of mixed use buildings and campuses that are designed and constructed in a manner that is contex tually sensitive to 
the existing structures and facilities.  
4.17.2. Establishment 
The Village Center District is hereby established as of 1 January 2016 and consists of the area shown as the Village Center D istrict on Town of 
Lunenburg Zoning Map on file with the Town/City Clerk and dated 2 May 2015 as may be amended from time to time by Town Meeting.  
4.17.3. Definitions 
Artist Space: A shop for the creation and/or sale of goods made by a potter, ceramicist, silversmith, jewelry maker, painter, photographer or 
other fine artist. This space may also serve as a living space for the artis t provided there is adequate separation between uses per the governing 
Building and Health Codes. 
Banner: A strip of cloth or other man made fabric on which a sign is painted, silk -screened or printed. The display area shall be defined as the area 
of one face of the banner. The banner shall not exceed (40) square feet and shall not be displayed for more than fourteen (14) consec utive days.  
Bed & Breakfast:  Bed and Breakfast, or Bed and Breakfast Establishment provided that:  
a) The dwelling is owner occupied. 
b) The lot conforms to all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Bylaw.  
c) Parking for each room available for rent is provided in the side yard behind the setback line or in the rear yard, but not  nearer than ten (10) feet to 
any property line. One (1) parking place shall be provided for each bedroom. 
d) The outside appearance of the building is not altered from that of a residence, except to comply with the Building Code.  
Civic Use: A land use that provides a public, cultural, or institutional benefi t to the community. Specific uses may include, but shall not be limited to, 
government offices, religious institutions, educational institutions, and medical facilities (not including veterinary operat ions). For the purposes of this 
bylaw, civic uses shall not include open space as defined below. 
Multiple Commercial Use : A combination of commercial uses within a single building or lot.  In the case of uses that fall under the Special Permit 
requirements of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use prior to the filing for Development Plan Review.  
===PAGE 16===
16 
 
Mixed Use: A combination of commercial and residential uses within a single building or lot. In the case of uses that fall under the S pecial Permit 
requirements of Section 4.17.5.b. a Zoning Board of Appeals decision must be rendered on the use prior to the filing for Development Plan Review.  
Personal Service: An establishment engaged in the provision of services to the general public which are conducted within the structure. Th is 
includes, but is not limited to, barbers, hair salons, massage therapists, chiropractors and nail salons.  
Professional Office: An office primarily devoted to professional activities, including, but not limited to, banks, real estate, insurance or oth er agency 
offices; an office of an accountant, physician, teacher, dentist, engineer, lawyer, homebuilder, photographer, or other recog nized professional for 
which specific training and/or licensing is required. Drive-thru service shall be limited to banks and shall require a Special Permit. 
Open Space: In the context of an application for a Village Center District Special Permit, this term denotes open areas set aside for pub lic use as 
part of a coordinated site development process. Specific requirements for ownership and maintenance are provided in Section 4.17.9. and shall not 
include areas covered with impervious surface treatments. 
Transparency: The amount of transparent space that occupies a building façade including standard street -level windows and doorway windows. 
Restaurant: A place serving food and beverage within a structure or patio, primarily for consumption on the premises. Drive -thru windows shall be 
prohibited for this use. 
Retail: An establishment engaged in displaying and selling goods or merc handise within a building to the general public or to business 
establishments where the goods or merchandise are not intended for resale. There shall be no outdoor display of goods without  the granting of 
Special Permit from the Board of Appeals.  
4.17.4. Authority 
The Planning Board shall act as the administering authority for any Development Plan Review procedure associated with this by law Section 8.4. The 
Board of Appeals shall serve as the Special Permit Granting Authority for any use that requires a Sp ecial Permit in the district, any use requiring a 
Special Permit pursuant to Section 4.17.5. 
4.17.5. Use Provisions 
a. The following uses are allowed by -right subject to any Development Plan Review requirements listed in Section 8.4 and all applicable dens ity and 
design provisions listed in this bylaw. 
1) Retail, with maximum 5,000 sq. ft. of floor area 
2) Professional Office Space 
3) Personal Service 
4) Artist space  
5) Restaurant 
6) Bed & Breakfast 
7) Mixed Use containing less than  5,000 sq. ft. per individual proposed use  
8) Multiple Commercial Use containing less than 5,000 sq. ft.  per individual proposed use  
9) Civic Uses 
b. The following uses are allowed only through the granting of a Special Permit by the Board of Appeals pursuant to the proce dures outlined in 
Section 8.3. 
1) Single and Two-Family Homes 
2) Multi-Family Homes 
3) Apartment Complexes 
4) Movie House/ Theatre (maximum of two screens) 
5) Liquor Stores 
6) Outdoor Markets subject to applicable licensing requirements 
7) Private Club 
8) Drive Through Use for Banks 
9) Retail Use greater than 5,000 sq. ft.  
10) Uses allowed by-right with a floor area greater than 5,000 sq. ft. included in a Multiple Commercial Use or Mixed Use development.  
c. Special Permit Approval Criteria – The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act upon all applications a fter notice and  public hearing, and after due 
consideration may grant such a special permit provided that it finds the proposed use:  
a. Is in harmony with the purpose and intent of the Bylaw and will promote the purposes of the Village Center District.  
b. The use is in harmony with those of the abutting properties and the Village Center District as a whole.  
c. All applicable standards for use, parking, and dimensional requirements are met;  
d. All applicable design standards listed in Section 8 are met. 
e. Where multiple structures are proposed, the site design reflects a thoughtful arrangement of elements that will facilitate the movement of 
pedestrians between structures through the use of sidewalks, internal walkways, alleys or open space features.  
d. The following uses are prohibited in the Village Center District 
1) Newly constructed one-story buildings on lots of less than 5 acres.  
2) Retail operations with more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of gross floor area on any individual floor, except for re use of buildings 
existing prior to 1 May 2015.  
3) Drive through establishments, excluding those expressly allowed by Special Permit.  
 
4.17.6. Dimensional Requirements 
a.  
===PAGE 17===
17 
 
Building Type 
Mixed Use with 
Commercial 1st 
Floor 
Other Mixed-Use or 
Residential Only 
Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
(Gross Floor Area/Lot Size) 
2.0 1.5 
Minimum Lot Frontage 75 feet 
Maximum Lot Coverage 85% 
Minimum Lot Area N/A 
Number of Buildings Per Lot See Section 4.17.9 
Maximum Building Frontage 300 feet 
Minimum Front Setback  5 feet 
Maximum Front Setback w/o street furniture 15 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback abutting a Residential Zone 10 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback in VCD 5 feet 
Interior Setback (Between Buildings on the Same Lot) 10 feet 
 
b. Height Limitations for Non -residential and Mixed Use: Building height for mixed use or non -residential use shall not exceed thirty -eight (38) feet 
and no building shall have more than three (3) stories. 
 
4.17.7. Parking Requirements 
Use Parking Requirement 
Retail/Personal Service/Liquor Store  1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net floor area, plus 1 space 
per employee on the largest shift 
Professional Office/Civic Uses 1 parking space per 300 sq. ft. of net floor area 
Artists Space 1 parking space per 400 sq. ft. of net retail/gallery floor area, 
plus 2 parking space per dwelling unit 
Restaurant/Private Club 1 parking space per 4 seats, plus one for each employee on 
the largest shift 
Bed & Breakfast 1 parking space per accommodation room, plus 2 parking 
spaces for the primary residence, plus 1 per non-resident 
employee on the largest shift. 
Mixed Use/Multiple Commercial Parking to be Provided per the Individual Uses 
All Residential Uses 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit 
Movie House 1 parking space per 4 occupants, plus 1 parking space per 2 
employees on the largest shift 
Outdoor Market 1 parking space per 500 sq. ft. 
  
 
As part of a Development Plan approval or Special Permit process within this district, the applicant may request reductions t o minimum requirements 
or alternative methods for meeting the required parking. Available innovative parking strategies include:  
a. Shared On-Site Parking 
1) Non-competing Uses. In mixed-use developments, applicants may propose a reduction in parking requirements based on an analysis of 
peak demands for noncompeting uses. Up to 50% of the requirements for the predominant use may be waived by the Planning Board or 
the Board of Appeals if the applicant can demonstrate that the peak demands for two uses do not overlap. An additional 25% ma y be 
waived with the addition of bicycle parking facilities.  
b. Off-Site Parking 
Separate from, or in conjunction with Shared Parking provisions, an applicant may use off -site parking to satisfy their parking requirements in 
accordance with the following conditions: 
1) Off-site parking shall be within one-thousand (1000) feet of the property for which it is being requested. 
2) Off -site parking spaces provided by a separate private property owner shall be subject to a legally binding agreement that will b e 
presented to the Permit Granting Authority as a condition of either the Development Plan Review or the Special Permit. Where an 
agreement shall expire within a specified timeline, the applicant or current property owner shall continue to provide evidenc e to the Zoning 
Enforcement Agent that the agreement has been extended. The Permit Granting Authority will verify with the Zoning Enforcement  Officer 
that there are no existing parking agreements during the permitting process. 
 
4.17.8. Design Standards 
The Design Standards in this section shall be applied to development within the Village Center District where applicable.  
a. Occupied Lot Area. 
===PAGE 18===
18 
 
1) The total lot devoted to building, parking, outdoor storage and display and other impervious surfaces may occupy up to eighty -five 
(85%) percent of the total lot area. 
b. Buildings 
1) All buildings shall have a principal façade and entry (with operable doors) facing a street or open space. Buildings may  
    have more than one principal façade and/or entry. 
2) Building finish materials shall be appropriate to traditional New England architecture. 
3) Building facades, materials and roof lines shall be reviewed under the permit granting authority to ensure consistency and   
    compatibility with other structures. 
4) Blank walls adjacent to streets, alleys or open spaces shall not be permitted. Where windows are not possible or  
    appropriate to the intended use, vertical articulation in the form of raised or recessed surfaces shall be used to break up    
    blank walls. 
5) New retail buildings shall have one of the following features along the front entrances to pedestrians: awning, marquee, arcade and/ or 
colonnade. 
6) Flat roofs that are visible from the street are prohibited unless an appropriate façade is included in the design.  
7) Larger buildings with multiple non-residential tenants on the first floor shall articulate the façade in a manner that  
   distinguishes the location of these tenants through the use of decorative raised or depressed vertical surfaces, variations o f  
   acceptable signage, awnings, marquees, colonnades or arcades. 
8) Mixed Use buildings shall have no more than twenty five (25%) percent of the first floor dedicated to residential use.  
    Conversion or partial conversion of residential uses existing before 1 May 2015 are exempt from this provision.  
9) All new utility service connections shall be placed underground. 
10) Lighting, signage and architectural style shall be consistent with other uses in the District and reviewed under the Perm it  
     Granting Authority. 
c. Signs 
1) Primary signs shall be flat against the façade, or mounted projecting from the façade.  
2) Signs that project from buildings shall have at least ten (10) feet of clearance from the ground level.  
3) Signs shall be externally lit from the front; lighting shall be provided using a gooseneck fixture. Back lighting of signs shall  
    not be used. 
4) Neon, flashing signs, moving signs, electric message signs, and roof signs shall not be used, except for barber poles.  
5) Banners with a specific date of expiration, shall be allowed, after approval by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.  
6) Signs shall be made of attractive materials consistent with the character of the district. Materials may include wood (pai nted or natural), 
stone, copper, brass, galvanized steel, painted canvas or paint/engraved on façade surface. 
7) Signs may only be incorporated into the skirt of awnings and not on the primary angled surface.  
8) Each building façade facing a street or parking area is permitted to have signs th at equal a maximum square footage of five  
    (5%) percent of the respective façade. 
9) A building with multiple businesses shall have signs of equal size on the façade, signs shall be either rectangular or ova l  
   shaped. 
10) Free standing signs shall be prohibited except for municipal use, portable and temporary signs.  
11) Sandwich board signs, flags and other portable signs are permitted only within the property lines, as long as they are  
      properly weighted. 
12) Window signs, comprising no more than ten (10%) percent of the transparent surface, shall be allowed. Window signs  
  shall not be lighted or animated in any manner, with the exception of the standard lighting fixtures within the building.   
d. Site Design 
1)  Interior Streets, Drives, Walkways and Access. 
a) Site access shall be a single divided way (one way in and one way out) where and when appropriate as determined by the 
Permit Granting Authority. 
b) Surfaces shall be pervious when possible and practical. 
c) Street level frontage shall be devoted to entrances, shop windows or other displays. 
d) Primary entrances to proposed and existing buildings shall be situated on pedestrian amenities (e.g., sidewalks, plazas or  
open space) with a minimum width of 10 feet. 
e) Setbacks shall be consistent with the fabric of the existing street and do not preclude pedestrian access.  
2) Parking and Loading Area. 
a) Parking shall be in the rear or side of building(s) and shall not be visible from the street line when possible. Parking w ill be 
reviewed by the Permit Granting Authority. 
b) All loading docks shall be to the rear of the building(s) and shall not be visible from the street. Adequate access for lo ading 
and emergency vehicles is maintained on one side of the building. 
3) Sidewalks. 
a) Sidewalks shall be provided from the street line, when applicable, and from the parking areas to building(s).  
4) Landscaping. 
===PAGE 19===
19 
 
a) There shall be a minimum of a four (4) foot landscaped area along the street frontage and along the front and side of the 
principal buildi ng(s) and plantings of indigenous materials along the façades of the building(s) and between the building(s) if 
there is more than one principal building on site. 
b) Additional landscaping and screening may be required during the Development Plan Review or  by the permitting authority. 
c) Such landscape shall be a type and height that does not interfere with sight lines of drivers.  
d) Natural features shall be retained to the extent possible. 
e) A landscape plan shall be provided and reviewed. 
f) Where residential neighborhoods abut commercial, office or mixed use developments, appropriate transitional features shall be 
used and may include landscaping, open space or parks, or streets with clearly designed pedestrian features.  
5) Street Furniture. 
a) Light fixtures shall be designed to be of number and height that grants plentiful lighting. Such lighting shall shine downwards 
as to not affect adjacent properties and be dark sky compliant. 
b)  Lighting must also be placed on the side and rear of the building.  
c) A Lighting Plan may be required if the Permitting Granting Authority deems the project is of such a scale that the impacts to 
the neighborhood are adverse; such plan will show where all light fixtures are being proposed within the site, as well as a 
narrative as to the type of light and height of all fixtures.  
d) Outdoor tables, benches, and bicycle racks shall be of a style consistent with the principal use(s) of the site.  
e) The location, number and style of exterior trash receptacles shall be reviewed  under Permit Granting Authority. 
 
4.17.9. Village Center District Campus Developments 
Developments that contain multiple buildings and uses on a single lot are encouraged as long as they are sensitive to the con text of the surrounding 
area and meet the pu rposes outlined above. These developments are subject to the provisions of Section 8.4 Development Plan Review of the 
Protective Bylaw as well as the additional design guidelines outlined in Section 4.17.8. of this Bylaw and below.  
a. Additional Design St andards: In addition to those design standards listed in Section 4.17.8. of this bylaw, applications for a Village Center 
District Campus shall also meet the following standards: 
1) Buildings 
i. Newly constructed building façades for non -residential first floor uses shall have a transparency of at least thirty five (35%) percent and no 
more than sixty (60%) percent for all facades that, wholly or partially, address street frontage, sidewalks, or other public space.  
ii. Buildings in Village Center District Campus Developments shall meet the following criteria: 
a) No more than ten (10%) percent of the first floor of newly constructed buildings shall be occupied by residential use.  
b) No more than sixty (60%) percent of the total gross floor area of the development shall b e occupied by residential use.  
2) Signs 
i. Freestanding directory signs may be permitted as part of a Village Center District Campus application where several non -residential 
operations are accessed through a common vehicular entrance. Such freestanding sign s shall not exceed eight (8)  
feet in height, six (6) feet in width and each tenant shall be allowed a maximum of four and a half (4.5) square feet to disp lay the company or 
agency name. 
3) Site Design  
i. Buildings shall be arranged in a manner that optimize s the ability of residents and consumers to access public spaces and pedestrian 
amenities. 
(ii) Buildings shall be oriented toward each other in a way that minimizes conflicts between pedestrians and automobiles.  
(iii) Open space provided pursuant to Section 4.17.9.b. of this bylaw shall be designed as a public gathering place. Arcades, courtyards, parks, 
greens or other common areas shall be located in a manner that connects buildings to each other and to public sidewalks witho ut 
interruption from parking areas or automobile travel lanes to the greatest practicable extent. 
(iv) Features that may be used to create open space areas acceptable to the Planning Board or the Board of Appeals may include, wi thout 
limitation, fixed benches, fixed tables, fountains,  pathways, bikeways, bicycle racks, period lighting, shade trees, perennial gardens, picnic 
areas, and/or trash receptacles. 
 
4.17.10 Severability 
If any provision of this bylaw is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the byl aw shall not be affected thereby, or take any 
other action relative thereto    (Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends approval 
5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.   
 
ARTICLE 28 . To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to Section 3.1. a new subsection 3.1.o “Village Center 
District,” or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board ) Board of Selectmen recommends approval  5-0, Planning Board 
recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 29. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by deleting the words “May 3, 2008” in Section 3.2.1. and replacing 
with the words “May 2, 2015,” or take any other action relative thereto.(Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 
5-0, Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
===PAGE 20===
20 
 
                  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

===PAGE 21===
21 
 
ARTICLE 30. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw Section 4.16. “Registered Marijuana Dispensaries” to correct the 
numbering sequence by renumbering “4.16.9.1.” as “4.16.7.1.”, “4.16.9.2.” as “4.16.7.2.”, and “4.16.10.” as “4.16. 8.”  or take any other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
Article 31.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to Section 5.2. “Setbacks and Yards” a new Subsection 
5.2.5.1.e “Village Center District” as follows: 
 e.) Village Center District  
Building Type 
Mixed Use with 
Commercial 1st 
Floor 
Other Mixed-Use or 
Residential Only 
Maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) 
(Gross Floor Area/Lot Size) 
2.0 1.5 
Minimum Lot Frontage 75 feet 
Maximum Lot Coverage 85% 
Minimum Lot Area N/A 
Number of Buildings Per Lot See Section 4.17.9 
Maximum Building Frontage 300 feet 
Minimum Front Setback  5 feet 
Maximum Front Setback w/o street furniture 15 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback abutting a Residential Zone 10 feet 
Minimum Side/Rear Setback in VCD 5 feet 
Interior Setback (Between Buildings on the Same Lot) 10 feet 
 
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board 
recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 32.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by amending Section 8.4. Development Plan Review Subsection 
8.4.2.1.a to add after Retail Commercial District “and Village Center District”,  or take any other action relative thereto.                                                                                                                                                                                 
(Submitted by Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no 
direct financial impact.  
                     
ARTICLE 33. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Map to show the new delineation of the Village Center District of the Town or 
take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends 
approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
                     
ARTICLE 34. To see if the Town will vote to designate Flat Hill Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL Chapter 40, Section 15C,  or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends 
approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
            
ARTICLE 35. To see if the Town will vote to designate Northfield Road in its entirety as a scenic road under MGL Chapter 40, Section 15C,  or 
take any other action relative thereto.(Submitted by the Planning Board ) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Planning Board recommends 
approval 5-0, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
     
ARTICLE 36. To see if the Town will vote to accept White Tail Crossing as a public way, or take any other action relative thereto 
(Submitted by the Planning Board)  Board of Selectmen will make recommendation at town meeting, Planning Board recommends approval 5-0, Finance 
Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
ARTICLE 37. To see if the Town will vote to approve a zoning change from “Commercial” to “Limited Business/Residential” land described 
as parcels currently designated Parcel 8 on Assessor’s Map 59, and P arcel 9 on Assessor’s Map 59, or take any other action relative thereto. 
(Submitted by the Planning Board)  Board of Selectmen  recommends approval 3 in favor, 2 against  (Bertram, Ebersole) , Planning Board will make a 
recommendation at town meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 38. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate,  transfer from available funds, or borrow $300,000 for the purpose of 
financing the design, bidding, permitting and construction, including the acquisition of land or interests in land relating t hereto, of sewer 
collection systems as described in the  Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan, prepared by Wright - Pierce (Town’s Engineering 
Consultants) dated March, 2010 , including without limitation all costs thereof as defined in Section 1 of Chap ter 29C of the General Laws, in the 
area of  Pleasant View Avenue with connection to the sewer pipe on Graham Street   and; to fund this appropriation, to authorize the Town 
Treasurer with the approval of the Board of Selectmen to borrow up to $300,000 and;  to issue bonds and notes therefor under Chapter 44 
and/or Chapter 29C of the General Laws  and; that the Town Treasurer with the approval of the Board of Selectmen is authorized to borrow all or 
===PAGE 22===
22 
 
a portion of said amount from the Water Pollution Abatement T rust established pursuant to said Chapter 29C  and in connection therewith 
the Town Treasurer, the Board of Selectmen and/or the Sewer Commission is authorized to enter into a financing agreement and/or security 
agreement with the Trust and otherwise to con tract with the Trust and the Department of Environmental Protection with respect to such financing 
and for any federal or state aid available for the project or for the financing thereof and to take any and all other action,  including without limitation the 
acquisition of land or interests therein by purchase or taking by eminent domain pursuant to General Laws Chapter 79, deemed necessary or 
advisable for such purposes;  that such bonds or notes shall be general obligations of the Town, provided, however, t hat it is the intent of the Town 
that the principal and interest on such bonds or notes shall be paid, without further appropriation by the Town to the extent  permitted by law, from 
funds received by the Town through betterment and/or privilege fees impose d on abutters who benefit from the project ; or take any  other action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen recommends approval 5-0, Finance Committee recommends approval 5-0. 
 
ARTICLE 39. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the enactment of a bylaw regulating the use of vehicles on Whalom Lake  
Table of Contents 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
Section 2. Definitions 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles prohibited 
Section 5. Public Access Only 
Section 6. Penalties 
 
Section 1. Purpose and Scope 
The purpose and scope of this bylaw is to protect the safety of the public, to prevent the destruction of  aquatic life, wate rfowl or other wildlife, the 
decay of water quality and damage to abutting  private and public lands by the inappropriate use of motor vehicles, recreation vehicles or s now 
vehicles on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake; to promote voluntary compliance with all applicable laws relating to the operation of motor 
vehicles and when necessary to deter noncompliance through fines and penalties.  
 
Section 2.  Definitions 
a) Motor Vehicle: any motor vehicle as defined in M.G.L Chapter 90, § 1. 
b) All-terrain vehicle: means a motorized recreational vehicle designed or modified for travel on three or four low pressure tires and having a 
seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for steering control, and recreational vehicle or off -highway vehicle as 
defined in CMR 323, § 3.02 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B. 
c) Snow vehicle: a motor vehicle designed to travel over ice or snow, having a curb weight of not more than 453 kilograms or 100 0 pounds, 
driven by track or tracks in contact with the snow or ice and steered by a ski or skis in contact with the snow or ice as defined in CMR 323, 
§ 302 and governed by M.G.L Chapter 90B. 
d) Operation: (1) to ride in or on and control the operation of, or to maintain, suffer, supervise, or permit the operation of, or to push a snow 
vehicle or a recreational vehicle, or, (2)  in the case of a motor vehicle, any person who makes use of any mechanical or electrical agency, 
which alone or in sequence will set in motion the motive power of the vehicle, whether or not the engine is not running; or ( 3) any person 
who utilizes any combination of actions that would set the vehicle in motion. 
e) Public Access: shall mean the public access located in the City of Leominster or any other place where Whalom Lake can be acc essed by 
the public.  
f) Law Enforcement Officer: any police officer, constable or other officer authorized to make arrests or serve process provided he is in 
uniform or displays his/her badge of office.  
g) Board: Town of Lunenburg, Board of Selectmen 
Section 3. Operation of Snow Vehicles and All-Terrain Vehicles 
A. No person, or group of persons shall operate, or cause to be operated on the waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake, any snow ve hicles 
that are not in compliance with Massachusetts CMR 323 § 2.01 to 3.09 & MGL c. 90 § 21 to 35.  
B. When the Town of Lunenburg or any other agency or state agency duly authorized by law has posted the waters or frozen waters of 
Whalom Lake to prohibit access for or use of snow vehicles or all- terrain vehicles, no person, or group of persons shall operate any snow 
vehicle or all-terrain vehicle upon such waters or frozen waters.  In the absence of such a posting, persons utilizing water or the frozen 
water of Whalom Lake do so at their own risk and the Town of Lunenburg assumes no responsibility either implied or expressed for the 
safety of any person who voluntarily assumes a known and obvious risk inherent in such activities. No person shall operate a sno w vehicle 
or all-terrain vehicle upon any frozen waters of Whalom Lake under any circumstance unless a minimum of five inches  of solid ice cover is 
present. The operator shall determine the thickness of the ice, and assumes all responsibility in undertaking an activity wit h an inherent 
and known risk.  
Section 4. Operation of Motor Vehicles Prohibited 
A. No person, group of persons or organizations shall operate, or cause to be operated, any motor vehicle, as defined in MGL c. 90 § 1 on the 
waters or frozen waters of Whalom Lake.  
===PAGE 23===
23 
 
Section 5. Public Access Only 
B. No Snow Vehicle or All-terrain vehicle shall enter upon Whalom Lake except by public access or by written permission by the landowner. 
Section 6. Penalties 
This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity including, but not limited to, enforcement by crimina l complaint or fines 
pursuant to G.L. C.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectman, the Town Manager or their duly authorized agents, or any police officer. Whether enforced 
through criminal or civil process, the fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300 .) for each offense. 
Board of Selectmen to make recommendation at ATM, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 40. To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw that restricts the public consumption of Marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol .   
The bylaw shall consist of two sections: 
Section 1: No person shall ingest or otherwise use or consume marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol, (as defined in G.L. c.94C§ 1, as amende d,) other 
than a qualified patient with a valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, all as  defined under state law, while in or upon a street, sidewalk, 
public way, footway, or pathway, passageway, stairs, bridge, park, playground, beach, recreation area, boat landing, public b uilding, schoolhouse, 
school grounds, cemetery, parking lot, or any area owned by or under the control of the town; or in or upon any bus or other passenger conveyance 
operated by a common carrier; or in any town owned vehicle; or in any place accessible to the public. No person, including a qualifying patient with a 
valid medical certification of a debilitating condition, as defined under state law, shall smoke marijuana or tetrahydrocannabinol in any public place 
set forth herein.  
Section 2: This bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity includin g, but not limited to, enforcement by criminal complaint 
of fines pursuant to G.L. c.40 § 21D, by the Board of Selectman, the Town Manager, or their duly authorized agents or any pol ice officer. Whether 
enforced through criminal or civil process, the fine for a violation of this bylaw shall be three hundred dollars ($300) for each offense. Any penalty 
imposed under this bylaw shall be in addition to any civil penalty imposed under G.L. c. 94C, § 32L.                               (Submitted by Police Chief) 
Board of Selectmen to make recommendation at ATM, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
ARTICLE 41. To see if the Town would vote to enact a bylaw authorizing the Board of Selectman to license suitable persons to carry on the 
business of pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers, or dealers in metal, as provided by MGL c.140  as amended.   
 
Table of Contents 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
     Subsection A 
     Subsection B 
Section II. Interest Rates 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention  
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A 
    Subsection B 
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
    Subsection A 
    Subsection B 
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
   Subsection C 
   Subsection D 
   Subsection E 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
   Subsection C 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A 
   Subsection B 
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
===PAGE 24===
24 
 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
Section II. Definitions 
Section III. License Required 
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
Section V. Waiting Period 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Article III.  Violations and Penalties; Fees 
Section I. Violations and Penalties 
Section II. License and Administration Fees 
Amendments 
 
Article I. Buyers and Sellers of Goods and Electronics 
Section I. Licensing Authority and Requirements 
Subsection A.  
The Board of Selectmen may license suitable persons to be pawnbrokers or buyer of goods pursuant to law. Such licenses shall not be valid to 
protect the holders thereof in a building or place other than that designated in the license, unless consent to removal is granted by the Board of 
Selectmen. Applications for new licenses under this bylaw may be filed at any time with the Board of Selectmen. Applications for the reissue of 
licenses already existing should be filed at least 30 days before the expiration of such licenses. Persons whose licenses hav e expired and have not 
been reissued will be liable to prosecution if carrying on business for which the license is required. E very person so licensed shall, at the time of 
receiving such license, file a bond as provided by MGL c. 140 § 77 as amended.  
Subsection B.  
Persons who engage in or carry on the business of lending money on mortgages, deposits or pledges of wearing appare l, jewelry, ornaments, 
household goods or other personal property, or of purchasing such property on condition of selling the same back again at a s tipulated price, when 
the property so mortgaged, pledged or purchased is deposited with the lender, must be licensed as pawnbrokers. This provision, however, does not 
apply to loans made on stocks, bonds, notes or other written or printed evidence of ownership of property or of indebtedness to the holder or owner 
of such securities. (MGL c. 140, § 70 – 85) 
 
Section II. Interest Rates 
A. Licensed pawnbrokers may charge interest at the rate of 3% per month, and in no event may they charge more than the rate allo wed by 
the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks. 
B. No such pawnbrokers shall charge or receive any greater rate of interest, and interest shall be determined on the precise sum advanced 
by the lender. 
C. No pawnbroker shall make or receive any extra charge or fee for storage, care or safekeeping of any goods, articles or things  pawned with 
him. (MGL c. 140, § 78) 
 
Section III. Police may enter and inspect premises and records 
Subject to the laws of this Commonwealth, any officer of the Lunenburg Police may  at any time, enter upon any premises used by a licensed 
pawnbroker or buyer for the purposes of his or her business, ascertain how he or she conducts his or her business and examine all articles taken in 
pawn or bought, or kept or stored in or upon said premises, and all books and inventories shall be exhibited to any above nam e whenever a demand 
shall be made for such exhibition. (MGL c. 140, §§ 73, 74) (Penalty for refusal, MGL c. 140,  §§ 73, 74) 
 
Section IV. Numbering of pawned articles 
Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall, at the time of making any loan, attach a number to the article taken in pawn or bou ght, and shall make 
entry of such number in the book provided for in Section V. of this article.  
 
Section V. Maintenance of records; contents; photo identification 
A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall keep a book of style and size in which shall be legibly written in ink, in the English language, at 
the time of making each loan, an account and description, including all distinguishing marks and numbers, and serial numbers of the 
goods, articles or things pledged or pawned, the amount of money loaned or paid thereon, the day and hour when it was pawned, the rate 
of interest to be paid on such loan, the number of such article as same. No entry made in said book shall be erased, oblitera ted or 
defaced.  Electronic Record Keeping by the pawnbroker or buyer is acceptable as long as the records meet all the bylaw requirements.  
B. Every pawnbroker or buyer shall photograph any person pawning or pledging articles and keep such photographs with said books as part 
of his or her records. (MGL c. 140, § 79).  
C. For all transactions, every pawnbroker or buyer shall also require positive identification and shall record the type of identification 
presented and record the date of birth from any person pawning, pledging or selling any article. Positive identification shal l mean any 
picture identification card issued by a governmental agency. 
 
===PAGE 25===
25 
 
Section VI. Pledge cards; contents; retention 
Each pledger shall be required by the pawnbroker to sign his or her name, age and address on a card. In the event that the pl edger is unable to 
write, the pawnbroker shall fill in the name, age and address on such card, together with a notation stating that the pledger wa s unable to do so. 
Such card shall be retained seven years in an alphabetical index file by the licensed pawnbrokers.  
 
Section VII. Copy of required record to pledger 
Every pawnbroker or buyer shall, at the time of making such loan, deliver to the person who pawns or pledges any goods, artic les or things, a 
memorandum or note signed by him, containing the substance of the entry requi red to be made in his book by the provisions of section V. and no 
charge shall be made or required by any pawnbroker or buyer for any such entry, memorandum or note. (MGL c. 140, § 80)  
 
Section VIII. Daily report to police 
    Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall make out and deliver a report of transactions to the Lunenburg Police Chief or his 
designee, every day before the hour of 10:00 a.m., a legible and correct list containing an accurate description, including a ll distinguishable marks, 
numbers and serial numbers of all articles taken in pawn or bought during the preceding business day, the respective numbers of such articles as 
provided by Section IV of this bylaw, the amount loaned or paid thereon, and the time when such articles we re pawned or bought. This report can be 
done electronically or faxed to the Lunenburg Police Chief or his designee. If during the preceding day no articles have been  taken in by such 
pawnbroker or buyer, he or she is not required to report. This report can be done both electronically via the Internet and by fax. 
   Subsection B. If any goods or articles pawned or pledged and in the possession of a pawnbroker or buyer are subsequently determined to be 
stolen property by a member of the Lunenburg Police Department or the Massachusetts State Police, or if the rightful owner identifies property in the 
possession of a pawnbroker or buyer and the property so identified is confirmed to be stolen goods by a member of the Lunenbu rg Police 
Department or Massachusetts State Police, said property shall be returned to the rightful owner at no cost to such owner.  
Section IX. Posting Requirements 
   Subsection A. Every licensed pawnbroker or buyer shall post in a conspicuous place in his or her shop or office a copy of the  statutes, bylaws and 
police regulations relating to pawnbrokers/buyers to be furnished by the Lunenburg Police Department’s Police Chief or design ee, and shall put in 
some suitable and conspicuous place in his shop a sign having his/her name and occupatio n legibly inscribed thereon in lettering of a size and font 
so as to be easily and readily viewed by the public. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall place or maintain any signs or devices upon or in connection with his or her licensed premises 
indicating or tending to indicate that any form of business is conducted therein which he or she is not legally authorized to pursue.  
Section X. Hours of Operation 
Pawnbroker or buyer shall have his or her shop open for transactions between sunrise and 10:00  p.m. in the evening of any weekday and weekend. 
Under no circumstances can a pawnbroker or buyer operate after the hour of 10:00 p.m. to sunrise.  
 
Section XI. Disposition of pledged articles 
   Subsection A. Articles deposited in pawn with a licensed pawnbroker shall unless redeemed, be retained by him on the premises occupied by him 
for his business for at least four months after the date of deposit. 
   Subsection B. After the expiration of the applicable period of time he may sell the article by public a uction, apply the proceeds thereof in 
satisfaction of the debt or demand and the expense of the notice and sale, and pay any surplus to the person entitled thereto  on demand. 
   Subsection C. No such sale of any article, which is not of a perishable nature, shall be made unless not less than 10 days prior to the sale a 
written notice of the intended sale shall have been sent by registered mail to the person entitled to the payment of any surp lus as aforesaid, 
addressed to his residence, as appearing in the records of such pawnbrokers. Proof of registered mail shall be kept on file for one year after the date 
of sale. 
   Subsection D. No article taken in pawn by such pawnbroker or buyer shall be disposed of otherwise than as above provided, any agreement or 
contract between the parties thereto to the contrary notwithstanding. 
   Subsection E.  Articles of personal apparel shall not be deemed to be of a perishable nature within the meaning of this section.    
                            (MGL c. 140, § 71) 
Section XII. Prohibitions 
   Subsection A. No pawnbroker or buyer shall make a loan, directly or indirectly, to a person under the age of 18, knowing or having reason t o 
believe him or her to be such. 
   Subsection B. No pawnbroker or buyer shall loan money secured by deposit or pledge of a firearm, rifle, shotgun or machine gun.  
                            (MGL c. 140, § 131B) 
   Subsection C. Unless otherwise qualified and licensed under MGL c. 140, no pawnbroker or buyer shall hold a license to sell, rent, or lease a 
firearm, rifle, shotgun, or machine gun. 
Section XIII. Complaints, Disciplinary Action; Hearing 
   Subsection A. Complaints concerning licensed pawnbrokers or buyers shall be investigated by the Lunenburg Police Department under the 
direction of the Chief of Police. 
===PAGE 26===
26 
 
   Subsection B. In the event the Chief of Police determines that disciplinary action should be instituted against a licensed pawnbroker or bu yer, the 
Chief of Police shall cause to be served upon the licensed pawnbroker or buyer notic e as to the time, date and place of hearing, and of the charge 
with a statement of the reasons for the proposed disciplinary action. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with law.  
Section XIV. Suspension or Revocation of License 
The Board of Selectmen may suspend or revoke licenses provided for by this article for any cause which the Board of Selectmen deems sufficient. 
Offenses which may result in the suspension or revocation of a pawnbroker's or buyer’s license include but are not limited to  the following: 
a) A violation of any section of this article. 
b) A violation of any provision of any statute or applicable law. 
c) Any substantial evidence demonstrating, in the opinion of the Board of Selectmen, that the license is no longer suitable.  
 
Article II. Sale, Exchange or Purchase of Metals 
Section I. Findings 
The Town of Lunenburg finds that there is a cognizable risk for stolen metals to end up in the possession of even legitimate businesses which trade 
in metals, including precious metals. Certain criminals bring stolen metals, including precious metals, to dealers in jewelry and scrap metal. The 
victims of theft have only a small hope of recovering their property unless the people and entities who receive scrap metals and jewelry are regulated 
in a manner which identifies both the metal received by the dealers and the persons who deliver the metal to these dealers. There is an Inte rnet alert 
system used by the Lunenburg Police Department, which reports stolen metals. Monitoring transactions within the town and  identifying both the 
metals and the persons selling or delivering these metals will serve both to deter theft and to enable the Lunenburg Police D epartment to trace and 
recover stolen property and return it to the rightful owners. 
 
Section II. Definitions 
As used in Article II, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
ARTICLE: Any metal which is subject to Article II and is exchanged, sold, collected, bartered or received by a person dealing in metals.  
CHIEF OF POLICE:  The Chief of the Lunenburg Police Department or his designee.  
EXCHANGE: Receiving, purchasing, selling or bartering metals, including precious metals and industrial scrap metals.  
METAL: A chemical element that is malleable, opaque and ductile, usually solid, which  has a characteristic luster, is a good conductor of heat and 
electricity, and can be melted or fused, hammered into thin sheets, or drawn into wires, e.g., copper, aluminum, gold, silver  or iron or other metals. 
PRECIOUS METAL(S): Any metal which is considered valuable, such as silver, gold, platinum, and copper, without regard to the form or amount of  
such precious metal. 
BOARD:  Board of Selectmen 
 
Section III. License Required 
a) No person shall collect, deal in, exchange, buy, or keep a shop or place for the exchange, purchase, sale or barter of metals, including precious 
metals and industrial metals, in any building or place within the limits of the town without having a license issued by the B oard of Selectman. The 
license requirement and the other requirements of this Article II shall not apply to commercial haulers having valid, current  United States Department 
of Transportation stickers affixed to their vehicles. 
b) Board of Selectmen may, for a fee set by said board and based upon an application devised by said board, license suitable persons to be dealers 
in and keepers of shops or locations for the purchase, sale or barter of precious metals at such places within the town as ma y be designated in such 
license. The Board of Selectmen may place reasonable conditions on such licenses which shall be inscribed on the face of the li cense. A license 
shall be limited to a specific address stated thereon. Subject to the notice and appeal provisions contained in 23  of this Article II, the Board of 
Selectmen may deny a license to any person who, in the exercise of his reasonable discretion, is unsuitable.  
c) All metal dealer licenses shall expire annually on the last day in December. The license holders shall be resp onsible for submitting an application 
for license renewal with the license fee to the Board of Selectmen at least 30 days prior to the last day in December. Upon r eceipt of an application 
for renewal, the Board shall consider the performance of the licensee during the previous year and shall determine whether the licensee had been 
found in violation of this Article II and other bylaws and regulations of the town applicable to metal dealers.  
d) The Board of Selectmen may promulgate reasonable regulations not inconsistent with this Article II which shall be binding upon all licensees. No 
regulation shall take effect until the expiration of 30 days from the date the regulation(s) is delivered or mailed to the pe rson(s) then licensed. The 
Board of Selectmen shall deliver a complete set of regulations and any amendments thereto to the Town Clerk. The Town Clerk shall maintain the 
complete set of all regulations in a book available to the public. 
e) The obligation to obtain a license as required by this section will take effect 45 days after approval by Town Meeting of this bylaw.  
Section IV. Transactions with Minors 
No licensee shall, directly or indirectly, exchange any metals with a person under the age of 18.  
Section V. Waiting Period 
No article exchanged, purchased or received shall be sold, or altered in appearance, form or substance until a period of at least twenty -one (21) 
days have elapsed from the date of its purchase or receipt. All articles exchanged, purchased or received must be made availa ble to the Lunenburg 
Police Department upon request within 24 hours of such request, and the Police Department may investigate to determine if any  article is, or may be, 
stolen property. This waiting period does not apply to scrap metal yards which are exempt from any  waiting period. 
Section VI. Daily Report 
Every licensee shall electronically create and send to the Police Chief or his designee, on a form, in the manner and at the time prescribed by the 
Police Chief or his designee, a legible, a complete and accurate list containing an accurate description of all metal articles received by the licensee 
===PAGE 27===
27 
 
during the previous 24 hours. The description must include: the type of metal; the size and/or quantity; whether the article is or may be a precious 
metal; if applicable, whether the article is typically used by or associated with a male or female; the wording of any engraving; whether the artic le has 
any gems or precious stones; any identifying number and every other identifiable trait.  
Section VII. Recordkeeping Requirements 
A. Every licensee shall, at the time of making any exchange or receipt of any article, assign and attach a number to each art icle received and shall 
make entry of such number in the book described in Subsection B.  
B. Every licensee shall keep a book in which shall be legibly written in ink, in the English language, at the time the licensee receives any article, the 
following information: 
1) An account and description, including all distinguishing or identifying marks and numbers of every article recei ved by the licensee. 
2) The amount of money, if any, paid for the article. 
3) The date and hour when it was received. 
4) The name, age, permanent address and telephone number of the person from who purchased or received.  
5) A copy of the document used to identify the person giving the article to the licensee.  
A. Every licensee shall require positive identification from any person selling or exchanging any article. The licensee shall co py and record the type 
of identification presented and the date of birth from any person giving or exchanging any article. Positive identification means only a 
government-issued document with the person's name and photograph. The licensee shall photograph any person exchanging any article(s). A 
copy of the identification and the photograph shall be kept with the book required by this section as part of his records.  
B. No entry made in the book required by this section shall be erased, obliterated or defaced in any manner whatsoever. The book  shall at all times 
be open for the inspection by the Police Chief or any police officer. The licensee shall keep and maintain all the records required by this 
Article II for a period of three years from the date of the last entry in any book. 
Section VIII. Posting of Name, Occupation and License; Inspections 
Every licensee shall post in some suitable and conspicuous place where he or she receives or exchanges articles, a sign havin g his/ her full legal 
name, and his/her business name, if different, and his/her occupation legibly described thereon in large letters. The current license shall also be so 
posted. The location where transactions occur, the store or shop and all articles exchanged and or kept therein or received t herein and the book and 
documents required by this Article II, may at all times be examined by the Police Chief or any police officer at their request.  
Article III. Violations and Penalties; Fees 
Section I. Violations and Penalties 
A. Whoever not having a valid license as required by this Article II, exchanges, collects, deals in or barters metals in any place or manner other than 
that designated in his license, or after notice to him that his license has been revoked, or whoever violates this Article II  or any rule, regulation or 
restriction contained in his license, or any regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg shall be subject to the fines and sanct ions described in 
this section. Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.  
B. The fine for breach of the duty imposed by this Article II is three hundred dollars ($300). Each day on which the person continues in violation shall 
be considered as a separate violation. 
C. This Article II may also, at the discretion of the Chief of Police, be enforced by civil process  or by noncriminal disposition as provided in MGL c. 
40, § 21D. The Chief of Police or any Lunenburg Police Officer may issue tickets to enforce this Article II. If enforced civi lly by ticket each day on 
which a violation exists shall be deemed to be a separate offense, and the violator shall be subject to the following fines: 
       1) First violation: $150. 
       2) Second violation: $200. 
       3) Third violation: $300. 
       4) Fourth and each subsequent violation: $300. 
D.  In addition to the penalties set forth above, the enforcing authority may seek an injunction from an appropriate court to restrain any violation of 
this Article II, any regulation promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on a license.  
E. The Board of Selectmen may suspend or terminate any license or refuse to renew any license for violation of this Article II, a regulation 
promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or any condition inscribed on the license. The Board of Selectmen, if electing to take a ction under this 
section, shall use the procedure described in this section. 
     1) Notice of violation. Whenever it comes to the attention of the Board of Selectmen that a violation of this Article II, a r egulation    
         promulgated by the Town of Lunenburg or a condition inscribed on a license, the Board shall by written notice, deliver personally  
         or send by certified mail to the licensee notify him of the violation and order the person to cease and desist. Depending on the  
         severity of the violation as determined by him, the Board of Selectmen may suspend or terminate the license. The Board shall  
         also provide notice described herein if it denies an application for a license stating the reasons therefor.  
      2) Contents of notice. The written notice to the licensee shall contain a description of the violation(s) and the date(s) of  
           occurrence and a citation to the section of the ordinance, regulation or license condition which the licensee is alleged to  
           have violated. The notice will, if applicable, describe what the licensee must do to comply, whether the Board of Selectmen  
           intends to terminate the license and the effective date of the termination which shall afford the licensee at least seven day s  
           to file an appeal of the proposed termination to the Board. In the case of denial of a license, the notice shall state the  
           reasons for the denial. 
1) Appeal. Upon receipt of a notice of license termination, or denial, the licensee ma y, within seven days of receipt of the notice, file a 
written appeal by delivery or certified mail to the Board of Selectmen's office during the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on  days when 
Town Hall is open for business. When the Board of Selectmen receives an appeal, he or she shall appoint a neutral hearing officer who 
will take testimony from any persons with knowledge of the facts including any police officer and the appellant. The appellan t may be 
===PAGE 28===
28 
 
represented by counsel and any person so testifying will be subject to cross examination. The proceedings will be governed by the 
rules of evidence applicable to an informal administrative hearing. The hearing officer will assure that an appropriate recor d, including 
any documents submitted, is made and kept. The decision of the hearing officer will be written and final. 
A. In addition to the other actions available under this bylaw, the Board of Selectmen, subject to the process described in this  section, may refuse 
to renew any license. The Board shall not issue a license to any person convicted of a felony. 
Section II. License and Administration Fees 
            1) Buyer of Goods and Electronics Annually $250.00 
            2) Buyer of Metal and Precious Metals Annually $250.00 
            3) Pawnbroker License Annually $1000.00 
Amendments                                                                                                                                                                     (Submitted by Police Chief) 
Board of Selectmen to make recommendation at ATM, Finance Committee reports no direct financial impact.  
 
 
ARTICLE 42. To see if the Town will vote to enact a bylaw to restrict Sexual Offender Residency and create Sex Offender Safety  
                      Zones 
Table of Contents 
Section 1 Findings and Intent 
Section 2 Definitions 
Section 3 Sex Offender Residence Prohibition 
Section 4 Evidentiary Matters; Measurements 
Section 5 Notice to Move 
Section 6 Exceptions 
Section 7 Forfeiture of Exception 
Section 8 Penalties 
Section 9 Safety Zone 
Section 10 Maps and List of Safety Zones 
Section 11 Severability 
Section 1. Findings and Intent 
A. It is the intent of this bylaw to serve and to protect the Town's compelling interest to promote, protect and improve the health,   
         safety and welfare of the citizens of the Town by creating areas around locations where children, or the elderly regularly    
         congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sex offenders are prohibited from loitering and establishing temporary or  
         permanent residence.  
B. After careful consideration, the Town finds that this bylaw is the most narrowly tailored means of limiting, to the fullest e xtent  
possible, the opportunity for certain sex offenders to approach or otherwise come in contact with children  or the elderly in places where children 
or the elderly would naturally congregate, and that the protection of the health and safety of our children and elderly is a compelling 
governmental interest. 
C. By the enactment of this or any other bylaw, the Town understands that it cannot remove the threat posed to or guarantee the  
safety of children or the elderly or assure the public that sex offenders will comply with the mandates of this bylaw. This l egislation is intended to 
create a civil, non-punitive regulatory scheme in order to protect children and the elderly to the extent possible under the circumstances and not 
as a punitive measure of any kind.  
D. Certain sex offenders pose a clear threat to the children and the elderly residing or visiting in the commun ity. Because certain sex  
offenders are more likely than any other type of offender to reoffend by another sexual offense, the Town desires to impose s afety precautions 
in furtherance of the goal of protecting the children and elderly. The purpose of this bylaw is to reduce the potential risk of harm to children and 
the elderly in the community by limiting the ability of certain classified levels of sex offenders to be in contact with unsu specting children and the 
elderly in locations that are primarily designed for use by or are primarily used by children and the elderly, the grounds of a public or private 
school for children, a center of facility that provides day care or children's services, a park, other public recreational facility, elderly housing 
facilities or the Senior Citizen’s Center. The Town desires to add location restrictions to such offenders to the extent state law is silent.  
Section 2. Definitions 
1) “Camp Bus Stop” Any area designated by a private/public youth camp as a camp bus stop which has  been designated in a list  
               maintained by the Town and available to the public. 
2) “Day Care Center” means an establishment, whether public or private, which provides care for children and is registered with  
and licensed pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts by the Department of Early Education and Care.  
3) “Elder” or “Elderly” means a person or persons over 60 years of age. “Elderly Housing Facility” or “Senior Citizens Center” o r 
“Over 55 Community” means any building or buildings which provide a group residence for the elderly or a location where the      
               elderly gather and/or reside that is located within the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  
4) “Establishing a Residence” means to set up or bring into being a dwelling place or an abode where a person sleeps, which may include 
more than one location, and may be mobile or transitory, or by means of purchasing real property or entering into a lease or rental 
agreement for real property. 
5)  “Loitering” means to remain for more than fifteen (15) minutes within a five hundred (500) foot distance of the location in  
               question. 
===PAGE 29===
29 
 
6) “Park” means active and passive public land designated for recreational or athletic use by the Town of Lunenburg,  
               Massachusetts and located within the Town of Lunenburg Massachusetts.  
7) “Permanent Residence” means a place where a person lives, abides, lodges, or resides for five (5) or more consecutive days or  fourteen 
(14) or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year. 
8) “Recreational Facility” means a playground, a forest preserve, conservation area, jogging trail or running track, hiking or b iking  
               trail, beach, water park, swimming pool, wading pool, soccer field, baseball field, football field, bas ketball court or hockey rink,  
               whether publicly or privately owned, to which the public has a right of access as an invitee and which is located within the         
               Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  
9) “School” means any public or private educational facility that provides services to children in grades Kindergarten - 12, or                    
               any one or more of such grades. 
10) “School Bus Stop” means any area designated by the public school district or by a private or  parochial school within the Town of 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts as a school bus stop, which school bus stop has been designated in a list maintained by the Town and  
available to the public. 
11) “Sex Offender” and “Sex offense” shall have the same meaning for pur poses of this bylaw as provided for in G.L. c. 6, § 178C. 
12) “Sex Offense Involving a Child” shall have the same meaning for purposes of this bylaw as provided for in G.L. c. 6, § 178C.  
13) “Temporary Residence” means a place where a person lives, abides, lodges or resides for a period of less than five (5)  
              consecutive days or fourteen (14) days in the aggregate during any calendar year.  
Section 3. Sex Offender Residence Prohibition 
It is unlawful for any sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry 
Board, for as long as so classified, to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence in the Town of Lunenburg, Mass achusetts within one  
thousand (1,000) feet of the property on which any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility , 
elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center,  or licensed day -care center is located. 
Section 4. Evidentiary Matters; Measurements 
For purposes of determining the minimum distance requirement, the separation shall be measured by following a straight line f rom the outer property 
line of the permanent residence to the nearest outer property line of any public o r private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other 
recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center. 
Section 5. Notice to Move 
Any sex offender who has  been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, for as  
long as so classified, who establishes a permanent residence or temporary residence in the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts w ithin one thousand 
(1,000) feet of any public or private school, park,  playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderl y housing facility, over 55 
community, senior citizens center,  or licensed day-care center shall be in violation of this bylaw and shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of written 
notice of the sex offender’s noncompliance with this bylaw, move from said location to a new location, but said location may not be within one 
thousand (1,000) feet of any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, 
over 55 community, senior citizens center,  or licensed day-care center within the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  Furthermore it shall be a 
separate violation each day that a sex offender shall move from one location in the Town of Lunenburg to another that is within one thousand  (1,000) 
feet of any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly h ousing facility, over 55 community, 
senior citizens center, or licensed day-care center.   
Section 6. Exceptions 
A sex offender residing within 1,000 feet of any public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, othe r recreational facility, elderly 
housing facility, over 55 communities, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center does not commit a violation of this bylaw if any of the 
following apply: 
1) The person established the permanent residence and reported and registered th e residence, as required by the Sex Offender Registry 
Law and any applicable regulations of the Massachusetts Sex Offender Registry Board, prior to the effective date of this  byl aw, and: 
a) Permanent residence was established by purchasing the real property where the residence is established, as long as the  
registered sex offender continues to reside in and does not move to another restricted location in Lunenburg different from t he 
permanent residence established prior to the effective date of this bylaw;  
b) Permanent residence was established through a valid, fixed-term, written and/or oral lease or rental agreement, executed  
prior to the effective date of this bylaw, as long as the registered sex offender continues to reside within and does not mov e to another 
restricted location in Lunenburg different from the permanent residence established prior to the effective date of this bylaw ; or  
c) Permanent residence was established through a written and/or oral lease or rental agreement at the will of the landlord, as  
long as the registered sex offender continues to reside within and does not move to another restricted location in Lunenburg different 
from the permanent residence established prior to the effective date of this bylaw.  
            2)   The person was a minor when the relevant crime was committed and was not convicted as an adult.  
            3)   The person is a minor. 
            4)  The public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, elderly housin g facility,  
                  over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day-care center was established after such person established the  
                  permanent residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to the Sex Off ender Registry Law and any  
                  applicable regulations of the Massachusetts Sex Offender Registry Board.  
            5) The person is required to serve a sentence at a jail, prison, juvenile facility, or other correctional institution or faci lity located  
                 within the aforementioned 1,000 foot area. 
===PAGE 30===
30 
 
            6) The person is admitted to and/or subject to an order of commitment at a public or private facility for the care and treatm ent of  
                 mentally ill persons pursuant to G.L. c. 123 located within the aforementioned 1,000 foot area.  
            7) The person is a mentally ill person subject to guardianship pursuant to order or supervision of the Probate and Family Cou rt     
                 or a mentally retarded person subject to guardianship pursuant to G.L. c. 201 §6A, residing with his or her guardian or  
                 residing within a group residence that is professionally staffed and supervised 24 hours a day and located within the  
                 aforementioned 1,000 foot area.   
Section 7. Forfeiture of Exception 
                If, either after the effective date of this bylaw or after a new public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hi king  
                trail, other recreational facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center  
                opens, an indictment or conviction of another sex offense is issued by a court against a Level 2 or 3 Sex Offender otherwise  
                enjoying an exception under this bylaw, he or she shall immediately forfeit that exception and be required to comply with thi s  
                bylaw. 
Section 8. Penalties 
1) Criminal Complaint.  Violation of the residency provisions of this bylaw may be enforced by criminal complaint filed by any   
police officer of the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.  The fine for 
each violation upon conviction shall be three hundred dollars ($300). 
2) Noncriminal Disposition.  In addition to enforcement by criminal complaint, violation of the residency provisions of this  
bylaw may be enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity by any police officer of the Town of Lunenburg including, but not 
limited to, enforcement by non-criminal disposition pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a 
separate violation. The penalties for noncriminal disposition shall be as follows:  
a) First offense: Notification to offender that he/she has thirty (30) days to move. 
b) Subsequent offense: noncriminal fine of three hundred dollars ($300), enforceable by a police officer, and written 
notification to the property owner, if other than the offender, the offender’s landlord, parole officer and/or probation officer, 
and the Commonwealth's Sex Offender Registry Board that the sex offender has violated a town bylaw.  
Section 9. Safety Zone 
A. Prohibitions 
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, and for as  
long as so classified, is prohibited from entering upon the premises of a school or day -care center unless previously authorized specifically in writing 
by the school administration or day-care center owner. 
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Regi stry Board, and for as 
long as so classified, is prohibited from entering upon the premises of an elderly housing fa cility, over 55 Community or Senior Citizens Center, 
unless previously authorized in writing by the on-site manager of the elderly housing facility, over 55 Community or Senior Citizen Center.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, and for 
as  long as so classified,  is prohibited from entering upon the premises of a park or any recreational facility.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pursuant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, and for 
as  long as so classified,, after having received notice from the Lunenburg Police Department that he/she is loitering by having remained for more 
than fifteen (15) minutes within five hundred (500) feet of a public or private school, park,  playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational 
facility, elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center, is prohibited from continuing to so loiter. For 
purposes of determining the minimum distance separation under this section, the distance shall be measured by following a str aight line from the 
registered sex offender to the outer property line of the public or private school, park, playground, beach, biking/hiking trail, other recreational facility, 
elderly housing facility, over 55 community, senior citizens center, or licensed day -care center.  
A sex offender who has been finally classified as a Level 2 or 3 offender pur suant to the guidelines of the Sex Offender Registry Board, and for 
as  long as so classified,, after having received notice from the Lunenburg Police Department that he/she is loitering by having remained for more 
than fifteen (15) minutes within five hundred (500) feet of a school and/or camp bus stop which has been designated in a list maintained by the Town 
and available to the public is prohibited from continuing to so loiter; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not ap ply on days when the schools 
and/or camps within the Town of Lunenburg are not in session.  
A. Exceptions 
1) The prohibitions defined in this bylaw shall not be construed or enforced so as to prohibit a sex offender from exercising hi s or her right to 
vote in any federal, state or municipal election, conducting town and/or police business or from attending any religious service.  
2) The prohibitions defined in this bylaw do not apply to a sex offender's place of residence when such residence is accepted un der this 
bylaw.  
B. Penalties 
1) Criminal Complaint.  Violation of the safety zone provisions of this bylaw may be enforced by criminal complaint filed by any     
2) police officer of the Town of Lunenburg.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.  The fine for ea ch violation, 
upon conviction, shall be three hundred dollars ($300). 
2) Noncriminal Disposition.  In addition to enforcement by criminal complaint, violation of the safety zone provisions of thi s bylaw may be 
enforced through any lawful means in law or in equity by any police officer of the Town of Lunenburg including, but not limited to, 
enforcement by non-criminal disposition pursuant to G.L. c. 40, § 21D.  Each day a violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.  
The penalties for noncriminal disposition shall be as follows: 
