Lunenburg Finance Committee Annual Report for FY25
The Lunenburg Finance Committee is reporting that Lunenburg’s financial position is changing, and some post pandemic effects are starting to show that has a financial impact to the Town as a whole. In planning for the Fiscal Year 25 thanks to the Towns conservative practice for many years the Town was able to make it through the difficulties of some financial instability, as a result many of the Towns Departments are currently operating below their needs level budget. There are positions that continue to remain unfilled for a variety of reasons causing strain on said Departments that are operating without a full staff. 
The process of developing and presenting a budget to the Annual Town Meeting begins in the early Fall with the Town Manager meeting with department heads to discuss expenses, wants and needs. The Town Manager then presents the proposed budget to the Finance Committee in mid-February. Over the following 90 days, the Finance Committee meets with the various department heads to discuss their individual line time budget requests. This year additional scrutiny was given to every single line in an attempt to holistically understand the appropriation of all funds and the impact on the operational elements of all Departments. Through the deliberative process the Finance Committee determined the historic budget schedule may not offer sufficient time for appropriate analysis. The Finance Committee then votes on the recommendation of the finalized omnibus budget provided by the Town Manager and reports to the Annual Town Meeting. As a legislative body, acting on the Towns, behalf the Finance Committee recommend the approval (5-1-1) of the budget as presented at the Annual Town meeting.  
Historically, the Capital Plan has been funded through free cash, tax revenues, and unspent capital appropriation from prior years. For FY25 the Capital Plan is funded exclusively through free cash ($1,016,722.36) and unspent Capital was ($300,397.62) appropriation from prior years. The proposed Capital plan of $1,317,119.98, is a 35% decrease from the FY24 Capital funding.  The reduction in Capital plan spending is partly due to the loss of $340,000.00 of 40S State funds and the allocation of $236,000.00 of certified new growth is being directed to the School Department budget. The Finance Committee recommends the approval (6-1) of the FY25 Capital plan. 
Noteworthy topics:
The end of FY24 will see a 16.39% reduction of our Debt Service and Excludible Debt, from $3,516,182.23 (FY24) to $2,939,956.12 (FY25). This decrease is the result of a reduction in the sewer debt and a reduction in MSBA excludable debt. An analysis run by UniBank in 2023, projected a variety of scenarios to guide the Town in debt capacity spending over the next 30 years. In total the Town continues to have $42,000,000.00 that will be useable while remaining under debt capacity limits. With this number in mind, the Select Board, Municipal Design Committee, and the Town will be better prepared to plan for the future. Town policy dictates not borrowing more than 4% of our operating budget for non-excludable debt. Currently the Town maintains approximately 0.7% of our operating budget in non-excludable debt while there is debt capacity there currently does not exist a funding source.



