FY27 Budget Presentation
Lunenburg Public 
Library
Muir Haman, Director LPL											March 5, 2026

Library 
Overview
Key Services
The Lunenburg Public Library provides access to information resources and services for the entertainment, enrichment, and education of the community.
Circulation Services
Programming Services
Reference Services
Technology Services
Outreach Services 
Use of the Facility for Community Groups 

Organizational Structure
Staffing
 
Overview
This section outlines the department's staffing composition, highlighting full-time and part-time roles
 
 or temporary positions.



Total FY27 Preliminary Budget
The proposed budget of 
$
654,168.24 
reflects
 a 
3.5
% increase
 from 
the
 prior year, ensuring continued delivery of essential services and addressing rising operational costs. It does not address staffing needs, and it does include above level service funding to the programming line, which would match the funding level in FY23 when we received a grant that was used for STEM programming. 
$654,168.24
Major cost drivers 
Contractual obligations for salary and step increases for CBA/SAP (excluding COLA)
Programming Line
Includes costs for Lib. Materials (i.e., databases)

Library Budget History

Certification for Public Libraries
The Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners sets standards for public library service in Massachusetts. Meeting these requirements allows a Library to be certified to receive State Aid to Libraries funding ($34,000+ in FY26). 
The benefits of certification include participation in the statewide resources sharing networks, which means access to 59 million items across the Commonwealth; certification is part of the eligibility requirements for MBLC grants (~$13,000 grant received in 2023).
To be certified the municipality and the library must: 
meet its Municipal Appropriation Requirement
meet Minimum Standards of Free Public Library Service
submit annual reports and forms to show compliance
Funding Requirements

Funding Sources
The Library’s funding sources include municipal appropriations, State Aid to the Library, grants, gifts purchased with the Friends of LPL endowment, and payments made by the Friends of LPL on behalf of the library.
Many of the Library STEM programs have been funded by outside sources. First, the LSTA grant in 2023, then a gift from the Friends Endowment, and then 
in subsequent years in the
 Friends operational budget.

Active Grants
Emerson Hospital Christine Gallery Community Benefit Grant - $700
Lunenburg Cultural Council - $1565
North End Subaru Monthly Concert Series - $3600
These funds support a partnership between Library and LAAC to better support residents and their families suffering with Alzheimer’s and memory challenges.
LCC supports cultural programming events.
For several years, North End Subara has contributed funds to support our monthly concert series. Friends match this amount.
Main Street Bank funded our Summer Lunch Program during which we served more than 1400 lunches during our Summer Reading Program.
Grant Funding
Overview of Grant Sources for FY26
Main Street Group Foundation - $14,225
Recent Grants

This “level services” Library budget reflects staffing changes that occurred during FY26. Filling the position left by our retired Children’s Librarian of ten years, and two other new staff members significantly decreases salary expense.
Library materials costs continues to rise, especially digital resources for which there is increasing demand. Similarly, programming expenses are increasing and the demand for this core service is on the rise.
Our Library is uniquely advantaged with its Friends of the LPL. Whereas most towns have single- or double-digit membership, our Friends have more than 300 active members. Their generosity and financial support reflect the value they place in our Library. As the town administration has committed greater investment in the library, they Friends have also committed greater amounts of support (FY26 is a record high).
FY27 Summary &amp; Recap
$2.3M
Estimated value returned 

THANK YOU!
ANY QUESTIONS?
Muir Haman, Director LPL											March 5, 2026