===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Brandon Kibbe provided newest member, Greg Bittner, with an overview of the property located at 994 Northfield Road as well as
the parcel located to the south, just across the street, and noted that they meet numerous criteria of the Open Space Plan making
them highly desirable parcels. Due to their proximity to Conservation land and adjacent parcels in 61A, the parcels aid connectivity.
Brandon noted that the seller has yet to be contacted by Town Counsel regarding the Purchase and Sale. He articulated that this
needs to be signed by both parties by July 1, latest, in order that the grant applications may be submitted the week of July 4.
Brandon advised that he was planning to walk the property with the Seller's representative and the appraiser on June 12, and that
the appraisal has a delivery date of June 28.
Brandon further advised that Natural Heritage and Endangered Species have their responses already. He also confirmed that "Table
Rock" is on the property at 994 Northfield Rd., as well as an original homestead location, dating back to the 1760's. These factors
will be of import to the Massachusetts Historical Commission.
Tasks were assigned for compiling the applications as follows:
1. Brandon Kibbe will complete the Land Grant Application
2. Phyllis Luck will write the cover letter that needs to be signed by the Chair of the Select Board.
3.
Ken Jones will insure that a quorum of Conservation Commissioners sign the application.
4. Greg Bittner will compile a list of residential and housing development building permits as well as housing subdivision plans
approved over the last 5 years, including any that are now on the horizon.
5. Ken Jones will provide Conservation Commission Stewardship plans as well as Conservation Commission Rules
and
Regulations, for Item 10: Proof of land stewardship practice.
6. Brandon Kibbe will assume responsibility for Item #4, Project Description.
Terri Burchfield will assume responsibility for Attachment D: Sample Municipal Vote (for the purposes of the application,
there will be 2 separate articles).
The LAC will put the package together at the next meeting, which has been scheduled for Monday, June 24, at 5:30 pm.
Phyllis Luck had to leave for another meeting at 6:55.
Brandon Kibbe will approach the Parks Commission about doing a project description for the PARC grant. Letters of support from
committees and the MRPC will be sought after the applications are completed as they do not have to be submitted with the packet.
Terri Burchfield made a motion to come out of executive session, Ken Jones seconded. All present voted by roll call to approve.
Greg Bittner motioned to adjourn the meeting, Ken Jones seconded. Approved unanimously. Meeting adjourned at 7:10 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Phyllis Luck
Terri Burchfield
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 2 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
