===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Building Committee
Date:
Location: Thomas C. Passios Building, Room 13
Time:
Next Meeting:
Affiliation
 Loxi Jo Calmes (LSBC)
 Michael Mackin (LSBC)
 Colleen Shapiro (LSBC)
× Tom Alonzo (LSBC)
 Nathan Lockwood (LSBC)
 Mark Erickson (LSBC)
 Mike Barney (LSBC)
 Brian Frank (LSBC)
 Greg S. Roy (LSBC)
 Kerry Speidel (LSBC)
× John Londa (LSBC)
× Brian Spadafino (LSBC)
 Charles Hay (Tappé)
× Damian Liddiard (Tappé)
 Greg Cohan (JLA)
× Jeffery Luxenberg (JLA)
× Michael Kearns (SDC)
 Jonathan Hirst (SDC)
× Steve Hamm (SDC)
Discussion
1
2
3
4
Call to Order
Lunenburg School Building Committee Reorganization
07/09/14
7:00 PM
The meeting was called to order at 6:36 PM by Mr. Micheal Mackin, Chairperson of the Lunenburg School 
Building Committee.
8/13/14 6:30 PM
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC
Citizen, LSBC Member
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Associates
Project Architect, Tappé Associates
Citizen, LSBC Member
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member)
Citizen, LSBC Member
Shawmut Design & Construction
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member)
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member)
Name
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member
BOS Representative, LSBC Member
Planning Board, LSBC Member
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair
Joslin Lesser + Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress  invoices for work completed for through June , 
2014 for Joslin, Lesser + Associates (OPM), Tappe Associates (Designer) and Shawmut Design &  
Construction (Preconstruction Services).   Until the MSBA Project Funding agreement is signed, all invoices 
will be reviewed for content, work scope and hours but not issued for payment.
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the May 2014 invoices as 
presented by Joslin, Lesser + Associates.  The motion was unanimously approved. 
Monthly Approvals
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following meetings:
• June 11, 2014  LSBC Meeting
• June 26, 2014 LSBC Meeting 
Motion: The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting minutes from June 11th 
& June 26th Meeting.  
Note: Meeting minutes from the previously held Abutters Meeting on 06-25-14 will be listed as Meeting 
Notes and not Meeting Minutes.
Shawmut Design & Construction
Shawmut Design & Construction
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes 
Page 1 of 2
===PAGE 2===
Discussion
5
6
7
8
6
7
8
9
Project Funding Status 
LSBC were informed the Project funding letter from the MSBA had not yet been received.  Inquiries have 
been made by the District and OPM but no submission schedule from the MSBA had yet to be received. 
Public Comment
There was no public comment. 
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates within 48 hours of receipt of this 
document regarding any required corrections or clarifications. 
Lunenburg School Building Committee (LSBC) members held a brief discussion of roles and positions of the 
LSBC seeking confirmation of the positions of the Committee.  The following positions were voted on: 
Michael Mackin as Chairperson; Mark Erickson as Vice-Chairperson; Tim Sentry as Advisor.  Letter from the 
District will be issued to the MSBA confirming these positions.       Motion: The Lunenburg School Building 
Committee voted to approve the May 2014 invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser + Associates.                                                                                                                                             
Project Design Status Update 
Community Outreach Efforts
JLA and LSBC discussed scheduling  another Abutter's meeting for late August or wait till school in the 
Thomas Passios School's Cafeteria.  Methods to inform Community members of the next meeting were 
briefly discussed.  JLA explained they have a list of attendees from last meeting with email addresses but 
were concerned on how to notify Abutters that do not receive email .  LSBC requested other methods of 
advertising the meeting be explored. (i.e.. Lunenburg Tab, Project website, postcards)
Tappe briefed the LSBC on the current progress of Interior design for the new school.  Several slides were 
shown to the LSBC  with color palettes.  Mixed reactions to several selected colors with Tappe explaining 
final colors have not been selected , palettes shown were fro discussions and further examples would be 
generated.  Tappe recommended a Working Group be developed to review building palette choices and 
selections. Follow-up meetings to be scheduled.
Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 7:42 pm.
School Building Committee briefly discussed scheduling a Ground Breaking Ceremony after school is in 
session. A committee will be selected to plan the event.
Project Web-Cam for the project will explored and discussed at the Construction Kick-off meeting yet to be 
scheduled.  Prices and capabilities to be discussed.
Other Business
Early Release Construction Package No.1 
JLA and Shawmut Design & Construction briefed the LSBC on the results from the bids of the Early Site 
Package.  Best and final estimates were received with JLA working with Shawmut to develop an iGMP No. 
1 for this referenced work.  Separate meeting will be required to approve iGMP No. 1 for the Early Site 
Package.  
90% Construction Document Schedule
JLA, Tappe and Shawmut briefed the LSBC on the status of completion=g the 90% Construction Documents 
for review and estimate.  The process is still on schedule to meet on August 7th to reconcile estimates 
from Tappe's estimator, PM & C and Shawmut=t Design & Construction 
Page 2 of 2