===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg School Building Committee Meeting 
Date:
Location: Shawmut Construction Trailer 
Time:
Next Meeting:
Affiliation 
  Loxi Jo Calmes (LSBC) 
  Michael Mackin (LSBC) 
  Colleen Shapiro (LSBC) 
  Tom Alonzo (LSBC) 
  Greg Bittner (LSBC) 
  Mark Erickson (LSBC) 
  Mike Barney (LSBC) 
  Brian Frank (LSBC) 
  Greg S. Roy (LSBC) 
  Kerry Speidel (LSBC) 
  John Londa (LSBC) 
  Brian Spadafino (LSBC) 
  Tim Santry Lunenburg Public Schools (LSBC) 
  Charles Hay (Tappé) 
× Jen Littlefield Tappe Architects (Tappé) 
× Damian Liddiard (Tappé) 
  Stuart Lesser (JLA) 
× Jeffery Luxenberg (JLA) 
  Inga Knox (JLA) 
× Robert Alger (JLA) 
× Michael Kearns (SDC) 
  Jonathan Hirst (SDC) 
× Philip Conroy (SDC) 
Discussion 
1
2
07/15/2015  4:30:00 PM Thomas C. Passios Room 16 
Shawmut Design & Construction 
Name 
Lunenburg School Committee, LSBC Member 
BOS Representative, LSBC Member 
Planning Board, LSBC Member 
Finance Committee, LSBC Vice Chair 
Director of Facilities, LSBC (non-voting member) 
LHS Principal, LSBC (non-voting member) 
Lunenburg School Committee, Chair 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Shawmut Design & Construction 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Call to Order 
Business 
•  Greg Bittner, new  LSB Committee member was introduced. 
•  Next meeting will be held on July 15 2015 at 4:30pm with a site walk through 
06/10/15 
7:30 PM 
The meeting was called to order at 7:18 PM by Mr. Mackin, Chairperson of the 
Lunenburg School Building Committee.
Lunenburg Superintendent of Schools, LSBC 
Citizen, LSBC Member 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
Principal-in-Charge, Tappé Architects 
Project Architect, Tappé Architects 
Citizen, LSBC Member 
Town Manager, LSBC (non-voting member) 
Citizen, LSBC Member 
Shawmut Design & Construction 
Page 1 of 3 
===PAGE 2===
Discussion 
3
4
5
6
7
8
Construction  Activity Update 
Inga Knox (JLA) and Jonathan Hirst (Shawmut) presented a construction update to the 
committee. 
Monthly Invoices and Commitments 
Joslin Lesser & Associates (JLA) presented monthly progress  invoices for work 
completed through May, 2015 for Joslin, Lesser & Associates (OPM), Tappe Architects 
(Designer), Shawmut Design & Construction (Payment Requisition No.10), UTS Testing 
Services (April/May 2015).
 
Motion:  The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the May,2015 
invoices as presented by Joslin, Lesser & Associates.  The motion was unanimously 
approved. 
The Lunenburg School Building Committee reviewed minutes from the following 
meetings:
• May 13, 2015  LSBC Meeting 
Motion : The Lunenburg School Building Committee voted to approve the meeting 
minutes from May 13, 2015.  The motion was unanimously approved. 
Approval of School Building Committee Minutes 
Note: Weekly Construction Meetings are on Wednesdays at 10:00am in the Shawmut 
trailer. Everyone is welcome to attend and walk the site. Rob Alger is available to set 
up time for site visit. 
Re-Use of TCP building and Brooks House 
Public Comment 
No Public Comment.
The Committee reviewed a proposed lot line and property line concepts as they relate 
to the TCP building property allocation. The Re-use Committee approved the proposed 
property line plan which be used as the TCP building is marked for possible reuse. 
LHS Murals 
It was noted to the Committee for record that the project team is looking in to reusing 
one actual mural from the existing school and digital images of other murals. The 
locations and the logistics of the the mural design within new space are being vetted 
through with the design team. 
Page 2 of 3 
===PAGE 3===
Discussion 
9
These meeting minutes were prepared by Joslin, Lesser + Associates. Please notify Joslin, Lesser + Associates 
within 48 hours of receipt of this document regarding any required corrections or clarifications. 
Adjournment 
The meeting was adjourned at approximately 8:30 pm.
Page 3 of 3 