===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
 
Seventh Meeting, April 10, 2014, 7 pm, T.C.Passios Building, Room 13. 
 
In attendance: 
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee   present 
Michael Mackin School Committee   present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen   present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large   present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large alternate  not  present 
Nicole Hennessy Student Representative  not present  
Casey Voyer  Student Representative  not present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent     present 
Darruenee Vann Parent     present 
Paul Bertrand  Parent Alternate   present 
 
Also present, Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:10pm by Charlene Stephens. 
 
Approval of meeting minutes 
The minutes of the previous meeting (3/27/14) were not available for approval. 
 
Presentation of findings to School Committee 
It was determined that the findings of the committee will be presented to the School Committee 
at their regularly scheduled meeting on Wednesday, June 4, 2014. 
The format of the presentation would be: 
the charge to the committee, 
the process we followed and what happened, the number of meetings and who was involved, 
what is currently in place, 
the proposed budget as previously submitted, noting the goal of eliminating user fees to improve 
access and acknowledge economic diversity. 
We would provide an executive summary and a listing of recommendations. 
 
We reviewed the previous listing of proposed actions that came out of the brainstorming 
activity and narrowed down the list to the following bullet points:  
•  Recommend an internal District Council Committee & define charge. (use the Wellness 
Committee template – parent, student, school admin,  member of public) 
•  Include a definition of what diversity means and what is the language of acceptance for 
the Lunenburg School District. 
•  Integrate into existing curriculum and instruction practices and establish small group 
settings throughout the academic year to include classroom curriculum for diversity.  
•  Provide additional training, specific to diversity and acceptance to faculty and staff. 
===PAGE 2===
•  Create an annual tool, i.e., Scorecard to review annual data and to measure how the 
district is doing with regards to Diversity and Acceptance. Partner with FSU to develop 
what this Scorecard would look like, how often it would be measured, i.e., quarterly, 
annually. 
•  Partner with Fitchburg State University to research and seek grant funding specific to 
Adversity and Acceptance. 
 
Parking lot items/future actions 
Develop a public outreach and parent education model. 
Recognition program/process 
Communicate mission and vision everyday (school/student activities) 
 
 
It was also felt that after the presentation to the School Committee, there should be a similar 
presentation to the Board of Selectmen so that there would be a strong collaborative effort 
between the town and the school.  Bob volunteered to make this presentation. 
 
 
The meeting adjourned at 8:35pm. 
 