===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
Fifth meeting, March 13, 2014, 7 pm, T.C. Passios Building, Room 13. 
In attendance:   
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee Not Present 
Michael Mackin School Committee Present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen Present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large Not Present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large Alternate Not Present 
Nicole Hennessy  Student Representative Not present  
Casey Voyer Student Alternate Not present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent Present 
Darruenee  Vann Parent Present 
Paul Bertrand Parent Alternate Not present 
Also present, Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools 
The meeting was called to order at 7:10pm by Elizabeth Rawlinson.   
Minutes 
The minutes of March 6, 2014 were accepted as presented. 
Review proposed budget numbers for Committee recommendations. 
The committee reviewed the sheet that documented the various actions that would be recommended 
to undertake to improve tolerance, respect and diversity. 
 Based on expected first year needs after discussion with the Superintendent the committee voted to 
recommend the following budget: 
Programming and speakers - $5-10,000, Materials (including banners and other supplies) $1-2,000, 
Grant writer – stipend $5,000 to be paid on an needed hourly basis, Activities (including facilities, 
planning, food costs) $2,500-5,000, Training of staff $8,000, Curriculum $5,000, and Exchange Exercises 
(including transportation costs)$3,000.  The total budget would be in the range of $30 – 38,000.  Ideally, 
these costs would be covered by grants or donations, but it was felt that it was important to detail the 
costs regardless of the source of funds.  Bob Ebersole volunteered to present this recommendation to 
the School Committee at its next meeting on Wednesday, March 19 
th . 
Identify and Outline Committee’s next steps 
Much of our work and recommendations will get captured in the proposed dashboard as described by 
John Chetro-Szivos from Fitchburg State University at our meeting on January 30 
th .  Loxi will contact him 
to check on the status of the donated services by FSU.  Depending on the outcome of that discussion, 
John may join us at our next meeting on March 27 th . 
===PAGE 2===
Schedule and future meetings 
Next Meeting March 27th 
April 10 and 24 and Possibly May 1 
st  
The committee’s final presentation to the School Committee is expected to be on May 7 th . 
Homework for Committee 
none 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:30 pm.  