===PAGE 1===
Advisory Committee for Acceptance and Diversity 
Fourth meeting, March 6, 2014, 7 pm, T.C. Passios Building, Room 13. 
In attendance:   
Gregory Berthiaume School Committee Present 
Michael Mackin School Committee Not present 
Robert Ebersole Board of Selectmen Present 
Charlene Stephens Community-at-large Present 
Richard Beardmore Community-at-large Alternate Pres ent 
Nicole Hennessy  Student Representative Not present  
Casey Voyer Student Alternate Not present 
Elizabeth Rawlinson Parent Present 
Darruenee  Vann Parent Not present 
Paul Bertrand Parent Alternate Not present 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:05pm by Charlene Stephens, Chair.  It was noted that the meeting 
scheduled for February 27 
th  was rescheduled to March 6 th  to accommodate attendance at the Town 
Manager’s budget presentation. 
Minutes 
The minutes of February 6, 2014 were accepted as presented. 
Review of brainstorming activities to determine possible costs 
The committee reviewed the sheet that documented the various actions that would be recommended 
to undertake to improve tolerance, respect and diversity. 
The activities broke down into the following categories: 
Programming and speakers, Materials, Grant writer – staffing or stipend, Activities, Training, Curriculum, 
and Exchange Exercises 
Bob Ebersole was charged with assigning rough numbers to each category and to review his estimates 
with the Superintendent of Schools for reasonableness and whether she thought there might be grants 
or donations available to cover some of those costs.  At our next meeting, the committee will review the 
outcome of that review and finalize the numbers.  This information will then be presented to the School 
Committee at their March 19 
th  meeting. 
Schedule and future meetings 
Next March Meetings are March 13 and 27th 
April 10 and 24 and Possibly May 1 
st  
===PAGE 2===
The committee’s final presentation to the School Committee is expected to be on May 7 th . 
 
Homework for Committee 
Review the list of brainstormed ideas and be prepared to discuss how we would recommend the major 
items be implemented. 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:15 pm.  