===PAGE 1===
Athletic Advisory Council 
Meeting Minutes 
November 16, 2020 
  
Attendees: Brian Lehtinen, Robin Bursch, Jane Gallagher, Kim Smith, Colleen Shapiro, Eric 
Short, Kathleen Jones, Tammy Yourk, Brenda Pajari 
 
Absent: Ernie Friend, James Bunnell, Jo Weigold, Nichole Bourdelais, Jean Proctor, Audra 
Sprague, Jennifer Gendron, MJ Davis 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:31pm.   
 
Public Comment: Brian Lehtinen stated that Jean Proctor reached out stating she would like a 
replacement as she longer has a child active for baseball. Brian and James will reach out to 
baseball contacts. Brian mentioned Jennifer Gendron was not able to be on the zoom but could 
call in if we needed her. 
 
Review of Minutes from August 31, 2020 meeting. Minutes approved unanimously. 
 
New Business: 
 Athletic Director update:  
Unable to attend due to sports medicine committee meeting. 
Fall sports- given the circumstances and current situation the fall season will wrap up 
with its last event on Wednesday. The parents, students, and coaches did very well 
adapting and making the most out of this new normal season.   
Only winter sports update- the midland wachusett league schools will not start the winter 
season any sooner than December 14th. This date is different from the MIAA date of 
11/30 and could still change depending on changing guidelines and/or conditions.  
 
 
Old Business: 
 Fundraising Requests:  Basketball calendar fundraiser with covid safety pre-cautions was 
approved unanimously. Ice hockey did not have any planned fundraising requests at this 
time. 
 
Future Meetings: Monday, February 1, 2021, 6:30pm, prior to special spring season which would 
include competitive cheer and football. Monday April 5, 2021, 6:30pm, prior to start of spring 
season on April 26th. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Public Comment: There was comments on length of season changes, special spring season sports 
and dates, and spring season dates, as well as pod playoffs instead of MIAA state tournaments. 
 
Meeting Adjourned at 6:42pm. 