===PAGE 1===
 
  
Lunenburg Conservation Commission 
Ritter Memorial Building 
August 4, 2010 
 
AGENDA 
7:30 PM  ~  50 PENINSULA DRIVE  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town  of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by  Robert 
Lalli.  The proposed project is for Addition of Gara ge within 100 foot buffer zone.   
7:45 PM  ~  554 LANCASTER AVENUE  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by   Sunshine 
Nominee Trust (Thomas Christopher of Christopher Envi ronmental Associates, Inc.).  The proposed project i s for 
regarding the site, removing of topsoil, installing  detention basins, topsoil would be replaced and an  outfall structure 
will discharge overland into the wetland area. 
8:00 PM ~ HICKORY HILLS LAKE   ~  CONTINUATION   ~  Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the 
Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice o f Intent 
filed by Hickory Hills Landowners Association.  The proposed project is for a comprehensive lake manage ment and 
water quality improvement plan that would include e lements of the placement of Benthic Barriers, Hydro  raking.  
Harvesting and the installation of sedimentation an d erosion control barriers.  The specifics of the te chniques 
proposed under this Notice of Intent are listed in the enclosed NOI. 
8:30 PM  ~  46 GIBSON STREET   ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town  of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by  Edward 
A/Janet Y Dame (George Sullivan of David E Ross Ass ociates Inc).  The proposed project is for replacin g a failing 
sewage system with a new system and related grading , all within the 100' buffer zone of Bordering Vege tated 
Wetlands.   
8:45 PM  ~  444 LANCASTER AVE NUE  ~ SIGN CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE 
9:00 PM  ~  103 ROBBS HILL ROAD  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing  on a Request for Determinatio n of 
Applicability filed by Jan Carrier of the Conservat ion Commission.  The proposed project is for repair of the bridge 
that crosses brook in hemlock ravine.  It will invo lve replacing footbridge that is uneven, broken and  narrow with 1 
1/4" planking about 3' wide and 20' across.  
262 NEW WEST TOWNSEND ROAD  ~ Certificate of Compliance  