===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
 
Agenda 
August 17, 2011 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Attendees:  Rob Verge, Jack Byrne, Mark Murphy, Sharon Jordan, 
 Rich Bursch, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~96 Laurel Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by Daniel J. LeBlanc. The propo sed project is for installation of a handicap ramp and close 
in front area of house to accommodate a disabled pe rson.  Negative 3   Sharon/Jack   Unanimous    
7:15 PM ~ POSTPONED UNTIL SEPTEMBER 7 th  ~ 390 Page Street  ~ CONTINUATION  ~ Pursuant to 
MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenbur g Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there 
will be a public hearing on a Request for Determina tion of Applicability filed by K & G Developers. The  
proposed project is for a single family dwelling wi th associated appurtenances .   
7:30 PM ~ 23 Valley Road  ~ CONTINUATION  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Inten t filed 
for Carolynn McCarthy by Wesley Flis of Whitman & Bi ngham Associates, LLC. The proposed project is for a 
5’ x 14’ concrete pad for a 500 gallon propane tank  within the 30’ no touch and 100’ buffer zones.  Jamie 
Rheault presented new plan.  Pad and tank will be moved to other side of the house.  Commission is 
concerned about restoration plan that was supposed to take place after trees were taken down.  A 
restoration plan to be executed within X number of days will be included in the Order of Conditions.  
Jack/Sharon   Unanimous 
7:45 PM ~ 50 Massachusetts Avenue  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by Whitman & B ingham Associates (Chris MacKenzie). The proposed 
project is to repair, replace or refinish existing building face within the 200 foot Riverfront Ripari an Zone .  
Jamie Rheault presented.  Building work only.   Sharon/Rich   Approved   Unanimous   
8:30 PM ~ 98 Horizon Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Inten t filed 
for Alice Heikkila by Mark Farrell of Green Hill Eng ineering. The proposed project is for repair of a se ptic 
system.  Mark Farrell presented.  Shed is outside 30’ no touch zone, could be moved or eliminated. 
There will be a limited amount of work within the 30’ no touch zone and will be in the confines of what 
is already there.  Approved  Rich/Jack   Unanimous 
 
   
 