===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
September 7, 2011 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Attendees:  Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Sharon Jordan,  
Mark Murphy, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~56 Laurel Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Bernhard Jeleniewski. The 
proposed project is to replace/rebuild deck area be hind house and a support wall.  Bernhard presented with pictures that 
showed severe erosion of the banking to the water’s edge and decay of the stone wall and cement.  He plans to replace 
wall with blocks and drainage to stop the erosion.  JJ/Sharon   Negative 3   Unanimous 
7:15 PM ~ POSTPONED from AUGUST 3 rd   ~ 390 Page Street  ~ CONTINUATION  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended 
and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and M unicipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a  Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by K & G Devel opers. The proposed project is for a single family dwelling with associated 
appurtenances .  Commissioners requested a 15 foot easement be written into the deed for the back land.  The area near 
the street will be maintained with bark mulch, etc.  Sharon/Mark   Negative 3   Unanimous  (Letter to be sent also, outlining 
conditions)  
7:30 PM ~ 228 Northfield Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection 
and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing  on a Request for Determination of Applicability fi led by Ray Croteau (Ed Snyder 
of Snyder Pools).  The proposal is for an inground swimming pool 65’ from wetland edge.  Plans were revised from a previous 
hearing and Matt approved the changes.  Mark/Sharon  Negative 3   Unanimous 
7:45 PM ~ 1 Lakefront Avenue  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Emerald Place Development 
Co., LLC(Jay Hoag, KBS Building Systems, Inc.). The  proposed project is to have a floating, removable dock, 3’ wide and 24’ long.  
This dock will be put in the water in the spring an d removed in the fall.  Jay was at another meeting and could not get here in 
time.  Rescheduled for October 5 
th  @ 7:15.  Sharon/JJ   Continue   Unanimous 
8:00 PM ~ Keating’s detention basin (Matt)  Matt stated that there was altered color of the runoff.  Should schedule an 
enforcement hearing.  Copies to be sent to the DEP and EPA.  Letter to be sent to Keating’s to appear at the September 
21 st  . 
 
 Old Business ~  
 
New Business ~  Sunrise Stables Pony Express Harvest Ride.  Approval given in accordance with Land Use Policy.  Jan 
will send letter.  Mark/Sharon   Approved 
 
Mark Flagg’s property at 1263 and 1275 Massachusetts Avenue needs to be inspected.  It looks like he has encroached on 
Town own land in the rear.  Also there is a concern about water and wetlands from the neighbor at 1249 Massachusetts 
Avenue. 
 
Action File Items 
Unfinished Business  ~ 
 
Approve Minutes ~  
 
Signatures 
  
 