===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
July 20, 2011 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
 
Attendees:  Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, Sharon Jordan, Rich Bursch, Karen 
Lefebvre, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ 176 Sunnyhill Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by David N. Grenier. The 
proposed project is for installation of a new septi c system.  Continued until we have an up to date plan.   
7:15 PM ~ 1010 Flat Hill Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Jennifer E. Benson. The 
proposed project is for installation of an above-gr ound or in-ground swimming pool.  W etlands need to be marked and a plan 
submitted showing layout of pool.  Above the ground recommended. CONTINUED to 8/3 @ 7:15 PM. 
7:30 PM ~ 390 Page Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by K & G Developers. The 
proposed project is for a single family dwelling wi th associated appurtenances . William Giguere and Marty Connelly presented.  
Sharon had pictures of the property and some of the violations.  Within 100’ of wetlands that are across the street. 
Wetlands need to be marked properly; do not rely on old markings.  Took down area at end of driveway for better 
visibility.  This area needs to be finished off, either with grass or mulch.  Vernal pool on property.  Also, requested that it 
be stated in deed that trail be kept open in the very rear of property.  CONTINUED to 8/3 @ 7:30 PM  
7:45 PM ~ 171 Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Walter R. Pearson. The 
proposed project is for removing debris from the sh ore area.  Mr. Pearson wants to remove debris of lake raking from his 
beach.  Also expose and rebuild stone wall that was covered and bring in sand (how much?) to make the beach useable.  
The ConCom suggested he wait until fall when that lake is low to remove debris material and bring it back to original 
condition without using new material.  Rich/JJ   Unanimous   
8:00 PM ~ 338 Townsend Harbor Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic hearing on a Request for Determination of Appli cability filed for David 
Meredith by David Perry. The proposed project is fo r installation of a new septic tank (only) at groun d level and surround (3 sides) 
with retaining wall.  David Perry explained the situation and installation of new tank.  Matt stated that it was an excellent 
solution to a very limited lot.  JJ/Rich  Negative 3  Unanimous  
8:15 PM ~ 23 Valley Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed for Carolynn McCarthy by W esley Flis of Whitman & 
Bingham Associates, LLC. The proposed project is fo r a 5’ x 14’ concrete pad for 500 gallon propane ta nk within the 30’ no touch 
and 100’ buffer zones.  Wesley Flis presented.  Commission very concerned with location of tank.  They prefer it be moved 
out of the wetlands.  Wes stated that homeowner stated this is where the Fire Department recommended it.  Jan with 
check with the Fire Department (Jim Ricci)  JJ/Rich recommended we continue.  Unanimous  CONTINUED until 8/3 @ 7:45 
PM 
 
Old Business ~ Sharon 
 
New Business ~   
 
Action File Items 
 
Unfinished Business  ~ 
 
Approve Minutes ~ Jan 
 
Signatures 
     