===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
 
MINUTES 
August 1, 2012 
 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, Sharon Jordan, 
 Mark Murphy, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM  ~  Steve Debettencourt ~ re: Hunting Hill ~ Steve and Bob Proctor spoke to the 
commission about access to the field for haying.  T hey were originally denied access to the 
area by Shelley Frisch (the homeowner whose propert y they have to cross).  Since that 
conversation access has been granted for this year but they wanted to know what would be 
done next year.  The Commission will contact Pat at  Mass Wildlife, Townsend ConCom and 
Shirley ConCom and see what can be worked out.  The  suggestion was made to widen and 
reinforce the bridge to the property, but that woul d encourage ATV’s and other vehicles to 
use it.  The Commission will set up a meeting this fall.  
 
7:15 PM ~58 Spring Street Extension  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and 
the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munic ipal Bylaws there will be a public 
hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability  filed by James Sheehan  
Construction .  The proposed project is for the demolition of ex isting house/camp and 
replace on same footprint, remove nine trees to ins tall new septic system, place deck in 
front yard to allow room for septic system in side yard.  (Not on BoH agenda until 8/20) ~ 
NO SHOW ~ The Commission discussed briefly and recommended that the RDA be 
withdrawn and an amended Order of Conditions issued.  Request applicant to send 
letter, be prepared  with a narrative of project and updated plans.  Motion to deny and 
reconsider as an amended OoC.   JJ/Sharon     Unanimous  
 
7:30 PM ~70 Lesure Avenue  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town 
of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Byla ws there will be a public hearing on a 
Notice of Intent  filed by Khan Mohiuddin .  The proposed project is for the demolition of an  
existing single family house within the buffer zone  and a new two family home constructed 
outside the 100 foot buffer zone.  NO SHOW  Mixup in communications.  Didn’t think he 
had to be here. 
 
 
 
 