===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES 
November 7, 2012 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, John Lattanzi, Sharon Jordan, Mark Murphy, 
 Richard Bursch, Matt Marro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ 45 Spring Street ~ CONTINUATION ~Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by David  McPartlan.  The 
proposed project is for removal of 6 pine trees impacting wall at water line, sewer and house and add on a 10’ x 15’ deck within the 100’ 
buffer zone.  Matt visited the location and all trees should/must come down.  Most are rotting from the inside.  Seven trees to be 
removed and cosmetic fix to wall only.  JJ/R   Negative 3   Unanimous 
 
7:15 PM ~ 43 Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Michael Pirolli (William Hannigan of Hannigan Engineering, Inc.)  The 
proposed project is for the demolition of existing house and construction of a new 3 bedroom house with a new/replacement septic system 
including associated grading.  Bill Hannigan  presented.  Ron Albert, Architect was also present.  17 trees to be removed for proper 
installation of new Presby septic system.  Steven Wnuk of 39 Island Road questioned how this would affect drainage on to his 
property.  Two new deciduous trees to be planted within the 30’ no touch zone.  Create swale along property line to divert water 
away from neighbors property.  Updated plans received on 11-14-12.  Sharon/JJ   Closed and approved   Unanimous   
     
7:30 PM ~ 56 Brookview Terrace ~ CONTINUATION ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on an Enforcement Order.  The Commission approved an amendment to 
both the Order of Conditions and the Enforcement Order.  The amendment to both was for the allowance of the extra work in 
accordance with the new plans, and with the caveat green space buffer plantings outlined by Mike Nault and Whitman & Bingham 
would be added and implemented on the plans as well.  The Commiss ion also ratified the amended Enforcement Order with this 
vote.  Rich/Sharon to close and approve amendment to OoC.  Approved   JJ opposed.  Rich/Sharon to close and ratified 
Enforcement Order to incorporate all remedial changes to the OoC. Approved   JJ opposed.   Hearing will be continued again to 
review the Request for Determination regarding the shed.  December 5 @ 8:00 PM.  
 
7:45 PM ~ 136-150 Sunset Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Susan Bisceglia (Robert Oliva of David Ro ss Associates, Inc.)  
The proposed project is for the demolition of the existing cottage and construction of a new garage in its place.  Construction includes a 
gravel driveway with landscaping and site grading.  Construction is within the 100’ buffer zone and outside the 30’ wetland setback.  
 Vin & Susan Bisceglia  and Robert Oliva presented.  Septic system & tank will be decommissioned.    Sharon/JJ     Unanimous  
 
8:00 PM ~ Hickory Hills Lake Association ~ 604 B Grant ~ Sharon volunteered to be the liaison 
 
8:15  PM  ~ Right of First Refusal 
137 Leominster Shirley Road ~ Commission not interested for conservation land, should stay commercial  
1501 Lancaster Avenue ~ Commission not interested for conservation land, should stay commercial  
419 Sunnyhill Road ~ Commission not interested for conservation land, the majority of this land is inaccessible wetlands  
 and not connected to any other conservation land. 
 