===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
AGENDA 
March 21, 2012 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Rob Verge, JJ Cote, Jack Byrne, Richard Bursch, Joh n Lattanzi, 
 Sharon Jordan, Mark Murphy, Karen Lefebvre, Matt M arro, Jan Carrier 
 
7:00 PM ~ Leominster Shirley Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Request for 
Determination of Applicability filed by Cornell Rob inson of Massachusetts Broadband.  The proposed 
project is for installation of new fiber optic cabl e in conduit via directional drilling within the ro adway right of 
way. 
 
7:10PM ~ 69 Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Request for Determination  of 
Applicability filed by Donna C Albert.  The propose d project is for installation of a removable dock s ystem 
and raft/boat mooring within 50 feet of the shore. 
 
7:20 PM ~ 220 Page Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent  filed b y Peter 
McCarron.  The proposed project is for replacement o f a failed sewage disposal system. 
 
7:27 PM ~ 167 Townsend Harbor Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a Notice of Inten t  
filed by Henry Chevrette.  The proposed project is for repair of a septic system. 
 
7:35 PM ~ 100 Sunset Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg 
Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will  be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent  filed b y Glen 
Reinhardt.  The proposed project is for demolition o f existing cottage and construction of a new single  
family home. 
 
7:50 PM ~ Off Pleasant & West Streets ~ CONTINUATION  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended 
and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Mu nicipal Bylaws there will be a public hearing on a 
Notice of Intent  filed by EPG Solar, LLC.  The prop osed project is for construction of a Solar Photovo ltaic 
Farm within the existing farm field limits. 
 
 
 
 
 
 