===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
MINUTES ~ APPROVED 6/3/2015 
May 20, 2015 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Richard Bursch, Todd Dwyer, Tom Bertram, Jack Rabbi tt, Brad Kennedy, Carl Luck, Matt Marro, Jan Carrie r 
CALL TO ORDER ~ 7:00 PM 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
HEARINGS 
7:00 PM  ~ 103 Island Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Notice of Intent filed by Jeffrey/Jennifer Judkin s.  The proposed project is 
for renovation of property that will include an add ition that will extend roughly 10 feet W and 35 fee t S.  All proposed work is 55 
feet off the shoreline of the lake on upland area.  Eight trees will be removed; stumps will remain un less impacting proposed 
foundation.  No more than  10 trees to be removed.  Area will be restored with natural vegetation.  Hay bales at the 50’ 
mark.  Will notify ConCom when hay bales are in place.  Approved   Unanimous  
7:15 PM  ~ 152 Flynn Road ~  Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the To wn of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws there will be a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by James/Joanne Lavoie.  
The proposed project is for encapsulation of approx imately 30 feet of existing concrete retaining wall  using wall blocks 
(Techo-Bloc) to existing height.  Replace damaged c oncrete retaining walls and extend walls to taper i n existing walls/grade.  
All work performed after lake drawdown in fall.  Silt fence at water’s edge along with hay bales to control erosion while 
work is being done.  Will cap top of wall and revegetate any disturbed areas.  Hand work only.  Will notify ConCom 48 
hours before start of project.  Negative 3   4 Yes 1 No  
7:30 PM  ~ 79 Townsend Harbor Road ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws there will be a pub lic meeting on a Request for Determination of Appli cability filed by Jim Long 
(Jack Maloney of Ducharme & Dillis Civil Design Gro up).  The proposed project is for construction of a  single family dwelling, 
utilities constructed along driveway, onsite sewage  system.  With the exception of the front part of t he driveway all will be out of 
the 100' buffer.  Erosion protection a must.  Negative 3  Unanimous   
7:45 PM ~ 50 Elmwood Road, Lot 5, 6,7  ~ Amendment to OoC ~ Jamie Rheault  ~ Change in entrance/exit from cellar 
means slight change in slope to 30’ no touch zone.  Amendment to state:  from 30’ no touch zone 15’ to 20’ 
revegetated with native plantings.  Unanimous 
MINUTES APPROVAL~5/6  APPROVED 
NEW BUSINESS 
ONGOING BUSINESS   
           Forest Cutting Plans  
         Lane Grant Reimbursement 
          FY 2016 Budget 
          Advisory Teams 
          Commission Education  
   Stormwater Bylaw 
SIGNATURES ~ DOA (2) 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
MEETING ACHEDULE 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
COMMISSION COMMENT  Received letter from concerned resident about Plea sant Street.  It seems we may have trespassers 
residing in the area along with dirt bikes and ATV’ s using the area.  Recommend site walk and cleanup of the area.  As we 
have had problems in this area before, I recommend the ConCom go as a group and not approach any indiv idual in the area 
unless accompanied by a police officer. 
ADJOURNMENT ~ 9:35 PM 
 
 