===PAGE 1===
gÉãÇ Éy _âÇxÇuâÜz 
Conservation Commission 
AGENDA 
Wednesday, January 6, 2016 
7:00 PM 
Ritter Memorial Building 
960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tom Bertram, Todd Dwyer, Jack Rabbitt, Brad Kennedy , Carl Luck, Ken Jones, Matt Marro 
CALL TO ORDER 
PUBLIC COMMENT~  
HEARINGS 
22 Sunset Lane  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws here will be a 
public meeting on a Request for Determination of Ap plicability filed by Kerry/Sheila Planitzer.  The p roposed project is for removal of 4 pine trees 
just within the 30' No Touch Zone, recommended by T ree Service to remove.   
40-86 Summer Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws there 
will be a public meeting on a Request for Determina tion of Applicability filed by Holly Palmgren of Ma ssachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (Mike 
Ursin of Ramaker & Associates, Inc.).  The proposed  project is for construction of a concrete pole tow er to comply with the Rail Safety Improvement 
Act of 2008.  .  
213 Fire Road 16  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws there will be 
a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability filed by Holly Palmgren of Massachuse tts Bay Transportation Authority (Mike Ursin 
of Ramaker & Associates, Inc.).  The proposed proje ct is for construction of a concrete pole tower to comply with the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 
2008.   
59 Easter Brook Road  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws there 
will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent file d by Pamela McKenna (William Hannigan of Hannigan E ngineering, Inc.).  The proposed project is 
for Construction of a single family home, with appl icable Driveway & Septic System.   
7 White Street  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws here will be a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Ronal d P./Patricia A. Boulay (Chris Mossman of Trowbridg e Engineering, LLC).  The proposed project is 
for installation of replacement septic system to se rve an existing single family home.  A temporary gr avel road will be installed to access the 
construction site.   
113 Youngs Road Lot 2  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws here 
will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent file d by Richard Bourne (William Hannigan of Hannigan E ngineering Inc.).  The proposed project is for 
construction of a single family home, driveway and associated septic system.   
113 Youngs Road Lot 3  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws here 
will be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent file d by Richard Bourne (William Hannigan of Hannigan E ngineering Inc.).  The proposed project is for 
construction of a single family home, driveway and associated septic system.   
357 Electric Avenue  ~ Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal  Bylaws here will 
be a public hearing on a Notice of Intent filed by Jacqueline Agel of Unitil-Fitchburg Gas & Electric Light Company (Mark Piermarini of Whitman & 
Bingham).  The proposed project is for construction  of a 45,000 s.f. facility with driveways, parking and associated grading and utilities.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL~November 18, December 2 
NEW BUSINESS ~  
ONGOING BUSINESS   
          Holman Street Parking Area  
  Shirley Village Reservoir Drawdown Levels 
  Forest Cutting Plans  
        Regulations and By Law 
        Commission Education  
        Stormwater By Law 
  FY17 Budget 
  Annual Report (February) 
SIGNATURES ~ OoC(9), CoC  
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
MEETING SCHEDULE ~ 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
COMMISSION COMMENT ~  
ADJOURNMENT 