===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Richard Bursch, Chair -Present   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair-Present   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease-Present      Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram-Absent        
Carl Luck-Present  
Jack Rabbitt -Present         Matthew S. Marro,( -
Present) 
Kenneth Jones-Present    Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, February 1, 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting   
960 Mass Ave, Ritter Land Use Building 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Call to Order at 7:00 PM Chairman Bursch presiding 
Announcements    -none                                                                                           
Public Comment - none 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination of applica bility by Carl Luck  for work at 392 Sunset Lane wi ll be held. Work entails 
Seasonal Installation of a rolling or free standing  dock of wood or aluminum materials with no permane nt structures within the 30 
or 50 foot  protective zones, a repair of stone ret aining wall supporting a parking area and the repla cement and reorientation one 
long tie both “top ties” within the 100 foot buffer  zone of a wetland resource area .Application and s upporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission  office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointm ent. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial B uilding 960 Mass 
Ave on February 1, 2017. The public is invited to a ttend. 
Documents presented for consideration were a request for a determi nation form a dated sketch and 
dated photos signed and dated January 2017 from the applicant. 
 
Carl Luck representing himself as an applicant and not a member: 
 Cl explained the proposal as outlined in the reques t for a determination. He explained the history of the expired RDA and then 
property . He outlined the distances from the wetland(lake). T he commission examined the parking are for any eros ion potential 
and the dimensions of the dock. CL agreed to place wattles along the top of the work are to prevent sh eet flow from entering the 
work area. The Commission also examined when the ti e part of the wall would be done and the response w as at low water. 
 
John Dombrowski representing abutter Richard Trembl ay who expressed concerns about a location of the d ock and was hoping 
it could be 6 feet. CL noted it was always exactly on the property line. CL showed Attny. Dombrowski t he historical photos. CL 
also noted that Mr. Tremblay was also approved on t he property line on his side. Attny. Dombrowski als o expressed that if any 
damage to his clients property from the tie wall re pairs, that it be corrected and that the stone wall  not be expanded. CL pointed 
out the ties and clarified and that the wall was no t going to be expanded.  It was noted a chapter 91 waterways license was not 
needed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a request to amend an Order of Condition s by Michael and Michelle Allan for work at Lot 7 R eservoir Road (91 
Reservoir Road )will be held. Work entails the inst allation of an in-ground swimming pool within 100 f oot buffer zone of a wetland 
resource area and Riverfront within previously alte red area for rear yard..Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by cal ling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial B uilding 960 Mass Ave on 
February 1, 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a letter by the applicant.  Also presented was a 
modified engineers plan dated December 2016. The original order of condi tions file for the lot was 
also presented at the meeting. 
 
 
The Allen’s represented themselves. Michelle explai ned the proposal was for an inground pool within th e yard. MM refined the 
measurements and recommend that the haybale line be  survey located within the maximum limit of work an d the pool will placed 
on the as-built for the certificate of Compliance. A non-draining cartridge filter will be used. TD mo tioned for approval of the 
amendment with the recommendations written in. CL s econded and the commission voted unanimously. TD in quired if the 
widening was adequate.  
 
Request FOR AN INSIGIFIGANT CHANGE on a notice of i ntent/current order of conditions by Sunshine Nomin ee Trust  for a 
modification to a previously approved detention bas in at 554 Lancaster Avenue will be held .The meetin g is scheduled in the 
Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on February 1 , 2017. The public is invited to attend 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a letter by the applicant . The original order of 
conditions file for the original configurations and amendment to such was a lso presented at the 
meeting. 
 
Tom Christopher represented the applicant and noted  that as they were constructing the basin that as t hey were approaching the 
elevation they started to hit ground water. He pass ed out Photos. He outlined a site visit with MM and  that MM recommended 
that it be sent to the commission as a site change.  He noted just before Christmas there was a three i nch rain storm and showed 
photos of water exiting the invert and being retain ed by the haybales. Mr. Christopher noted that ther e was plenty of volume and 
that he also widened the outlet pipe. He will also have the engineer at the Chair’s request submit rev ised volume calculations. It 
was also noted that the basin was widened by 2 feet  along the entire length. CL noted a concern about the volume calculations 
and was wondering if two feet at the top was adequa te. He also asked why did it overflow if the basin was designed to hold a 25 
year storm. Mr. Christopher noted that this was dis cussed at the original meeting and recounted the co ntrol of any chemical 
application was tightly controlled. He noted that a t that long distance it would be attenuated and wan ted to know what the basis 
of a causal link was. CL reiterated that his concer n was a 25 year storm. Mr. Christopher noted that t he basin functioned as 
designed during the storm. BP noted that there was discharge listed from the pipe from the 2, 10 year and the 25 year storm it 
would overflow onto Lancaster Ave. The Commission v oted to continue to the March 1st meeting to await the Calculations. This 
was approved by a motion of JR and a Second by CL.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at  675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home , the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buffer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and sup porting documents are available for review at the C onservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointme nt. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the meeting is schedu led in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on  
February 1, 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Chris Hanson and Chuck Caron Represented Paul Gouge n. Mr. Hanson provided a suggested replication plan . He outlined the 
proposal by Chuck Caron. He also outlined the flood plain area to be restored. CL inquired if we were s till working on the 
violation. Mr Hanson indicated and presented pictur es of trash that was removed on site. MM outlined f or the commission the 
sequence of the violation.. Mr Gougen stated he did  not work within the 50 foot buffer zone. CL presen ted pictures claiming 
===PAGE 3===
evidence of hiding alterations. Mr. Hanson presente d ortho photos of pre-existing conditions. After ex amining photographic 
evidence the commission proposed a different remedi ation plan that encompassed more plantings along th e 30 foot no touch 
zone between the 30 and 50 foot zones and the strea m. A site walk has been scheduled for the eleventh of February at 9:15 AM. 
 
Chuck Caron reviewed the report. Mr. Caron presente d his evidence of the method of determination of th e riverfront. JR 
examined the 20 feet riverfront. He also reviewed t he elevation data on the plans to reinforce his cla ims as well as some photos 
he submitted. CL inquired as to the date of Mr. Car on’s determination to figure out if the water level  was representative.  RB 
reviewed the criteria that DEP uses and noted that at the delta/bend he feels the stream ended and isn ’t concerned with moving 
the stream as defined on the plans. JR noted DEP cr iteria where he feels the evidence should be moved down. Mr. Caron noted 
that it’s the delta that proves his opinion as the area is a quite zone of settling. The chair took a poll of the members and the 
majority indicated that they were in agreement with  the riverfront. It was decided to be continued to the 15 
th  of February and if 
supplemental information was not ready it would be continued to March 1 st , 2016. The meeting was continued by motion of TD 
and a second by KJ to February15th. 
 
Administrative Hearing – 
43 Island Road- Mr. Hannigan noted that they can ap pear at the next meeting. Mr. Hanson 
noted that a site inspection will be scheduled next  week . Continued to the 15 th  by motion of BP and a second by CL.  
 
183 Hemlock Drive – this is also a reconvening of the Continued  
 
The original Notice of Intent file and all enforcement documents was presented for consideration. 
 
Mr. Thomas indicated he is working on securing the services of a stone mason and is saving 2500 dollar s for the securing of the 
services. JR indicated the water is down 16 inches and is rising. He noted that there is no ice. RB no ted the thaw is here and can 
that he should try to pull it out. RB noted this wo rk has taken long enough to begin and we need to ge t it done so it is not referred 
to DEP. Mr. Thomas indicated he can get this out. K J noted this has gone on long enough and something needs to be done. JR 
noted that he feels we should take some sort of act ion. MM reviewed the time line from November to pre sent. Mr. Thomas will 
have the wall removed in April 15, 2017 at the requ est by the commission. JR requested local fines be instituted. That was 
deeded to the conditions. TD feels the matter shoul d be referred to DEP now. CL indicated the desire t o have a shorter time 
period to have it at the very least work commenced.  CL also asked about the buildings being removed. M r. Thomas indicated he 
could start that section of work by March 1, 2017. Continued to April 19, 2017 by motion of KJ and a s econd of BP. 
 
Current Business      
1.  Signatures on documents to be issued. 
2.  Certificates of Compliance  
3.  Enforcement  
 
•  121 Peninsula Continuation from 11/2/16 - MM noted it will be on for hearing on March 1, 20 17 
•  43 Island Road Continuation from 11/2/16 – see above  
•  338 Sunset Lane Continuation from 11/2/16 – RB and MM indicated that the engineer has finished the 
survey and are plotting the datum and they will app ear on February 15, 2017. NOTE : CL RECUSED. CL 
commented inquired about the deadline on the wall. It was noted that the wall was done. KJ and BP 
indicated they walked I last weekend and it seems f ine.  
•  675 Reservoir Road- see above.  
•  183 Hemlock Dr  - see above  
•  Emerald Place Beach Erosion – MM indicated no responses. RB noted that an adminis trative hearing is to 
be scheduled for February 15, 2017. RB did request that JR submit a couple of photos of the site.  
 
New Business – Discussion of regulations with respe ct to hunting on Conservation Lands – Continued to March 
workshop on March 29, 2017 at 7PM. 
              
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementa tion – discussion of meeting with Gary Gouldrup –MM  still 
awaiting some responses but will send in what he ha s. 
              
===PAGE 4===
Approval of Minutes   12/21/16,BP moved to approve as amended KJ second 1/4/17 BP moved to approve as amended TD 
seconded and the Commission  and 1/18/17 – CL expre ssed a concern about the dates listed in the minute s for 675 reservoir 
Road. TD and RB noted it was continued to March 1, 2017 and it was noted that they were given the opti on to come in sooner. 
CL moved to approve as amended. BP seconded and the  commission voted unanimously to approve all minute s. 
 
Committee Reports – 
•  Holman St property program – BP showed the commissi on signs prohibiting motorized ATV traffic in areas  
where it will be strategic. It was noted that it wa s apparent that Gilchrest St is obviously generatin g some of 
the traffic and asked a letter be sent to the neigh borhood.  
•  Storm water Committee Report- JR meeting last week still looking for members. The Consultants gave an 
outline of work to be done. That is going to be exa mined.  
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
•  Woodlands – March 1 2017 will be in 
•  Annual Report -MM asked if there was anything the c ommission wanted to emphasize on the report. 
Stewardship grant, the butterflies and the six brid ges on the lane property should be mentioned and ou treach 
and education.  
•  Budget – level funded MM noted the draft was submit ted. The Commission asked MM to talk to Adam to add  
a request for 3000 for Bridge and trail funding. CL  spoke about a mission statement.  
•  Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 2/ 15/17 meeting MM outlined 2 new hearings for the ne xt 
meeting. 
•  338 Sunset – see above.  
 
 
 
 
Communications 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for February 15,2017 at 7:00 PM In Billotta Meeting room 2 
nd  floor Town Hall 17 Main St, 
Lunenburg, MA  
Public Comment For Meeting Close.  
Adjournment – the meeting adjourned at 10:03 PM wit h a motion of KJ and a second by CL 
 
 
 