===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, January 4, 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting  
960 Mass Ave, Ritter Land Use Building 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
 
Call to Order meeting was called to order at 7PM wi t Vice Chair Todd Dwyer presiding. All present with  the exception of 
Chairman Bursch. 
 
Announcements  TB tallied work hours. The total was  463 hours on the Lane property in the fall season.  This tally does 
not include BP’s hours.  
                                                                                            
Public Comment - none 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at  675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home , the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buffer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and sup porting documents are available for review at the C onservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointme nt. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the meeting is schedu led in the Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave on  
January 4, 2017. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Chris from Hanningan continued to the 2/1/17 meetin g. TB moved to continue. KJ seconded. CL indicated that he was 
concerned the separation of issues were not discuss ed. Specifically, he was concerned about the specif ics of the fine timelines. 
The Commission noted that a firm timeline has not b een determined. JR feels the public hearing should go forth and conclude 
first. TB clarified on the agreed procedure from hi s personal notes. The motion to continue was unanim ously approved. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination of applicability by Bob Proctor for work at 4 Sunset A ve will be 
held. Work entails Installation of an e1 / sewer co nnection system within the 100 foot buffer zone of a wetland resource area 
.Application and supporting documents are available  for review at the Conservation Commission office b y calling 978-582-4146 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an o ption on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled 
the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Bui lding 960 Mass Ave on January 4, 2017. The public i s invited to attend. 
 
Documents presented to the commission for considera tion was a request for a determination by Bob Proct or and a 
modified sketch by the applicant modified at the me eting January 4, 2017. 
 
Mr. Proctor representing himself. He noted the proj ect and oriented to the commission. Mr. Dwyer revie wed the plan with Mr. 
Proctor to confirm the details on the plan. Mr Dwye r requested the wattles be placed closer to the lim it of work. The plan was 
===PAGE 2===
hand modified and signed by Mr Proctor after the wa ttles were corrected for location. BP moved for a n egative determination 
based on revised plan. TB seconded and the commissi on approved unanimously. 
 
 
Administrative Hearing  NOTE CARL LUCK RECUSED HIMSELF,RETAIN ING RIGHTS TO 
Comment  
AS A CONCERNED CITIZEN– Viviano, 338 Sunset Lane – TB noted that he went on the property no 
corrective action has been done as agreed. MM noted  that he notified the owner two different ways (ema il 
and certificate of mailing) on the same day with ad equate notice. TB outlined what he spotted on his ow n 
inspections which supported the commissions conclus ions. MM noted two counts for fining purposes. The 
first Failure to appear. The Second -Failure to produ ce supplemental information and remedial action as 
agreed under the enforcement order. TD recommended 1 00 dollars per day for each count. TB 
recommended that the fines cease when the supplemen tal information is presented. It was clarified that  
presented information date is currently the 18 th  of January. KJ moved to issue fines based on those  
grounds at 100 dollars per day for two violations. BP seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
 Mr. Vivano appeared to the commission shortly afte r the initial vote during Gary Gouldrup’s presentat ion. 
The commission reconvened. Mr. Viviano presented an existing conditions plan. TD reminded Mr. Vivano 
of the thanksgiving deadline he had promised to the  commission for removal of the wall. There was one 
area that has a large tree he is attempting to save . He requested to be allowed to keep the rocks in p lace to 
control the root system to prevent erosion. BP move d to rescind the fine for failure to appear. TB seco nded 
and the commission voted unanimously. Wall remediat ion is to be completed with hand placed stone at a 
45-degree angle or flatter. This is to be accomplis hed by removing the top course and place backward 
behind the wall with no fill. TB recommended that it  be done for February 1st weather permitting. The fi ning 
will be 300 dollars per day if it is not completed.  CL (commenting as a resident and not a commissione r as 
he had recused himself) expressed concern about the  slope of the wall. TB made a motion to remediate th e 
wall as defined by the 2/1 meeting with a 100 dolla r a day fine starting today which will be suspended  if the 
wall work is completed. The Commission debated full restoration of elevation versus replanting at modif ied 
elevation. It was also a part of the motion to have  an as built completed by the design engineer. BP 
seconded the motion and the commission approved una nimously. 
 
Current Business      
1.  Signatures on documents to be issued. The Commission signed off on the documents approved  from the prior 
meeting.  
2.  Certificates of Compliance  
3.  Enforcement  
 
•  121 Peninsula Continuation from 11/2/16 – Mr Marro is expecting items to be ready for the Feb ruary 1 
meeting 
•  43 Island Road Continuation from 11/2/1-6 Mr. Marro requested information as to the dispositi on from a 
Hannigan Engineering representative. 
 
•  338 Sunset Lane Continuation from 11/2/16 – refer to administrative hearing above. 
•  675 Reservoir Road – Hannigan Engineering appeared along with Charles Ca ron. Mr. Caron explained the 
method he used to determine the riverfront. JR stat ed he was not in agreement with the line and feels it 
should be moved towards the lake. CL also agreed an d felt the resource map also supported the river en ding 
further “downstream”. The site pre-existing conditi on was discussed, as well as the limit of work and where 
the proposed restoration would take place. This inc luded restoration of the flood plain. The Commissio n had 
discussed how to balance the enforcement with the N otice of Intent proposal.MM to walk the site with a ny 
commissioner available and Mr. Caron prior to the n ext meeting to tour both the areas to be restored a nd the 
proposed end of riverfront. MM also recommended onc e the scope of restoration is settled that an Order  of 
===PAGE 3===
Conditions, if approved, be written for two phases with the restoration being completed as phase one a nd the 
construction of the proposed house being the last p hase. MM also recommended that strict time lines be  
established.TD recommended the remediation be quant ified for bonding. CL had recommended establishing 
a vegetated buffer area reaching down to the lake s hore. TB noted that the remaining hillside on the l ake 
side needs to be stabilized as ordered. The fine de cided on 300 dollars a day until the hay is spread as 
ordered. This was approved by a motion from TB and a second from BP and a unanimous vote. CL 
discussed potential fine schedule and potential ret roactive fines based on the enforcement order issue d. CL 
moved to issue a fine based on four counts of 300 d ollars per day per count for the six-day period bet ween 
the issuing of the enforcement order to the filing of the notice of intent for a total of 7200 dollars . TB 
seconded the vote was TB, TD, JR, CL yes and KJ and  BP no.  
The four counts at 300 were based on : 1. Exceedanc e of scope of determination 2. Failure to come 
forward to amend. 3 unauthorized work within the bu ffer zone.  4.Failure to comply with the 
enforcement order. 
•  183 Hemlock Dr – MM noted that notice was sent to Mr. Thomas and h as not received a response. He 
suggested the commission add it to the site inspect ion list.  
•  Emerald Place Beach Erosion - awaiting to hear from Mr. Cleaves .  
 
New Business – Discussion of regulations with respe ct to hunting on Conservation Lands .  The Commission discussed 
ambiguity. BP feels the regulations are clear that bow hunting is the only type allowed . 
 
Diane Guneard requested the Cowdrey be no hunting z one.    
 
154 west street – noted they see a lot of residents  with children concerned with safety and have one p roperty with no hunting. 
 
Paula Bertram agreed with cowdrey being off limits but hunting be posted.  
 
It was noted there were signs at the Cowdrey that s uggest no hunting allowed. Research of the deeds of  the property did not 
indicate any restrictions and it was speculated the  existing restriction signs were placed independent ly of the commission. 
 
CL suggested that the signs on Cowdrey that were no t put up by the LCC are not correct and that they b e removed. It was 
agreed that this should happen to avoid confusion o f misrepresentation of the hunting regulations. No time line for removal was 
determined but consensus was that they could be tak en down by any Commissioner at any time. 
 
This discussion was continued for another time. 
 
         
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementa tion – discussion of meeting with Gary Gouldrup. Gary Gouldrup 
came to the meeting to review the forest stewardshi p planning. He noted he was going to send a goals s heet suggesting 
strategies for each forest land and the applicable attributes. Mr. Gouldrup indicated that he can have  goals sent out to MM and it 
can be discussed at the next meeting. Diane Guenard  238 wanted to know if the planning can be in a pub lic forum. The 
Commission noted that it would be at our regular pu blic meetings and that it would be advertised in th e Ledger. TB mentioned 
maintenance of the Mulpus Brook Habitat.  
              
Approval of Minutes   12/21/16 
 
Committee Reports – 
•  Holman St property program 
•  Storm water Committee Report 
 
 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
•  Woodlands 
•  Status of Recording of Orders 
•  Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 1/ 18/17 meeting 
===PAGE 4===
•  338 Sunset 
 
 
Communications 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for January 18 ,2017 at 7:00 PM In Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave  
Public Comment For Meeting Close. 
Adjournment 
 The meeting adjourned at 11:05 PM with Mr. Luck mo ving to adjourn and Mr Jones seconding. 