===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer ,Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tom Bertram       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
Wednesday, January 18, 2017 7:00 PM regular meeting   
Billotta Meeting Room 
Town Hall 2 nd  Floor 
17 Main Street 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg 
Public Access channel.  
 
Call to Order – meeting called at 7PM, Chairman Bur sch Presiding. Members Bertram, and Vice Chair Dwye r were 
absent. 
 
Announcements  JR noted that rain barrels are still available.                                                                                             
Public Comment – Greg Bittner 219 Pleasant Street was inquiring ab out the status of the fining. MM will send a remind er letter 
of the fine. MM will update on any timetables in th e Order. 
 
 Michael Jeffreys 1170 Mass. Ave re: proposal for a  Marijuana facility. Wanted to introduce himself to  the commission and 
wanted the commission to be aware there may be ecol ogical issues.  
 
Chairman Bursch passed out the revised open meeting  law and Mullins rule literature and briefly review ed it with the 
commission. JR reviewed his understanding of the la w with the commission. 
 
MM noted that there are new regulations also in eff ect for the public records disclosure law. He noted  the Selectmen should have 
literature. 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Tow n of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal By laws a public 
hearing on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Gougen Construction for work at  675 Reservoir Road will be held. Work entails the 
demolition and construction of a single family home , the installation of driveway and a septic system within the 100 foot buffer 
zone of a wetland resource area Application and sup porting documents are available for review at the C onservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointme nt. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline , the meeting is scheduled in the meeting is schedu led in the Bilotta Meeting Room at 17 Main St 2 nd  
Floor ,  on January 18 2017. The public is invited to atten d. 
 
This was continued to February 1, 2017 at 7 PM by a  motion of KJ, a second of BP and a unanimous vote.  It was noted by the 
chair the required erosion protection has been fini shed.  
 
Current Business      
1.  Signatures on documents to be issued. 
===PAGE 2===
2.  Certificates of Compliance  
3.  Enforcement  
•  121 Peninsula Continuation from 11/2/16 -  MM requested if the applicant has to pay a double f ee. No 
decision was made.  
•  43 Island Road Continuation from 11/2/16 – Still awaiting a response from Hannigan. BP moved t o issue 
an administrative hearing. KJ noted we should have a timeline on all of the administrative hearings. M M 
suggested starting a checklist on each enforcement action. The Commission agreed that may be a method 
they want MM to start moving forward.  It was also requested that minutes be available for  all prior 
discussions.  
•  338 Sunset Lane Continuation from 11/2/16 - MM noted that the engineer is on track to meet the 2/1/17 
deadline to provide an “as built” plan. RB noted th at he saw the wall rework and did not feel the left  side, from 
land, was acceptable to him.  
•  675 Reservoir Road – Chair noted March 1 is the dea dline for the remediation plan. It was reported 
that an additional fine for three days at $300 per day ($900) has been assessed for erosion control 
issues. This is separate from the initial fine of $ 7,200. 
•  183 Hemlock Dr - Chair recommends a notice of intent/administrative hearing reconvening on 2/1 and that 
assessment of fines be considered at that meeting..    
•  Emerald Place Beach Erosion – MM will remind Mr. Cl eaves.  
 
New Business – Discussion of regulations with respe ct wetland regulations and land use policies –  The Conservation 
Commission resumed discussion and review of it’s cu rrent regulations. There were two members of the pu blic in attendance. 
Paula Bertram from the Board of Selectmen and Greg Bittner of the Planning Board and 129 Pleasant Stre et. Both members of 
the public in attendance helped to provide input in  clarifying regulations from their own respective B oards. The Commission 
ended the review at section 10.20 of the regulation s and will be resuming review on March 29, 2017 at 7 Pm in the Ritter 
Memorial Land Use Building.               
Old Business –  Forest Stewardship Grant implementa tion – Goals to be submitted to MM by end of next week . It was noted 
by the chair it should be one sheet for each indivi dual parcel. 
              
Approval of Minutes   12/21/16, 1/4/17 
 
Committee Reports – 
•  Holman St property program – The Commission reviewe d an ATV issue cited by BP. MM also forwarded to 
the police. He noted aster a certain point the poli ce can call the EPO. Mel Bertram will be supplying no ATV 
signs.  
•  Storm water Committee Report JR reported that the c ommittee met last week and is looking for one new 
members. A meeting with the BOS/DPW and Task force is coming up with bay state roads representative. 
Storm water consultants coming in next meeting. Jac k Rodriquenz will be putting together a presentatio n of 
what the town does regarding stormwater.  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 
•  Woodlands – MM reported that Ms Habe indicated a su bmission shall be forth coming. 
•  Status of Recording of Orders- MM reported that com pliance is excellent. 
•  Hearings/Meetings/Appointments scheduled for the 2/ 1/17meeting -MM reviewed what has been submitted 
for the next meeting and noted that there were 4 ce rtificate of compliance requests as a result of the  efforts 
the commission had MM commence on sending courtesy reminders to past filings. 
•  338 Sunset – see above 
 
 
Communications 
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for February 1, 2017 at 7:00 PM In Ritter Memorial Building 960 Mass Ave  
Public Comment For Meeting Close. 
Adjournment 
 
 
The meeting Adjourned at 9 PM by a motion of KJ and  a second by BP and unanimous vote to approve. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
ANY DOCUMENTS CITED IN THESE MINUTES ARE AVAILABLE AT THE CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE. 