===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
                 MINUTES  
960 Mass Ave- Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
October 3 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
 
Call to Order- TD presided CHARIMAN BURSCH PARTICIATING BY REMOTE- ALL VOTES WERE ROLL CALL VOTES ( 
ONLY NO VOTES SHALL BE INDIVIDUALLY NAMED IN THESE MINUTES) - all present  
Announcements   KJ noted that he was at the small town forest with the Snow Riders club and there was a good day of 
cleanup at Small town forest                                                                                           
Public Comment- Joh Fortune outlined a minor change that had arouse within the previous 24 hours prior to the 
meeting. After examination of addition stone to the outfall of the dam to remediate erosion under the spillway, the 
commission voted to allow as a dominimus change by a motion of CL and a second by KJ with a roll call vo te 
approving the motion. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
Appointment: Eagle Scout Jacob Brenner spoke to the commission concerning his project, trails at the hollis  road 
property with an emphasis on the pollinator habitat. The Commission voted to award up to 250 dollars in costs for the 
project by a motion of KJ and a second by cc with a unanimous roll call vote.  
 
Appointment: request for a minor change Perrins Pond 208-0936 56 Cross Street, Brockelman/SOLitude Lake Mngmt. 
Rebecca Guigere appeared before the commission. After review of the changes to chemical treatment , the commission 
informed her they wished an amendment to be filed.BP moved to require the amendment. KJ seconded and the 
commission approved the vote by unanimous roll call 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BUY MIKE NAULT AND A PLAND BY 
ROSE LAND SURVEY DATED 9/18/18 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mike Nault of MJN Realty Trust  for the construction of a single family home withi n 
the buffer zone at 141 Hemlock Road.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is to be held at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to 
attend. 
 
 
Mike Nault appeared and addressed the questions from the previous meeting. A motion to issue a standard order was made by 
BP with a second by CL. The commission approved the motion unanimously by roll call vote.  
 
===PAGE 2===
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT FORM 3 AND SUPPORTING 
DOCUMENTATION. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan 
at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is to be held at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The 
public is invited to attend. 
 
John Fortune requested a continuance to October 17 th . BP moved to continue to 10/17. CC seconded and the commission 
approved the motion by a roll call vote. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION BY BARBARA BATTLE 
AND PLANS BY MICHALE BATTLE DATED SEPTEMBER 2019. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Michael and Barbara Battle for the grading work within the buffer zone and riverf ront 
at 168 West Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is to be held at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Barbara and Michael Battle appeared before the commission. Barbara Battle outlined the scopw  of work, and resource areas 
described on plans. TD walked the site and saw more clearing than he was anticipating. MM outlined a review of the initial or tho 
photos and noted the presence of wetland not shown on plans. KJ and Cl noted similar concerns and felt a positive 
determination as appropriate. RB requested refiuned riverfront calculations for the Notice. MM and TD reviewed the limits of the 
riverfront. CL moved for a positive determination. BP seconded and the commission approved by unanimous roll ca ll vote. 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BY MICHEAL GORMLEY AND A PLAN BY 
WITHMAN AND BINGAHM ASSOCIATES ENTITLED NOTICE OF INTENT SITE PLAN.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Michael Gormely for the restoration of the shoreline at 611 Reservoir Road Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is to be held at the 
Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend  
 
Mike Gormley appeared before the commission. RB noted that the erosion protection needs to be shown on the plans. KJ noted 
the wall appeared beyond the rip rap After consideration, it was felt by the commission a more detailed profile of the shoreline 
should be submitted. RB also requested a contingency plan for flooding . Mr, Gormley also agreed to replant any lost vegetati on. 
CL moved for a continuation.CC seconded and the commission approved the motion by a roll call vote.  
 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a request for a determination by Nanci Bell and a plan by Santigo De Rosa 
dated 9/2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 Fire Road 19. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is to be held 
at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend  
  
Santiago De Rosa appeared before the commission. TD and CL inquired as to the reason for the change of wall as the wall 
seemed to be in good shape. Santino noted it was to changed the wall style out and that on expansion was proposed so there 
would be no dimension change. Thye Commission expressed the feeling that a Notice of Itnetn should be filed with more specifi c 
information that would be required that an RDA does not cover.  
 
===PAGE 3===
CL moved to issue a positive determination. BP Seconded and the commission voted unanimously by roll call vote to approv the 
moton.  
 
 
200 NEW WEST TOWSEND CONTINUED FOR NEED FOR FURTHER DOCUMENTATION.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Yolanda Quick for the removal of stumps, the clearing of invasive vegetation and the 
establishment of a lawn and plantings at 200 New West Townsend Road. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is to be held at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass 
Ave. The public is invited to attend. 
. 
 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
188 Burrage Street- Enforcement Order – area cleaned out-  
EO Battle 168 West Street- see above 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road request for a 30 day extension was granted by 
the commission 
55 Spring Street – still under investigation 
Butterfly Lane- update on multiple NON’s – RDA’s coming in 
155 Reservoir Road- Status of survey – survey completed, review underway 
New Business – Re-organization of the Commission BP nominated RB for continued char and TD for continued vice 
chair. The motion was seconded by cl and unanimously approved by the commission . BP nominated CL for continued 
commission clerk. CC seconded and the commission unanimously approved. ( both sets of votes taken by roll call ) 
                             Forest Stewardship grants and planning.- After some discussion with residents in attendance from the 
last meeting, the commission decided to not do any harvesting of Robbs Hill for a year and to hold a workshop day 
dedicated to this issue. The Commission also will have MM complete and RDA for the parking area and remaining 
cleanups at the urging of TD and BP at small town forest. This was by a motion of TD and a se cond by BP with a 
unanimous vote by roll call vote. 
 
Open space committee appointee The Commission agreed the second commission slot will be 
converted to a citizen at large 
Request from Bob Pease to sponsor mountain bike rides jointly with the New       
England mountain bike association.  BP narrated his request which was granted by a motion of KJ and 
a second by RB with unanimous roll call vote. 
 
Old Business – Robbs Hill Conservation stewardship and maintenance plan  (see forest stewardship above) 
             Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) None 
Certificates of Compliance – UNITL & 380 Sunset Lane The Commission approved the COC for lot 7 and 4 of 380 Sunset 
by a motion of CL and a second by BP with a unanimous roll call vote.  
Extension Permit – Lake Shirley Order of Conditions, continued  CL reviewed a list he had complied of the 
nonconformance with the order of conditions, After consideration, the commission voted to extend for 6 months to 
4/17/19 by a motion of BP and a second by TD. Cl noted in discussion of motion he would hesitate until there is a firm 
commitment for an annual report  Joanna Bilotta disagreed and noted that she wanted ot state for the record CL cannot 
be impartial. The motion was approved by a roll call vote of the commission. 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – August 15, 2018, Sept 5, 2018 ,Sept 19, 2018- helod off for 
further review 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review - Chase Road Rear 
 183 Hemlock, Update – still progressing 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available – Due to appear at the oct 17th meeting 
 842R Chase Road – if any none 
===PAGE 4===
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update 
 155 Reservoir Road still in process for RDA’s 
 Shady Point 
 Investigation of Fire Rd 24 B- MM noted Ken Chenis will be filing a Notice of Intent  
 Misc. updates 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is October 17th 2018 at the 
Bilotta meeting Room, Town Hall, 17 Main Street 2 nd Floor, Lunenburg, MA 01462   
 
 
The meeting was adjourned at 10:40 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by CC with a unanimous roll call vote 
to approve 
 DOCUMENTS LISTED ARE STORED IN THE COMMISSION OFFICE. THIS MEETING WAS AUDIO 
RECORDED 