===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
MINUTES 
960 Mass Ave 
May 2, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being audio recorded. 
 
Call to Order All present except for CL 
Announcements   Jr spoke about the success of the earth-day weekend with storm water and pollinator habitat work 
the commission has done.                                                                                            
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination by Marley and Ryan Dixon for the construction of a Sandy be ach 
at 307 Townsend Harbor road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on 
May 2, 2018. The public is invited to attend. 
 
 
Continued until they report at tonight’s meeting by motion of KJ second of CC. 
 
Marley and Ryan Dixon appeared before the commission. Marley Dixon narrated why the sand was placed down which was 
primarily safety and outlined a proposal to maintain a smaller beach contained. Both Mr and Mrs  Dixon questioned the 
commission at length about existing beaches and why they were allowed to be maintained. MM noted part of th reason for this 
hearing is that their previous approval a beach was not allowed.  The Commission explained the facts that no new beaches have 
been permitted and existing was prior to regulations being enacted. RB noted that the majority of commissioners comments 
indicated that they may not be in favor of the beach or regrading. CC requested a more specific diagram and proposal of the land 
and its proposed surface (example loam and seed) and the access to the dock. KJ inquired about the steps and the dock. TD 
noted discrepancies with what was approved versus what was built and suggested that remediation could be proposed. The 
meeting was continued until May 16 at Town Hall second floor by a motion of TD and a second of KJ.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for A Determination for an addition to Dippin Donuts at 455 Mass Ave by Paul Karapatsas.   
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on May 2, 2018. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Paul from Dippins reported to the commission that the Board of Health has no objection to the moving of the freezer. He will work 
with MM on the drawing. Applicant agreed to continue to May 16 th by motion of TD and a second of KJ.  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATON FORM AND A SKETCH BY 
APPLICANT DATED APRIL 2018. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Chris and Karin Menard for tree removal at 672 Page Street. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the 
Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on May 2, 2018. The public is invited to attend.  
 
Karin Menard appeared and explained the areas of concern for the trees to be cut with a total of 11 trees. MM noted his site visit 
and felt the proposal for removal was justified. RB noted that if any trees are not on the property the commission cannot approve. 
It was noted that there would be no stumping 
 
TD moved for a negative determination CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
 DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION FORM AND A SKETCH 
PLAN BY APPLICANT DATED APRIL 2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Thomas Mason Jr. for the placement of a dock at 32 Hemlock Drive.  
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend  
 
Tom Mason appeared before the commission and spoke to the commission about the placement of a new dock . RB spoke 
about the specs of the dock noting it was removable. It was noted that the path to the dock was on the existing lawn. TD moved 
for a negative determination. JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan at Hickory Hills 
Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave in Lunenburg, Ma at 7:00 PM on 
May 2, 2018. The public is invited to attend 
 
The applicant agreed to a continuance until Mary 16 2018 at 7 PM by a motion of TD and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote 
to approve the motion. 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)-Review of Citations with owner- Steve Babineau spoke about the events 
after the meeting. He related that he had tried to contact MM unsuccessfully with regard to the stake 
review. KJ noted that it was made clear to Mr. Babineau by the commission that no work  in the buffer 
zone would be permitted until the order was issued and valid. Mr. Babineau cited a 
miscommunication with a subcontractor. RB reviewed the permit for completion of validity and found 
it was in order. The Commission decided by a motion of TD and a second by KJ that the last two 
citations issued would be rescinded for a new total of $600.00. Mr. Marro will deliver a notice to the 
Magistrate outlining the citation numbers to be voided.  
Shady Point- structure moving within the buffer zone.- MM noted work is staring on a request for the 
shed and some tree work. 
New Business – Land Exchange on Gilchrest- any update if available The article is due for this town meeting to be 
approved. They reviewed proper endorsement language to be used at the meeting. 
             Hickory Hills information for suction harvesting.   No one appeared. 
Old Business -Small Town forest update-The different types of gates are being examined. Work on the parking lot is 
under consideration. 
Certificates of Compliance – None presented for consideration 
===PAGE 3===
Extension Permit –  
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of –3/21 4,6 and 4,18      After review of the minutes the 3/21 
minutes were reviewed and approved as amended by a motion of BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote. The 
4/6 minutes were distributed but not yet reviewed and the 4/18 minutes will be completed. The review of minutes with 
and compliance with the open meeting law and potential procedures were reviewed.             
Committee Reports – 
Treasurer’s Report :  BP reviewed the research he as conducted on the trust accounts and the origins of the Hollis 
Road/Hawes accounts. 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests – MM told the commission of the hearing at district court and the request for a 
criminal warrant has been approved. BP reviewed highlights of the open meeting law training class held at 
town hall. 
 183 Hemlock, Update – MM noted that he had submitted pictures showing the wall had been built within 
compliance and the site is cleaned up. He will be meeting on site with the owner. 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available- there has been no deed activity according to MM 
 70 Oak Ridge, Update Matt Founier appeared and outlined a change he wanted to make with the drainage at 
70 oak ridge road. The Commission told him to submit formal and final revised plans to MM to take up at a 
future meeting. 
 842R Chase Road – update on preliminary assessment- still awaiting LSP documents. 
 155 Reservoir Road updates- tentative meetings with residents to review allowable work on restricted land 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies and walks in the woods preliminary results of 
meeting with the MRPC. 
Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is May 16, 2018 7:00 PM at 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor 
the Bilotta meeting room. 