===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462     
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
Minutes  
960 Mass Ave 
 Lunenburg, MA 01462 
7 P.M., April 4, 2018 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being audio recorded. 
 
 
Call to Order meeting called to Order with All in attendance except CC and CL.  
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment  - JR. Hickory Hills Purchase and Docks. KJ Lane property has ATV activity and is requesting we look 
to perhaps engage the police in the matter. 
 
David Osoff and Tom Schultz appeared with draft plans to review what was proposed for the next meeting at his home. 
He was proposing an addition. The commission suggested that plans be updated to reflect a second set of buffer zones 
due to the lake being on both sides of the street and his home. The Commission was unsure a request for a 
determination would be sufficient.  The commission will review the area before the next meeting and requested it be 
clearly marked with stakes. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
CONTINUED public meeting on a request for a determination by Marley and Ryan Dixon for the construction of a Sandy beach 
at 307 Townsend Harbor road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled at the Ritter Land Use building at 7 PM. The public is invited to atten d 
 
 
MM noted he had a written request for a continuance. BP moved to continue. KJ seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a  
CONTINUED public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Scott Benjamin for work at 40 Fire Rd 12 Road 
will be held. Work entails Installation of three docks within the buffer zone Application and supporting documents are availa ble for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline,, the meeting is scheduled at the Ritter Land Use building at 7 PM. The public is 
invited to attend 
 
 Hearing cancelled. MM inquired as to how long should we give the owner to submit his plans. The Commission voted 2 weeks 
by motion of BP and a second by TD with a unanimous vote. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION BY SCOTT PATTERSON 
AND A MODIFIED PLAN DATED MARCH 2018 HAND MODIFIED BY THE APPLICANT.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munic ipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination by Scott Patterson for the rehabilitation of an existing paver patio and replacement  of 
footings within the 100 foot buffer zone and 200 foot river front at 914 Flatt Hill Road . Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline,  
 
Charles Hadju appeared on behalf of the owner and outlined the project. He indicated a silt barrier would be placed. TD indic ated 
if the footing was to be replaced if it was the one side or the entire structure. Mr. Hadju indicated it would have to b e the entire 
structure although the plans submitted was for only the north side. There is no expansion proposed. TD also noted that there is 
an existing dock that is in rough shape and recommended that it be added to the plans. TD also asked along the water front was 
over grown with weeds and wanted to know if there was anything proposed to be done.  BP recommended that if there was any 
other work needed to be done than it should be added to the plans. A limit of work and erosion protection should be ad ded to the 
plan. 
 
This hearing was continued to April 18 at 7 PM in town hall 2nd floor by motion of BP and a second of TD. The motion was 
approved unanimously. 
 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED TO THE COMMSSION FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A NOTICE OF INTENT BY SIGNATURE 
LIVING AND A PLAN BY DUCHARME AND DILLIS ENTITLED “SITE PLAN” WITH A FINAL REVISON DATE OF APRIL 2, 
2018. ( TO BE REVISED BY THE FOLLOWING MEETING TO REFLECT PLANNING BOARD CHANGES) 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Signature Living LLC for the construction of a 3 family unit at 654 Mass Ave  
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
at the Ritter Land Use building at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
Greg Roy of Ducharme and Dillis represented the applicant. He outlined the site and the wetland resource areas. The proposal is 
for a three family dwelling. This has been approved by the ZBA for a special permit and will need both the commission and 
Planning Board review.  He outlined the work that was within the buffer zone. It was noted that there may be some slight 
modification to the building location, however it would not change the limit of work. It was determined the utilities were under 
ground. The planning Board made modifications that were outside the buffer zone . The Commission based on a 
recommendation by MM agreed with the applicant to continue the meeting to ensure changes by the final planning hearing would 
be incorporated in an order of conditions. Applicant indicated a desire to work outside of the buffer zone. MM instructed to stake 
the area so that there would be no accidental intrusion in the 100 foot buffer zone. The engineer indicated they would survey 
locate the stakes. The commission indicated agreement with the work out of the buffer zone and reiterated no intrusion until an 
order of conditions is issued. 
 
TD moved to continue to April 18th at 7 PM in Town Hall. KJ seconded and the motion was approved unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent  by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a drawdown management plan at Hickory Hills 
Lake at Townsend Harbor Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled at the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. The public is invited to 
attend 
 
The meeting was re-scheduled to April 18,2018 at 7 PM at Town Hall 2 nd Floor at 7 PM due to lack of abutter notification. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
654 Massachusetts Ave (n)-Notice of Intent to be heard at the April 4, 2018 meeting 
New Business – Land Exchange on Gilchrest- any update if available- Brandon Kibbe was present and indicated that a 
land swap should be advantageous with respect for access and protection of the river. It was noted that there would be 
a site walk with the parties,  
              FY 19 Budget               
Old Business -Small Town forest update- (if any) 
Certificates of Compliance – None presented for consideration 
Extension Permit – Youngs Road, Richard Bourne The Commission approved a three year extension by a motion of KJ 
and a second by CC.  
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of –2/21  unanimous vote  to approve by a motion by BP and a 
second by KJ .                      
Committee Reports – 
Treasurer’s Report :  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests – Enforcement order cover letter- Commission approved of the draft cover 
letter. 
 183 Hemlock, Update- MM noted Dan Thomas is making progress and is going to finish his weall work 
before the lake rises too much 
 811 Chase Road, Update- none at this point 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available- MM noted that the land was sold at auction and is working on 
contacting the new owner, 
 70 Oak Ridge, Update MM referred to emails he sent from owner showing a start date  
 842R Chase Road – update on preliminary assessment- It is estimated the report would be complete by May 
4. 
 155 Reservoir Road updates- tentative meetings with residents to review allowable work on restricted land - 
MM has been working with the neighborhood to schedule sessions to clarify wat the deed allowed for.  
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies and walks in the woods preliminary schedule. – 
appointment with Matt Charpentier. Mr. Charpentier volunteered to help with updating trails maps. He will 
attend a meeting at the MRPC with MM and BP. 
 
 
Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting for April 18 at the Billota meeting room 2nd floor at 
17 Main Street 7 PM. 
 
 
Complete picture of what is going on with the plan.  
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10 motion of KJ and a second by BP. 