===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
              MINUTES 
960 Mass Ave.- Ritter Land Use Building 
June 6, 2018 at 7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being audio recorded. 
 
Call to Order Meeting was called to Order by Chairman Bursch 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment- RB commented concerning the open space committee noting that concerns about recreational grants 
was expressed and noted the Rec Commission is going to be participating in future meetings. BP spoke to the 
commission of concerns of the Walks through the woods event coming Sunday June 10.  
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM the meeting was called to order with all members in attendance 
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED TO THE COMMISSION FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A REQUEST FOR A DETERMINATION BY 
THE APPLICANT WITH A HAND SKETCH AND PHOTO DATED MAY 2018.  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Peter and Susan Doherty. for the placement of a dock at 399 Townsend Harbor 
road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled for June 6, 2018 at the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend  
 
Peter Doherty represented himself and presented the commission a photo and lot sketch as to the location of the dock. He 
presented the commission with the permission from the hickory hills landowners association as he paid a fee. RB examined the 
plan to ensure there was no excavation involved and the dock was removable in the winter. KJ moved for a negative 
determination JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Richard Trainor. for the addition of a 24 foot by 24 foot garage at 426 Reservoir Road. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
for June 6, 2018  at the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend  
 
Richard Trainor represented himself he explained the proposal for an extended drive to a dethatched Garage. The commission 
noted that there was not a DEP number at that point. MM explained how to resolve that issue with DEP. MM explained the 
riverfront particulars with respect to an existing single family lot pre-existing the rivers protection act. RB noted that with the 
existing topography erosion should not be an issue. The Commission examined the location of lot particulars such as the septic 
system and the existing driveway turn around as it related to the location of the proposed garage. The Commission did ask him 
to move the garage ten feet closer to the Roadway and add a detail to the drawing showing a stone lined trench. The 
Commission continued the meeting to June 20,,2018 at 7 PM in Town Hall 2nd Floor by a motion of KJ and a second by TD with 
a unanimous vote. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by IACOVIELLO, VINCENZO for the addition of a  shed/barn at 19 Gilchrest Street 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
for June 6, 2018 at the Ritter Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend  
 
The commission evaluated the proposal by Mr. Iacoviello who was present to represent himself. Due to the amount of filling to 
one side of the project and the size of foundation work, the commission voted unanimously for a positive determination by a 
motion of TD and a second by KJ. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munic ipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Request for A Determination for an addition to Dippin Donuts at 455 Mass Ave by Paul Karapatsas.   
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 97 8-582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled 
for June 6, 2018 in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on June 6, 2018 at 7 PM. The public is invited to 
attend 
 
The meeting was continued to July 18, 2018 at 7PM in Town Hall 2 nd Floor by a motion of TD and a second by KJ with a 
unanimous vote.  
 
DOCUMENTS PRESENTED FOR CONSIDERATION WAS A DETERMINATION FORM BY THE APPLICANT AND PHOTOS 
PRESENTED BY THE APPLICANT DEATED MAY 2018 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a CONTINUED determination by David Oram for tree Removal at 352 Townsend Harbor Road. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled 
in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on June 6, 2018 at 7 PM. The public is invited to attend  
 
Susan Oram appeared before the commission and presented the commission with the trees to be removed by photograph. As 
the trees were determined to be dead and it was agreed there would be no stumping, the commission issued a negative 
determination by a motion of TD and a second by KJ. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Mike Nault of MJN Realty Trust  for the construction of a single family home within 
the buffer zone at 141 Hemlock Road.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on June 6, 2018 at 7 
PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
 Doug Smith and Mike Nault were present to update the commission. The Commission emphasized that there was no grading on 
the plans and that the lot should be staked in the field. Mr. Smith noted that a surveyor or engineer would have to draw and 
stamp new post development elevations that were currently missing. Paul Royka of 147 Hemlock expressed concerns about the 
amount of tree clearing proposed on the lot. The meeting was continued to the 18th of July to allow for the grading revision detail 
requested by the commission by a motion of KJ and a second by TD 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a COTINUED Notice of Intent by Tim Ialeggio for an addition to a single family home, a septic, grading and wetland 
restoration at 564 Page Street. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled in the Ritter Memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave on June 6, 2018 at 7 
PM. The public is invited to attend 
 
The Commission reviewed the updated plans .MM noted that the narrative was well don, however the plans did not match the 
planting scheme narrated. RB wanted more detail placed on the plans along with the missing septic syst em pipe. The applicant 
requested continuation to the meeting of July 18th on the 2nd floor meeting room at town hall by a motion of KJ and a second by 
TD with a unanimous vote 
===PAGE 3===
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
571 Chase Road (c) -No updates : to remain on agenda until restoration is completed (grown in) 
164 Page Street- Notice of Non compliance- Mike Fenton appeared before the commission and noted 
to the commission the trailer was placed by the wetland areas as he had no other place to put it. After 
examination of existing ortho photos.  The Commission decided to continue the matter until June 20 th 
7 PM at Town Hall meeting room on the 2 nd floor by a motion of KJ and a second by JR. The 
Commission agreed to site walk it on June 16 th. 
188 Burrage Street – No one appeared on the owners behalf. The issue was continued until the next 
meeting. 
Shady Point- Upcoming RDA – MM noted that he is close to finishing the filing with Ron Wilson.  
New Business – Land Exchange on Gilchrest – any applicable updates The Commission discussed the lot donation and 
the necessary filing with the ZBA for relief to create building sites. The Commission also noted they would draft a letter 
of support to the ZBA 
             Old Business –Robbs Hill management update 
Certificates of Compliance –189 Elmwood Roald Lot 3 208-1033   and 108 Goodrich 208-479 were approved and signed 
by the commission by a vote of CL and a second of KJ. Unitil was continued until the June 20, 2018 meeting at 7 PM in 
the town hall second floor. 
Extension Permit – None to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of – 5/2  and 5/16 The minutes were approved with correction by a 
motion of BP and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote to approve                
Committee Reports – storm water 319 grant information or updates JR noted that a grant was submitted for 
consideration. 
Treasurer’s Report :  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests –  
 183 Hemlock, Update- work proceeding 
 101 Pleasant Street – if update is available- MM noted that the attorney representing the new owner 
contacted him. He gave him a copy of the order of conditions and referred him to Town Counsel  
 70 Oak Ridge, Update- new site contractor 
 842R Chase Road – review of  preliminary assessment 
 155 Reservoir Road updates- update on re-plantings- Cl inquired as to the status of the as-builts on the land. 
MM and RB clarified the need for the third party survey based on a conversation with the design engineer 
indicating that they may redesign the last lot to use the back land and that the new survey indicated they may 
have more riverfront and the entire project is going to be re-evaluated by the commission’s surveyor. 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal- RB outlined the 
meeting schedule for the future open space meetings 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is June 20, 2018 7:00 PM at the 
Billotta meeting room 17 Main Street Town Hall second floor.  Updates for a new date on the 
combined open space ad hoc committee will be stated at the conclusion of the June 6, 2018 meeting 
if available . 
 
 
 
DOCUMENTS CITED ARE AVAILABLE FOR REVIEW AT THE CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE.  
 
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to approve. 