===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
        MINUTES  
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
Lunenburg, Ma 01462 
December 5 2018 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being AUDIO recorded. 
 
 
Call to Order – Meeting called to order by Chairman Bursch with all members present except Mr. Rabbitt  
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment BP urged members to review the draft open space plan that MM posted. RB recounted the regional 
strategic meeting that he and MM attended. MM and Cl spoke to the community preservation act. KJ reviewed a parcel 
the commission is pursuing through tax collections and he noted that legal issues were resolved regarding the taking 
and it is about to be advertised again. The Town is aware the Commission wants possession of the parcel for open 
space protection and buffering to sensitive resource areas. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Joseph Knowlan for construction of a single fami ly home at 507 West Townsend 
Road Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is 
scheduled for December 5, 2018, at 7:00 PM, in the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to 
attend. 
 This meeting was continued at the request of the applicant by a motion of TD and a second by KJ 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Mark Rood  for a septic repair with the construction of an addition at  13 East 
Street Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is 
scheduled for December 5, 2018, at 7:00 PM, in the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited t o 
attend. 
 This meeting was continued as no one showed for the hearing. Motion to continue by TD and a second by KJ with a unanimous 
motion to approve to December 19, 2018 at 7 PM. 
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
===PAGE 2===
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The 
meeting is scheduled for December 5, 2018, at 7:00 PM, in the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public 
is invited to attend. 
 
Continued to 12/19/18 7:00 PM  by a motion of KJ and a second by TD with a unanimous vote to approve.  
 
Documents presented for consideration was a Notice of Intent by Anthony and Kristine Jordan and a plan entitled” Site 
Plan 30 Laurel Lane” with a final revision date of 12/4/18. 
(DEP 208-1146) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a CONTUNED Notice of Intent by Anthony and Kristine Jordan for renovation to a single family home 
with the construction of an addition at  30 Laurel Lane Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is scheduled for December 5, 2018, at 7:00 PM, in the Ritter memorial Land Use 
Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Greg Roy appeared before the commission and submitted revised plans and a narrative to address previous commission 
concerns and DEP concerns. He reviewed the trees that were marked for cutting and why they needed to be removed.  He also 
noted the area of pavement to be removed and it will be converted to a crushed stone permeabl e surface. He also showed 
expanded erosion control and various tables on the plans outlining impacts. RB examined the trenching around the driveway and  
the increased permeability proposed.TD inquired if the shed was going to be relocated. He noted that they may wish to consider 
adding a she if they wish to replace it. A motion to issue an Order of Conditions with the added conditions the temporary staging 
wil be removed in the winter, trees cut along the bank will have stump ground to the top of ground leve l, infiltration and recharge 
trenches will be lined with filter fabric and upon removal of the boathouse, the agent will review and report on a ny potential flood 
plain issues was made by KJ and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
(DEP 208-xxxx) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a CONTINUED Notice of Intent by Kenneth Chenis for an addition to a single family home with 
modifications to the patio at 50 fire road 24. The Notice also includes a proposal for the modification of the alignment to f ire road 
24. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Con servation Commission office by calling 978-582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The meeting is 
scheduled for December 5, 2018, at 7:00 PM, in the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to 
attend. 
 
Mr. Chenis appeared before the commission and reviewed the changes he made upon commission request and submitted  He 
clarified the areas of impervious to be left versus the addition of trex decking. The commission also examined his dock proposal 
which involved building a platform over an existing concrete pad. Mr Chenis did ask about a rolling aluminum dock. Hes was to ld 
to either add to this plan or come back with a separate request for a determination. He can produced photos showing a former 
dock in the exact same spot. The meeting was continued to 12/19 at 7 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by TD with a 
unanimous vote to approve. 
 
 
Current Business      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines – MM did not receive the bond and continues to send fines 
daily. 
EO Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road – MM will have EO’s to ratify for the 12/19 
meeting.  RB outlined the violations at 131 and 133 Leominster- Shirley Road, The Commission 
reviewed the requirements for riverfront and alternatives due to the nature of the filing . 
EO -55 Spring Street – Mr. Marsden to submit plans 
Butterfly Lane- update on multiple NON’s 
155 Reservoir Road- special meeting has been set CL and MM reviewed concerns about potential 
expansions. 
EO Emerald Place Beach- MM noted that the current address on file for the EO was sent  back. MM 
has obtained corrected address and has resent. 
 
===PAGE 3===
New Business – 
                             Forest Stewardship grants and planning. 
       
Old Business - 
             Land Exchange on Gilchrest –updates ( if any) 
             Work at the Small Town Forest 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat assessment planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area    
Certificates of Compliance –  
Extension Permit  
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of November 7, 21 and 28 – minutes to be reviewed at a later time 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review - Chase Road Rear 
 183 Hemlock, Update- waiting till the spring to stabilize 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO update 
 842R Chase Road – if any – no change 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies /Open Space Plan renewal  
 LSIC and Hickory hills management update (If any) – No communication from LSIC other than an email to 
MM during the meeting stating a DEP staff came to the meeting the LSIC is holding concurrently to the 
commission meeting currently taking place. 
 155 Reservoir Road- see above 
 Shady Point – MM working out a plan with the Shady point organization 
 Emerald Place – see above 
 Misc. updates 
 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is December 19, 2018 at the 
Bilotta meeting room, 17 Main Street 2nd Floor at 7:00 PM   
 
 
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 PM by a unanimously approved motion of BP and a second by CC  
 
OTE: ALL DOCUMENTS PRESENTED DURING THE COURSE OF THIS MEETING ARE AVAILIBLE IN THE CONSERVATION 
COMMISSION OFFICE. THE AUDIO RECORDING IS ALSO AVAILIBLE. 
 