===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
   NOTICE OF MEETING  
 960 Mass Ave Ritter 
May 29 2019 at 7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
In attendance: RB,TD,BP,CC,CL,JR Absent: KJ  
 
 
MINUTES- Note all votes were roll call as JR was remotely participating 
Call to Order 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
1. Call to Order  
2. LSIC – extension of Order of Conditions-  
The Commission voted to grant the extension until 9/30/19 with the commission issuing the revised local boiler plate by 
a motion of TD and a second by JR with a unanimous roll call vote. Attorney Bodkin representing the LSIC requested 
the commission rescind the revisions of the order of Conditions citing the process of amendments. RB noted this was 
not a state process but rather a modification that is allowed under the current local order. Joel Swenson, who 
interrupted attorney Bodkins time on the floor on multiple occasions, was infor med he would be heard once the floor 
was yielded. Once he had the floor he asked what environmental reason was there for revising the order. RB indicated 
he would not revisit the issue as it has already been discussed. The Chair did offer to address any specific changes 
items of concern but none where identified by Mr. Swenson. After some members of the audience became disorderly 
and the Chair requested Order, the chair had to call the police department to clear the room as the disorderly persons 
in attendance refused to leave the meeting room. The matter was closed once the room was cleared. 
3. Regulation review- BP related to the commission the results of his and CC’s review of the tracked changes. He 
recommended adding in and revisiting the administrator’s determination process. The Commission indicated a 
willingness to review revisions to the regulations to include this process. The Commission will advertise and present at 
2 televised meetings. This process was accepted by a motion of TD and a second by BP a nd a unanimous vote of the 
commission by roll call. 
4. Adjourn- the meeting adjourned at 9:15 PM 