===PAGE 1===
 
 
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
   MINUTES 
 17 Main Street, Second Floor, Bilotta Meeting Room 
April 17 2019 at 7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio/Video Recorded. The agenda lists all 
the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
Call to Order 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment- CL spoke about the presentations of the annual COLAP meeting. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
7 PM : 
 
(DEP 208-1158) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent  submitted by Joseph O’Brien for the construction of a single family home with 
garage within the buffer zone at 179 Island Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM 
on April 3, 2019 The public is invited to attend. 
 
This is continued to the May 1st meeting due to the applicant issuing the wrong meeting date in the abutter notification. 
Cl moved to continue JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously to May 1st. 
 
Documents presented for consideration was a Request for a Determination from and a Sketch from the applicant dated 
April 2019 
(RDA) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for a Determination by Carl Luck for the installation of an emergency generator and a trench to 
accommodate the conduit within the outer portion of the 100 foot buffer zone at  30 and 50 Sunset Lane. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the 
Bilotta Meeting Room 2nd Floor, 17 Main Street at 7 PM on April 17, 2019 The public is invited to attend.  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Mr. Luck was present to represent himself. He described the project , a whole house generator. This would require a trench. He 
described the work which between inspections and construction will result in a 3 day long project. He will use wattles between 
the trench and the lake. TD asked what the generator will sit on. Mr. Luck indicated it will sit on timbers and crushed stone.  RB 
inquired the soils will be put back? The answer was yes and noted that the gas company will professionally install it. It was noted 
by question of the chair the existing condition was gravel. JR noted that there may be vibration of the unit. He was wondering if 
the vibration would work it into the soil. Mr. Luck noted that it was a standard construction. TD noted that the wattles should 
extend all the way to the length pf the project. Joanna Billotta 362 Sunset Lane inquired if pumps can be added to the generator 
and if anything can be added from the outside outlets. CL noted there was no plugs on this gen erator to allow for that and the 
item was sized for the house only. KJ moved for a negative determination CC Seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
 
 (RDA) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for a Determination by Melissa Ribaudo  for the extension of a dock at 33 Birch Island 
Way.Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will 
take place at the Bilotta Meeting Room 2nd Floor, 17 Main Street at 7 PM on April 17, 2019 The public is invited to attend.  
 
Motion made by KJ to continue to later in the meeting CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously.  
A motion was made to continue to May 1, 2019 at 7 Pm at 960 Mass Ave by KJ with a second from CC and a unanimous vote to 
approve 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  - 
2. EO-  4 Townsend Harbor Road – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-12 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM APRIL 3, 2019 
3. EO-  63 Prospect St. – Enforcement Conference case number ENF 2019-11 THIS CONTINUED 
FROM APRIL 3, 2019 RB  recapped the enforcement at this date. The two key issues noted were the 
unauthorized cutting of approximately 18 significant trees beyond the approved limit of work and the failure of a 
daylighted drainage structure. Mr. Rianeri noted that he had 2 additional trees he wanted to come down. The chair 
outlined the procedure and the need to submit a revised plan/request. MM noted that he can send a plan to the 
owner to use. Mr. Raneri noted that he can do the planning and pick up the original approved site plan.  
EO -134 Crawford Street- Greco Alonso, Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority and MBTA - ENF Case 2019-3 
Initial administrative hearing on enforcement orders. THIS CONTINUED FROM APRIL 3, 2019 
                                     Updates on enforcement cases and status of timelines 
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines ENF CASE 2019 -6 THIS CONTINUED FROM APRIL 3, 2019 
EO - Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road ENF CASE 2019-1 and 2019 -2 THIS 
CONTINUED FROM APRIL 3, 2019 
NON -155 -Reservoir Road- update from all parties regarding remedial work THIS CONTINUED FROM 
APRIL 3, 2019 
 
Cl noted that one lot needed verification of the polygon that has been placed on that plan  and update of the 
calculations as required. Brian Marchetti outlined a plan for proposed restoration. The restoration specs were 
discussed and conditions proposed by the homeowners. Completion date of June 15 , 2019.  Boulders to be 
placed every 20 feet along the back of each lot, Oaks along the property lines every 10 feet and removal of 
invasive vegetation in the restoration zone. Grasses should be riparian mix or conservation mix. No final 
agreements were made. 
EO- Emerald Place Beach- update to be made for Spring 2019 THIS CONTINUED FROM APRIL 3, 2019 
EO -Shady Point-beach erosion ENF CASE 2019-7 – no update –ongoing  THIS CONTINUED FROM 
APRIL 3, 2019 
New Business - Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994) – MM noted the comitee has been formed and 
will be soon commencing meetings 
            New home owner notification policy discussion/feedback –MM noted he had reviewed Mr Lucks proposal 
and finds it complete and easy to implement without hurting other office duties . CC offered to help develop the process and 
information which was gratefully accepted.,  
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion- The commission reviewed the final proposed changes. The 
LSIC President express concern about going from 2 pages to 7 pages. The Commission explained that this did not add 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
significant new requirements but mostly clarified the Order and added dates. One change was suggested by TD, which 
was accepted. A motion to approve the amended Order was made by CL, seconded by KJ and unanimously approved. 
 
LSIC Permit Extension- when the Commission took up this topic the LSIC President withdrew the previous request for 
an extension permit from June 6 to September 30, 2019. The Chair made it clear that this could result in not being able 
to treat the Lake this summer as a new NOI would probably not be in place in time.  
 
            Work at the Small Town Forest-updates ( if any) 
                          Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Draft Stewardship  
          Plan- Progess meeting with the Commission, Gary Gouldrup and the public at large  
          Gary Gouldrup and Jeff Ritterson appeared before the commission. Mr Gouldrup recounted the principles and        
          methods used in the planning of the bird habitat. Mr Ritterson explained the Mass Audubon program and the  
          training for creating bird habitat through forestry. He noted after review of the plan he thought the plan as written  
          by Mr. Gouldrup was well written. Per request of the chair, Mr. Ritterson went thorough his background and  
          qualifications. Patch cuts were discussed by the power lines and how it was designed for specific species of  
          that are in decline due to habitat loss and the principle of the cut was to attract them. He did not notice any of the  
          species on site due to the time of the year but he did analyze the construct of the forest. He explained that  
          building off the power line right of way would expand the type of habitat needed as the species are area  
          sensitive and the power line is not large enough to help in the early successional habitat. Areas of the forest  
          were discussed with respect to a monoculture versus a more complex bio diverse structure of the forest and the  
          understory. MM inquired about the value of the understory. Mr. Ritterson outlined the value of maintaining dense 
          understory for bird habitat. RB reviewed what snag trees were and what the value is. Mr. Ritterson reviewed the  
          value of woody debris. KJ asked if there was any statistics on success rates. Mr. Ritterson related that the  
         monitoring is still in progress, however he has noted that there has been an increase . Gary Gouldrup noted that  
          in what he has learned about bird habitat, it confirms much of what he has practiced over a long period of time.  
         JR evaluated the seasonal benefits and the benefits of best management practice of soils.  
 
          Richard Tomkins 601 flatt hill road- are we losing species? Mr. Ritterson noted that with any management action  
         there is going to be winners and losers. He did noted there are many bird species that are doing well and the goal  
         is balance.RB  inquired on other projects has there been losses of other species. Mr Ritterson noted that there  
         has not been any species loss. 
 
                         Margaret Tomkins 6012 flatt hill. She inquired about owls and wood peckers like older trees. How would this be  
                         Addressed. Mr. Ritterson noted that the plan has larger trees targeted for just such and issue as Mrs. Tomkins  
                         outlined. 
 
                         Lyn Mann inquired is the pollinator garden going to be impacted. Mr. Ritterson noted there may be minimal  
                         impact due to some predation. He felt that it would not increase any activity that may be currently occurring in the          
                         area. He felt it would not be threatened. RB noted and Mr. Ritterson agreed there would be some symbiotic  
                         relationship. 
 
                          JR inquired if expanding the garden may help? It was noted by KJ that there is already natural pollinators on site  
                          that is accomplishing the same goals. CL noted the commission is trying to maintain a wildlife habitat, however  
                          there is no data on what is pre-existing. Mr. Ritterson agrees it is important. In this property in particular examine  
                          surrounding areas and outline data base repositories of the area would be a great way to start. Jone Jones of  
                         Valley Road noted he goes on the property and has photographic catalogue that should have plenty of beneficial           
                         and complete data. The Stewardship plan was approved by a motion of CL and a second by KJ with a        
                         unanimous vote to approve. It was outlined to the public by the commission that the plan is a 10 year plan and at  
                          this point no plans for implementation have been made 
           Discussion and updates of rules and regulations (if any)  
Certificates of Compliance –  None to present 
Extension Permit –   
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of March 20, 2019 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 ADA grant update ( if any) 
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory Hills general update (If any) 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is May 1, 2019 at the 
Ritter memorial Land Use building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM  DOCUMENTS NOTED IN THE MINUTES 
ARE AVAILIBLE AT THE COMMISSION OFFICE FOR REVIEW. 