===PAGE 1===
 
 
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
Jeffrey Vivano, associate member 
 
                   MINUTES  
960 Mass Ave 
November 6, 2019 at 7:00 PM  
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded. The agenda lists all the 
topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these 
discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items 
not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by 
Open Meeting Law.  
 
 
 
 
Call to Order Meeting called at 7 PM with Vice Chair Dwyer presiding. Chairman Bursch participated by remote therefore 
all votes in this meeting will roll call. CC CL BP and TD physically present. 
Announcements BP recounted his visit to the trails conference. 
Public Comment  Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
                                                                                   
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
Appointment: Request for a field change 120 Goodrich Street  Jack Maloney was present representing the owners. He informed 
the commission there is a new owner who wants to build a new configuration of the previously approved home and as such the 
location has changed slightly. BP noted there is a good deal of impervious  surface will be eliminated. The rear yard is also 
slightly larger. TD examined the grading involved. RB examined that there was less disturbance. BP moved to approve as a field 
change. CL seconded and the commission unanimously approved.  
 
Appointment: Request for a field change 380 Sunset Lane – 
 
Alan Kulberg appeared representing himself as the owner . He noted the repair proved to be very expensive so the stair will be 
removed, wall will be in place and there will be grass planted in its place. TD noted that from the detail asked if lawn will be 
placed in the in fill area. Mr. Kullberg noted that yes there will be grass. RB asked about impacts to flood plain. IT was noted 
there was no flood plain impacts. A motion was made by BP to approve the filed change  to extend the retaining wall over the 
exiting stair feature to create a continuous wall with the top foot of back fill being converted to lawn. CC seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously. CL abstained from voting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a request for a determination by Micke Dutton for the trimming and some removal of Brush at 54 Pine Acres Dr. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the Ritter memorial Land 
Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend. The meeting is at the Ritter memorial Building at 9 60 Mass Ave at 
7 PM.  
 
The commission continued the meeting to conduct a site visit by a motion of BO and a second by CC with a unanimou s vote 
approving the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Notice of Intent by Ray Rice for the addition of a garage to a single family home at 82 Cove Road. Application a nd 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the Ritter memorial Land Use 
Building at 960 Mass Ave. The public is invited to attend. The meeting is at the Ritter memorial Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 
PM. 
 
RB noted the pool being within the buffer zone not being shown previously the Notice of Intent will be amended. He also inquired 
as to the location of the line of the NHESP line was determined. Nicholas Pauling from GPR responded it was placed in by 
imagery. He outlined the plans of work consisting as an addition within an exiting gravel area. It was noted that the addition was 
within 40 feet from the wetland. He provided and narrated pictures for the conservation commission. TD confirmed the proposed  
garage will have a frost wall foundation. CL noted a concern that the structure was within 50 feet. TD opined that based on his 
site visit the area within 50 feet is being used for parking. He felt that the reminder instead of being ke pt as a sandy area the 
remainder of the that section of 50 foot no touch zone should be planted. BP asked if there was any difference in run off as a 
result of the garage. Nicholas noted there is a drip edge on the plans and explained the purpose of it. CL noted that the cur rent 
proposal is within 50 feet and how do we reconcile regulation. BP feels that the reason for the regulation was to prevent 
impervious from having a negative impact and if it is mitigated it meets the spirit. RB as ked if the parking area currently present 
was going to remain in place. Nicholas responded yes. He also noted the limit of work is 8 to 10 feet off the garage. RB asked 
about the potential of moving the garage east to remove it from the 50 foot no structure zone is there. RB noted the reas on for 
the no structure zone is in place to prevent creeping within the 50 foot zone. Nicholas requested if demarcation of the 30 foot is 
was an option and pulling the garage back would require a significant pullback. RB examined the moving of it. BP examined the 
proposed new placement of the house as would be required as is moved. TD suggested examining alternatives. BP asked if the 
parking could be vegetated to encourage remediation of the exiting gravel area as the vehicles would not be parked there and 
they would be in new garage. Nicholas asked if the disturbed area was remediated would that be amendable to the commission. 
TD noted personally it would be helpful to him. CL noted moving the garage as far back as possible and asking remediation be 
included as well. RB noted that there was a note of a section of wall being included. That will be added to the NOI. 
 
Steve Decampo an abutter noted that there were 2 structures not discussed and asked the commission as to how the relocation 
of the garage was going to affect.  
 
RB noted the temporary structure was within the NHESP line should be removed from the area as it was apparently constructed 
within the last year.  
 
Steve DeCampo requested if there was followup. The answer was yes. 
 
RB noted Maryann Dipinto should be included. 
 
BO moved to continue to November 20 at 7 PM CC seconded and the comm ission voted unanimously. 
 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40  and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By-law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) DPW has filed a Notice of Intent for the replacement of Culverts at Sunset Lane and Northfield Road. Applicati on 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission offi ce by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at 960 
Mass Ave, Lunenburg at 7 PM on November 6, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Based on DEP comment the commission continued to conduct a site inspection by a motion of CC and a second of CL.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg We tlands 
Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retai ning 
wall at 51 Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission o ffice 
by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave. the meeting will take place at 960 Mass Ave, Lunenburg at 7 PM on 
November 6, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
The Commission moved to continue the hearing until November 20, 2019 with a motion by BP and a second by CC.  
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40  and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By -law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) Roberts G. Evans has filed a Notice of Intent for installation of a retaining wall within flood plain 4  Sunset Lane. 
Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 
ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take 
place at 960 Mass Ave, Lunenburg at 7 PM on November 6, 2019. The public is invited to attend. 
 
Nicholas Pauling from GPR outlined the proposed changes to address both work on the abutters property and the concerns pf 
the commission with the goal of balancing the compensatory storage and maintaining the trees. Plantings were discussed at the 
property line. MM noted he was against the idea of using witch hazel. The wall is now proposed to be completed in order to 
address abutter concerns. There was a circular patio with permeable paver. CL inquired as to the nature of the pavers . BP would 
like to see a picture of the paver. RB noted the detail shows crushed stone. Nicholas noted that was for the drywell unit. RB  
requested a detail for the fire pit. CL stressed the space between pavers should have polymeric sand between the pavers  to 
prevent the spaces from becoming plugged. TD noted that the placement of the fire it appears to be within 30 feet and should be 
re-examined. The 30 foot no touch zone should be added to the plans.  
 
Andrew Storm outlined the history of the tree removal. He noted the work is within their agreement. He also noted the conditions 
of allowing the use of the land.  
 
RB confirmed details on the plans. RB also noted that the Order of Conditions once appr oved should require the design plans for 
the wall to be specified as to who designed them.  
 
 
The commission moved to continued the meeting until November 20, 2019 at 7 PM by a motion of BP and a second by CC with 
a unanimous vote. 
 
CONTINUED FROM PREVIOUS MEETING Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40  and Section 239 of Lunenburg General By-law ( 
Wetland Bylaw) Greco Alonso has filed a Notice of Intent for the remediation of riverfront and buffer zone at 260 Fallualah R oad , 
Lunenburg and 100 Summer Street Lunenburg. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at 960 Mass Ave, Lunenburg at 7 PM on November 6 2019. The 
public is invited to attend. 
 
Bill Hannigan representing the applicant presented the planting plan and recounted the site walk. He noted that as a result of the 
site walk grading was reviewed and that it was determined the undulations would remain in place to reduce impacts that it was 
felt was not necessary. He recounted the areas and the measurements of restoration. CL asked about the differentiation 
between the areas that were disturbed prior to the rivers act. Bill Hannigan noted that attempting to differentiate when rest oration 
is involved is inefficient and it is more efficient to simply restore the entire 100 foot inner ripar ian zone. It would balance as some 
of the area restored was pre rivers act and some was post. TD inquired as to permanent demarcation. Bill Hannigan noted the 
berm outline on the plan and could add boulders in other areas for demarcation. MM noted he can work with the replanting plan. 
 
Doug Waters asked what the invasives were present . MM noted bittersweet. A standard Order of Conditions motion was made 
by BP and a second from CC. The motion was unanimously approved.  
 
ENFORCEMENT      
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  - 
1. EO-110 Fire Road 12 ENF 2019-15- MM noted that the RDA has been filed for the November 20, 
2019 meeting 
2. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019-16 MM noted that there was an enforcement 
order hand delivered and one mailed to an abutting property owner his investigation determined 
was an involved party. He also is investing who did the paving and has sent an interrogatory to 
the area paving companies.  
3. EO-164 Page Street MM recommended that the commission issue a letter requiring the owner to 
come to the 11/20/19 meeting for an administrative hearing. The commission approved this 
action by a motion of BP and a second by CC with a unanimous vote.  
4. EO- Emerald Place Beach- No update on this issue.  
New Business -   Hickory Hills, Yearly review of Drawdown. 
  John fortune appeared before the commission to present his yearly collection of data. He outlined  
 The amounts of weeds removed and the success of the shoreline sediment cleaning process. He   
                noted that the secci dish readings were excellent. He also outline d the oxygen level measurements 
 and the oxygen levels were excellent. He reviewed the water quality samples and where they were 
 taken. He further reviewed the test results. It was noted the association will be retaining the services  
 of a consultant and they expect to have someone hired by the end of the month. The purpose of  the  
consultant will be to refine the programs currently in effect. He noted that the siphons have been 
started at the ok of MM. BP commented that there was a lake management order of conditions and 
the lake drawdown order of conditions. He thinks the drawdown order of conditions should be 
allowed to lapse as the new order coming from the forthcoming notice of intent  could address both.   
Old Business - 
           Work at the Small Town Forest-Potential Site visit Response from NEFCO 
Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – updates if any  MM 
noted that he walked the property this morning for the annual inspection with north county land  Trust. 
                   Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994) It was noted the town meeting was present.  
   BP noted that the local town meeting by law requires attendance of the chair or desi gnee. RB will be   
   There for the 842 Chase Road item as well as the purchase. 
   
Certificates of Compliance –  Butterfly Lane Road way   The certificate was issued by a motion of CL and a second of CC  
with a unanimous vote of the commission.  
Extension Permit – Hickory Hill Lake management Order of Conditions   The request for extension was granted for one 
year. This was granted by a motion of CL and a second by BP.                             
Minutes of previous meetings - review BP moved to approve the minutes of the October 16, 2019 meeting . CC seconded 
and the commission approved the motion unanimously. 
Committee Reports – Any Updates BP reported the trails grant was signed by Heather and will be signed by the state 
for final approval and returned. It could take as long as 30 days.  
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) MM requested signage be placed at the 
Robbs Hill property due to hunters with firearms inappropriately accessing the property. RB requested the 
signs also note that a notation concerning permission required by the Board of Selectmen . After discussion 
the commission decided to have the language state “ Bow Hunting only- firearms prohibited” 
 Hickory Hills general updates see items above.  
 Hickory Hills /Lake Shirley- drawdown updates see items above 
 MACC MEETING – MM noted that he and CL attended the meeting. CL will be sharing key points from the 
buffer zone class. 
 MM issued 3 emergency certifications for beaver dam removals at reservoir road (1063 and 650)and page 
street at the conservation land for emergency beaver dam removal , the certificates were ratified by a motion 
of PB and a second by CC with a unanimous vote. 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn/Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is November 20, 2019 
at the Town Hall 17 Main Street Second Floor Bilotta Meeting Room.  The meeting adjhourend at 9:15 
PM by a motion of BP and a second of CL. 
Documents mentioned for the meeting are on file in the Conservation Commission office.  