===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462      
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
 
          MINUTES 
Ritter Memorial Land Use Building 
960 Mass Ave 
February 6 2019 at 7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be 
advised that this meeting is being Audio Recorded.  
 
 
Call to Order -Todd Dwyer presiding at 7 PM called to Order with all members present except KJ . It is noted for the 
record that RB and JR participating remotely ALL VOTES ARE ROLL CALL. 
Announcements                                                                                              
Public Comment 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
(DEP 208-1153) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Michael and Barbara Coulombe for demolition and reconstruction to a single 
family home with grounds work including the removal of 2 trees within the buffer zone at 98 Horizon Island Road. Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public is invited to attend the 
meeting, scheduled for February 6, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on at 7:00 PM. 
 
No Comments from the public. Motion for a standard Order of Conditions with the added condition there would be no sump 
drainage directed towards the resource area by BP .CC seconded and the motion was approved by a  roll call vote- unanimous 
 
(DEP 208-1150) Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a CONTINUED  Notice of Intent by Nanci Bell for the replacement of an existing retaining wall at 51 
Fire Road 19. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, The public 
is invited to attend the meeting, scheduled for February 6, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on at 7:00 PM. 
 
 
 CL motioned to recess. CC seconded and the commission approved by roll call voted. The meeting reconvened at 7:24 PM 
 
Nanci Bell present to represent herself. Continude to 2/20/19 with the understanding that her contractor wold meet with MM to 
obtain a list of what was needed for the plans. The motion was made by CL and seconded by CC with a unanimous vote to 
approve the motion made by roll call vote 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination of Applicability by : 
 
Paul and Jennifer Agnese 12 Butterfly Lane,  Glenn and Laura Kuczer11 Butterfly Lane, David Janvrin and Tammy Zarba 
10 Butterfly Lane, Michael and Laura Cool 8 Butterfly Lane, Kevin and Allison Ladouceur 6 Butterfly Lane. 
 
for the placement of a Shed within the Buffer Zone. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting scheduled for February 6, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on at 
7:00 PM. 
 
Motion for a negative determination with no public comment by BP. CC seconded and the commission approved the motion 
unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
meeting on a Request for a Determination of Applicability by Keith Beaudoin for The placement of a seasonal dock  at 264 
Prospect Street Lot 8. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by 
calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting is scheduled for February 6, 2019 in the Ritter memorial Land Use building on at 7:00 PM.. The public is invited to 
attend. 
 
Mr Beaudoin appears to represent himself. He explained the proposal and the dimensions of the work. RB had some brush 
removal and the sewer line not on the RDA. That will be amended in the RDA and there is only some minor pruning proposed. 
CL brought up the runoff area he and MM spotted on a site inspection. After inspection it would only be about 70 feet from th e 
eastern lot line. The applicant agreed to continue for re-draw the plan, amend the narrative and obtain a ch 91 waterways 
license. A motion was made by CL with a second by CC approved by a unanimous roll call continued to March 6, 2019 at 7 PM 
at the Ritter Memorial Building. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Daniel and Jean Proctor for the amendment of an existing Order of Conditions  DEP 208 -1121  
at 380, 390 and 400 Electric Ave for the relocation and construction of a new building with parking and vehicle maneuvering 
areas added. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 
978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the 
meeting will take place at the Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on February 6, 2019 The public is 
invited to attend. 
 
Greg Roy and Frank McPartland represented the applicant. It was asked by RB why the project is not listed as re-development. 
Greg Roy explained that the road is out of the riverfront and also that the source pre-development was already impervious. It 
also was noted that there was improvements made to the  storm water and some restoration of the inner riparian zone to the 
greatest extent practicable. RB inquired regarding the standard of a TSS 80% removal rate and if an alternatives analysis for the 
80% was met along with the recharge standards. RB asked it consideration of the removal of salt and sand was considered in 
development plans.  MM differentiated the re-development calculations versus calculations for the new proposal directly adjacent 
for the next hearing regarding 75% old 80% new? CL inquired if this was officially 2 lots? What are the allowed uses? Mr. Roy 
answered that it was 2 lots and outlined the allowed uses versus the proposed use to show it was compliant . CL asked floor 
drains would go to a tight tank and that details should be added to the plans  Greg Roy acknowledged such. With agreement of 
the applicant the meeting was continued to  February 20, 2019 at Town Hall with a motion of Cl and a second by CC with a 
unanimous Roll call vote approving the motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by NJLJ properties for the re-development of an existing retail site to construct fuel dispensing area, 
convenience store and drive thru donut shop within the buffer zone of a wetland resource area at 400 Electric Ave. Applicatio n 
and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place at the 
Ritter memorial Land Use Building at 960 Mass Ave at 7 PM on February 6, 2019 The public is invited to attend.  
 
Frank McPartland represented the applicant. He outlined the property lines, the storm water system and the location of the 
wetland. BP inquired if the wetland drained away from the development. MM answered it drained away towards the pleasant 
Street perennial stream. The Storm water protection plan was examined and the commission requires that the NPDES 
paperwork be submitted to the file. The meeting was continued to address further storm water calculation’s and any Planning 
Board issues to the meeting of February 20, 2019 by a motion of CC with a second by BP and a roll call unanimous vote to 
approve. 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT      
1. Violations (Enforcement Actions and administrative hearings).  - new (n) and continuations  (c)  
EO -101 Pleasant Street – update/fines ENF CASE 2019 -6 MM related that the clerk magistrate has 
scheduled a hearing on Tickets 74-100. MM will report the results of the hearing. Town Counsel has 
been notified. 
EO - Powell Stone and Gravel- Leominster Shirley Road ENF CASE 2019-1 and 2019 -2 – MM reported 
that DEP is currently investigating and he as worked with MR. Marchetti in quantifying the violations  
EO -55 Spring Street- update By Steve Marsden – Mr Marsden will have an RDA application in for the 
next meeting and MM will schedule for the next available hearing 
NON -155 -Reservoir Road- meeting with the residents – The residents are working on a proposal 
with Mr. Marchetti 
EO- Emerald Place Beach- The Commission noted that it feels the issue was resolved and that a 
maintenance schedule will be monitored 
EO -Shady Point-beach erosion ENF CASE 2019-7 – MM noted he is meeting with the owner on Feb 8, 
2019 
New Business –   Grant opportunities for trails- ratification of application. The application was ratified by a motion ofr 
CC and a second by BP with a unanimous roll call vote of the commission.  
  Change in Wetland regulations to add a 5% fee for online files (Continued as new business )- MM is 
working on the lanuguage 
         
Old Business -  LSIC- Draft Order of Conditions Discussion-update on drawdown(levels) Joanna Bilotta and Ashley 
Brawn came to the meeting and issues regarding drawdown levels and monitoring was discussed. MM noted t o the 
commission and the LSIC that the main reason the commonwealth ordered the drawdown shut was due to the current 
order of conditions being based solely on weed control. He noted that if there was a structural issue that was approved 
under a final amendment that it would change that dynamic. This matter was continued to a later date not specified, 
however, the commission is keeping the issue on the agenda 
             Work at the Small Town Forest- MM noted that the work was monitored and looked well done 
             Forest Stewardship/Bird Habitat planning for 123 Hollis Road Conservation Area – Updates If any – MM 
noted he did a site visit with Gary and the Mass Audubon representative . He is expecting a stewardship plan soon. 
             Discussion and updates of rules and regulations (if any)  
Certificates of Compliance –  none  
Extension Permit – Young’s Road 208-1072 & 1073- approved a 3 year extension by motion of CC with a second by BP 
with a unanimous approval by roll call vote. 
Minutes of previous meetings - review and approval of and December 5 and December 19th ( 2018) was made as amended 
by a motion of BP and a second by CC with a unanimous roll call - January 2, 2019 was held until the next meeting 
 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Legal Updates and Requests / regulation review –( if any ) 
===PAGE 4===
 183 Hemlock, Update to be made in spring 
 101 Pleasant Street – EO /fine update 
 842R Chase Road – if any 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies  (if any) 
 LSIC and Hickory hills general update (If any) 
 Misc. updates 
 Communications / public comment/ Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is February 20, 2019 at 7:00 PM 
in the Bilotta Meeting Room 17 Main Street second floor   