===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
 
MINUTES 
September 2, 2020  
7:00 PM 
 
 
 
 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
  Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  
  Appointments:  
1. Hickory Hills Presentation 
a. Dam maintenance and remediation – John Fortune appeared and reviewed the repairs both needed and 
required by the commonwealth. He outlined the activities and methods of those activities for repairs. He 
requested that the drawdown be moved up to Oct 1 st from Nov 1st. RB reviewed the principles for the 
drawdown and the rate of drawdown. He asked if the boards could be opened now. John fortune noted 
the state requirements were 3 inches a day and he felt getting the level down to 2 feet can be completed 
for 15 days. RB noted the 3 inches per day is based on the 11/1 start date and he felt doing a slower rate 
started early would allow for aquatic life to adjust. RB moved to approve the request and to do a slow as 
possible starting as early as possible to allow for depth. JR seconded . KJ asked for a revised schedule 
of drawdown and would this require a new board vote. Mr. Fortune noted that it would require a 
drawdown. Paula Bertram noted concerns with the Boat extraction with the moved up drawdown dates. 
She felt there were many potential negative impacts with, logistics. RB felt that the extensive 
communication network with the residents of the association should help to mitigate The commission 
voted unanimously by roll call to approve the motion.  
b. Lake Management updates Paula Bertram of Hickory Hills Landowners presented the commission with 
annual updates as required by the Order of Conditions. The restoration task force was the committee 
representing the lake. She recounted the chemical treatments and what they were intended for.  She 
reviewed treatments for the weeds and algae. She also reviewed Algae testing that had occurred over 
last season and water quality testing. She outlined items that the consultant ESS will be examining for 
next season. CL asked if there was a survey that will enumerate what native species may have been 
harmed during the treatments. Mrs Bertram noted that ES will be generating a report from an August 
survey and that it could be compared to the Aug 2018 survey.  
 
 
 
CONTINUED Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Gary Williams for 99 Ruth Street will be held. Work propose d is ( 
Continued )the restoration for vegetation removal. also proposed ( New) is for the placement of a stairs and dock Application and 
supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4146 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
 
===PAGE 2===
The meeting was continued to the September 16 meeting at the applicant’s request. MM noted that Bill Hanna gan is currently 
working on a Notice of Intent The meeting was continued to the September 16 meeting by a motion of CL and a second by TD with 
a unanimous roll call vote to approve. 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for a determination by Andrew Leblanc for work at 362 Townsend Harbor Road will be held. Work 
proposed is the placement of a dock   Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline,  
 
The meeting was continued at the applicants request to the September 16, 2020 meeting at 7 PM. The motion was made to 
continue by RB and a second by KJ with a unanimous vote to approve the motion by roll call. 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Jamie and Merrill Blood for work at 1387 Mass Ave. will be held. Work proposed is the  
Construction of a deck, pool and a detached garage .The supporting documents is available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. 
 
Brandon Ducharme appeared before the commission to present the changes Jr requested the discharge be hard piped. MM asked 
about using a cartridge filter system. There was discussion about the use of a cartridge filter and a hard discharge line. KJ  felt there 
was no need to add this amount of regulations. CL had made an initial motion to approve with the addition of a cartridge filter and a 
hard line pipe and modified the motion to simply adding a hard piped discharge to the trench. This was seconded by JR. TD not ed 
that pumping out a pool is accomplished with a second pump and felt a motion directing the secon d pump discharge to the trench 
with no hard plumbing was sufficient. RB asked about a schedule for cleaning up the alterations by the wetlands. CL moved to 
approve the plan with the added condition that the back wash and drainage of the pool be directed to  the trench. BP asked for 
suggestions of a date for the clean-up work. Jamie Blood noted that it would be completed by the end of September 2020. That was 
added to the motion by CL. JR seconded and the commission approved unanimously.  
 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Joanne Magurn  for work at 238 Fire Road 16 will be held. Work proposed is the 
Construction of a single family home, driveway, well and sewage disposal system with portions of the construction within the 100 
foot buffer zone. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by call ing 
978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, 
 
Neil Gorman, Butch and Joanne Magurn appeared before the commission and presented the additional information request ed by 
the commission. Brian Butler presented the commission with an area of 2.3 acres at the leather leaf bog with the 30 foot no touch 
zone that would be restricted. Mr Butler reviewed and summarized the proposed impacts and the mitigation proposed by the  
applicants. He noted in the proposed CR the timber harvesting rights would also be subject to restriction. Mr. Gorman noted t he 
total impacts to all resource areas and buffers zones noting the square footages of proposed alterations and mitigation. Mr. Butler 
noted that the added impervious in total was very light compared to other developments of a similar nature. RB examined the 
disturbance proposed for driveway access and retaking wall within the no touch zone with the applicant. The compensatory storage 
was also examined. TD examined alternative crossing scenarios with the applicant. On alternative was a bridge. Mr Gorman note d 
that the size of the expanse was cost prohibitive and the construction of the driveway as proposed would not disturb any hydr aulic 
regime as a standard wetland crossing would. RB noted that alternative locations should be examined given the almost 1 acre o f 
disturbance proposed. RB noted that there seemed to be inconsistencies in the impacted area calculations that needed to be 
addressed. CL and JR indicated they wished to examine the tree areas. JR indicated he wanted rip rap potentially added to the 
sides of the proposed driveway. Robert Marchetti of 7 Oakes Landing in Shirley voiced support for the proposal as he feels th ey 
have put forth a great effort into the planning. JR moved to continue with a second by CL and a unanimous roll call vote to approv e 
the motion. 
 ENFORCEMENT :  
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
NON 99 Ruth Street – update- see above 
EO- 183 Island Road- update Joe Obrien noted that the restriction was completed and is going to 
the office to MM as the attorneys have reached a redline agreement which will be considered at 
the next meeting.  
EO-32 Brookview Ave, Patricia Adams  MM is awaiting the response due by the end of the month  
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any)Legal to draft letter to resident  
NON – 232 Burrage Street – MM is having the drawings revised and is working to get the item on 
===PAGE 3===
the Oct 7 agenda 
NON – 1275 Mass Ave-  MM is working with Mr Flaggs office for the RDA  
NON - 9 Valley Road- Working on NOI with the owner.  
EO- 1672 Mass Ave – The owner has filed the Notice of Intent and is on the agenda for the next 
meeting 
EO – 788 Page Street – MM resent the enforcement order and is awaiting the deadline for a 
response to pass 
 
  
   New Business – 
         61 A release request 250 Howard Street It was noted that Open space unanimously 
recommend to exercise right to purchase 
 
Old Business –  
Update on trails grant – status report, if any 
Certificates of Compliance – 675 Reservoir Road, - no action due to the commission awaiting the completed 
as built, 
Extension Permit – non to present 
 
Minutes of previous meetings - July 15 2020, August 19, 2020 The Commission deferred action until they have 
completed the review of the minutes  
 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators determination –  
 
Emergency Certifications for Sandy Cove Road and Peninsula Drive MM reviewed the issuance with the 
Commission. 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies : 
 –Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space  
 Discussion on Land use policy and discussion of Saliba/ table rock management  A motion was made by RB 
and a second by KJ to authorize BP to work with town counsel to have a volunteer help the commission with 
labor to perform some cleanup work on the entrance at Stage coach.  
Communications / public comment/  Adjourn : RB noted during a meeting of the planning board that 
statements made and part of the minutes should constitute part of an approval.  
 
 - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is September 16,  2020 at 7 PM 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:30 by a motion of KJ and a second by TB with a unanimous 
roll call vote to approve the motion. 
 