===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
NOTICE OF MEETING 
October 7, 2020 REVISED MONDAY October 5, 
2020 at 1:30 PM second revision Wed Oct 7, 2020 
10:45 AM 
7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel at a future time. ( no live broadcast ) 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to 
the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be found on 
the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
To Participate Remotely on Zoom members of the public may use cell phones, tablets or computers with 
audio and video capabilities.  The Zoom Meeting ID is  
 
Start: 10/07/2020 7:00 pm 
Summary: Conservation Commission Meeting 
 
 
 
 
Description: 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86773398718 
 
Meeting ID: 867 7339 8718 
One tap mobile 
 
877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 867 7339 8718 
Find your local number: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kcICrXWtmJ 
Location: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86773398718 
 
 
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. All participants who are not members of the 
commission or staff will be muted by the chair.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak. To access the raise hand feature, open the participant list by clicking on participants. To 
raise your hand, click on the button at the bottom of the participant list.  The chair will call on you and 
unmute you.  Telephone audio users may dial star 9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Members 
of the public must give their name and address before they begin speaking.   Please direct all comments to 
the chair. 
 
If you have trouble accessing zoom or have general questions you can send an email to 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com during the meeting. Emails containing questions or comments that are to be read 
aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name, address and phone number. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Please be aware that if you are using video, other people will be able to see you and that anything that is 
broadcast will be recorded.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law.  Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
  Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM  
7.1 Deed Restriction  final version- EO- 183 Island Road - update 
7.2 LSIC, Request for a field change to Drawdown Order of Conditions  
7.3 Conservation Commission talent bank applicants.  
 
  
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hear ing on a Notice of Intent by Michael 
Defazio for work at 130 Flynn Road The work is for the construction of an attached Garage within the buffer zone.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice  of Intent by Thomas 
Crocker for work at 200 Island Road. The work is for the demolition and reconstruction of a single family home within the buf fer 
zone. 
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for A Determination 
by Fred Arnstein for work at 181 Peninsula Drive. The work is for the construction of a shed within the buffer zone  
 
 Continued : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Determination of Applicability by Keolis will be held. Work proposed is vegetation management on various rights 
of way within the town of Lunenburg for Railways.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Solovei 
Trust for work at 422 Mulpus Road. The work is for the Improvement of an existing driveway wetland crossing to accommodate a 
single family home. 
 
Continued: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Jeff LaPierre for work at 1672 Mass Ave. will be held. Wor k proposed is rebuild of an existing 
shed, grading of existing lawn, repair of a retaining wall, removal of a tree and the rep aving of a driveway with gravel.  
 
Continued: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by 
Bright Farm will be held for work at 361 Mass Ave. Work proposed is the c onstruction of a commercial greenhouse ( Lettuce) 
resulting in alteration of an isolated wetland subject to the Lunenburg Wetlands bylaw  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws 
a public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Gary Williams for 99 Ruth Street will be held. Work propo sed is ( 
Continued )the restoration for vegetation removal. Also proposed ( New) is for the placement of a stairs and dock  
 
CONTINUED : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws 
a public hearing on a Request for a determination by Andrew Leblanc for work at 362 Townsend Harbor Road will be held. Work 
proposed is the placement of a dock. 
 
CONTINUED : Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws 
===PAGE 3===
a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Joanne Magurn for work at 238 Fire Road 16 will be held. Work proposed is the 
Construction of a single family home, driveway, well and sewage disposal system with portions of the construction within the 100 
foot buffer zone.  
 
 
 
 
 
 ENFORCEMENT :  
 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
 
NON 99 Ruth Street – update 
EO-32 Brookview Ave, Patricia Adams  – received response  
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) 
NON - 9 Valley Road- Working on NOI 
NON – 232 Burrage Street 
EO – 788 Page Street 
EO- 4 Townsend Harbor Road  
 
   New Business – CH 61 A release request 360 Flatt Hill Road  
          
Old Business – Town Warrant Follow-up discussion on transfer of stewardship from the town to the Conservation 
Commission of 111 Mulpus  Road Rear and 970 New W. Townsend Road.  
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
Certificates of Compliance – None to present 
Extension Permit – none to present 
Minutes of previous meetings - August 19, 2020 , September 2 & September 23, 2020  
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrators determination – Emergency permit follow up 5 Spring St extension 
Enfacement investigation to go to the agenda 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies : 
 –Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space  
 Discussion on Land use policy and discussion of Saliba/ table rock management  
Communications / public comment/  Adjourn - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is October 21,  2020 at 7 PM 
 