===PAGE 1===
 Town of Lunenburg  
Conservation Commission  
 
Richard Bursch, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Todd Dwyer, Vice-Chair   960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Bob Pease     Lunenburg, MA 01462       
Catie Childs       
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt          Matthew S. Marro, 
Kenneth Jones        Conservation Administrator 
 
          MINUTES  
April 1, 2020 
7:00 PM 
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is 
being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. 
  
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of 
the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable, on Facebook Live on the Public Access 
Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and 
will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
  
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the 
meeting remotely: 
 
To Participate Remotely: Participants may use cell phones, tablet and computers with audio and 
video capabilities as they have been tested. If you have trouble accessing or have general questions 
you can email during the meeting to lcc@lunenburgonline.com.  Emails must be signed by full 
name address and phone number.  
 
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Apr 1, 2020 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
Join Zoom meeting on computer, tablet or cellphone audio and video: 
 
https://zoom.us/j/7663167607        Meeting ID: 766 316 7607 
 
To dial in by telephone use the following dial in numbers 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free    Meeting ID: 766 316 7607 
 
Please note there is a “raise hand” function if you wish to be recognized. For dial in calls you must 
press*9 to use the “hand raise” function.  
===PAGE 2===
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to 
speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to 
speak.  
 
 The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably 
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in 
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted 
by Open Meeting Law. 
 
AGENDA  
 
 
Call to Orde r 7:00 PM: Meeting called to order with RB presiding. All members were present. Staff 
present. RB read open meeting law temporary modifications ordered by the Governor in 
response to COVID-19 pandemic. RB outlined the remote application particulars and procedures 
for both telephone and the computerized participation. 
 
Announcements  
Public Comment  Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
                                                                                   
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
Appointment: Proposed Eagle Scout Project Eagle Scout : Drew Tobin presented his proposed project 
which is a proposed bat house (4) at the Hollis Road pollinator habitat and will be mounted for 
posts. He will be fundraising on his own. KJ noted if he needed assistance to let MM know. Mr 
Tobin noted the reasons for posts are the result of the bats not preferring areas with branches and 
they tend to prefer sunlight. Based on a question by RB, bats have a diet of mosquitoes and will 
provide a public benefit. The may start date may be delayed due to the current pandemic issue. 
There was no public comment. KJ moved to approve the project CC seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
Appointment: Hickory Hills Land Management 
Hickory Hills:  John Fortune presented on behalf of Hickory Hills. Mr. Fortune narrated the 
study work by the private Consultant – ESS Group. They presented the association with a 5-year 
management plan. Solitude lake Management will be performing the work. ESS has 
recommended whole lake treatment for the fanwort. Solitude has recommended an April 
treatment. Concentrations of Flouridone will be maintained at 20 ppb for four applications. 
Glyphosate will be added for the area of American Lotus. There will also be removal of existing 
roots, sediments and seeds in the fall of 2020.  
 
BP asked about why the early application was necessary. Mr. Fortune noted that the early 
application is advantageous as catching the plants while they are younger in the growth phase is 
more effective. Joan Please and Paula Bertram also spoke to the prevention of growth and algae 
problems as an advantage. CL asked for an elaboration as to what boosters are. Mr. Fortune 
noted the boosters were meant to maintain level of chemical to allow for effective action Cl 
asked what the upper limit is. Mr Fortune noted it was 250 ppb. The levels are maintained to 
allow for effective kills of fanwort but not native weeds. Paula Bertram noted that Solitude will 
also be doing a pretreatment survey to update the data. CL asked about native species that may 
===PAGE 3===
be of concern. Mr Fortune noted the diquat may kill some of the natives in small areas however 
the dosages are limited in scope per area of lake to allow for that side effect to be minimized. 
Paula Bertram noted that there is now mermaid weed in one cove that may also be killed as a 
part of the project. JR asked if the old harvester can still be used later in the season and if the 
diquat is still scheduled in late May or June and the answer was yes. Paula Bertram noted that the 
5 year comprehensive plan is going to be forwarded by ESS. RB expressed concerns that the 
scope may be too large than was anticipated. TD noted that he was not concerned with the scope 
and that he feels the association has gone over and above. BP noted that he is aware of all of the 
outreach and education and outreach and that anyone that uses the lake is aware of what was 
proposed and was approved by the residents in a vote. Catie can see the argument about the size 
of the scope and that she feels that there was enough information generated that she felt 
comfortable with allowing it to go forward.  
 
CL asked RB to clarify his position. He feels that tis is a very large scope that is not normally 
approved without a public hearing and an amendment to the NOI. CL felt that he hasn’t had 
much time to review the details and there may need to be some fine tuning. CL asked what 
monitoring is gong ot be done and the amount of sampling and the notification process for each 
of the steps as they are implemented. JR indicated he in support of the plan and it should move 
ahead. He feels that there was 2 expert firms that were very thorough. JR indicated that an extra 
meeting of the residents approved of the work to be done by a large majority at a great expense 
to the landowners.  
 
KJ wanted to hear Mr. Fortunes response to CL’s questions, however he feels there is enough 
information to move on to a vote tonight. TD asked if there was going to be a downstream 
impact to the vegetation as far as mortality. Mr. Fortune responded that the information was sent 
in March. He out lined the sampling would be performed before during and after. He noted that 
there should be no impacts to downstream waters and plants as there would be a very low dose 
applied and will dilute out at the outlet of the dam.  It is not expected to be a major issue. 
 
 Paula Bertram outlined the informational process to the residents and emphasized that there is a 
time issue with the application being needed by April 30th. There were prior meeting scheduled 
in March and due to current circumstances the commission couldn’t act. Resident of 158 
Highland Road fully supports the efforts and requested the Commission act.  
 
BP moved to approve the notification as sufficient. JR seconded. CL noted that he does support 
the concept and wishes not to delay it. CL requested if they could have an update in mid June. 
Mr Fortune stated yes he would be glad to do the update. The commission approved the motion 
by 6 yes and RB abstained.  
 
 
Appointments: Presentation on Hunting regulation in Massachusetts by EPO David Wright, Mass Environmental Police.  
Unable to attend 
Appointments :Neil Gorman  informal discussion concerning potential construction at 238 Fire Road 16  – unable to 
attend 
Appointments :72  Hemlock- request for a field change ( Continued) unable to attend 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Notice: All hearings previously advertised will be re-advertised for the April 15, 2020 meeting as the prior posted legal 
advertisements had a physical address. The April 15, 2020 meeting will be remote participation with a provided “zoom link” for 
that date  
 
ENFORCEMENT      
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
1. EO-164 Page Street – Continued actions – to be removed by May 2020 
2. EO- Emerald Place Beach- update (to be made in the spring of 2020) – BP had submitted a picture 
and saw the site and noted no sign of erosion.  The picture was taken 3 days ago. CL 
asked if BP looked further down the beach area. BP noted the whole beach was flat. 
TD moved to close out the EO. KJ seconded and the commission voted nanimusly n 
the motion. 
 
3. EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) 
4. EO- 179/183 Island Road- MM recommended the progress as-built and a remedial plan 
within 30 days. JR would want to see the remedial plantings be done as soon as 
practicable. He was not adverse to pulling back the material now. MM recommended 
that we should have a firm deadline within 30 days for a notice of intent and 
engineering plan. CL noted that he was wondering how an engineer can quantify the 
work within the water. TD noted that there was grading specifically in the lake bed 
and that there is a need for the engineered plan. He asked that the pandemic 
contingency be taken not account. JR asked of MM could list the violations. Paula 
Bertram urged the commission that while she could understand the issues surrounding 
the pandemic however the violation is egregious and that the commission shouldn’t 
wait. Joan Pease also expressed the same concerns as Mrs. Bertram elaborating that 
there is still a concern for erosion and wash down of the fill in the bottom of the lake. 
RB proposed that the applicant be contacted that we are requesting an as built be 
produced as soon as possible with a quantification of allowed activities and 
violations. The applicant is to be advised to have the documents ready for the 15th of 
April. There will be an administrative hearing. RB noted that erosion protection 
should be placed. 
 
New Business -   Site Walk for Gilchrest Street Property for trail access – MM and BP will walk the area with Kevin Hill. 
BP noted and showed photos of a violation at 9 Valley Road. MM to check out  
               Chapter 61 A release requests- 57 and 63 Cross Road, 322 Flatt Hill Road, 563 Mass Ave, Tract “A”  
Corner of Northfield and Holman Streets   The Commission released all requested for 61 A 
releases by individual motions on each lot of KJ and a second by CC with 
unanimous roll call votes to approve the motions. 
               Open Space parcels (non conservation) discussion ( if any update) 
Revisions of Land Use Policy – BP spoke to the a discussion he had with Adam Costa 
relative to a previous Board of Selectmen meeting where they were close to 
approving a hunting request. MM clarified the requests are not for hunting but for 
permission to discharge firearms only. They both will be meeting with Adam 
Costa for further clarification. 
Old Business – Update on trails grant – status of contracts 
                    Land acquisition proposal , Saliba , Northfield Road ( # 994)- updates ( If any) 
 
Open meeting law resolution ( conclusion ) MM noted that there was only one form awaiting and 
the remaining have been submitted to the AG’s office  
===PAGE 5===
Certificates of Compliance –    
Extension Permit –121 Peninsula Drive, Lunenburg Water District, Mass Ave 1 
 
The commission approved 121 Peninsula for 3 years by a motion of CC and a second by KJ. 
The Commission approved a 1 year extension for the water district order of conditions by a 
motion of CC and a second by KJ 
 
Both motions were unanimously approved by roll call voted 
Minutes of previous meetings - review of February 19, 2020 minutes – Minutes approved by a motion of BP and 
a second by CL with a unanimous roll call vote to approve the motion. 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 
 
 
 
Agents Report /Action Items : 
 Administrator’s determination 329 Sunset Lane – removal of one double stemmed oak- no 
stumping or stump grinding. MM outlined that he had issued an emergency 
certification and will update the commission with pictures at a later time 
 Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies   
 Hickory Hills general updates  
 LSIC receipt of annual report 
 Update on hunting Signage 
 Communications / public comment/ Adjourn 
 Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is April 15, 2020 at 7 PM   
 
 
The meeting adjourned at 10:05 PM by a motion of KJ and a second by TD with a numinous vote to approve  