===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Todd Dwyer Conservation Administrator 
 
MINUTES 
July 1, 2020  
7:00 PM 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel at a future time. ( no live broadcast ) 
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance 
from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to 
the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting 
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be found on 
the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
To Participate Remotely on Zoom members of the public may use cell phones, tablets or computers with 
audio and video capabilities.  The Zoom Meeting ID is  
 
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/89647424932 
 
Meeting ID: 896 4742 4932 
 
Dial by your location 
 
888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
 
Meeting ID: 896 4742 4932 
 
 
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. All participants who are not members of the 
commission or staff will be muted by the chair.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak. To access the raise hand feature, open the participant list by clicking on participants. To 
raise your hand, click on the button at the bottom of the participant list.  The chair will call on you and 
unmute you.  Telephone audio users may dial star 9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Members 
of the public must give their name and address before they begin speaking.   Please direct all comments to 
the chair. 
 
If you have trouble accessing zoom or have general questions you can send an email to 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com during the meeting. Emails containing questions or comments that are to be read 
aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name, address and phone number. 
 
Please be aware that if you are using video, other people will be able to see you and that anything that is 
broadcast will be recorded.  
 
===PAGE 2===
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law.  Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item 
  Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
all members present ( RB appeared at 7:30 
PM) votes taken by roll call only 
  Appointments:  
1. 72 Hemlock – map with tree plantings, species and signature – BP noted that after the last meeting he had 
occasion to speak to one of the owners of this property and that they were going to participate. They 
however, appeared not to be present. 
2. Appointment- meeting with LSIC – Joanna Billotta noted that the town of Shirley approved of the plans as 
submitted. Dominic Mergingolo presented the annual treatment plan and noted the dates o f the surveys they 
conducted. He noted that there was a difference in species in high abundance that had not been predominant 
along the shore line before. Species include leafy and grassy pondweed, clasping leaf pondweed ,snail seed 
pond weed , tape grass and non native curly leaf pond weed. He attributed the increase to the lack of satisfactory 
drawdown and general environmental conditions allowing them to germinated He reviewed the locations of the 
64 points noted on the maps as well as data points added to ensure proper representation of the species 
detected. Mr. Meringolo explained the methodologies used in determining the extent of treatment for this year.He 
further explained the chemicals to be used and the dosages. 
 
Wendy Gendron noted to the commission she had also toured the shoreline after receiving Dominic Meringolos 
data. JR asked if the treatment will make the 40 percent weed cover for a healthy lake. Ms. Gendron noted that 
there would be surface area that are not treated and treatment is not 100% effective. Mr. Meringolo noted that the 
treatment areas are very narrow and named different species in the lake that would contribute to diversity and a 
healthie percentage cover. JR also asked about fanwort management. Mr. Meringolo noted that they are 
designated is considered more of a pilot area instead of  viewing it as an experiment CL expressed satisfaction 
on the criteria used for consideration of treatment. Cl asked for clarification of the 2020 numbers. Mr. Meri ngolo 
noted that the data was for 2019 and 2020 was not entered yet as that would happen after the fall survey. CL’s 
examination of the numbers with Wendy revealed that percentages appeared to be skewing to a higher density.  
Dominic cautioned that the data tables for last year’s data were from the spring and not the fall ( total year of 
2019). CL asked for clarification of the data for the fall report. Cl asked about areas 10 -13 for treatment and the 
rationale behind its selection.  Mr. Meringolo noted that this area was one where the newer weeds were density 
had increased. CL expressed support for the selection of the area for testing fanwort treatment. CL asked if 
abutters were notified of the use of clipper in the cove? Mr. Meringolo noted that there was no water use 
restriction other than the 5 days irrigation restriction similar to the Diquat restrictions the residents have 
historically encountered. Mr Meringolo noted that due to the thickness of the fanwort the cove was an excellent 
candidate. CL asked if there were any native weeds susceptible. Mr Meringolo noted that the effects were similar 
to Diquat and noted that the area they are treating is predominantly fanwort, although there may be some Lilly 
pad morbidity.  
 
JR compared the use of chemicals for fanwort between Hickory Hills and Lake Shirley as they were slightly 
different. Mr Meringolo noted the chemical used for Lake Shirley was more advantageous due to costs and the 
small area to be treated. JR moved to accept the presentation as stands CL se conded and the commission 
unanimously approved except RB as he abstained due to not hearing the entire presentation  
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing 
on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Rene Leblanc for work at 135 Gilchrest St will be held. Work proposed is 
construction of a garage addition  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission 
office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled July 1 , 2020 by zoom remote. Zoom information will be published on the town 
calendar on June 29, 2020 
 
Mr. LeBlanc did not appear at this meeting. The Commission examined the plans enclosed by the appl icant. CL noted that the 
words “proposed driveway” needed to be deleted. BP noted the version on the cloud noted the word proposed was removed. RB 
noted the applicant should sign the document and date. RB noted the applicant should be in attendance and sig n off on the change. 
KJ asked if the driveway was existing. It was noted yes. KJ felt that the driveway was existing and the wording should not be an 
issue. JR noted there could be questions on the driveway. BP noted that the driveway was part of an old pl an that the applicant 
modified the drawing to add the garage and the driveway was not part of the actual application. MM noted that while he can se e 
both sides of the arguments, however, the applicant indicated he was going to be present and did not indica te any difficulties into 
consideration and he should be present. CC noted she agreed with MM and RB and the applicant should be present JR moved to 
continue to the July 15 meeting, Cl seconded and the vote was by roll call . RB, CC, TD,CL, JR and BP voted us. KJ voted No the 
motion passed. 
 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239 Andrew 
LeBlanc has filed a request for a determination of applicability for addition of washed sand to an exi sting beach at 326 Townsend 
Harbor Road. There is no sand proposed within a body of water Application and supporting documents are available for review a t 
the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom. Please email for zoom information or consult the 
town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 15, 2020  
 
MM noted the plan on the cloud and reviewed the location of the sand with CL. BP noted he feels that exiting beaches are allo wed 
to be maintained and asked about the 30 foot zone. MM noted that the application was for the front part of the beach greater than 
30 feet, because he did not need it. JR noted he inspected the site and concurred with MM. He outlined the geological feature s of 
the site as to why the area that was outlined was proposed for work. JR wanted to know if the dock w as approved? MM noted the 
dock is not on the application and was going to be on a future meeting. RB asked that the plan be signed and dated. CL asked that 
the 32 feet dimension be noted on the plan. JR moved to continue to the meeting to the July 15, 2020. TD seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously by roll call.  
 
CONTINUED Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239 Rhonda Lisio 
and Michael Richards have filed a request for a determination of applicability for addition of a detached garage within the 200 foot 
river front a 181 Reservoir Road. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commissio n 
office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom on June 17, 2020. Please email for zoom information or consult 
the town calendar for the agenda information to be posted June 15, 2020 
 
Mike Richards and Rhonda Lisio appeared before the commission to represent themselves. MM explained the narrative he had 
authored concerning the riverfront. TD noted that while in favor of the project, he feels that a notice of Intent was the better 
alternative. MM asked if the foundation was a slab on grade and Rhonda noted that there was a knee wall foundation . BP felt that 
as this was a third hearing and a site inspection as already done it should have been ma de prior. KJ indicated the same feelings as 
BP and moved to approve a negative determination pending the signing of the plans KJ, CC and BP voted in favor. JR, BP, CL an d 
TD voted against the motion. TD moved to issue a positive determination RB seconded a nd the commission voted RB, TD, CL, JR 
yes and BP, KJ and CC no. The motion for a positive determination was passed by roll call vote.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239Lunenburg 
DPW has filed a Notice of Intent for the construction of a culvert replacement, and  the replacement of the existing underground fuel 
storage tanks and dispensers. The Town of Lunenburg Highway Department currently operates a vehicle refueling facility at the 
property. The existing facility consists of an 8,000-gallon gasoline and a 4,000-gallon diesel fuel underground storage tanks (USTs) 
that are aging, as well as gasoline and diesel fuel dispensing devices. The location of the work is 520 Chase Road at the DPW 
facility. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-
4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is 
scheduled July 1  2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar on June 29, 2020  
 
 
Brian Marchetti and Jack Rodriquenz appeared to represent the DPW. Mr. Marchetti reviewed his interactions with DEP to addres s 
their comments and listed the updated information requested. He also outlined the changes. JR spoke to the culvert and the fi lling 
===PAGE 4===
station being converted to one file. JR asked if there was a recollection of an overspill at the Passios elementary school from 20 
years prior. Mr Rodriquenz noted that based on a site inspection in which RB suggested to combine the projects. MM noted th at it 
came up at a previous meeting where the commission issued the positive determination was issued and the commission approved 
an emergency permit for the culvert and placed a condition the applicant add it to a subsequent NOI for the filling station. JR asked 
does the commission have to approve both projects or can it be divided. It was stated it could not. JR noted that this are sh ould be 
treated as a sensitive area. He felt the engineering was well done but is concerned about human error not being tak en into 
consideration for the operation of this system. He felt he has not received any outline with the emergency procedures and sta ted he 
would not support the proposal. He also noted that he would call DEP if the project was approved and ask for an inju nction.  
 
BP stated that many of the questions JR asked was not wetlands based and conclusions drawn from those questions could present  
an issue. KJ noted that if DEP wanted to comment they would have and the statement of filing an injunction by JR was not  
appropriate and the commission should vote on the matter. RB read the description of the project file with the NOI. He stated  ied 
DEP had concerns or authority over day to day operations; they would have already brought them out. TD noted support for RB a nd 
KJ’s comments and that the project is ready to be voted on. CL asked about adding the requirements for training to an order of 
conditions. Mr. Marchetti noted that the operation, safety and maintenance manual and trainings have to be sent to the town d uring 
the building department process and will be available at DPW. He recommended that an annual training report can be added as a  
condition to an Order. BP noted that while valid concerns, they are not pertinent to the wetland protection regulation and th at they 
are other regulations applicable. CL noted that we could add the reporting provisions to the Order. CC echoed support for RB’s 
concerned. JR noted that he asked before the facility goes on line that we ensure the evidence of training be carried out. An drea 
Adams, 39 Pleasant Street noted that as someone who has reviewed may types of similar plans she was encouraging the town to 
take the template and make it a living  document for the town to use to address the operations and response in a real time ma nner. 
Anglea Chebuske of 42 Willow Street Leominster noted that in her work with the City of Leominster, an approach similar to what Mr. 
Marchetti mentioned be incorporated into the Order and it presents a good opportunity for the Commission to work with these 
departments. JR moved to issue an Order of Conditions with the condition that the commission ensure the required safety, re posne 
and operations plan are in place prior to the commencement of construction. CL seconded and asked Ms. Chebuske to elaborate 
on her prior statement to aid the commission in perhaps adding it to their order in a clear manner. Mr Chebuske noted that th e order 
could entail the condition that the plan be copied to the commission file and the commission agent or other representative me et with 
the department maintain the facility to ensure any concerns area addressed.CL proposed to amend the second on the mo tion to 
include the language. MM noted he agreed with Ms Chebuske. Mr. Rodriquenz reviewed the procedure with startup of the facilities 
and questioned the criteria of who would determine what was correct. BP noted he was note comfortable with the commissio n 
having some type of veto power of the entire plan. Chief Sullivan noted that the fire dept. would be involved and outlined al l of the 
normal checks and balances. MM noted that his interpretation of the motion would require he review the plan to ensure th at the 
resource area protection was ensure and not a veto. MM noted that the purpose was to simply ensure was compliance with the 
response plan. KJ asked if we could simply incorporate the plans by reference. JR noted that he agreed with Chief Sullivan an d 
noted that the commission represented the environmental side of things and DEP. He noted that the SPCC plan should be 
reviewed to ensure it was followed. Andrea Adams noted that she feels that the expertise of the conservation commission is mo re 
complimentary and not a veto. She feels that a team building approach is good. Ms. Chebuske clarified that the purpose is not a 
veto and is geared towards a contribution of the commission focuses on these issues. JR echoed MS Adams and Ms Chebuske’s 
statements and felt it could create a win win situation. MM noted that the efforts that the purpose was not adversarial and is mean to 
be supportive and should be viewed by the commission in that manner. CL agreed with MM and noted that this would enable the 
commission to stay at the table and work towards a quality and not a disruptive process. CL restated the amendment at 
Mr.Rodriquenz request. MM recalled the motion as the plan be submitted toi the commission to be reviewed to ensure it was 
properly put in place. JR with the addition that prior to the startup that there is a meeting between the involved departments to 
ensure the plan is properly is in place. RB reviewed that condition number 1 on the standard boiler on the commission’s order 
requires that other regulations be follows and feels any additional parts of the motion would be duplicative of condition number 1.  
In favor of the motion was CL and JR against was RB, BP, CC, TD and KJ. KJ moved to issue a standard order with the plan 
referred. JR proposed an amendment that was seconded by CL. The amendment is to add a line to the Order that the three 
departments meet and ensure the required elements in the pan are in place  .CL and JR against was RB, BP, CC, TD and KJ the 
amendment. The original motion was voted unanimously by the commission to approve. Mr. Rodiquenz asked if JR was still under 
the intention to ask DEP to intervene. JR replied at that time it was not his intention.  
 
CONTUNED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulation s as listed in chapter 239,The Town of 
Lunenburg has filed a Notice of Intent and  is proposing maintenance on the existing municipal bridge that carries Pleasant Street 
over Pearl Hill Brook (L-17-013) in Lunenburg, Massachusetts. The Project is being undertaken as a part of the Massachusetts 
Department of Transportation (MassDOT) Municipal Small Bridge Program. Proposed work consists of removing the existing 
superstructure, installing a new concrete superstructure, repairing an existing concrete abutment and wingwall, and installing crash 
tested barriers and approach guardrails to meet current standards. Application and supporting documents are available for review 
at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on 
request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting will take place remotely on Zoom. the meeting is scheduled July 1  2020 by 
zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar on June 29, 2020. 
 
===PAGE 5===
RB asked what the specification was to the asphalt mulch. Mr. Rodriqunez noted that it was reground asphalt and concrete. Dan  
Cannata noted that the volatile components have been removed from the material and is standard material in MASS DOT jobs. MM 
noted that the other issue was the floodway and that he examined them and in his review the floodway calculations appeared to be 
well done and that he was satisfied with them. He felt the APE analysis was well done. BP noted that a DEP number was issued 
with no comments. Andrea Adams asked about the portion of the river bed that was molded as a part of the old crossing system.  
Dan Cannata noted that the system will be repaired and the work would take place in front of the system in the stream bed. Ms 
Adams asked if the work is done by machine or by scaffolding. Dan Cannata noted that it would be scaffolding. He also reviewe d 
the limits of work with Ms. Adams. Ms Adams complimented the applicant on the project and thanked the commission for the 
manner in which they handled it seriously.JR moved to approve a standard Order with CL seconding. The motion was approved by 
a unanimous roll call vote.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Pamela Johnston for work at 392 Sunset Lane will be held. W ork 
proposed is replacement of an existing dock.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled June 17th 2020 by zoom remote the meeting is scheduled July 1  2020 by zoom 
remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar on June 29, 2020  ( note CLrecused himself) 
 
 
Commissioner CL, who is a part owner of the property recused himself. Pamela Johnston and Rick Tonole appeared to represent 
themselves. The site visit results were recounted from Ms Johnston. The data table showing the results were presented. Joanna 
Bilotta noted that the LSIC did not formally receive an abutter notice as the town is the recipient and in speaking with the town 
administrator, it was noted that the abutter notice likely went to the town Clerk. MM noted he would check on the notification and 
seek to clarify for future reference. RB examined the depth chart and indicated no issues with the data presented. JR moved to 
issue a negative determination. KJ seconded and the commission approved the motion by a vote of RB, CC, KJ and  JR approving 
and TD and BP voting against.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a 
public hearing on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Emily Zaffino for work a t 155 Reservoir Road will be held. Work 
proposed is installation of an in ground pool within the riverfront.  Application and supporting documents are available for review at 
the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request 
by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled July 1  2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the 
town calendar on June 29, 2020 
BO and MM noted that the plan updated to show the pool was made by Brian Marchetti. MM noted that the pool was on the outer 
edge of the riparian zone. A motion was made to issue a negative determination with the applicant be signed and dated by KJ and a 
second by CC with a unanimous approval by the commission. 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239 Robert 
Correa has filed a request for a determination of applicability for the modification to an existing retaining wall and spot dressing the 
rear yard and the addition of gravel to an existing driveway at 932 Flatt Hill Road Application and supporting documents are 
available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also 
an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline the meeting is scheduled July 1  2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will 
be published on the town calendar on June 29, 2020 
 
Robert Correa represented himself. RB noted that the document should be updated to indicate the work that was done in addition to 
the original plan. CL noted he agreed with RB’s assessment. JR noted that if we noticed any ex isting violations would we not 
continue with the hearing and the original drawings approved should be approved. The previous conditions back after the 
conclusion of the original construction has not significantly changed.  TD felt that we should not penalize the applicant due to the 
nature of the extra construction from 2005 and we should work with the applicant to document the violation. JR indicated agre ement 
and supported that condition due to the age of the extra work and the fact there was no fur ther damage to the resource area. RB 
recommend that the work is documented to existing conditions. The commission asked that MM photo document the conditions be 
added and that the total impacts to the riverfront be quantified and extra detail be added to the sketch showing any pre-existing 
conditions. JR MM and RB reviewed the statues of limitations and noted that the supplemental documentations should cure the 
deficiencies. CC also agreed with the additional documentation with consideration of a continuance. KJ moved to approve a motion 
to issue a negative determination with the supplemental documentation. TD seconded the motion. RB, CC,BP and CL voted no and 
KJ and TD voted to approve. A second motion was made to continue the hearing to the July 15 meeting at 7 PM  by KJ and 
seconded by CC. The motion was approved by a yes vote by RB, CC, CL and JR and No by KJ and TD.   
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
 
ENFORCEMENT 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings).  
 
NON 99 Ruth Street – update Angela Chebuske noted the RDAs requested were turned in as 
requested and had noted three ideas for remediation. The first was a concern about replanting 
larger trees and that they could cause further erosion and needed more water than the drought 
would allow. She recommended that a meadow /slope mix be planted. The second option could be 
to plant 7 small saplings with straw wattles, however there was still a concern of watering the 
saplings. The third was a combination of both saplings a nd meadow mixes. She had noted that to 
address previous concerns about the safety issues by adding a chain link gate to prevent 
trespass. She also recommend the idea of adding wattles along the existing path that would 
prevent any erosion. She did not reco mmend the use of matting as they would not be compatible  
with the terrain and difficult to maintain. She also outlined signage that would be clear to any 
potential trespassing. She expressed Gary Williams wants to work with the commission to 
protect the area. She asked for commission input about the flower mix. CL commented that he 
appreciated the thoughts put into the restoration suggestions. He asked about  where the trees 
could be planted and his thought was there was another area that was degrading at a bank 
section where a “ Tarzan Swing “ was placed. He asked for consideration of planting in that area 
to dissuade any further activities in that particular area. JR asked if the path was going to be 
eliminated. Ms. Chebuske noted that there is an easement with the abutter existing and the 
location was being advised in writing. It was noted that despite there was some limited activities 
with the owner accessing by ATV’s that it was done in a way not to cause damage and will be 
maintained. RB noted there should be as much vegetation put back as much as possible along 
with meadow plantings. The second RDA pathway description was examined. RB noted he would 
like to  see a comprehensive plan on planting and erosion control Ms Chebuske asked if a Notice 
of Intent was a better was to approach this? She felt the maintenance could be a living document 
to allow it to be perpetual. RB and BP indicated support  for the Notice of Intent. MM noted that if a 
notice of intent was required the extension permit process  would be advantageous to both 
parties. He noted there would need to be a new motion made as the prior notion was for the 
RDA’s. Ms Chebuske noted that the RDA’s could be withdrawn if necessary. MM noted he felt the 
RDA for remediation was appropriate and the motion could clarify. In discussion it was agre ed 
that the NOI could include the dock and stairs  as engineering is being quoted and it will take time 
to get a firm mobilized. CL noted that the RDA for remedial work would make  sense. He asked for 
clarification of a location of the tarzan swing. Ms. Chebuske noted that the location was only one  
swing. Ms. Chebuske noted there was original ly 4 and he left only one in a safer location that 
would be easy to maintain and not cause erosion. Any swings placed in any trespassers would 
be cut down. Cl discussed the location of the dock and stairs for future consideratio n in the 
Notice of Intent as well. The commission decided to pursue that further course. Ms. Chebuske to 
continue to address any further concerns b etween meetings 
EO- 183 Island Road- update 
EO-32 Brookview Ave, Patricia Adams  MM outlined the violation which were trees that were cut in 
the buffer zone that he had asked the owner not to cut pending an  advisory from the commission. 
It was noted by the owner there was a miscommunication between her and the tree company. She 
also outlined the ramp she wanted to place at the beach that would require grading for her son 
with special needs. The commission directed the owner to file a Notice of Intent.  
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) No update as BP and MM will be 
discussing with Town counsel  RB noted that the town needs to enforce the trespass RB motioned to 
issue a cease and desist with restoration of the asphalt. CL noted the motion would support MM’s future 
discussion. He felt we should get a special appoint ment and not wait for office hours.   
NON – 232 Burrage Street – NOI to be filed for the July 1 -  On track MM noted that he asked for 
revisions in the document  
NON - 400 Electric Ave – RDA for July 1, on track MM noted he was awaiting  the signed 
documents 
NON - 615 Townsend Street – remedial deadline . MM noted that the deadline is July 28 after 
walking the site.  
===PAGE 7===
NON – 1275 Mass Ave- Request for an administrative hearing  – MM has not received a r esponse 
and will pursue further enforcement action  
NON - 9 Valley Road- Administrative hearing – Jane Gallagher was present. MM had noted that 
the reason for the work was for the repair of a w ater service. He will work with the wat er division 
and the owner for any future work and the filing of a Notice of Intent.  
 
  New Business – Draft Violation letter template The letter was reviewed by CL and the contents and reasoning 
behind the contents was explained. and RB noted that the letter could be a second step for enforcement and 
RB will modify some language.  
Old Business – – Office reopening progress report  Part 2 MM outlined the success of the office reopening and 
that business have been moving faster with e veryone back to work locally. The motion was approve unanimously.  
Update on trails grant – status of contracts No updates  
Certificates of Compliance – 675 Reservoir Road, Paul Gougen- No action MM is awaiting Mr Gougen to finish 
work and the as built.  
       
Extension Permit – None to present.  
 
Minutes of previous meetings - review June 3, and 17  2020 Minutes distrusted and will be voted on at the next 
meeting. 
 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators determination 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies 
Hickory Hills update 
Communications / public comment/  Adjourn - Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is July 15 , 2020 at 7 PM 
  
 
The meeting was adjourned at 11:52 PM with a motion by CC and a second by KJ 
with a  unanimous roll call vote to approve.  