===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Kenneth Jones, Vice-Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Bursch Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs 
Carl Luck 
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Vivian Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche, Associate 
MINUTES  
November 18, 2020 Revised Nov 16, 2020 at 
11:00 AM 
7:00 PM 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being 
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel at a future time.  
 
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the 
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are 
currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions 
of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This 
meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable, on Facebook Live on the Public Access 
Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and 
will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
 
To Participate Remotely on Zoom members of the public may use cell phones, tablets or computers with 
audio and video capabilities.  The Zoom Meeting ID is  
 
Conservation Commission Meeting 
Time: Nov 18, 2020 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82764089424 
  
Meeting ID: 827 6408 9424 
One tap mobile 
+13017158592,,82764089424# US (Germantown) 
+13126266799,,82764089424# US (Chicago) 
  
Dial by your location 
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Germantown) 
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
        +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 827 6408 9424 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kngRbN0Ud 
  
 
 
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. All participants who are not members of the 

===PAGE 2===
commission or staff will be muted by the chair.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to 
request to speak. To access the raise hand feature, open the participant list by clicking on participants. To 
raise your hand, click on the button at the bottom of the participant list.  The chair will call on you and 
unmute you.  Telephone audio users may dial star 9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  Members 
of the public must give their name and address before they begin speaking.   Please direct all comments to 
the chair. 
 
 
If you have trouble accessing zoom or have general questions you can send an email to 
lcc@lunenburgonline.com during the meeting. Emails containing questions or comments that are to be read 
aloud at the meeting must be signed with full name, address and phone number. 
 
 
Please be aware that if you are using video, other people will be able to see you and that anything that is 
broadcast will be recorded.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated 
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be 
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open 
Meeting Law.  Each vote taken in this meeting will be conducted by roll call vote. 
 
MINUTES 
Call to Order 
Announceme
nts 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the 
direct jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made 
during the comment period of the specific agenda item 
   
Minutes of previous meetings – October 7, 2020. Approval was put off to next meeting to allow review. 
Appointments/Hearings –commences 
at 7 PM  - chairman Pease opened the 
meeting at 7 PM with all members 
present except JV 
Appointments:  
 
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice  of Intent by the Lak e 
Shirley Improvement Corporation for an amendment to an existing Order of Conditions for the extension of the drawdown date fr om 
Dec 1 of each year to Dec 31 if required due to Unforeseen Circumstances . The supporting are available for review at the 
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by 
emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled November 18, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published 
on the town calendar on November 16, 2020. 
 
 WG came in front of the commission and due to financial concerns concerning abutter notifications withdrew the application. WG 
stated they would request extension of the drawdown deadlines on a year by year basis by emergency request as has been done in 
the past.. There was no further action required.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by John 
Fournier, 25 Pearl Street ,for the construction of an extension to a deck , demolish and rebuild an existing garage ,and upgr ade of a 
septic system. The supporting are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978 -582-4147 ext 431 by 
appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled November 
18, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the town calendar on November 16, 2020.  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
John Fournier appeared before the commission for the hearing. Dan Wolfe appeared before the commission 
and noted the property is currently under distressed condition. There was soil testing for the septic system to 
consider options. He noted the offsets of the well and the lake that was under consideration. Due to the 
requirements of variances that may be necessary under title V, it was decided with the board of health that a 
tight tank holding 4000 gallons would be required. Mr, Wolfe outlined also that an 8 by 20 addition that is an 
outside storage area was also added to the plan on the east side of the house.  There was also a proposed 
garage to be rebuilt and the well casing at the entrance of the garage, deemed a poor location by  Mr Wolfe was 
proposed to be lowered as well under agreement with the board of health. There was also an extension of the 
existing deck proposed as well as the addition of a roof over the deck with a four foot walkway on the west 
side. The applicant proposed to remove 2 large oaks by the garage due to it being viewed by the applicant as a 
detriment to the garage. On the far west side the parking space was proposed to be expanded by pavement to 
allow for a second car to fit in. There is also a tree closer to the water that is desired to be taken down due to it 
dying and Mr Wolfe noted on the plan where the general area was although it was not located on the plan.  
 
CL asked about the edge of wetland delineation versus high water mark. Mr Wolfe noted that the high water 
mark was considered the edge of the wetland. CL noted that there was no 30 foot no touch zone on the plan. 
Mr. Wolfe acknowledged it was not on it and the deck, which is the closest proximity of any work within the 
buffer zone is 30 feet. Mr Wolfe clarified that flag 20-7 noted on the plan was the flag used to calculate the 
closest extent. CL noted that minus the deck, there was a large amount of work within the 50 foot no stricture 
zone and would require a waiver. He examined alternative locations with the applicant. It was noted that the no 
structure regulations apply to additions as well. CL also noted the location of the tight tank within the 50 foot 
no touch zone and asked about an alternative location. Mr Wolfe noted the current location was dictated by the 
well. CL noted there was some room to move the tank. Mr. Wolfe agreed that he could move the system a few 
feet up, however, the current area left room to work.  
 
JR asked if the tank could be turned to the side and move farther away from the 50 foot zone. He asked if water 
could pass through the deck and noted that there was an increase in impervious. He asked about the additional 
trees and could they be marked, He also asked about alternative locations of the additions. RB echoed the 
concerns about moving the tight tank. RB asked of the deck would be rebuilt prior to the construction of the 
overhang. The applicant noted that it was going to remain as is. RB echoed concerns about the impervious 
increase voiced by CL and JR.  RB examined the zoning issues relative to the garage and the lean-to addition . 
Mr. Wolfe cited the zoning by laws to the commission to answer RB’s zoning questions.  RB noted the 
proposed parking area and that the remainder of the parking area is packed gravel and wondered if any of that 
would be removed to compensate. Mr Wolfe noted that it was not possible as the remining area was an 
abutter’s property. The applicant noted that the driveway is not going to be extended, but rather to square it off 
and the surface is currently paved in and there is an infiltration structure is proposed.  
 
MM asked about the ZBA hearing that was scheduled. Mr Wolfe noted that the zoning by law allows for the 
work within the lot, however there was a height issue and outlined that the elevation would be five feet higher 
than current zoning allows.  
 
BP noted that he had no objections with the deck covering and the tight tank as the tank was subsurface. He 
also noted that he agreed with the suggestion to move the storage area and the 30 foot zone and the tree to be 
removed should be added to the plans. CC noted she was in agreement and KJ also cited agreement.  
 
Mr Wolfe asked for a continuance of the hearing and noted he would examine changes to improve the overall 
situation. BP suggested that the exiting pavement should be shown on the plan versus the proposed addition 
of pavement. JR asked also for the identification of the tree to be removed.  
 
A motion was made by RB to continue to Dec 2 at 7 PM, CL seconded and the commission voted unanimously 
by roll call vote.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting 
on an amendment request of Request for a determination  by Mark Flagg for work at 1263 Mass Ave will be held. Work entails th e 
grading and stabilization of an existing parking area. Application and supporting documents are available for review at the 
===PAGE 4===
Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by 
emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled for November 18, 2020 at 7 PM by Zoom meeting link to be issued by 
November 16, 2020 The public is invited to attend. 
 
Lisa Carlesco appeared before the commission to represent the applicant. Mark Flagged noted the potential violation. MM 
explained the isolated wetland area and the jurisdiction involved. KJ asked if there as any further proposed work. Mr Flagg 
answered no. CL noted that he saw nothing alarming and noted that there was no concerns over material He was examining the 
area in question and was wondering how it would be memorialized. MM noted that he would note the limits and distance from the 
wetland would be noted on the finding of fact page. RB asked about demarcating the limits of the wetland land area. He noted a 
right of way also on the plan. It was determined that the right of way was for the school. Cl suggested adding  boulders for 
demarcation. Mr Flagg noted he would be willing to do so. MM noted he will add the demarcation requirement on the finding of fact 
page. KJ moved to issue a negative determination with the additions of demarcation of the limit of work and boulders on the finding 
of fact page. RB seconded and the commission voted unanimously by roll call vote.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public meeting 
on an amendment request of Request for a determination  by George Yapp for work at 28 Oak Ridge Road will be held. Work 
entails the removal of a triple stemmed oak and the rebuilding of a shed. Application and supporting documents are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4146 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled for November 18, 2020 at 7 PM by Zoom meeting link to be 
issued by November 16, 2020 The public is invited to attend. 
 
 
Mr Yapp appeared before the commission to represent himself. He outlined the shed construction to the commission. He did note 
the trees to be cut would not be stumped.. KJ asked if the shed would be in the same place. Mr Yapp noted it would be moved back 
a few feet but not closer to the lake. CL noted the replanting requirement. He wanted to see where the trees would be replanted. 
And asked for further information of the size of the shed be documented further. Mr Yapp asked for what the commission would 
prefer.  
 
Cl noted that the replacement rate would likely be a 2 to 1 ratio as the trees were over the 8 inch diameter measurement cited in the 
regulations and could require up to 6 trees. Mr. Yapp asked about potential locations of the trees to ensure that it would  not be a 
problem to the house in the future. The regulation was reviewed by Cl in the future. RB noted that the definition of the shed should 
added to the application. It was also noted that the shed would be above ground . MM suggested a site inspection. BP noted that it 
was his opinion that the trees on site presented a hazard and had no objections, He did note that the trees were not on the lake 
providing shade and felt it could be located closer to the street. KJ noted he also had no objection and noted  that he could consider 
a waiver for the tree numbers in the regulation to go to a 1 to 1 replacement. JR noted that the tree requirement was to replace the 
habitat. A motion was made to continue to December 2 at 7 PM by Cl and a second by JR with a unanim ous vote by the 
commission ( roll call )  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a request for a determination at 
1168  R Mass Ave by M2 Trust for the demolition of an existing single family home and  shed. The supporting are available for 
review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option 
on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled November 18, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will 
be published on the town calendar on November 16, 2020. 
 
Justin Powell appeared before the commission to represent M2 trust. He outlined the project for the commission . He noted the 
structure would be removed and no structure put in its place. It would be stabilized MM noted the large barn was not in the original 
area. He recommended it be added to the plans. RB noted that the stabilization area and grading should also be memorialized. Mr 
Powell noted that the barn will be part of the file. MM noted he would like to go out to the site to determine the extent of the wetland 
area. RB moved to continued. CL seconded. All members present except KJ noted to approve the motion on the roll call vote.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for A Determination 
by Brian Tower at 329 Sunset Lane. The work is for the replacement of a concrete retaining wall, rebuilding of an existing we ll pump 
house to expand the foot print by 18 feet long by 6 feet wide. The supporting are  available for review at the Conservation 
Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is also an option on request by emailing 
lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled November 18, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom information will be published on the 
town calendar on November 16 2020 
 
 Brian Tower appeared before the commission to represent himself. He withdrew the expansion of the shed from consideration and 
asked for the fence and existing retaining wall replacement only. A negative determination was made by RB for the replacement of 
the fence with a  vinyl fence at the same height and the retaining wall noting on the finding of fact the expansion was removed.  
 
===PAGE 5===
JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously by roll call vote.  
 
Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice  of Intent by Gary 
Williams at 99 Ruth Street for the installation of wooden stairwell, dock and maintenance of an existing cart path. The suppo rting 
are available for review at the Conservation Commission office by calling 978-582-4147 ext 431 by appointment. Emailing a PDF is 
also an option on request by emailing lcc@lunenburgonline, the meeting is scheduled November 18, 2020 by zoom remote Zoom 
information will be published on the town calendar on November 16, 2020.  
 
 
 
 
Chris Anderson represented the applicant. He outlined the specifics of the site and the enforcement history. Mr Anderson outlined 
the impacts due to work and relative to a storm event, He further outlined the maintenance plan field for the pathway and that it 
would be proposed as a perpetual plan. He noted the current conditions of the site  relative to the structures ( stairwell and dock) still 
on site. He noted the securing of the dock and the stairs by pinning. He noted the decking platform was removed and requested to 
reconstruct the platform measuring 16 feet by 16 feet to be pinned to the ground w ith no ground work. He outlined the concerns the 
commission expressed over the rope swings placed over many years, It was noted that the areas where the swings were placed 
would be stabilized by erosion control blankets and shrubs planting. There will be no earth activities on this esker due to the 
subsurface content being gravel and a concern was expressed that it would a potential erosion issue otherwise. It was noted during 
the current drawdown there was some areas undercut from currents and was proposing some sone to stabilize with interspersed 
plantings to establish a more naturalized shore area. The maintenance plans propose no further vegetation removal wither than 
maintenance of limbs to be cut by hand with the material being removed from the site. Rutting will be filled with soil and smooth 
graded.  
 
JR examined the amount of shore that would need to be stabilized. Mr Anderson noted that the only areas to be stabilized would be 
only those areas affected and not the entire shoreline. JR asked about the path and any erosion issues, M r. Anderson noted the 
gravel would added to only those areas that rut out. It was also noted that one tree had fallen in the lake and needed to be 
removed. The tree would be cut by hand and the detritus dispersed for wildlife enhancement. JR noted there was a lot of work and 
was concerned about the work Phasing. CL noted he was pleased with the stabilization of the areas of the historical swing.  He 
further examined slope stabilization. Mr Anderson is that the feature of this plan there is no earth work propos ed. The tublings were 
very small plantings that would be dug on by hand and will establish a shrub planting area. He noted that there was a similar  
planting at 380 sunset and noted that the plants died and noted it would take a lot of work. He noted there should be a minimum of 
a 2 year requirement to be placed to ensure survival. CL also asked how many trees were removed and what the plan is to repla ce 
those. It was noted by Mr. Anderson that trees that were cut were not within the 30 foot zone and that th e trees were cut by hand. 
The trees were either dead or dying. It was noted that the regulation for jurisdiction was within 100 feet. Mr. Anderson noted that the 
tree regulation in the bylaw stated that the tree replacement was within the 30 foot zone only . CL noted he did not support the 
platform being placed back. He did note he could understand the stairs and the dock. JR noted that the tress within 100 feet should 
be replaced. RB noted that the cart paths should be maintained to be no wider than 60 inches. And that the any regrading of the 
path should be covered with wood chips or leaf litter. This would also apply within the area of the former platform.  He indicated he 
did not support the construction of a platform. He also indicated that the areas of stabilization be shown to be growing for a 3 to 5 
year period. KJ indicated agreement with the use of the leaf litter or wood chips. He indicated he was in favor of the platform as it 
would prevent erosion issues from developing with people congregating at that potion of the site. Cl and JR indicated they were not 
in favor of the platform. Jr had no objections to the fire pit with the condition that it would not be dug in. They both indicated they 
were ok with the stairs and the dock. CC indicated agreement with JR and CL. BP also indicated he was in favor of the dock and 
stairs. He did not feel that the platform could be allowed due to prior precedent. BP reviewed the trees cut along the tip of the esker. 
It was noted that not all of the trees were not within our jurisdiction and some were not within the 100 foot buffer zone.  
 
Jim Lavoie, (a member of the public who lives across from the peninsula,) noted his issues with the stabilization his areas. He 
outlined his understanding of the enforcement issues and feels that no structures should be placed in this esker. He noted that 
there was 900 foot length to access the area. He noted that the dock was used by multiple parties to access the end of the 
peninsula. He felt this would set a negative precedent. RB noted that he understood the concerns by Mr. Lavoie however, there was 
no jurisdiction by the commission to dictate the use of the property and he was in favor of the dock location as it minimized the 
impacts to the greatest degree possible. BP noted that it was a 2 acre lot with 200 feet of frontage and has an issue prevent ing a 
landowner from its use. He feels the plan will prevent trespassers and would correct issued cause by prior trespass.  
 
A motion for a maximum 60 in cart path maintained by mulch or leaves on the path way as needed and that erosion off the stairwell 
be remediated immediately and that the platform is excluded. There will also be a 5 year requirement for the plantings and 
maintainence. CL seconded and the commission vote unanimously by roll call vote.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for A 
Determination by Dan Dugas for work at 60 South Row Road. The work is for the removal of trees for the placement of a solar 
===PAGE 6===
energy system within the buffer zone. 
 
Due to the plan not being available and Mr Dugas having access issues to participate the meeting was continued to December 2, 
2020 at 7 PM by a motion of RB and a second by CC and a unanimous roll call vote by the commission to approve the motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for A 
Determination by Stanley Helstowski  for work at 29 Fire Road 10. The work is for the removal of trees wit hin the buffer zone. 
 
 
Mr Helstowski reviewed the revised drawing with the commission, noting he would go with the naturalized stone stabilization along 
the water that the commission recommended. JR mentioned that perhaps by regulation more trees would be planted. One tree was 
deed closer than the tree 14 feet noted on the plan. The remaining two would be planted father away due to constraints of the  lot.  
CL asked about the height of the stone erosion barrier. Mr. Helstrowski said it would not exceed 12 inches. The review of the trees 
and the replanting was also completed. RB moved to approve a negative determination based on the revised drawing  With six trees 
to be planted with one tree to be closer to the lake side and a maximum height of 12 inches for the erosion barrier to be no father 
out on the lake than the edge of grass.  Cl seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve the motion. 
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent 
by Steven Petruzello for work at 4 Townsend Harbor Road. The work is for the expansion of a driveway and placement of a shed 
within the buffer zone. 
 
BP noted that the only item awaiting was the DEP number. With no questions, CL moved to issue an order of conditions. KJ 
seconded and the commission vote unanimously to approve the motion. 
  
CONTINUED: Pursuant to the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a publi c hearing on a Notice of Intent 
by Cutis Nikitas for work at  232 Burrage Street The work is for grading and construction of a stone wall within the buffer z one 
 
A motion was made by KJ to continue the meeting to December 2, 2020 at 7 PM. Cl seconded and t he commission voted 
unanimously to approve the motion.  
 
CONTINUED: Pursuant to MGL ch. 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws 
a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Jeff LaPierre for work at 1672 Mass Ave. will be held. Work proposed is rebuild of an 
existing shed, grading of existing lawn, repair of a retaining wall, removal of a tree and the repaving of a driveway with gr avel 
 
A motion was made by KJ to continue the meeting to December 2, 2020 at 7 PM. Cl seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously to approve the motion.  
 
 
 ENFORCEMENT:  
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
NON 99 Ruth Street – update Due to the above hearing being closed. The Commission 
removed this item from its agenda.  
EO 90 Ruth Street The owner of the property , Brian Dalmaso appeared before the 
commission.  Mr. Delmaso said he did not add sand but was moving sand that had 
eroded from the beach back onto the beach. An RDA will be filed by Mr. Delmaso. 
EO- Town of Lunenburg Fire Road 12 ENF 2019 Updates( If any) BP noted a Notice of 
Intent was forthcoming from the home owner that would seek approval to remove the paved 
area. 
NON - 9 Valley Road- Working on NOI No update 
NON – 232 Burrage Street will be removed once an Order of Conditions is approved 
EO – 788 Page Street No update 
NON- 1263 Mass Ave - Due to the above hearing being closed. The Commission 
removed this item from its agenda.  
===PAGE 7===
 
EO- 4 Townsend Harbor Road Due to the above hearing being closed. The Commission 
removed this item from its agenda.  
 
JR asked about 192 Townsend harbor Road and the status of such. It was noted that 
the owner contended that the driveway was preexisting. BP’s research noted that the 
date of the house being built predated the acquisition of the abutting parcel by the 
town. BP noted that Town Counsel is examining. RB recommended that it proceed as a 
trespass and it should be the owner of 192 Townsend Harbor provide evidence it was 
pre-existing,  
 
  New Business –  Approval of payments for eagle scout reimbursement and Table Rock signs from 
trust funds. MM reviewed the details of each item. It was agreed to approve the reimbursements for 
495 dollars for the eagle scout project and to hold off on the table rock signs and ask if the parks 
department was willing to split the cost, by a motion from RB and a second by KJ with a unanimous 
vote to approve the motion 
    - Discussion of Land Use Policy BP shared an email he received from Town Counsel. The legal 
opinion stated that it was his conclusion bow hunting as allowed and Firearms were not. He noted 
that if that was changed there was no requirement for quoting the general by law on seeking 
permission from the Board of Selectmen for using fire arms on Conservation Land.  A straw poll 
was taken concerning using hunting on conservation lands with fire arms. JR and CC noted they 
were not in favor. KJ voted in favor. RB noted he was in favor on lands that were larger parcels and 
conducive. RB noted that the initial intention of the policy was to allow hunting with firearms with 
the permission of the board of selectmen and it was somehow changed in transcription and that MM 
was also familiar with the change of transcription of the policy CL noted that he would see some 
complications with allowing firearms on some parcels and not on others and indicated he wanted to 
keep it simple and was not in favor. JR noted he felt bow hunting was sufficient to control the 
animal population and that firearms may attract people from out of town. BP stated no. RB noted 
that the lands are currently being hunted by local bunters and outlined the town was looked 
favorably on by the state during the hunting hill grant as it was implied the town allowed hunting 
with firearms. BP noted options with regard to hunting and potential regulation changes. The 
Commission also reviewed Geo-cashing, trail stewardship and invasive management. BP proposed 
to take the revised draft and post it on the website for the Public Hearing during the meeting 
December 2, 2020          
Old Business –  
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
Certificates of Compliance – Paul Goguen 675 Reservoir Road RB noted that the wetland 
replication area did not appear to be in place based on a photo from the site visit and the as built 
plan submitted and requested the owner be informed of this. This item was continued to the next 
agenda 
Extension Permit – none to present 
Committee Reports – Any Updates 
Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
Administrators determination –  
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
● Forestry Planning /Encroachment on town open space  
● Discussion on Land use policy and discussion of Saliba/ table rock management 
Communications / public comment/ Adjourn – RB noted that some of the applications coming 
before us are not complete they should be left off of the agenda until they are complete if the time 
clock is not applicable. ML noted that he had a site walk with MM along with a representative with 
North County Land Trust on the Hollis Road property. He noted they also walked the Peabody Trail 
and noted that he saw the blown down trees that were taken care of. BP asked about a small bridge. 
ML noted they realized the bridge would be too expensive and will not pursue at that time. He toured 
an alternative area that could use a very small foot bridge that could be accomplished with an eagle 
scout project.  
 
===PAGE 8===
Meeting Schedule- Next meeting is December 2, 2020 at 7 PM 
  
 
The meeting was adjourned at 11:05 PM on a motion from RB and a second from CC with a 
unanimous vote by the commission to approve the motion.  