===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
 
July 7, 2021 
7:00 PM . 
 
By ZOOM REMOTE 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised 
that this meeting is being Audio/Video Recorded. The agenda lists all the topics 
which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed 
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
This meeting of the Conservation Commission will be held By Zoom at the Link 
provided on this notice.  
 
           ZOOM Link: 
 
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Jul 7, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88411157038 
  
Meeting ID: 884 1115 7038 
One tap mobile 
+19292056099,,88411157038# US (New York) 
+13017158592,,88411157038# US (Washington DC) 
  
Dial by your location 
        +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) 
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 884 1115 7038 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/k5QIevDw 
  
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
MINUTES  final amended 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
 
 
The meeting was called to Order at 7PM by Chairman Pease. He noted MM was on 
vacation and as such would not be at the meeting. BP welcomed two new members 
Michael Larouche and Patricia Adams. All members were present (JV attended later 
in the meeting) 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. 
  
Minutes of previous meetings –June 16, 2021 The minutes were accepted with Scribner revisions by a 
motion of RB and a second by JR and a unanimous roll call vote to approve the minutes  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
Appointments:  
 Review of Draft Rayno and Hollis Road Forest Cutting Plans Gary Gouldrup was present and 
outlined the cutting plans  
 
BP noted that he felt the skid trails should have estimated widths be noted on the plans. RB noted 
that the main parking lot ( Hollis Road )would have improved access and better markings with an 
improved access trail by the butterfly habitat. He noted that the cutting access area was slated to be 
the water district property to ensure that it would not be detrimental to the parking and access areas. 
RB also reminded on the Hollis Road we would leave some debris behind for enhancing the bird 
habitat. The chair noted as he requested this item be advertised in the legal notices he welcomed 
public input. ( there was no public input ). RB asked if the increase in lumber values would affect the 
project with increased revenue. Mr. Gouldrup noted no and the reasons why. RB asked how we were 
bidding the project, Mr. Gouldrup indicated they should go together and he is examining the wood 
chip market currently due to a shortage of good quality chip however, he is still examining it. RB 
asked in there is any rough specs for the trail and parking area? RB indicated a preference for a flat 
graveled area however, indicated it could be considered at a later time, Mr. Gouldrup did review the 
specs involved and the equipment a bidder would have to meet. He also asked if the DPW could 
potentially improve the parking lot to save cost. Paula Bertram noted to the commission the snow 
riders and Hickory Hills Association would volunteer to help with a parking lot as they have 
equipment available and experience with other open space lots.ML asked who would do the better 
job of doing the parking lot. JR noted he would like to see all the work in one package and having the 
leverage for holding the contractor / bidder responsible. CC noted that she did not think it would be a 
bad idea for one package. PA noted she would like to see it all on one bid and perhaps there could 
be the volunteers added into the scope in order to bring the costs down. BP examined the RAYNO 
proposed cutting plan and suggested that some of the  trail that goes from one end to the other end 
of the property be established and left clear of debris and ensure the skid trails are not too wide 
similar to the items spelled out in the Hawes Road proposal. JR and BP examined proximity to the 
abutters lots. Mr. Gouldrup noted some encroachment onto the Conservation Land. ( A trailer parked 
in the town land). RB suggested leaving a 100 foot buffer from the property line. BP indicated he 
wasn’t sure it would be necessary in all of the areas of the cut. RB suggested staying on the east 
side of the stone wall in the S-2 area. BP spoke to future access to connect the RYANO parcel to the 
Table Rock Parcel. The size of the landing zone was determined to be approximately one acre and 
could serve as a parking area.  
 
 LSIC- annual treatment This matter was moved to the July 21, 2021 agenda   
 
===PAGE 3===
 HHL Field change request for alum treatment  – Paula Bertram outlined the extent of the algae 
issue for the commission and requested per mission to use Diquat or Imamza mox at Hemlock 
Beach. RB asked what the phosphate reading was at the beach. Paula Bertram noted only the 
deep area and the surface of the lake were completed and found to be normal however, 
provisions are being made to fund extra testing for storm water outle ts. 
 
Joan Pease reviewed the areas of higher phosphate and explained the chemical principles for 
phosphate treatment. And how it is effective. Nicole Waters expressed support for the proposal; 
and asked if the HHL Board consulted with ESS. Joan Pease explained the mixing of waters and 
the reasons why the treatment would be effective. PA expressed support to treat the area and fix 
the problem. RB moved to approve the treatment as a field change with the added condition they 
will test Phosphate both pre and post and the office would have a map of the treatment area 72 
hours prior to treatment. CC seconded and the commission unanimously approved by roll call 
vote. 
 
                                                    NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Request for a Determination by Petricca Residence Trust for work at 207 Fire Road 16 will be held. Work proposed is for the  repair 
of a septic system. 
 
Maryann Dipinto and Dan Proctor represented the applicant. They outlined the project for the commission. RB made a motion for  a 
negative (3) determination. CC seconded and the commission voted to unanimously to approve the motion by roll call.  
 
NOTE JV appeared at this point in the meeting at 8:08 PM 
                                                    
                                             CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Notice of Intent at 326 Highland Street by Steve Fenner for the placement of a swimming pool, landscaping and tree removal within 
the buffer zone. 
NOTE : RB RECUSED FROM THIS HEARING. 
 
Mark Bursch noted that there was still no DEP number as of yet. JV noted that the only item he had to speak to was the trees marked 
on the north side, he felt they did not need to be removed. BP agreed. He noted that  there was no valid concern of the trees falling on 
a septic system in the future although, in agreement with the applicant, there was no real issue with pruning. The meeting wa s 
continued to July 21, 2021 by a motion of JV and a second by JR with a unanim ous roll call vote to approve the motion. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
on a Notice of Intent by The Town of Lunenburg, Thomas WU and Scott Benjamin will be held. Work proposed Restoration of a    
parking area to a naturalized state on town property at Fire Road 12 
 
A motion to approve an Order of Conditions with a letter from Town Counsel to the applicants outlining timelines and responsi bilities by 
RB  with a second by CC  and a unanimous vote to approve with PA abstaining from the vote.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing    
on a Request for a delineation of a resource area at 988 Reservoir Road by John  Keating will be held.  
  
Brian Butler noted the final issue was awaiting the DEP to issue the file number. RB moved to approve the delineation as presented. 
JV seconded and the commission voted unanimously by roll call vote (PA abstained)(ML Abstained)  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Notice of Intent at 163 Beal Street Margaret and Allison Brooks. Work proposed is a septic upgrade  
 
 Greg Roy represented the applicant Mr. Roy reviewed the revisions the commission requested. RB noted that DEP had a comment on 
the method of delineation. RB requested that the report be forwarded on. RB moved to approve an Order of Conditions with a 
condition that the Order not be handed out until the wetland delineation report was submitted. CC seconded and the commission voted 
unanimously (PA abstained)(ML abstained) 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on  
a Request for a determination 4 Brook view Terrace by John Leblanc will be held. Work proposed is addition of sand to a beach . 
 
The applicant reviewed the scaled diagram sent in by the applicant per the commission request. A motion was made for a negati ve (3 ) 
determination by JV with a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve with RB, PA and ML abstaining.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Notice of Intent at 250 Howard Street by Joel Normandin will be held. Work proposed is for multiple crossings of a wetland to 
accommodate an access driveway. 
 
Greg Roy and Joel Normandin were present to represent the applicant. Mr Roy addressed the commission comments from the 
previous meeting being most noteworthy that the wetland filling is a limited project category as the lot is within the Squa nassitt ACEC. 
He enclosed the limited project provisions of the regulations in an exhibit. JR inquired as to the amount of the crossing tha t was within 
the 30 foot no touch zone ( ans. 15,000 sq ft ). JR asked about the amount of trees being taken out. Mr.  Roy noted that the disturbance 
for the driveway was very minimal to keep disturbance to as low as possible. JR outlined what he felt was the impacts. He not ed the 
trees and the location of the crossing being a head  waters of the Mulpus Brook and noted there was no turnaround. Mr. Roy noted that 
the turnaround would be out of the buffer zone. RB and JR noted that tree replacement is required within the 50 foot no struc ture zone 
and that should be examined . RB requested and adjustment of the density of the p lantings He did note that there was a right by the 
applicant to access the upland and he thought the applicant did a good job attempting to minimize impacts however, some more 
refinement was needed. Andrea Adams asked if the trees could tolerate being on a  hummock and how would the roots tolerate the 
adaptation. Greg Roy noted that the over  story vegetation was similar and were considered facultative for the most part and were 
showing adaptive properties on site presently. Mr. Roy read the replication const ruction narrative. He noted that post construction of 
the driveway the majority of the canopy would still be intact. JV noted that he felt they have done a great job of planning for the impacts 
to the wetlands. BP spoke to the location of tree planting and  expressed it was limited to the existing fields. JR noted that although the 
driveway is listed as 12 feet with the walls and other items there would be a total of 18 to 20  feet wide  of disturbance. Mr. Roy 
noted that the retaining walls are proposed to keep the grading to a minimum to allow for t he disturbance to be minimized.  
Jr asked If the driveway had to be paved? Mr. Roy noted that it is not and misspoke at the last meeting. JR indicated he woul d like a 
tree count. The applicant requested a continuance to the meeting of July 21 at 7 PM. RB moved to continue. JR seconded and th e 
commission voted unanimously (PA and ML abstaining) 
   
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg W etlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
on a Notice of Intent by Town of Lunenburg for a replacement of the bridge at Flatt Hill Road adjacent to 878 Flatt Hill Road  ( note     
878  Flatt Hill is a private residence used for reference purposes only)  
 
Olivia Richards noted the adjusted and revised narrative that addressed the commissions issues . JR examined the maintenance of 
flows and flow integrity during the work to adjust for any extreme weather event. RB examined the conditions of the timing of the 
mobilization of the contractor to perform the work and if some of that is designed to allow consideration of drawdown. It was  noted that 
planning was placed to allow for construction to take place within the period of high water as well.  Andrea Adams noted that the 
applicant should do outreach to the immediate abutters to inform and educate them of potential impacts. RB moved to approve a n 
Order of Conditions CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve.( PA and ML abstainin g ) 
 
 Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
 on a Notice of Intent by MA Pleasant LLC will be held. Work proposed is construction of a six lot subdivision, Roadway, utili ties and a  
 proposed wetland crossing at 101 Pleasant Street 
 
The meeting was continued at the request of the applicant to the July 21, 2021 meeting.  RB moved to continue to the July 21, 2021 
meeting with the commission approving by roll call vote ( PA and ML abstaining )  
 
 
 
         CONTINUED TO JULY 21, 2021 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing    
 on a Notice of Intent by Christopher and Suzanne DeGeorge will be held. Work proposed is improvement of access to Lake Shirle y  
 and control of erosion within 100-feet of a wetland resource area at 48 Pearl Street. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation 
Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Cynthia Ritchie for work at 137 Flynn Road to build a natural stone wall 
along the waterfront to protect against future erosion of the edges of the land and beach.  
 
Motion to Continue to the July 21, 2021 meeting by PA with a second by JV and a unanimous vote to approve t he motion.  
 
===PAGE 5===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Request for a determination 90 Ruth Street by Brian Dalmaso will be held. Work proposed is addition of sand to a b each. 
 
Motion to Continue to the July 21, 2021 meeting by JR with a second by CC and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
 
 
Old Business-   
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
 
 Leominster Road- Illegal Dumping activity  
    NON 467 Lancaster Ave – Monitoring site regrowth through the 2021 growing season  
    NON 48 Oak Ridge 
    EO 205 Arbor Street 
    NON 37 Pearl 
    NON 23 Cove Road 
 
New Business 
 
Election of officers (If all members are present) BP was nominated to be chair by RB with a second by CC and 
a unanimous roll call vote to approve the motion. RB was nominated by JR for vice chair. ML seconded and 
the commission voted unanimously to approve the motion by roll call vot e. CC nominated JR for the role of 
clerk. JR declined the nomination. RB nominated JV for clerk. BP seconded and the commission voted to 
approve the motion by roll call vote.  
 
 
Request to survey and mark additional property lines of Cowdrey lot near Townsend Harbor Road 
Scheduling public hearings to amend Land Use Plans for Table Rock and Lane Properties  
 
BP noted at the BOS meeting he had reviewed a letter he sent requesting a survey of 192 Townsend Harbor 
Road and the sidelines of the cowdery lot He requested to add to the initial request to also survey the sidelines 
along the frontage access to the Harley ADA wildlife viewing platform and to add permanent stakes at those 
areas. RB moved to do such, CC seconded and the commission voted unanimously by  roll call vote.  
 
40B project at 318, 390, and 400 Howard Street for 200 units of rental housing with possible site visit Thursday, 
July 8th at 1p.m – BP outlined the procedure for what is involved in a 40 B and that the commission would 
retain its ability to regulate the proposed project under 40 B regulations. He noted that there was no work 
proposed within the 30 and fifty foot local zones.  
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
     
     Certificates of Compliance 
 
     Extension Permit – 
  Committee Reports – Any Updates 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrator’s determination –  54 Pine Acres Drive Removal of three trees 
                                                    50 Sunset Lane, Carl Luck 
    22 Brookview, Zeke Sampson 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: BP requested meeting for modifying the open space 
regulations concerning the need for a permit for bow hunting and may be taken up at the next meeting or the meeting 
after.  
Communications / public comment   
Adjourn 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is July 21, 2021 at 7:00 PM 
 
The meeting adjourned at 9: 53 PM by a motion of JR and a second by RB and a unanimous vote 
approve by roll call vote 