===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
 
Sept 15, 2021 
7:00 PM . 
MINUTES 
 
                                     ZOOM REMOTE 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised 
that this meeting is being Audio/Video Recorded. The agenda lists all the topics 
which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed 
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
This meeting of the Conservation Commission will be held  by Zoom at the Link 
provided on this notice.  
            
 
ZOOM INFORMATION: 
Town of Lunenburg is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. 
  
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Sep 15, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83655519795 
  
Meeting ID: 836 5551 9795 
One tap mobile 
+13017158592,,83655519795# US (Washington DC) 
+13126266799,,83655519795# US (Chicago) 
  
Dial by your location 
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) 
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
        +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 836 5551 9795 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/kzpaKVHgt 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
AGENDA 
Call to Order  
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. 
 
 RB acting as chair, called the meeting to Order at 7 PM with RB, CC, ML, PL and JV 
present  
Minutes of previous meetings –No action taken 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
  
Appointments:  
  Public Hearing 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Request for a Determination by Ray Clouthier the reconstruction of an existing foot path and the placement of a temporary s creen 
house within the buffer zone at 37 Pearl Street 
 
The meeting was continued to Ocotber6, 2021 by a motion of CC and a second by ML with a unanimous roll call vote to approve.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Munici pal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Notice of intent by Paula Valente  for the demolition and reconstruction of an existing single family home with septic upgr ade , within 
the buffer zone at 30 Johnson Street. 
 
Chris Mackenzie from Dillis and Roy appeared bef ore the commission to represent the applicant, he outlined the work proposed and 
its orientation and relationship to the wetlands. ML spoke to the site visit he and MM had the weekend before and noted satis faction 
that the 50 foot zone would not be intrude d on. Abutter Rebecca Noke spoke in favor of the project. The meeting was continued to the 
October 6, 2021 meeting Due to the lack of a DEP number by a motion of JV and a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amende d and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Request for a Determination by The Roman Catholic Bishop of Worcester for the reconstruction of an existing parking lot and  the 
building of a playground area and a vegetation island at 811 Mass Ave. 
 
Gregory Roy was present represented the applicant. He outlined the overall proposal to the commission and the orientation to the 
wetland. He outlined there would be greenspace added where there was currently pavement behind the church convent. He also noted 
that there would be pavement by the playground area that would be removed, bringing the final re -paving father away form the 
wetland. RB examined the ending of pavement with the applicant and where the route would be for construction and material hauling 
entrances.  He also examined if erosion protection was needed. JV asked if a catch basin in the south east corner was examine d. Mr. 
Roy noted that as there was no curbing a basin would not work, however current flow patterns would remain  essentially identical. ML 
reviewed any landscaping.  
 
A motion was made to issue a negative determination (number 3) by JV and a second by CC with a unan imous vote to approve the 
motion.   
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Request for a Determination by Marsha Beers the construction of stairs, a landing and the placement of a dock area within the buffer 
zone at 205 Sunset Lane map 126 parcel 67 lot b-3. 
 
Marsha Beers and Ryan Coffren were  present to represent themselves. They outlined the proposal and its orientation to the lakefront. 
Based on questioning by BP it was noted that there would be no large scale vegetation removal. He also examined the locations  noted 
on the submitted plans and examined the proposed temporary nature of the structures on the site. MM noted that when he and LM 
inspected the site there was only a couple of red oak saplings and a couple of shrubs that would need to be remove. BR examin ed the 
total dimensions of the site in relation to the plan. It was noted by the applicant this would be placed on the ground. RB asked where 
the dock would be placed in the winter time. The applicant outlined where there was an existing non -vegetated foot path that it would 
===PAGE 3===
be placed in. JV noted he had no objection.  ML noted that he had no objections as the major vegetation is being left alone. RB voiced 
concerns about the steepness, the fact it is within the 30 foot zone and was concerned about the vegetation not being able to  re-
establish. The applicant noted that the locations were chosen due to their lack of vegetation.  It was noted based on questioning by JV 
that the stairs and landing was being prefabbed with pressure treated wood.  
 
A motion was made for a negative ( number 3) determination by PA with a second by JV and a vote of JV, PA, CC and ML yes and RB 
voted no.  
 
 
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING  
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a request for a determination for the installation of an in ground pool and pavilion at 10 Butterfly Lane by by David Janvarin.  
 
 
David Janvrin appeared before the commission to review the changes in the plans as requested by the commission.  
 
A motion was made to issue a negative determination by JV with a second by CC and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Notice of Intent at 441 Townsend Harbor Road by Nicholas Eaton for the rebuilding of a single family home and septic system, wit hin 
the buffer zone 
 
Jack Maloney was present representing the applicant and reviewed the changes required by the commission reques ted as well as the 
tree protection plan. RB  examined the size of the plantings for the trees and after discussion the applicant agreed to move ti up to a 2 
inch caliper . 
 
There was a motion made to approve an Order of Conditions with the added condition that the males be at a minimum range of  1.5 to 
1.75 inches in diameter.  
         
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and Under Lunenburg Protective By Law chapter 335, the Lunenburg Conservation 
Commission will hold a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Cynthia Ritchie for work at 137 Flynn Road to build a natural stone wall 
along the waterfront to protect against future erosion of the edges of the land and beach . 
 
Cynthia Ritchie was present to represent herself. Ms. Ritchie read a statement into the record form Mr. John Tata and Mike 
DeFazio. She noted that the proposal was for the safety of the property and passing boats as trees have been falling and 
leaning. She noted that Dillis and Roy did a very detailed map. Mrs. Ritchie and Mr. Ramsde n outlined the construction 
technique. RB examined the steps and the location of the beach and wondered why the steps were necessary. Mr. 
Ramsden noted that the existing Beach was very steep. RB examined the proposed material for the wall with the applican t 
and the decking to confirm it was over existing concrete. He also examined with the applicant that the wall would not being 
expanded outward into the lake to prevent filling of the lake bed. Flood plain issues should be taken into consideration. It 
was noted that DEP has not yet issued a DEP number and noted that a number should be coming out prior to the next 
meeting. JV examined the proposal for work in the sandy areas and his opinion was the proposed wall in the sandy areas 
should be modified  as the proposed wall will not stop the erosion. He felt the north side was adequate for the proposal. He 
also noted that there should filter fabric under the stones within the north side. (he state perhaps double or triple layer i t in 
the sandy areas with filter fa bric). Mr. Ramsden noted that he understood and will address the concerns regarding the filter 
fabric.  
 
The meeting was continued to October 6, 2021 by a motion of JV and a second by CC with unanimous vote to approve the 
motion. 
 
Pursuant  to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
on a Notice of Intent by MA Pleasant LLC will be held. Work proposed is construction of a six lot subdivision, Roadway, utili ties and a  
proposed wetland crossing at 101 Pleasant Street. 
       
 
The meeting was continued to October 6, 2021 by a motion of JV and a second by CC with unanimous vote to approve the 
motion. 
       
 
 
===PAGE 4===
Continued to Oct 6  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing    
on a Notice of Intent by Christopher and Suzanne DeGeorge will be held. Work proposed is improvement of access to Lake Shirle y  
and control of erosion within 100-feet of a wetland resource area at 48 Pearl Street. 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public meeting on a request for a Notice of Intent by Proctor Masonry for work at 203  Fire 
Road 16 for the construction of replacement retaining walls and the removal of trees affecting the current wall structure. 
 
NEW BUSINESS -    
 
Old Business- review of encroachment onto all conservation properties using the assessors ortho 
photographs. No action 
 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
 
 
 
 
 Leominster Road- Illegal Dumping activity – The town has engaged Mark 
Popham to prepare the remedial NOI.  
 
    NON 48 Oak Ridge no action examining legal  
options 
    EO 205 Arbor Street still awaiting DEP 
    NON 23 Cove Road  Working with DPW currently 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any….NO ACTION 
     
     Certificates of Compliance None 
    
     Extension Permit – 141 Hemlock Drive request for extension and potential filed change MM 
requested it be continued as the applicant was not present. A motion was made to continue to October 
6, 2021 with  a motion by CC and a second by ML and a unanimous vote to approve the motion.  
 
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination- 176 Townsend Harbor Road.- one tree within the 50 to 100 foot section of Buffer 
zone.  - MM reviewed the site with the commission. The determination               
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
Communications / public comment 
Adjourn – the meeting was adjourned 
at 8:45 PM by a motion of CC and a 
second by JV and a unanimous vote 
to approve the motion. 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is October 6, 2021 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 