===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
 
December 1, 2021 
7:00 PM . 
MINUTES 
 
                                     ZOOM REMOTE 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised 
that this meeting is being Audio/Video Recorded. The agenda lists all the topics 
which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed 
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
This meeting of the Conservation Commission will be held  by Zoom at the Link 
provided on this notice.  
            
 
ZOOM INFORMATION: 
Town of Lunenburg is inviting you to a scheduled Zoom meeting. 
  
Topic: Conservation Commission 
Time: Dec 1, 2021 07:00 PM Eastern Time (US and Canada) 
  
Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353 
  
Meeting ID: 792 737 0353 
One tap mobile 
+19292056099,,7927370353# US (New York) 
+13017158592,,7927370353# US (Washington DC) 
  
Dial by your location 
        +1 929 205 6099 US (New York) 
        +1 301 715 8592 US (Washington DC) 
        +1 312 626 6799 US (Chicago) 
        +1 669 900 6833 US (San Jose) 
        +1 253 215 8782 US (Tacoma) 
        +1 346 248 7799 US (Houston) 
        888 475 4499 US Toll-free 
        877 853 5257 US Toll-free 
Meeting ID: 792 737 0353 
Find your local number: https://us02web.zoom.us/u/keIXtBWHsv 
  
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Call to Order Meeting called to Order at 7 PM by BP with all members present except CC 
Announcements 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
  
 
Mary Wilson from the Lunenburg Trail riders appeared before the commission proposing 
trail improvements for the Small town forest. It was noted that aby stumps left will be ground 
in place. A motion approving the proposal was made by JR with a second by RB and a 
unanimous vote of the commission to approve. 
Minutes of previous meetings –October 20  The minutes were approved by a motion of JR, a second by 
ML and a unanimous roll call vote approving the motion.  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
1. Gerry, 36 Peninsula Drive Steve Marsden presented the changes to the Commission. He noted the 
details and the breakdown in the reduction of work within both the 50 and 100 foot buffer zones. A 
motion to approve as a field change was made by JV with a second by ML with a unanimous vote to 
approve by roll call vote.  
2. 141 Hemlock deck addition to plan- Steve Marsden explained the minor changes ( Deck) to the plan 
for 141 Hemlock. A motion was made to approve as a field change by BR and a second by JR with a 
unanimous vote by roll call to approve the motion.  
 
  Public Hearing 
 
 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Mark Brightman for work at 524 Northfield Road for 
the replacement of a septic system wall the filling of a former swimming pool within the buffer zone.  
 
Angel Lehtonen was present to represent the applicant. MM recounted the site visit with he and ML and JR. The commission 
examined moving the se ptic system to the bottom of the slope. BP reviewed the location of the dumpster that will be on the property 
for the removal of the demolition  material. The demolition material will be removed from site first prior to the construction of the septic 
system. The area of the system was examined that was out of the 50 foot no structure zone. Jr did not see any problems with t he 
plans as proposed. MM  noted that removing the pool and re -establishing the green space would be very meaningful on this site. JV 
asked about putting the system where the pool is. Ms. Lehtonen noted that due to the presence of the pool, it was impossible to test 
the area. She a lso noted that testing by the rear of the house would result in greater impacts due to potentially adding the retaining 
wall. The meeting was continued to the January 5, 2022 meeting due to the lack of a DEP number by a motion of by RB with a second 
by PA and a unanimous vote of the commission approving the motion.   
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by William Emkey for work at 445 Townsend 
Harbor Road for the replacement of railroad tie steps and a timber retaining wall within the buffer zone. 
 
William Emkey was present to represent himself. He outlined and oriented the Commission to the project. JR noted that there i s 
a definite erosion problem and  wanted to know if any modifications could be made to the proposal to add to potential erosion 
prevention. RB and JV examined placing a trench with stone behind the grass area to address heavy storm water runoff to 
mitigate the erosion  issue. RB noted on the addition that was filed for in 2017 and asked about the timing of the brick patio. It 
was noted by the applicant, there were 2 additions and the brick was placed in the first addition. JV recommended putting in the 
roof down spout in a drainage trench.  
 
The meeting was continued until the December 15, 2021 meeting by a motion of JV and seconded by JR and unanimous vote 
of the commission to approve the motion (due to the lack of a DEP number)  
 
 
===PAGE 3===
The Conservation Commission will hold a  public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Eric and Linda Vickery for work at 160 
Peninsula Drive for the replacement of Wood Retaining wall and a stationary timber dock within the buffer zone .  
 Eric and Linda Vickery were present to represent themselves. T he presented the project to the commission with the current 
project conditions and the proposed conditions. It was noted that there was no DEP number issued yet. RB moved to continue 
the meeting to December 15, 2021. Jr Seconded and the commission approved  the motion by unanimous vote.  
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing o n 
a Request for a Determination by Matthew Butterworth for  the placem ent of a shed within the buffer zone at  188 Whalom road. 
 
This was continued to the December 15, meeting by a motion of JV and a second by RB with a unanimous vote of the commission t o 
approve the motion.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch  131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public 
hearing on a Notice of Intent by Kevin Hill  the  Construction of a single family home at 41 Country Lane     
 
Wesley Flis from Whitman and Bingham was present  to represent the applicant. he explained the review of the proposed 
changes he considered with his client. It was noted that his client, Kevin hill, was building this for himself due to ill hea lth, he 
required single floor living. Alternative configuratio ns were outlined by the applicant. It was proposed that the house location not 
be changed. He also proposed flagging the trees and having MM evaluate them for replacement. JR felt it should be 
reconfigured to minimize square feet and that he felt that othe r options should be considered. MM clarified riverfront regulation 
regarding a pre -existing lot. RB clarified the meaning of best extent practicable. He noted that there should be an attempt to 
move the house proposed and show it in a drawing. Mr. Flis str essed that the drawing shows that the limits of clearing have 
been minimized to ensure protection of the by -law buffer zone. Moving the house too much might cause the applicant to 
propose something that is not in compliance with the by law.  RB noted that the buffer zone of 100 feet would still apply and the 
commission has the right to stress minimal impacts. RB  and BP reviewed some potential configurations. JV noted that the 
proposed size of the home was pretty standard size for the average home in this region. Mr Flis agreed to continue to examine 
and propose reconfigurations. The Commission voted unanimously by roll call to continue the meeting to December 15 by a 
motion of RB and a second by PA with a unanimous vote to approve           
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing     
on a Notice of Intent by MA Pleasant LLC will be held. Work proposed is construction of a six lot subdivision, Roadway, utili ties and a  
proposed wetland crossing at 101 Pleasant Street. 
 
Unanimous roll call vote to continue to January 5, 2022 . 
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS -  61 A release request:   
                                               By Law review Committee Communication. 
 
                                                Trail planning at 260 Howard Street. 
 
Old Business-            Repairs to 123 Hollis Road residence 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
615 Townsend Street 
441 Townsend Harbor Road Jack Maloney was present for the applicant. Jeremy Eithier was present for the applicant 
and Nick Eaton was present to represent himself.  He reviewed the proposal for cultech chambers to make up for the extended 
roof placed in violation. JR proposed removing the roof. RB proposed adding some plantings along the buffer line of the shore to 
create habitat. Jeremy Eithier contended there was a preexisting overhang, however reviews of the pre -exiting conditions photos 
show that the assertion was incorrect and the area referred to was on the wrong side and was approved in the plan. Mr. Either 
contended that there was a demolition permit that the current house configuration is based on. MM disagreed noting there was no 
supporting documentation. He noted that the upload must not have taken. Nick Eaton discussed the requirements of the 
commission. Jeremy Either noted he could obtain a structural engineers drawing.. The Commission discussed tree removal and a 
naturalized shore line. Mr. .Eithier noted that the structural supports will need to be placed in order to support the structure. 
Removal of the shed on the property was also proposed. MM reviewed the original tree replanting plan with the commission and 
noted that any replanting was under 5 trees. Mr. Either contended that the issues was over 300 square feet and felt it wasn’t 
===PAGE 4===
necessary. MM replied that the structure on site is not close to the structure and conditions approved and the commission has 
made very strong suggestions on how to get this accomplished. This matter was continued. 
 
 
 
Leominster Road- Illegal Dumping activity A notice of Intent is expected any day 
now.  
    NON 48 Oak Ridge- working with Counsel 
    EO 205 Arbor Street – Waiting for DEP 
    NON 23 Cove Road- Will tour with owner 
    190 Peninsula Drive – Dayton and Amy Semerjian appeared before the commission to discuss the violation. MM recounted 
the history, the site inspection and the extensive diversion from the approved plan. He noted that nothing should be touched  at this 
point. ML agreed with MM’s version of the events.MM noted it was in his opinion it was done without malice Amy Semerjian noted that 
it was not her parents intentions to cut down the amount of trees and that there was a miscommunication.MM reviewed  the files and 
the drawings submitted by Amy Semerjian and reviewed with her father on site during his inspection with ML. RB noted that the  
owners should provide a replanting plan based on local regulations. Amy Semerjian requested if the one tree that wa s totally stripped 
of branches could be cut. MM requested the commission required that he be notified by Mark Flagg prior to anyone doing any work. It 
was agreed to by the applicant. The Commission directed that the Semerjian’s  reach out to MM to develop a planting plan. It was 
noted that permission from hickory hills be obtained.  
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any: .BP updated plans for updating Kiosks. He also noted that 
the by law review committee had written to the commission for by law updates and BP would place this on 
the agenda in the future.  
     
     Certificates of Compliance 50 Page Street Lot 1 DEP number 208-1205 The lot was voted  to be released by 
unanimous roll call vote on a motion of RB and a second by  JR .   
    
     Extension Permit –  
 
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination-   
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
Communications / public comment  
Public Comments :Nick Eaton requested to be able to place in the septic system, at 441 Townsend Harbor. 
After consideration, RB moved to lift the section of the enforcemen t order allowing the placement of the system. 
JV seconded and the commission unanimously approved the motion by roll call vote.  
Adjourn The meeting adjourned at 11:00 PM by a motion of RB and a second by ML with a 
unanimous vote to approve 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is December 15, 2021 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 
 
PLEASE NOTE ALL DOCUMENTS REFERED TO IN THESE MIUTES ARE ON FILE AT THE 
CONSERVATION COMMISSION OFFICE 