===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Nadia Madden, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
    Richard Tremblay, Associate 
     Mary Wilson, Associate 
 
 
June 1 2022 
7:00 PM . 
Minutes 
 
                                     ZOOM REMOTE 
 
  
Call to Order  
 
Members Present: Bob Pease, Richard Bursch, Catie Childs, Michael Larouche, Jack Rabbit 
Absent: Jeff Viviano, Patricia Adams 
Associate Member: Richard Tremblay 
 
Announcements 
Public  Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the comment 
period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
Dave MacDonald: Thanks to Matt Marro for their excellent work in Lunenburg.  Announcement on School 
Safety vigil and resolution to support school safety on 6/10 at 6:30 at TC Passios Campus. 
Introduction of new Conservation Administrator, Nadia Madden 
Minutes of previous meetings – May 18, 2022 Roll Call, Unanimous approval of minutes 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
190 Peninsula Drive restoration plan: Mark Bursch from Lakeview Nurseries representing the Semerjians at 
190 Peninsula Drive.  He asked us to share a prior powerpoint presentation, and shared more recent plan for 
replanting.  Proposed 14 larger trees with 1” and 1.5”diameter replica stock, with larger trees being  more 
likely to survive.  Also proposed blueberry, mountain laurel, and clethora for understory.   Will set up 
temporary irrigation with starter fertilizer for the plants, and will grind strumps to help fertilize and stabilize 
soils.  Commissioner RB recused himself because MB is his brother.  JR asked about heights of trees, MB said 
they will be 8-9 feet and 4-5 feet depending on variety.  Minimal use of mini excavator, plans to use an augur 
to minimize soil disruption. 
ML moved/JR seconded to approve restoration plan.  Roll Call vote: unanimous approval, RB recused. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, a 
public hearing on a Notice of Intent  V and V Lunenburg LLC for the redevelopment of a restaurant to a 
===PAGE 2===
marijuana retail facility within the river front at 42 Summer Street. 
 
Ian Ainslie,engineer for McAinsley presented plans for 42 Summer Street. 200 Foot Riverfront area for 
Falulah/Baker Brook.  The entire property is BLSF, floodplain elevation of 368’, property is 364-365’. There 
will be a 5500 sqft reduction in paved area which will be restored to vegetated pervious area.  Will add stone 
infiltration trench at the edge of the parking lot.  JR asked if the road runoff coming from Summer Street to 
the parking lot will now be caught by the trench. IA clarified that the parking lot is lower than the road and 
will continue to be lower elevation than Summer street in the future, and that a catch basin will capture 
runoff prior to entering the infiltration trench. IA pointed out the maintenance plan for the infiltration 
trench, which will be maintained by the order.  IA said the town could request inspection reports if 
necessary. JR requested maintenance from an outside party.  Comissioner RB asked about grass being added 
in certain areas and if loaming and seeding is shown on the plan.  The currently vegetated areas will be 
untouched.  RB asked if the parking lot will be curbed in to prevent runoff to the brook.  IA said there will be 
a ridge in front of the infiltration trench. RB asked that a note be included that any disturbed area will be 
loamed and planted on the plan.   
RB moved/ JR seconded to continue to June 15, 2022 as DEP number has not been issued.  Roll call vote 
was unanimous. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, a 
public meeting on a Notice of Intent by Hickory Hills Association for the approval of a whole lake 
management plan at Hickory Hills Lake at Townsend Harbor Road. 
 
Paula Bertram of 312 Townsend Harbor Road, president of Hickory Hills Association gave a presentation on 
the HHA’s plan for lake management.  RB asked for schedule for drawdown, Paula said it is included in the 
Hickory Hills lake management plan.  Currently have two different NOIs with different OOCs, BP suggests that 
they close out the previous NOIs (now expired) as the new NOI combines both lake management and 
drawdown. RB asked why they are no longer testing for dissolved phosphates, Paula explained that they do 
not have the filtration capability in the field for volunteers to properly measure dissolved phosphates. RB 
asked where the 2021 year-end plan is, Paula said that the year-end report is from solitude lake management 
and is only from 2020, asked for more information about how the treatments projects came out. Paula asked 
for a 3-year general permit for the Lake management plan.  They are trying to focus on spot treatment of 
areas with more than a ¼ acre of fanwort.  Paula offered to let Conscomm know in advance about treatment 
when opportunities for spot treatment arise.  would like the Commission to have more review of chemical 
releases in the lake.  PB says the HHA is willing to notify the Commission about spot treatments and be 
required to attend a ConsComm meeting prior to spot treatments as a condition of the NOI. BP asked if RB 
would be comfortable with a condition requiring 7 days notice and review prior to spot treatments.  RB said 
the ConsComm has a duty to all the downstream waters as well, is looking for a schedule for treatment and 
regular updates on drawdowns and the impacts of treatments. 
John Fortune of 50 Hemlock Drive, noted that the previous OOCs were 208-1133 and 208-1104, and that the 
lake association plans to come back every year with information about the drawdown and the impacts.  They 
are currently proposing a 4-foot drawdown for lake members to clean up their property without impacting 
anyone’s wells.   
Commissioner JR asked about the research for the drawdowns, noting that maintaining certain levels could 
encourage certain plants, has there been any sensitivity testing around 5 feet?  JF said that the best 
treatment for fanwort has been chemical treatment.  They had tried a drawdown below 4 foot and found it 
affected people’s wells. BP suggested the applicant submit a draft list of specific permitted activities to be 
included in the order of conditions.  BP asked that the OOC define the annual report, Paula noted that the 
HHA provides regular updates and is willing to do a 7 or 14-day notice on herbicide treatment with the 
Comission having the ability to accept or deny the request.  RB wants to further review the lake management 
plan prior to making a decision.  PB offered to put together a 1-page document summarizing what is in the 
lake management plan regarding drawdown.  Current plan has expired, needs an Alum treatment in June so 
they would like to close out at the June 15
th meeting.  ML asked what happens to the fish and other wildlife 
when the herbicide treatments are done.  Paula said all of the herbicides are licensed by DEP and are not 
===PAGE 3===
shown to have any impacts on fish or aquatic wildlife, and noted that if the invasives get too dense the fish 
will also die.  JF said they track and analyze fishing on the lake and the size and quantity of fish are increasing 
on the lake.  They have noticed that fish die-off happens in the spring as pollen comes out. 
RB moved/ CC seconded to continue to June 15, 2022.  Roll call vote was unanimous to continue. 
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, The 
Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Request for a Determination by Lunenburg Jack 
Katurnia for the removal of impervious materials within the buffer zone at 192 Townsend Harbor Road . 
 
Jack Kurtania has submitted an RDA in response to an enforcement order, BP summarized progress on the 
RDA which needs to be voted on and closed out.  At the last meeting the Conscomm told JK to keep the wall 
and seed the encroachment as needed.  RB was chair at the last meeting, and closed it out prematurely, he is 
not in favor of allowing the wall to remain on the Conservation Property.  JR said that there is an outflow 
coming off the street into the wetlands and that he is OK with moving the wall.  JK is willing to remove the 
retaining wall on the conservation property.  Associate member RT took a picture during the site walk which 
he shared with the Commission.   
ML moved/CC seconded for a negative determination with the stipulation that the wall be removed.  Roll 
call vote, unanimous approval. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, The 
Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Fitchburg Land property Owner 
LLC to construct a 367,000 square foot warehouse and distribution facility with parking and storm water 
controls at 260 Fahlulah Road. 
 
NM said that the applicant requested a continuation.  RB asked to have Graves review the plan from the 
perspective of the WPA and the town bylaw.  NM will reach out to the applicant to ask for review from 
Graves and contact Adam about doing so.   
RB moved/CC seconded to continue to June 15
th, Roll call vote was unanimous in favor. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239 The 
Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Request for a Determination by David Blatt for the 
removal of trees at 411 Goodrich Street. 
 
Applicant not present, this is the 3
rd meeting in a row where the applicant has not shown or contacted the 
Conservation office.  RB recommended to issue an enforcement order for filling in the 30-foot buffer zone as 
shown on a recent site visit.  BP also thought the concrete driveway was in the buffer zone.   
RB moved/ JR seconded to issue a positive determination. Roll call vote was unanimous in favor. 
NM and MM recommend an enforcement order as well. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239 , The 
Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Request for a Determination by John Welton for the 
construction of stairs, a landing and a dock within the 100 foot buffer zone at 205 Sunset Lane Map 129 Lot 
68. 
 
NM said the applicant is waiting to hear back from MESA as they are located within NHESP habitat.  
RB moved/CC seconded to continue to June 15
th, . Roll call vote was unanimous in favor. 
 
NEW BUSINESS -   
                                                 
Old Business-   update on encroachment issues at : 
===PAGE 4===
192 Townsend  Harbor Road 
214 Townsend  Harbor Road 
240 Townsend Harbor Road 
104 Woodland Drive 
116 Woodland Drive 
BP said that 3 of the properties have complied, and the other 2 have been notified by Town Council that they 
are encroaching.  They have been given 30 days notice to respond.  JR asked if the ConsComm has sent any 
letters to other encroachers, Town Council recommends an incremental approach. 
 
Update on maintenance work at Hollis Road residence.   
BP said that he spoke with Julie Belliveau and thought it would be appropriate to break up the work and put 
it out to spec.  The town now has a new DPW head, BP thinks we should approach him to get help getting the 
bid specs.  ML has an appointment to speak with the person who lives at 123 Hollis Road on Friday.  He is 
looking for the lawnmower. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
 
238 Fire Road 16   
Brandon Ducharme, and Engineer at David E. Ross presented revised plans for the as-built and the 
revegetation plan that incorporates the feedback from the last meeting.  The new as-built now shows the 
compensatory flood storage – 394 cubic feet that was filled.  The updated mitigation plan includes a planting 
schedule along the berm and flood storage, includes more trees and larger trees (2” caliper, 10-12’ trees). 
Trees were also added at the NE corner and the existing limit of work will also have additional mitigation 
plantings. 
JR asked about the design guide for erosion for MA planners.  JR asked about the inspection and 
maintenance plan for reviewing erosion controls and asked if there is an inspection log for the erosion 
controls.  BD said that daily and weekly inspections need to be done under NPDES for projects over an acre, 
while this project disturbed an area smaller than an acre. JR asked about the compensatory flood storage, BD 
said that the original OOC did not require compensatory storage for the project and that the impact over the 
entire water body would be less than an inch.   RB had additional questions about flood storage (need more 
notes), said about 50 feet of driveway are missing. JR asked for additional remediation beyond the plan, 
including trees along the driveway, trees back in the floodplain, and the 0-30 feet revegetated back to the 
original state with 2” caliper trees. 
Comments from Butch: one area is out of jurisdiction.  The trees that were cut down were mostly small. 
RB had a question on the video to confirm several questions. 
BP took a straw poll: BP, RB, CC and ML would like to see enough trees in the 30 foot buffer to imitate the 
existing canopy on the remediation plan.  JR requested additional time to speak at the next meeting. 
615 Townsend Street 
NON 48 Oak Ridge 
NON 23 Cove Road: BP noted that they put up a structure in the 30-foot no disturbance buffer, asked NM to 
go take a look at it. 
NON 54 Pine Grove 
EO 4 Gabes Place 
NON 366 Arbor St 
ON 205 Sunset:  Property owners Marsha and Beers attended, they were asked to come with more 
information last time and they showed a presentation about why the lower legs of the dock were in the 
water.  The size of the dock was due to a miscommunication with the builder on the size.  Applicant claimed 
that the deck as built protects the bank.  JR noted that the final deck is much larger than approved and that it 
would set a precedent, he asked that the deck be shortened to match the original plan. BP said that the 
original plan has been extended from 10’ to15’ on the upper deck and from 8’ to 15’ with no dock extending 
to the lake.  Ryan said that the original plan would have some variance due to the complexity of the site. 
 
NM noted that the determination  was based on the dock not extending into the resource area, but that the 
===PAGE 5===
actual dock extends into the resource area which violates the negative determination which could require an 
NOI, and that the area is a priority habitat for rare species according to NHESP.  Ryan said the bylaw allows 
for docks to be installed in the water, and that they have since filed with the state and expect to hear back 
from them by June 16th.  RB said that floating temporary docks are allowed, but not permanent structures. 
BP took a straw poll with the Commission, and the majority requested that they return the deck to the 
originally approved footprint.  Marsha asked that someone come out on site with them and explain what 
needs to be done clearly.  Conscomm plans to do a site visit first and will revisit this issue at the next 
meeting. 
EO 408 Electric Ave: NM update 
EO 75 West St: RDA in process 
NON 509 Townsend Harbor Road: Site  
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any.BP reported that the trail map signs have all been developed 
and are being ordered, the grant funds will have all been spent, so putting up the signs will need to be 
funded by the timber rights account.  Needs work on the gate from DPW. 
 
Certificates of Compliance   
Pleasant St Bridge: JR noted that the bridge has significant openings where someone can slip through and 
the job does not appear to be done.  RB says if it was built as designed, it should be approved, and he moved 
to approve the COC.  CC seconded.  Discussion of the bridge modifications related to the WPA and the bylaw.  
Roll Call vote 3/2, (BP, CC, and JV voted to approve, JR and ML voted against). 
 
137 Flynn Road: continued, no partial issued as work is not yet complete.  Will wait for revegetation to vote 
on full CoC 
 
700/712 Mass Avenue: Roll call vote to issue duplicate COC. 
                 
Extension Permit –  
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination  -  
The Woodlands 104 and 106 Royal Fern Drive has a dead tree that needs removal.  BP recused himself as he 
lives in the Woodlands. 
ML moved/CC seconded approve tree removal. Roll call vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
191 Peninsula 1 tree is 85 feet from the water.  
RB moved/CC seconded approve tree removal. Roll call vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 
Discussion of Gary Goldrup, expecting to hear from him in June.  BP will reach out to him regarding forest 
cutting plans. 
 
Communications / public comment 
 
Move to adjourn by RB/CC seconded. Unanimous vote to adjourn at 11:04 PM 
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is June 15, 2022 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 