===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
    Richard Tremblay, Associate 
March 16 2022 
7:00 PM . 
MIUNUTES 
 
            
 
  
MEETING WAS HELD BY ZOOM REMOTE. ALL VOTES TAKEN BY ROLL CALL  
AGENDA 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
THE MEETING WAS CALLED TO ORDER BY RB ACTING AS CHAIR AT 7PM 
IN ATTENDANCE WAS RB  ML CC JR 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
  JR under public comment noted that he was placing his name in for reappointment. It was 
noted that Jeff was also up for reappointment. 
 
He also noted that he copied MM with a 2 items for him to review.  
 
JR also asked MM about his retirement upcoming. MM noted he is retiring on May 31 and 
his position has been advertised. 
 
RB noted that there is a liaison position with the open space committee. 
Minutes of previous meetings – March 2, 2022 Not acted on.  
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
   
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING S 
 
 Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 and Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw and regulations as listed in chapter 239, the Conservation Commission 
will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent  by William Emkey for work at 445 Townsend Harbor Road for the replacement of 
railroad tie steps and a timber retaining wall within the buffer zone.  
    
This was continued to the April 6, 2022 meeting by a motion of ML  and  a second by CC with a unanimous vote to approve the motion 
to continue. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS -   
                                                 
Discussion of Properties on the Tax Lien Sale List 
 
Old Business-   update on encroachment issues at : 
192 Townsend harbor Road- Jack Katurnia appeared before the commission to note that he will 
be removing be removing the pavement and other materials. He was instructed to file with the 
commission for a request for a determination to memorialize the removal. Matt proctor, who is the 
contractor for Mr. Katurnia will be in contact with MM. 
  
214 Townsend harbor Road – MM noted that there was response pledging to remove the material 
for May 3rd, 2022. MM will follow up on May 3rd.  
240 Townsend Harbor Road 
104 Woodland Drive 
116 Woodland Drive 
 
Update on maintenance work at Hollis Road residence. 
 
RB noted that the commission received Three bids on the Hollis Road property for the forestry 
and the high bid was from King Farm and it will commence once the drier season in May or June. 
There was motion to ratify the bid by King Brothers. 
 
MM noted that the plumbing and rodent issues were resolved and the town is going to put out  a 
scope of work for other contracting items. 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Administrative Hearings). 
238 Fire Road 16 – MM issued an EO for cutting in areas not allowed. MM 
noted that he also informed DEP and the Mass endangered species 
program. MM recommended that the applicant/owner be required to add the 
extra area on the plan and propose remedial plantings. JR asked about the 
pine that was pushed over into the lake. He also asked for the driveway to 
be closely examined.  
  
Lia Ellowitz expressed concerns about ongoing work in violation along the 
peninsula. MM will review the area. MM Noted that his site visit last week, 
that there was no further violation when he was on the property last week, 
however he would check. JR moved to issue a cease and desist if they are 
outside the specification of the existing EO. CC seconded and the 
commission voted unanimously. JR asked I the whole construction job 
would be stopped. MM Noted that Section C had the cease and desist 
checked off on the form for the areas that were in violation. 
 
615 Townsend Street – the building commissioner has been to the property 
and is instructing the owner on retroactive filings for earth removal. 
441 Townsend Harbor Road- Nick Eaton appeared and he was instructed as 
to the procedure for the Amendment to the OOC. The roofline remedial work 
has commenced. Mr. Eaton noted that there is another tree that was not 
listed that he would like the commission to review it.  
    NON 48 Oak Ridge 
    NON 23 Cove Road – MM will contact the homeowner 
    190 Peninsula Drive- Will appear Aril 6, 2022 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
===PAGE 3===
 
     
     Certificates of Compliance  
    
     Extension Permit –  
 
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 
 
Communications / public comment JR noted that there is an upcoming storm water meeting and the consultant 
is reviewing the compliance with MS4 permitting and the website.  
 
Adjourn - The meeting was adjourned by a motion of ML and a second by CC with a unanimous 
vote to approve the motion. The meeting was adjourned at 7:45 PM 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is April 6, 2022at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 