===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Bob Pease, Chair Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Richard Bursch, Vice Chair 960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Patricia Adams Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Jack Rabbitt Matthew S. Marro, 
Jeffrey Viviano Conservation Administrator 
Michael Larouche 
Richard Tremblay, Associate 
 
January 19, 2022 
7:00 PM . 
 
                                     ZOOM REMOTE 
 
 
 
MIUNUTES 
Call to Order 
Announcements 
All members were in attendance called to order at 7 PM by Chairman 
 
Public Comment Comments are to be limited to 3 minutes and on a subject matter under the direct 
jurisdiction of the commission. Comments about current agenda items are to be made during the 
comment period of the specific agenda item. Please address all comments to the Chair. 
 
 Jack rabbit spoke to storm water requirements and potential overlap with conservation regulations. 
He will send the minutes from the storm water committee.  
 
Minutes of previous meetings – December 1 2021 &  January 5 2022 
Minutes from Dec 1, 2021. BP reviewed minutes, approved with amendments by a motion of JR and 
a second from RB with a unanimous vote to approve 
 
Minutes from Jan 5 2022 BP reviewed minutes, approved with amendments by a motion of JR and a 
second from RB with a unanimous vote to approve 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings –commences at 7 PM 
 
 
  Public Hearing 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Eric Fowler for the development of a 4 lot residential 
subdivision at 711 Massachusetts Ave. 
 
Wes Flis appeared on behalf of the applicant. BP noted that a DEP number was issued and read the 
comments for the record. Wes Flis introduced the project and outlined the existing conditions the 
wetland resource areas and the orientation of the wetlands in relation to the proposal. He further 
described the methods of compliance with stormwater management standards and the review 
results from Graves Engineering they conducted for the Planning Board. Mr. Flis also outlined the 
proposed grading and erosion control proposal. He reviewed the total proposed disturbances in the 
riverfront showing it was under 10% not including the stormwater as it is permitted under the river 
protection act and outlined other options for construction of the proposal of the site. He cited 
===PAGE 2===
compliance with zoning regulations that applied and the economical feasibility of the proposal as 
presented. He noted that planning board and zoning board of appeals approved the proposed 
project, They will also need to apply for An access permit from Mass DOT from the main road (route 
2A) and they will apply for federal NPDES.  
 
JR asked if planning board granted stormwater permit. RB noted the DEP mentioned the 
alternatives analysis and wanted to know why it could not be reduced in buildings or configuration. 
Mr Flis noted that there was economic feasibility that was tied into the 4 units. RB asked for some 
evidence of the economic viability. Mr. Flis will consult with his client. RB asked about the current 
state of development of the property. It was noted that there are cart paths along the property, 
however it was mostly undeveloped. CC requested if there were any vegetation that would be 
removed within the 30 foot no touch zone. Mr Flis showed the commission on the plans that the 30 
foot zone was left proposed as untouched. BP noted that his site visit noted early successional 
growth with a high density of invasives. He noted that the area where the lots were proposed has 
piles of broken and plastic pots. Mr Flis noted that would be cleaned up. JR asked if the area was in 
at special environmental sensitive zones. Mr Flis reviewed the GIS database and noted it was not. 
The meeting was continued to February 2nd 2022 to allow the applicant to put together an economic 
feasibility narrative by a motion of RB and a second by JV with a unanimous roll call vote to approve 
the motion. 
 
 
  CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARING S 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Paul Gosselin for the relocation of an existi ng drain 
line on 21 Brookview Terrace. 
 
Continued to February 2nd 2022 by a motion of RB and a second by BP with a unanimous vote to 
approve the motion.  
 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public meeting on a request for a determination by Paulo Majovski  for work at 2 
Gabe’s Place for the removal of trees within the buffer zone. 
 
BP noted that he, JV and MM noted that they conducted a site visit prior to the snow fall. BP noted 
that based on the size of the trees that were cut down it would be appropriate to ask the applicant to 
replant .MM reviewed the delineated wetland area and that planting 12 pin oaks would satisfy the 
ratio of the re-planting along with the calculations prescribed within the regulations. JR asked for 
demarcation of the 30-foot zone. MM noted that if the pin oaks were planted, the detritus cleaned 
out and the demarcation agreed to then he felt it could have proceeded with a negative 
determination. JV agreed with MM’s assessment. RB agrees with the concept but would like to see it 
in writing first. ML wanted to know if the owners were in agreement and that he would be 
comfortable with the documentation followed up. PA also agreed to have it in writing, CC also 
agreed to have it in writing. The owner asked about areas to be allowed to be cut and stated they 
were in agreement The meeting was continued to February 2, 2022 by a motion of RB a second by 
JR and a unanimous vote to approve the motion by roll call vote.  
 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Inte nt by Mark Brightman for work at 524 Northfield Road for 
the replacement of a septic system wall the filling of a former swimming pool within the buffer zone.  
 
DEP number was given. MM recapped the last meeting. JR moved to issue an Order of Conditions 
with the erosion protection as the limit of work. The motion was approved by a roll call vote with RB 
abstaining.  
 
 
 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by William Emkey for work at 445 Townsend 
Harbor Road for the replacement of railroad tie steps and a timber retaining wall within the buffer zone.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Continued to Feb 2 ,2022 with a motion by RB a second by JV and a unanimous vote to approve by 
roll call vote.  
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on 
a Request for a Determination by Matthew Butterworth for  the placement of a shed within the buffer zone at  188 Whalom roa d. 
 
MM recommended the RDOA be given a positive determination. RB moved for a positive 
determination JR seconded and the commission voted unanimously to approve the motion by rollcall 
vote. 
 
 
    CONTINUED TO FEB 2, 2022 
The Conservation Commission will hold a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Zachery Taylor for the construction of a new duplex 
home, septic and related site grading.at 123 Chase Road. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS -   
                                                 
 
Review / approval of Timber Sale Prospectus for Hawes and Rayno Conservation Areas  
BP reviewed the changes to the prospectus. He noted that he was informed that a formal parking lot 
on open space would need to go to site plan review. The prospectus was approved by a motion of 
RB and a second by ML with a unanimous vote to approve the motion by a roll call vote.  
 
 
Appointment of Richard Tremblay as informal Associate Conservation Commission Member  
 
Richard Tremblay appeared before the conservation commission and expressed interest in being a 
part of the Conservation Commission. He spoke of his activities with the community. BP noted what 
is involved in being an associate member of the commission. ML spoke of his experience with the 
Conservation Commission. The Commission welcomed Mr Tremblay to the commission as an 
associate member. JR asked if there was any legal liability with associate members. MM noted no. 
BP will double check with Adam on Monday afternoon.  
 
 
 
Old Business-   update on encroachment issues at 192 Townsend harbor Road remaining 
materials to be removed at break of weather per homeowner. 
 
By Law review committee         Review of existing Wetlands Bylaw for possible future amendments 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
441 Townsend Harbor Road :Nick Eaton presented a drawing showing the roof line in compliance 
with the original order. The Commission will request the building commissioner confirm his approval 
of the presented design. RB suggested that any further changes for the final be submitted as a field 
change to the commission.  
===PAGE 4===
 
615 Townsend St: Waiting for the building commissioner to return 
Leominster Road- NOI for next meeting 
NON 48 Oak Ridge Road. Conferring with counsel on Monday 
EO 205 Arbor St- released due to confirmation from DEP it  is exempt as agriculture 
23 North Cove Road- MM to site walk with the owner.  
190 Peninsula- MM to resend a letter requesting the promised planting plan. 
2 gabes place currently under consideration of a request for a determination 
 
 
Update on trails grant – status report, if any. 
. 
 
 
 
Request to approve a $1000 purchase order to the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission for  grant 
related GIS work to be funded from the timber rights fund. 
 
 
BP requested 1000 dollars from the timber rights fund for further GIS hours to complete the 
previous hours obtained from the original grant money This was approved unanimously by the 
commission on roll call vote by a motion of RB and a second by JV 
     
     Certificates of Compliance 139 Northfield Road MassDEP No. 208-1094  COC approved by a motion of 
ML and a second by JV with a unanimous vote to approve the motion by roll call vote.  
 
    
     Extension Permit –  
 
Committee Reports – Any Update 
 
 Administrator’s Reports/action items: 
 
Administrators Determination 
Open space and land and Trail use issues and strategies: 
 
. 
 
 
 
Review and discussion of list of potential improvements to Lunenburg Conservation Areas 
Approval of letter of endorsement for proposed improvements by Lunenburg Snow Riders as part 
of an application for a Recreational Trails Program Grant 
 
BP reviewed a letter of support to the Lunenburg snow riders for proposed trail improvements and 
presented lot improvements. He reviewed a parcel-by-parcel list of suggested improvements. The 
commission voted to issue the letter of support by a motion of PA a second by CC and a 
unanimous vote to approve the motion 
 
Communications / public comment Adjourn The meeting was adjourned by a motion of PA seconded  
ML and the commission unanimously approved the motion by roll call vote at 9:04 PM.   
 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is February 2, 2022 at 7:00 PM BY ZOOM PLATFORM 