===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission  
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk 
Richard Bursch  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche  Anna Petrie 
Jeffrey Viviano         Conservation Administrator 
 
 
April 19, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, MW, RT, ML, RB 
Absent:  CC, JV 
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: N/A 
Public Comment:  
 
 
Minutes of previous meetings –April 5th ,2023 RB/MW M/S to approve. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Alan and Christine Kullberg for 
the proposed installation of a shed in place of an existing pump house at 380 Sunset Lane.  
 
Alan and Christine Kullburg to represent themselves. AK states that they are requesting the approval of a 6 x 
11 x 8 x wood-frame shed to replace a previously existing pump house that was removed prior to October of 
2018. AK also states that there are existing concrete footings in place, also prior to purchasing, that are in 
location of the proposed shed.  AK says that the proposed shed will be further away from the water compared 
to the previous pump house.  
 
AP shares plans and photos.  
 
RB asks when the house was built? 
 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
AK says 2013. 
 
RB asks how big the existing shed (pump house)? 
 
AK wasn’t sure of the dimensions; it wasn’t included in the plans. 
 
RB doesn’t see the 50 foot no structure zone. 
 
AK states that the shed would be approximately 23 feet from the water. 
 
RB explains that this would be in the 30 foot no touch as well as 50 foot no structure zone.  
 
RT states that he is an abutter and is in favor of the proposal (will further be recused). 
 
BP asks if the area for the concrete footings is 11 feet in length? 
 
AK confirms, states that there are 3 more footings behind the 3 frontal footings.  
 
BP asked if the length of the front footing to the back footings was approximately 6 feet? 
 
AK confirms, including a gap.  
 
MW clarifies that the footings are newer and were not used for the pump house. MW states that it seems that 
the footings were placed by previous owners with intentions of building a structure.  
 
AK agrees, also the new shed would be further away from the water. 
 
RB would not be in favor of approving this shed, for it is in the 30 foot no touch.  
 
ML asks if it is known where exactly where the pump house was located? 
 
AK states that the pump house was closer to the water, lakeside of the 30 foot no touch. 
 
BP states that it seems that the pump house was smaller than the shed as well. 
 
AK confirms. 
 
RB/MW M/S to issue Positive Determination for Request for Determination. Roll Call vote, unanimous 
to approve. 
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Lunenburg Skate Park, Inc. for the proposed construction of 
a skate park and drainage basin at 100 Chestnut Street (DEP #208-XXXX). 
 
Greg Roy to represent this project. GR states that there is currently no DEP # issued. GR shares the proposed 
plans to construct a skate park. This project was initially proposed years back from students, and the project 
has received many donations and contributors to move the project along. GR states that through working with 
the parks commission, the location has been changed a couple times in accordance with the master plan of the 
park. The footprint limit of the skatepark itself would be 8500 Square feet. GR states that most of the park will 
be outside the buffer zone and will have a stormwater management area that will be in the buffer zone. 
 
MW asks confirmations of the wetland location. 
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
BP asks to show the area where trees will be removed. BP states that within regulations, there will need to be 
replications for the 30 foot no touch for tree removal.  
 
RT asks how many in total that will be taken down? 
 
GR states 13-15 that are bordering the 100-foot buffer. 
 
RT asks if it’s feasible to replace some of the trees? 
 
GR confirms. 
 
 
RB/ML M/S to continue Notice of Intent for 100 Chestnut Street to May 3rd meeting. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Robert Shapiro for the proposed construction of a parking lot 
and relocation of an existing playground at 39 Main Street (DEP #208-XXXX). 
 
Greg Roy to represent this project. Previously a church, the property is proposed to be used as a 
business/school for special needs children. This would include a larger parking park with parking spaces 
supporting approximately 30 children and 30 employees, totaling 33 spaces. The stormwater management area 
will be within the buffer zone, along with trees needing to be removed for the parking area (approximately 10 
trees). There will be replanting of trees as well. GR also states that there is no currently issued DEP #. 
 
BP asks for clarification on extra spots in 50 foot no structure zone? 
 
GR states that the zoning by-law requires certain numbers of spots for each student and employee. 
 
MW asks if any trees are coming down in the stormwater management area? 
 
GR will verify but doesn’t believe so.  
 
BP suggests identifying the trees to be removed/preserved in the updated plans. 
 
RT asks if there are any grading changes? 
 
GR states that there will be a 1-foot fill in the flat areas of the lot. GR also states a retaining wall will be put in 
to make up for the slope.  
 
BP asks for details on retaining wall to be added to plans.  
 
 
ML/RT M/S to continue Notice of Intent for 39 Main Street to May 3rd meeting. Roll Call vote, 
unanimous to approve. 
 
 
  
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a request for an Amended Order of Conditions by Brian and 
Cynthia Ritchie for proposed changes to a previously approved dock at 137 Flynn Road (DEP #208-
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
1242). 
 
Brian and Cynthia Ritchie to represent themselves. BR states that they have received updated plans from 
Dillis and Roy with dimensions added and location of dry well (will storage data). 
 
 
MW/ML M/S to approve Amended Order of Conditions (DEP# 208-1242) with standard conditions. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
   Update on Timber Rights Fund  
 
RB/MW M/S to approve $955 from Timber 
Rights fund for trail markers from Voss Signs. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
     Earth Day 2023 
MW states that there were 4 events during the 
Earth Day weekend which included the Pollinator 
Habitat, Spring cleanup, and tree planting at the 
library.  MW states that Anna Lockwood 
suggested on May 2nd for her and Anna to present a 
project report to the select board.  
 
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road – to be discussed with town 
attorney. BP took pictures for reference. 
315 Lancaster Ave 
110 Pleasant St, Lot 2-to be removed from future 
agendas.  
26 Mulpus Road  
 
Grant Updates: 
No Updates. 
 
Budget Update 
No Updates. 
 
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML states that he spoke with Chris Ruth, Facilities 
Director, about ordering Earth Day supplies. 
 ML also has continued to maintain the property 
including clearing trees and limbs that have come 
down. 
 ML also states that he had met with John Jones to 
survey grassland birds. The survey was successful, 
though deemed early for Bobolinks.  
 
BP states that the facilities director and 
commission should coordinate a time with the 
tenant for a tour. BP also states that the tenant 
should be submitting some sort of documentation 
for grounds maintenance in following the lease 
contract. BP asks AP to follow up with the tenant.   
  
Administrative Determination: 
360 New West Townsend Road 
 
AP presents that property would like to have 3 
Whites Pines removed, which have sustained 
damage from previous winter storms and pose a 
threat to the deck and house. The 3 trees are within 
45-50 feet of the resources area, and there are other 
surrounding White Pines and Eastern Hemlocks.  
 
MW suggests 1 for 1 replanting of the trees to be 
removed, replaced with native species. 
 
MW/RB M/S to approve Administrative 
Determination for 360 New West Townsend 
Road. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
N/A 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
12 Alder Way 
 
===PAGE 5===
   
 
   
 
AP states that the property is technically listed 
under Village at Flat Hill and has two separate 
Order of Conditions open from approximately 20 
years ago. AP also states that there are a lot of 
plans and files missing in Commission’s files and 
cannot reference them to the as-built. 
 
RB would not be in favor until more 
documentation is found.  
 
BP suggest that the Village at Flat Hill Board of 
Trustees submit the request, and more 
documentation be found. The request should be 
moved to the May 3rd meeting if more information 
is found.  
  
 
 
 
Notice of Project Change: 
N/A 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 23 Cove Road: Will remain open until 
greenhouse is removed. 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Seth Donahoe 
from Dillis & Roy along with property owner 
updated AP that plans a being finalized for 
submittal. BP suggests issuing a more pressing 
letter for submission of plans. 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
N/A 
 
 
Timber Sales 
N/A 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
MW states that Open Space is still discussing 
the Lake Shirley boat access proposals.  
 
 
 
 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
RB/MW M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:41 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is May 3rd , 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 