===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Mary Wilson, Chair                                                                                                                              Tel: (978)582-4146 
Bob Pease, Vice Chair 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk                                                                                                                      960 Massachusetts Ave 
Richard Bursch                                                                        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Jeffrey Viviano                                                                                  Ashleigh Denio 
Michael Larouche                                                                                                                                Conservation Assistant 
Chris St. Germain 
 
October 18, 2023, 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE 
Minutes 
 
Roll Call: Bob P., Rich T., Rich B., Jeff V ., Mike L., Chris S., and Mary W. 
Call to Order at 7pm 
Announcements/Public Comment: Rich B. noted the meeting code for zoom is incorrect on the agenda. 
Mary read the correct code again. 
Minutes of previous meetings – Bob noted the May 17th minutes were not in the drive yet and suggested 
tabling them to next meeting.  
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on an Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin 
O’Brien at 390 Howard Street (DEP #208-1304)- Matt Marro stated he was filling in for Haley Ward on 
this matter. Matt screen-shared the existing Wetlands Delineation Plan by Haley Ward and stated there 
was a prior NRAD issued by the Conservation Commission but it had expired. The applicant had all the 
prior flagging by Charles Caron Environmental rehung and submitted an application to have the wetlands 
recertified again. Mary and other Commissioners walked the site but did not see any flags. Matt asked the 
Commission to do another site walk and he will have Haley Ward hang the flags again. He noted there 
was a certification on the headwaters of the Mulpus as a perennial stream, but the applicant is not asking 
to do anything involving waterfront. He added that if it is proposed to do any construction within 200’ of 
the stream, it would be handled under a Notice of Intent, but that is not part of this. Mary said she did not 
see any silt fence, wattles or other erosion barriers and there were a lot of significant erosion issues out 
there. Matt replied he would talk to the applicant. Bob P. reported he went to the site with Mary and saw 
very significant erosion, where tons of dirt had been moved by water, forming gullies that were about 4’ 
deep. At that time they did not have a Conservation Administrator, so Bob contacted Mia McDonald at 
DEP for advice. Mia advised to rehang the flagging and ask for a 3rd party review of the wetlands. Bob 
noted the vegetation is gone, the topsoil has been stripped out in places, there are large piles of rocks from 
screening operations and soil is missing, possibly now offsite. Mary shared pictures of the erosion and 
large piles of soil with no erosion control. Rich B. asked if there was any erosion into the buffers or the 
wetlands.  Bob replied he would need to see the original flagging but it looked that way to him. He added 
the applicant had built a berm along the entire western perimeter of the property and also along the 
eastern side preventing the water from leaving the property until it gets to a certain point. Bob stated the 
map shows a wetlands running through the western perimeter, so based on that, he would say there was 
erosion through the wetlands. They would need to confirm it when it is flagged again. Rich B. noted the 
aerials show quite a bit of work done in the last few years and he asked if an earth removal permit had 
filed for the property. Matt said he does not know and Bob added he had not seen any earth removal 
===PAGE 2===
permits filed with the Select Board in the past 3 years. Matt said he will raise the issues of the flagging, 
erosion on dirt piles, erosion gullies, desire for 3rd party review and if there was an earth removal permit. 
The applicant will need to be provided a list of alternative 3rd parties for the review and the Commission 
will need to do another site walk. Rich B. asked for clarification on the flagging and Matt replied Chuck 
Caron did the original delineation, so his flags were survey located by Haley Ward (formerly Whitman & 
Bingham). Those flags were relocated by the surveyors and rehung.   Matt is not aware of any review of 
the wetlands and any changes that may have taken place. Rich T. asked when they rehung the flags and 
Matt replied he estimated early summer.  Mike L. asked if the DEP number is the original one and if there 
were any comments. Matt replied the old filing expired and this is a new file number. DEP commented 
that they wanted a report submitted on the flagging methods used. Matt read the DEP’s comments, in 
which they said they wanted the Commission and the applicant to know that area is part of an ACEC (area 
of Critical Environmental Concern). Anything that might affect the ACEC may require a MEPA filing or 
an ENF. Portions of the property are mapped as ORW (Outstanding Resource Waters) due to perennial 
streams and any proposed alterations would require other certifications. Bob confirmed with Jamie Rowe 
and Kevin O’Brien that they have permission to enter the property for site walks. Jamie confirmed the 
flags had been rehung but Bob stated there were no flags to be seen when they walked the property. Bob 
added that some of erosion they saw was not under the Commission’s jurisdiction but possibly under EPA 
for not stabilizing a construction site. Although the flags were not present, Bob stated it was a strong 
possibility soil was washed into the wetlands. Rich B. noted the original delineation was done in 2008.   
Public Comment – Eric Lahti, 833 New West Townsend Rd – stated he lives at the bottom of this 
mess. The brook on the west side feeds Pearl Hill Brook and has put silt into his pond, to the point the fish 
are dying. Eric noted he built 2 houses near here and had to put in a half mile of silt fence with hay bales, 
but Mr. O’Brien didn’t have to do anything. Rich B. asked if they should be acting on this quicker based 
on Eric’s comments on active erosion to wetlands. Mary noted the berm has failed and a lot of earth has 
gone through. Rich B. stated the applicant needs to deal with the erosion prior to their site visit. Eric Lahti 
offered to show the Commission how his pond water has changed from clear to murky and his neighbor 
has piles of silt that are 2’-3’ deep. Bob said he agrees they should not wait to address the siltation issue 
but they need to have the wetlands delineated. They should also visit Mr. Lahti’s and his neighbors’ 
properties.  
Motion: Bob P., Second: Rich B. 
To continue to the November 1st meeting.             Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
Rich B. suggested contacting the Building Inspector over concerns about possible earth removal done 
without a permit and Bob will contact him. Mary will ask the office administrators to see the property 
with some Commissioners. Bob will work with the Planning Board consultant to develop a list of 3rd party 
reviewers.  
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Joanne Hamberg for the installation of a new 
septic system at 201 Fire Road # 16 (DEP #208-XXXX) – Chris MacKenzie (Dillis & Roy)- is 
representing the applicant and screen-shared the site plan. The plan is to install a new septic system 
outside of the buffer zone. A new septic tank, pumping chamber and well will be installed within the 100’ 
buffer zone. Chris M. pointed out the erosion control barrier to prevent any erosion going down to the 
lake. The work will involve taking out the old septic system, installing the new system, along with the 
pipe connecting the pump chamber and trench going to the leach area. It also involves removing a mound 
of soil to allow the truck to drill the well. Chris M. pointed out the location on the locus map.  He noted 
the only work within the 50’ buffer would be grading near the well site. Mary asked if there were any 
trees to be taken down and Chris replied 2 on the top of the mound. Butch McGurn clarified there would 
be 8 trees over 2” and maybe even up to 12”. Chris stated they did not indicate the trees on the map 
===PAGE 3===
because they did not know the mound would need to be removed when they shot the topography. Rich B. 
asked for clarification on the wetland boundary. Chris highlighted the wetland boundary and noted there 
is a marshy area between the water and that boundary. Rich B. asked if he had a map with the lake edge 
and buffer zones delineated clearly. Rich T. asked if the map shows where the existing septic system is 
and Chris replied he thinks it was a cesspool, located around where the new tank will be going, but he did 
not know the exact location. Rich T. asked if the old one would be removed and Chris said the Board of 
Health requires the old one to be decommissioned, crushed, and filled with sand. Rich T. asked what they 
would be doing with the fill removed for the well. Chris replied it is probably mostly sand and would be 
used around the septic system. He did not know what the plans were for the rest but it is probably about 2 
or 3 truckloads.  Butch M. stated the heavy dark line is the edge of property and is an old concrete 
retaining wall. The lake level at the wall is now 2’. He noted the property had an abandoned system of an 
old 50 gallon barrel with an elevation out to a sand trench. Bob and Mary questioned the contour lines 
drawn on the map at the water’s edge. Jeff V . noted he was very familiar with the area and suggested they 
may have done the drawing during the lake draw-down and had seen the retaining wall. Chris M. stated 
that he believes the contour lines are showing what is underwater. Mike L. asked if there was a DEP 
number issued. Chris M. stated it was #208-1309 and there were no comments.  Rich B. asked about the 
contour level at the well site and Chris M. replied the mound will be taken down to the 318 contour, 
which would be level with the rest of that area. The Commissioners asked Chris to add a silt fence to the 
straw wattles, update the drawing indicating the wetland boundary, and update the drawing with trees to 
be removed that are 4”-6” or bigger.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V .  
To continue to the November 1st meeting.                 Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Richard Trembley for the construction of a 
replacement septic tank at 386 Sunset Lane (DEP # 208-XXXX)- (Rich Trembley recused himself.) Jack 
Maloney (Dillis & Roy) stated he is represented Rich and screen-shared the location of the project on the 
locus map, as well as the site plan. He noted there is a 1,000 gallon septic tank leading to a leach pit 
which failed Title V . The old tank and pit will be pumped, crushed, removed, and replaced with Title V 
sand as needed. It was decided after the Board of Health hearing to replace the old system with a 
Singulair Model 600 Green poly tank. They are proposing a 500 gallon poly tank for the pump chamber 
which will pump to a GeoMat, which is very low profile. Due to the nature of how it works, the system 
can be put as close as 5’ to a foundation and they will have a 40mil poly barrier in between the system and 
the foundation. The grade will be raised to keep effluent away from the foundation. There will also be a 
40 mil poly barrier on the other side of the GeoMat with a short retaining wall of Graves blocks. Jack 
noted the contour numbers on the map, along with the 30’ no touch and 50’ buffer.  He said they have 
proposed straw wattles to wrap the system and to go along the stockade fence on the property line.  Mary 
noted the detail and colors on the site plan were super helpful. Rich B. asked how deep the GeoMat would 
be and Jack replied it is very low profile with about 1’ of backfill on the mat. There is no problem with 
freezing and there is a weep hole drilled in above the check valve. Jack said they can add silt fence. Jeff V . 
asked how they would get equipment in there and Jack said they can drop a mini-excavator in, with a 
larger machine in the driveway to lower blocks and sand. He noted the DEP number is 208-1310 and 
there were no comments.   
Public Comment- Carl Luck – 50 Sunset Lane – said they own the property to the south of Rich T. He 
said the system looks great, with the changes after the Board of Health hearing. Carl noted the elevation at 
the bottom of the wall is 302 on the plan shown but the print provided at the Board of Health hearing 
shows it as 301.5, based on Dillis & Roy surveying the level on the Luck’s property at the bottom of the 
fence. He asked why the wall is ½’ above his grade. Jack replied they were able to push the wall further 
===PAGE 4===
from the fence because the system is smaller. They can dig on Mr. Tremblay’s side without anything 
collapsing on Carl’s side. Jack and Carl discussed the grades for the fence, wall and both properties. Jack 
said it would be just shy of 2’ between the property line at the corner of Carl’s shed and Rich T.’s wall. 
The bottom of the wall will go down to the 302 and Carl said it is great as long as nothing can come under 
the fence. Jack noted the poly barrier goes down to 301 which is a ½’ below the elevation on Carl’s side. 
Carl stated the cap on the wall addressed his concern about runoff. He also noted there is a 2’ diameter 
oak touching the shed that is 4’ from the fence and asked about the likelihood of damage to the roots/tree 
when digging. Jack said they would be digging 4’ to the bottom of the wall and Rich B. said he wouldn’t 
worry since it is an oak. Carl replied it’s a good plan that addresses all his concerns and he supports it.  
Motion: Bob P., Second: Jeff V .  
To approve with an Order of Conditions that a silt fence is added to the straw wattles.   
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. (Rich T. was recused) 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination by Mario Patacchiola for removal of 
decaying trees at 143 Island Road. 
Motion: Bob P., Second: Mike L.  
To continue to the November 1st meeting.                 Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination by Nashua River Watershed 
Association for planting of ~24-30 seedlings and dribble bar at 69 Brookview Terrace and 233 Island 
Road. Jessica Veysey Powell (Nashua River Watershed Scientist) – stated they are participating in a grant 
from the USDA Forest Service to restore riparian areas throughout the Merrimack River Watershed. They 
are implementing the grant in the Nashua River Watershed and looking for areas sparsely vegetated with 
woody plants within 200’ of the bank.  An owner of these properties came to her group to see if her land 
would be an appropriate site for the grant. The 2 properties, on either side of Mulpus Brook, are well 
forested but portions of the bank have been stripped of woody vegetation by the heavy rains. The sandy 
soil is exposed and you can see sedimentation has gone into the brook. Jessica said their goal is to plant 
silky dogwood and silver maple to stabilize the bank, add shade, reduce erosion, and prevent pollutants 
from entering the brook. The length of the brook planted would be about 100’, with a maximum of 200’ 
and the maximum depth away from the brook would be 100’, but in most places 50’-75’ away. They will 
plant 1-2 rows of bareroot 1’ seedlings, every 8’, using a dibble bar to open a little insertion area and then 
close it up. No soils are removed or brought into the site. They aim to plant 30-40 seedlings by the end of 
the first week of November. They planted seedlings last November and they have done well. Jessica 
shared photos of the areas to be planted and diagrams for planting with a dibble bar. She also shared an 
aerial photo with the planting areas noted. Mary visited the site with Rich T. and she said it is an excellent 
project. Jessica added they are still looking for additional sites and Mary replied they will work on a list. 
Bob noted this is an exempt activity and no application is needed. Rich B. agreed and he is glad they are 
using silver maples which have dense root systems to hold back erosion. He asked where the seedlings are 
sourced and Jessica replied from the NH State Forest Nursery.   
Motion: Mike L., Second: Chris S. 
To approve the RDA with negative determination.          Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
The Commission confirmed Jessica is free to start planting right away. 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Peter and Lily Koronis for the demolition of 
===PAGE 5===
existing dwelling and detached garage, and construction of a new single-family dwelling, driveway, and 
septic tank at 38 Oak Ridge Road (DEP #208-1306)-Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy), representing the 
Koronis, noted this is their 3rd meeting and the Commission requested to have the stockpile indicated on 
the plan and some extended mitigation landscaping for the proposed tree removal.  Ryan screen-shared 
the updated site plan, with the planting schedule. The stockpile will be located near Oak Ridge Rd., 
outside of the 100’ buffer, surrounded by straw wattles. They will be taking down 9 trees, including a 
dead one and 3 of them are within the 30’ buffer. They will replace those 3 with 3 red oaks and 3 red 
maples. The other 6 trees, located between the 30’ and 100’ will be replaced with 6 trees – an oak, 2 
maple, and 3 dogwoods- between the proposed house and the property line. They will be adding low bush 
blueberry and mountain laurel shrubs to the south of the septic system area and along the property line for 
stabilization. Rich T. asked if they would be taking the stumps out near the 30’. Ryan replied they are 
removing them when they do the grading for the septic and then replanting with replacements. Mary 
asked about erosion control and Ryan stated they will have straw wattles and silt fencing. He added the 
DEP number is 208-1306 and their comments were addressed at the last hearing.  
Motion: Mike L., Second: Chris S. 
To approve the Notice of Intent.                           Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
Bob P. noted he filed a Mullins Rule form for this.      
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Denise Charpentier for the removal of an 
existing dwellings and construction of a single-family dwelling at 6 Peninsula Drive (DEP #208-1305) - 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) stated this was a continuance and he has submitted a revised site plan with 
landscape mitigation and updated planting schedule. Ryan screen-shared the updated plan and noted they 
are proposing to take down 4 trees between the 50’ and 100’ buffer. They are adding 2 additional trees to 
the 3 birch on the northern property line, 2 shadbush to either side of the proposed house, a landscape area 
on the southern line and button bush along the top of the bank for stabilization. They are also adding 2 
stone steps to define the walkway from the new patio area to the existing gangway leading to the dock.   
Motion: Jeff V., Second: Mike L. 
To approve the Notice of Intent.                           Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on an Amended Order of Conditions by Nicholas Eaton for repair and 
construction of existing deck at 441 Townsend Harbor Road (DEP # 208-1240)- Bob P. stated his 
understanding is Nick is not inclined to proceed with this project. He suggested they issue a positive 
determination since the current deck is over the lake and if Nick wants to change it, he will need to file a 
Notice of Intent (NOI). Rich B. agreed with a positive determination and asked to send Nick their 
findings, with the suggestion he files a NOI if he wants to proceed.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Bob P. 
For a positive determination.                                    Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Earth Removal Permit Review of 780 Northfield Rd.- Jim Lattanzi noted he and his wife are the new 
owners of the Pierce’s Christmas Tree Farm and they have planted 13,000 new seedlings in the past 2 
years. They are continuing to plant new seedlings at double the previous past plantings. There is a lot of 
open ground and cleared land. They have also planted 10 acres of silage corn and the rest in hay 
production. In total there are 77 acres of open tillable land which is all in current production. They have 
worked this year with the Natural Resources Conservation Services to implement conservation programs 
for farmland. They have installed another 10 acres of overhead irrigation where they did land clearing to 
remove sand under the topsoil to level it. The topsoil was put back after. Jim indicated on the aerial photo 
===PAGE 6===
where the land leveling occurred. Rich T. asked how far the leveling was done from the wetland and 
where the sand was stockpiled. Jim replied the leveling was at least 150’ from wetlands and the sand 
stockpile is about 400’ plus. Rich B. asked how much sand they want to sell through the permit and Jim 
stated Dillis & Roy estimated about 5,000 cubic yards. The sand is a by-product of the leveling project 
and will be the only grading to be done.  
Motion: Bob P., Second: Rich T 
For Bob P. to write a letter to the Select Board stating there are no activities within our jurisdiction 
and they have no negative input on this earth removal permit.  
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
Update on Timber Rights Fund – no update 
Update- Holdenwood Conservation Land Proposal for Connecting Trails at Robb Hill – Bob P. 
screen-shared a map of the Robbs Hill Conservation Area, which shows all the trails going into Shirley. 
He noted Adam Burney forwarded a letter from Mr. Holden (on Mulpus Rd) who is one of the holders of 
the Holdenwood Conservation restriction, which was created 23 years ago. The North County Land Trust 
holds the restriction and the Commission is one of the checkers who make sure they are following the 
restrictions. The restriction states the property is closed to the public. Bob suggested Mr. Holden post the 
property lines with no trespassing signs. Bob is proposing to put up the new diamond shaped Lunenburg 
Conservation property boundary signs and to look for volunteers to develop 2 new loop trails. Also he 
would like to work with Shirley Conservation to develop a new trail for interconnectivity. Bob clarified 
that they can only enter the property for stewardship purposes. Mike L. asked why the land is closed to 
the public and Bob replied the family wanted to allow access to only certain people but there were only 2 
options – open to all or closed to all.  They chose to close it to all and it is recorded as such forever.  
Motion: Mary W., Second: Chris S. 
To approve the additional trails to be created on Lunenburg property and approve Bob Pease going 
to Shirley on behalf of Lunenburg Conservation to talk about the by-pass on Shirley’s land.     
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Application Instructions/Guidelines – Bob said he was working on developing information to go on the 
website telling the difference between an NOI, RDA, Administrative Determination, Emergency Order 
and develop a set of instructions for filing. He will ask Brianna and Charlotte if they can take it up so he 
can work on revising the trail maps.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on Shawn Kelly Estate- Bob reported they received a check dated 9/20 for $869,830.41 from the 
Shawn Kelly Estate and received more than they were initially told.  He will need to follow up to get the 
fund number and to see if it will be available in Munis. At present our office person has no access to our 
accounts in Munis and neither did Annie, the Land Use Admin. He also is not sure about their MACC 
status.  Rich B. asked if they need to go before the Selectmen before they spend any of that money and 
Bob replied that was what the town attorney said. He added that if they wanted to purchase any property, 
they would need to get Select Board permission, but he is not sure about small purchases. Mary noted 
they did not get enrolled in MACC this year and any classes they take would be as non-members. If 
anyone wants to take a class, they will need to pay for it on their own, and request reimbursement from 
the town. Bob offered to talk to the Town Manager or Karen about this.  Mary said she was anxious about 
losing access to the MACC handbook and in the fall, they will offer a lot of classes which the 
Commission will not be able to take advantage of. The MACC goes into hibernation for the winter.  
Update if any on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road 
315 Lancaster Ave. – Bob stated someone in the office needs to find out if they have taken any actions. 
===PAGE 7===
26 Mulpus Road- Bob said it can be taken off the encroachment list because they have surveyed, staked, 
and removed fencing, tree houses, etc. from the Conservation property. 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
351 Massachusetts Avenue- Bob read a letter from Brian Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) stating they 
are requesting an extension of the Order of Conditions issued on 11/4/20 for construction of a greenhouse 
facility on the parcel. The work was proposed to impact isolated wetlands only and came under the 
Lunenburg Wetlands Protection By-Law. It is about to commence construction but the OOC will expire 
on 11/4/23. Mary noted the property is behind Hannaford and Bob said an agricultural enterprise that was 
looking to utilize that parcel.   
Motion: Bob P., Second: Chris S.  
To approve the extension of the Order of Conditions at 351 Mass. Ave. for 3 additional years. 
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve.  
Bob noted there was no DEP number because it was not jurisdictional under the DEP. It was just under 
the Lunenburg Wetlands By-Law because it was an isolated wetlands which they replicated.  
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
176 Elmwood Road – was deferred until one of the interim administrators is able to visit to confirm all 
the work was done and it is stabilized. Charlotte Steeves stated she is planning to start some of the site 
walks on 10/20 and can visit this property. She asked if she needs to get property owner permission first 
and Bob replied the applicants give permission when they apply. He suggested looking at the paperwork 
and Charlotte asked if they have supplied an as-built. Bob suggested emailing Ashleigh for copies of 
paperwork. Charlotte said she will work on access to the Drive so she can also share and Rich B. noted 
the request is on the Drive but does not see an as-built. Bob asked Rich B. to give Charlotte access to the 
Drive. Mary asked if Commissioners could also have access to the Drive and Rich B. replied they can 
have viewing rights but they cannot edit or add. Rich B. is currently the Drive administrator and he will 
also give Mary editing.  Bob suggested discussing how work gets routed between Bryanna, Charlotte, and 
Ashleigh, as their hours do not overlap.  
 
ENFORCEMENT:  
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings) 
390 Howard St.- Mary received photos from a resident of silt running off the property and down the 
road. She screen-shared an aerial view of the property which indicates a lot of earthwork but does not 
appear to have any silt fencing or other erosion barriers. When it rains, the soil and dirt run down the 
street into the storm drains. She could not find evidence of any wetlands in that area, so it would not be in 
the Commission’s jurisdiction. Bob suggested forwarding the photos to the Building Inspector, DPW and 
Stormwater Commission. Mary will take this off future agendas and forward the photos. 
NON 205 Sunset (Beers lot) – Mary said they took action on this property at the last meeting but she will 
keep it on the agenda until the violations of the previous RDA are addressed. 
143 Island Road – Mary stated this was on the agenda but there were no representatives present. She and 
Rich T. did a site visit and took pictures of several old stumps in the wetland area. There were also bushy 
vegetation stumps at the water’s edge that appeared to be cut.  
10 Massachusetts Avenue – Bob noted the erosion barriers were not in. He had sent it to Leah, who was 
going to send a letter stating they have to file an RDA, but she promptly quit and the ball was dropped. 
Bob suggested a letter be sent from Brianna or Charlotte. Mary suggested having a master checklist to be 
clear who is handling items.  
39 Island Road – Mary reported Dillis & Roy will be filing the paperwork on this project. 
 
Open Space and Land Use:  
===PAGE 8===
Grants Update (LCC sponsored, award year 2023) – Mary noted she was invited to go to the 
mandatory review seminar on Friday and she will get the paperwork moving.  
Grants Update (LSR sponsored, award year 2022)- Mary stated it was awarded last year and the Snow 
Riders could not do any work until NHESP filing. They got approval and they will start trail 
improvements on the northern loop in the Small State Forest. She anticipates they will get out there soon 
with chainsaws and hand tools to clear the trail. Mary confirmed the Commission will sponsor materials 
for the kiosk the Snow Riders are building and Chris St. Germain offered his barn as a work area. They 
will let Bob know when they are ready for delivery of the materials. Mary noted the bridges at the Lane 
property were releveled.  Bob and Mike releveled one but will need help with others. Mary saw one 
additional heavy bridge was back in position and Bob said they need to get chains on it.  
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
Update – Maintenance Work – Mike L. confirmed the $3,300 covered the cedar siding, front overhang, 
and the chimney flashing. They have not found any other windows needing replacement. One of the 
volunteers- Linda Hilson- asked Bill Bernard if the DPW could take away some of the bags of debris, 
which included invasives. Bill said he would when his staffing crunch eases. Mike said he has been 
getting repeated calls from a carpet vendor who has not been paid yet and he is working with Ashleigh 
and Karen to get it paid. It appears someone in the office needs to submit a purchase order request. Bob 
said that is all part of the dilemma that Ashleigh cannot access on Munis. Mike spoke to Karen who said 
Ashleigh needs to be trained to set up a purchase order request. Bob asked Mike to email Karen to say 
Ashleigh lost her access to our accounts during the Munis upgrade. Bob noted the town has hired 
consultants but he does not know how to contact them. Mary asked Mike if he has access to the logs kept 
by the Hollis Road tenant, but he did not know and she suggested contacting the resident.   
Committee Reports – Any Update- Stormwater- Mike reached out to Mr. Jeffreys and he gave him a 
contact person.  
Public Comment: Chris noted he is planning on doing a connecting trail so they have a small Hunting 
Hill loop, which they do not have now because of the Womble Property.  He is planning on doing it in the 
next couple weeks and will let Bob and Mary know when.  
 
Motion: Chris S., Second: Rich B. 
To Adjourn at 10:30pm.         Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
 
 
             
             
             
   