===PAGE 1===
   
 
   
 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission  
 
Bob Pease, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4146 
Mary Wilson, Vice Chair  960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Richard Tremblay, Clerk 
Richard Bursch  Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Catie Childs  
Michael Larouche  Anna Petrie 
Jeffrey Viviano         Conservation Administrator 
 
 
March 15, 2023 
7:00 PM 
Minutes 
ZOOM REMOTE 
 
Roll Call: BP, MW, RT, ML, CC, JV 
Absent:  RB 
Call to Order at 7pm 
 
Announcements: N/A 
Public Comment: N/A 
  
Minutes of previous meetings – March 1st ,2023 CC/MW M/S to approve. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
Appointments/Hearings – 
N/A 
 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Paul Cadaret for the replacement of an 
existing timber retaining wall and removal and reconstruction of existing shoreline wall at 42 Pearl St 
(DEP #208-1286). 
 
Chris Anderson from Hannigan Engineering to represent the property owner. CA states that there is 
an additional shoreline wall that needs replacement that will be conducted all uphill, not lakeside. CA 
also states that if approved, work would not commence until next year, once the lake is drawn down. 
 
BP recalls that the existing permit for this property is being requested to be closed out with a 
Certificate of Compliance, with the original project almost being complete. 
===PAGE 2===
   
 
   
 
CA confirms that a COC is requested so the existing permit can be closed out, and have a new permit 
issued which includes the new proposed work.  
 
MW recalls a tree being in the line of work for the shoreline wall and requests pictures. MW also 
suggests the plan to show any trees for future reference and if any removal is needed.  
 
JV asks whether the tree stump in the background of the shown photos has been recently cut? 
 
The homeowner, Paul Cadaret, states that the tree was removed prior to owning the property. 
 
CC asks if DEP had any comments? 
 
BP replies that no comments were left by the DEP. 
 
BP asks if there’s going to be any specific designs for the wall to prevent tilting over time? 
 
CA states crushed stone will be placed behind the wall. 
 
BP suggest keeping these projects as two and closing out the first permit once work is finished. A 
second OOC should be issued once COC issued for first permit. 
 
RT asks how long until the existing project is finished? 
 
CA replies within the next coming week, is in final stages. 
 
 
RT/ML M/S to approve with a standard Order of Conditions with special conditions being an 
issuance date under the contingency of previous OOC (208-1277) being finished first. COC will 
be issued once the project is finished. Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public meeting on a Request for Determination of Applicability by Jamie 
Hotchkin for the removal of a tree at 50 Pine Grove Road. 
 
Jamie Hotchkin to represent themselves, with AP to show photos of the property. JH states the tree 
removed was posing a risk to the home and was suggested to be removed. JH also states that there 
was a lack of communication with the previous Conservation Administrator for permission to remove 
the tree. 
 
BP asks AP how far the tree is from the shore? 
 
AP states outside the 50 ft, close to 70 ft. 
 
MW states that there was another stump next to the tree originally taken down. MW also recalls that 
the property owner stated that one tree was leaning against the original tree, which needed to be taken 
down as well. 
 
===PAGE 3===
   
 
   
 
JV/RT M/S to issue negative determination for tree removal at 50 Pine Grove Road. Roll Call 
vote, unanimous to approve. 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by John and Debra Trainor for the proposed 
installation of a septic system and removal of an existing timber wall to be replaced with concrete 
blocks at 105 Horizon Island Road (DEP #208-1287). 
 
Jack Maloney to represent the property owner. JM shows updated plans which contain the location 
and number of trees to be removed, along with replanting of native shrubbery closer to the 
waterfront.  
 
MW asks if there will be any tree planting to make up for the trees removed? 
 
JM states that there are no viable places to replant any larger trees, along with the property having a 
lot of trees/canopy cover.  
 
JV/CC M/S to approve with a standard Order of Conditions. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve.  
 
 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
 
Topics not known 48 hours in advance of meeting 
   Update on Timber Rights Fund  
N/A 
     Earth Day 2023 
MW states that the goals are to spread out events 
into different days including invasive species 
removal at Lane property, Northwest Forest 
installation of ‘You Are Here’ signs, and Pollinator 
Garden.  
 
ML states that it would be a low-key year for Earth 
Day in regard to the Pollinator Garden.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
 
Update on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road  
315 Lancaster Ave 
110 Pleasant St, Lot 2 
26 Mulpus Road  
 
BP states that there are two properties on the 
encroachment list that have not replied. BP also 
states that he has scheduled time to meet with town 
counsel on moving forward with these 
unresponsive encroachment issues.  
 
Grant Updates: 
No Updates. 
 
Budget Update 
No Updates. 
 
 
 
Hollis Road Residence: 
 
ML states that the tenant has been away for school 
vacation and will return mid-week. ML says that 
upon their return, they will follow up with the 
project on the carpets.  
===PAGE 4===
   
 
   
 
  
  
Administrative Determination: 
437 Townsend Harbor Road 
 
AP presents photos of the property, which is 
owned by Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. The 
property abuts another property which has a house 
and parked cars, which have been damaged by the 
trees along the property line. AP states that it is 
requested to have 3 oaks removed and 2 pine trees 
limbed, which are all 60-70 ft from the shoreline.  
 
RT asks if the trees are on the homeowner's 
property? 
 
AP says that the trees are on Hickory Hill’s 
property, though leaning in and damaging adjacent 
property.  
 
CC/JV M/S to approve administrative 
determination. Roll Call vote, unanimous to 
approve. 
 
 
 
Extension Request Permits: 
N/A 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
42 Pearl St – Will be issued upon completion as 
stated earlier. 
 
1147 Massachusetts Ave – AP states that this 
property has an Order of Conditions from 1989 
with no record of a Certificate of Compliance.  
 
BP asks what the property consists of? 
 
AP states that the OOC lists 2 addresses, one lot is 
empty and the other is a house. Both locations 
stabilized and no current work has occurred since 
issuance.  
 
MW/CC M/S to issue Certificate of Compliance. 
Roll Call vote, unanimous to approve.  
 
 
 
Notice of Project Change: 
N/A 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings)      
EO 54 Pine Grove:(50 Pine Grove) Negative 
Determination- to be removed from list. 
EO 23 Cove Road: Will remain open until 
greenhouse is removed. 
NON 205 Sunset, Beers lot: Seth Donahoe 
from Dillis & Roy along with property owner 
updated AP that plans a being finalized for 
submittal. 
 
Open Space and Land Use 
Howard Street Driveway  
 
 
Timber Sales 
N/A 
 
 
Conservation land improvements 
 
BP states that they may be putting in some railing 
on a bridge next to Mulpus Brook. 
 
 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update  
 
 BP states that they will be reaching out to the 
Town assistant in regard to applications for an 
associate member for the Conservation 
Commission. 
 
 
 
Communications /Public comment 
None.
JV/CC M/S to adjourn meeting.  Roll call vote, unanimous to adjourn. 
 
Adjourn 8:05 pm 
Meeting schedule: Next meeting is April 5th, 2023 at 7:00 PM by Zoom platform 