===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Mary Wilson, Chair                                                                                                                              Tel: (978)582-4146 
Bob Pease, Vice Chair 
Vacant, Clerk                                                                                                                                        960 Massachusetts Ave 
R i c h a r d  B u r s c h                                                                         Lunenburg, MA 01462 
J e f f r e y  V i v i a n o                                                                                   Ashleigh Denio 
Michael Larouche                                                                                                                                 Conservation Assistant 
Chris St. Germain   
 
 January 17, 2024, 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE 
Minutes 
 
Roll Call: Rich B., Jeff V ., Chris S., Bob P., Mike L., and Sophie D. (Administrator) 
Absent: Chair, Mary W.  
Call to Order at 7pm by Mike Larouche 
Announcements & Public Comment- none  
Minutes of previous meetings – none are ready to vote on.  
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS - none 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on an Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin 
O’Brien at 390 Howard Street. (DEP 208-1304) (Continued from 12/20/23 to 1/17/24). Kevin O’Brien 
stated that at the last meeting on 12/20 they talked about having a site walk at the Howard Street property 
and thought the walk was scheduled for 12/27. He and Matt Marro were there but no one else came. He is 
now asking when the site walk can be done. Kevin stated that the board had previously visited and found 
the flags on the right side of the property but could not locate those on the left. Kevin and Matt walked the 
4 or 5 sets of flags on the left side of the property on 12/27. He asked how the board would like to 
proceed now. Mike L. asked him if he had photos of the flags in question and Kevin said he could get 
photos and videos. Kevin suggested having Matt Marro contact Bob Pease. Mike asked Sophie if she 
would contact Bob and Sophie agreed to schedule and attend a site walk with Bob or Mary. Mike asked if 
Kevin was ok with a continuance and he agreed but wants Matt Marro there too.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 390 Howard Street hearing to 2/7/24 with office, chair or vice-chair reaching out to 
reschedule the meeting with Mr. O’Brien’s agent, Matt Marro.   
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve.   
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Stefan McSweeny for the construction of a 
single family home and associated site work at 255 Sunny Hill Road. (DEP 208-XXXX). (Continued from 
1/3/24 to 1/17/24) – No representative was present and Mike asked for a vote to continue to 2/7/24. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 255 Sunny Hill Road hearing to 2/7/24.       Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve.   
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Steve Powell for the construction of a single 
===PAGE 2===
family home and associated site work at 171 Arbor Street. (DEP 208-1308) (Continued from 12/20/23 to 
1/17/24). – No representative was present and Mike asked for a vote to continue to 2/7/24. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 171 Arbor Street to 2/7/24.                           Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve.  
 
Mike noted that Dillis & Roy have requested a continuance for the following 3 hearings to 2/7/24 because 
they are still awaiting DEP numbers. 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Request for Determination by Timric Realty Trust for 
construction of a single family home and septic tank at 20 Kilburn St-Lot 1 (Continued from 12/20/23 to 
1/17/24).  Applicant requested a continuance.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 20 Kilburn St-Lot 1 to 2/7/24.                         Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and  
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Timric Realty Trust for construction of a 
single family home and septic tank at 20 Kilburn St-Lot 2. (DEP 208-XXXX) (Continued from 12/20/23 to 
1/17/24). Applicant requested a continuance.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 20 Kilburn St-Lot 2 to 2/7/24.         Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Timric Realty Trust for construction of a 
single family home and septic tank at 20 Kilburn St-Lot 3. (DEP 208-XXXX) (Continued from 12/20/23 to 
1/17/24). Applicant requested a continuance.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To continue 20 Kilburn St-Lot 3 to 2/7/24.         Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Topics unknown 48 hours in advance of meeting – Chris stated a Notice of Intent for 37 Pearl St. was 
added today but Rich B. pointed out they cannot address it due to not being on the agenda and not 
properly notified.  
Invoice Payment Process – passed over. 
32 Cortland Circle – Rich B. stated a hearing cannot be opened due to it not being on the agenda. Sophie 
stated this item was under new business because a person asked her about the property and the pond 
maintenance.  They told her they would attend the meeting, but no one is present. Chris stated that it is in 
reference to water issues on Flat Hill and the discussion will need to move to another meeting.  
 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on Title Searches –  
MACC Classes – Mike said that Mary was encouraging Commissioners to sign up for classes. Rich B, 
Jeff V ., and Chris S. noted they were able to sign in and also access the Wetlands Guide. 
Update if any on encroachment issues at: 
950 Chase Road- removal of the shed – no update 
315 Lancaster Ave.- no update 
 
Administrative Determination: 
Extension Request Permits: 
===PAGE 3===
--Brockleman Pond (DEP 208-0936)- Sophie stated this is an aquatics invasive vegetation extension and 
the Commission needs to take a vote. Chris screen-shared the letter, which Mike read aloud, asking for a 
3yr. extension of the Order of Conditions for continued maintenance of the pond at 56 Cross St. Chris 
said the request seems very straight forward and put forward a motion. 
Motion: Chris S.  (not seconded) 
To grant the extension for Brockleman Pond.   
Discussion: Rich B. said he would ask for a brief update on the activities that took place during the 
current application period of 3 years and their goals for the next 3 years. Rich pointed out that the pond is 
in the Mulpus Brook watershed area. Jeff noted that the old order expired on 1/13 and asked if that would 
be an issue. Sophie stated they had submitted the request in time but it was the Commission’s error it was 
left off the last meeting agenda. She noted they would have 30 days from 1/17 to submit a small narrative, 
so the Commission can vote on it. Rich said he is not looking to hold it up and would vote on it tonight. 
He would like to see a brief narrative of what they have been treating for, treating with, the treatment 
dates and what their continued plan will be.   
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To extend the current application for 3 years and request a narrative on the activities for the last 3 
years and what their continued plan would be for the next 3 years.   
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
--100 Summer Street (DEP 208-1165) – Chris screen-shared the application for an extension to the 
Order of Conditions to 2/25/27. Rich asked if the request is for the property where the marijuana 
dispensary was going in and Mike replied yes. Sophie noted that the request for extension was voted on 
and approved previously.  It was also Docu-signed recently.  
Notice of Project Change: 
Certificates of Compliance: 
--120 West Street -Site Walk – Sophie reported that the site walk has been completed and she is waiting 
for them to provide the actual request documentation.  
--176 Elmwood Road- Site Walk – Sophie said she has not been able to visit that property yet.  
--81 Maple Pkway- Site Walk- Sophie reported that the site walk has been completed and this was 
discussed at the last meeting. She is waiting to receive the actual request for a COC. She was told that the 
black plastic pipe discussed at the last meeting is actually on the neighbor’s property. Sophie talked to the 
contractor who said they will put hay bales in the washed out area to stabilize it until they can seed in the 
spring and fix the fence.   
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings) 
780 Northfield Road – Jim Lattanzi stated he did a site walk with DEP in late summer/early fall and had 
put in a bigger pipe to update it 1½ years ago. The concern from DEP was the discharge side of the pipe 
was not in substrate and they wanted him to upsize the pipe, setting it lower into the substrate, which he 
agreed to do.  He believes this hearing is to tell him the Order of Conditions is to put the larger pipe in but 
he has not had any communications or seen any Order of Conditions. He was asked to attend a meeting a 
month ago but had a prior commitment and this is the follow-up meeting. Jim stated he does not believe 
the upsizing of the pipe will require any permitting because as a farm, he is allowed to do maintenance. 
He does not want to proceed until he gets the official word from the Conservation Commission. Sophie 
said she has limited background information and was asked to invite Jim to the meeting. Mike asked if 
she had copies of the comments from DEP and Sophie replied they would be on the portal. Jim stated he 
has not received anything from DEP and noted DEP made verbal recommendations to Bob P., who said 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg ConCom would handle the enforcement themselves. Jim said he can wait until the full 
Commission is present and Rich B. suggested moving it to the next agenda.  
NON 205 Sunset (Beers lot) – Sophie had no updates. 
10 Mass Ave- Sophie reported her next steps are to contact the landlord or owner. She noted the past 
administrator visited the site and saw they were doing work without erosion controls. Sophie recently did 
a site visit and said there are erosion controls now but she is not confident that they are installed properly 
or working properly. She discussed this with Mary and the next step would be to send a 2nd letter to 
request they file with the Conservation Commission. As of now, there is no filing for the work they are 
doing. The prior administrator sent the 1st letter which asked the owner to file for an RDA. Sophie will 
call the property directly to obtain contact information.   
1168 Mass Ave Rear – no update.  
Emergency Certification:  
Open Space and Land Use:  
Grants Update – no update 
 
Timber Harvests – Rayno Contract Renewal – Bob asked the Commission to vote for approval. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To approve timber harvesting on the Rayno property and authorize the Chair or Vice-Chair to sign 
the contract as they see fit.                                                   Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Conservation Land Improvement – no update. 
123 Hollis Road Residence-Property Maintenance Work – Mike reported that Chris Ruth (Facilities) 
was going to instruct Nick Morrison to put a patch on the roof, to see where the water is periodically 
coming through. Unfortunately, Chris has been out and Mike could not get an update. 
 
Committee Reports – Any Update- 
Rich B. reported that he attended the last Master Plan Committee meeting and they are moving forward 
with town wide surveys, to see what direction residents want to see the town going in. The surveys are 
available on the Master Plan Committee website at planlunenburg.org. They are also having an open 
meeting on 2/1 at the Lunenburg Senior Center, with 2 sessions to choose from - 4-6pm or 6:30-8:30pm. 
 
Communications -  
Topics unknown 48 hours in advance of meeting – Rich noted they received an email from the Vice-
Chair who is requesting permission to consult with Town Counsel to review a letter of violation on 390 
Howard Street, which is currently under an ANRAD. The Commissioners agreed to give permission. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S.  
To direct and give permission to the Vice-Chair to discuss 390 Howard Street with Town Counsel. 
Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
Public Comment: Sophie asked to give some information on the transfer from the Google Drive to 
SharePoint. She talked to Mary and spent 2 hours on the phone with IT.  It is going slow but IT will be 
copying files over in the background and will work through any issues with her. The next step would be to 
know if anyone is having issues accessing SharePoint. Jeff stated he logged on earlier and all the files 
were there, but tonight they are gone. Sophie said they archived everything into folders separately 
because those were the files she moved over. They are making a back-up in case anything goes wrong 
when they do the transfer again, which is why the files do not show up now. Chris said when he tried to 
log on, he got prompted for username and password which he does not know, but he will talk to IT. Mike 
thanked Sophie for the update. Rich asked how he can get on SharePoint and Sophie replied she sent an 
invitation through email. Jeff noted they use SharePoint at work and they have issues. Rich asked Sophie 
===PAGE 5===
to give his email address to IT. He noted that he was in the first loop a couple months ago when they 
started to transfer files from Google to SharePoint but never heard anything back from IT. Rich said he 
was set up as the emergency contact but the username and password were maintained in Adam Burney’s 
office (Planning Board/Land Use). Jeff noted the archive file was full now. Sophie stated that nothing will 
be removed from the Google Drive until the whole process is complete. She added that IT will set up a 
demo session also. Rich asked if everything will be on SharePoint for the next meeting and Sophie replied 
she was not sure because they have run into issues, but it will all be on the Google Drive. She will let 
everyone know if something changes. Mike thanked everyone for their help as this was his first time 
chairing a meeting.   
 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Chris S. 
To adjourn at 8:33pm.                                                           Roll Call Vote was unanimous to approve. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
             
             
             
   