===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
Mary Wilson, Chair                                                                                                                           Tel: (978)582-4146 
Bob Pease, Vice Chair                                                                                                                       960 Massachusetts Ave 
Jennifer Pewtherer                                                                                                                             Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Richard Bursch                                                                         Sophia Dorow 
Jeffrey Viviano                                                                                     Conservation Administration 
Michael Larouche                                                                                                                                 Stephanie Dondero 
Chris St. Germain                                                                                                                                    Conservation Assistant 
 
 
April 17, 2024, 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE 
Minutes 
 
Roll Call: Jenny P., Rich B., Jeff V ., Mike L., Bob P. and Sophie Dorow (Admin.) 
Absent: Mary W. and Chris S.  
Call to Order at 7pm by Bob P. 
Announcements- none 
Public Comment- 
--Stefan McSweeney - re. 255 Sunny Hill Road – stated that no progress has been made. Brian 
Marchetti added that the Commission requested a 3rd party review and pleaded to have the requests go out 
to the consultants. Sophie noted that she received the 3 suggested names but she has not sent them out yet. 
Bob offered to assist Sophie by contacting them and Stefan will email the information to Bob. Stefan 
agreed to continue the hearing.  
--Nick Eaton – 441 Townsend Harbor Road- stated he emailed the Commission and is trying to close 
up the Order of Conditions. He noted that on the original OOC that Jack did, he was going to take 6 trees 
down near the lake and plant 2 new maples but he did not remove the 6 trees. Bob suggested Nick look at 
what is listed on his OOC and meet with Sophie to figure out what needs to be done to close it .  Nick 
asked if he still needed to plant the 2 trees and bushes since he did not take the 6 trees down. Bob replied 
he does not but he needs to reach out to Sophie before things can move forward.  
--Michael Richards – 200 Burrage St—asked if his Certificate of Compliance will be discussed later in 
the meeting and Sophie replied yes because she did the site visit.  
 
Minutes of previous meetings – 4/3/24 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L.N 
To approve the minutes for 4/3/24.   
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
NEW PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Rene Rainville for the proposal of an 
addition and renovations to an existing single family home and addition of impervious driveway within 
the Buffer Zone of a bordering vegetated wetland on Lake Shirley at 57 Round Rd. - Dan Wolfe (David 
Ross Assoc.), representing Rene Rainville, stated they are making a number of interior renovations and 
adding a garage. Sophie screen-shared the site plan and Dan noted the new garage is completely outside 
of the buffer zone. There will be a connection from the new garage to the house also. A new paved 
driveway will be installed to the new garage but they will be removing the large old driveway on the left 
and restoring that area to lawn. The impervious area for the new driveway will be 1,313 sq ft but will be 
restoring 1,719 sq ft to lawn where the old driveway was located. A new entry with steps will replace the 
===PAGE 2===
footprint of the old entry and that is the extent of work in the buffer. Erosion Control will surround the 
work area as well as at the back of the house where construction is coming close to the 100’. Dan noted 
that the wetland is across Round Road and Bob clarified it is not the Lake Shirley buffer zones. Bob asked 
Dan to add 30’ and 50’ buffer lines to the plan. Dan noted that part of the old driveway being removed 
would be in the 30’ but it will be restored to lawn. Jenny screen-shared photos of the property, indicating 
the location of the new garage and the old driveway. Rich asked Dan to add the figures for impervious 
and pervious area to the plan. Dan noted that they will be removing an enclosure on the back of the house 
to expose the existing concrete slab, which will not involve any digging.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
To approve the NOI with the condition the calculations for impervious and pervious areas be added 
to the plan before the Commissioners sign it.   
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing for a Request for a Determination of Applicability by Todd Cole and 
Ashley Brawn for a proposed removable dock within the Buffer Zone of a resource area on Lake Shirley 
Reservoir at 607 Reservoir Road- Todd Cole and Ashley Brawn screen-shared pictures of the Floe Roll-in 
removeable dock and are requesting permission to place it into Lake Shirley. The dock is in 4 sections and 
will be 52’ long x 4’ wide. Todd noted they have 26’ of beach and have had a removeable dock for 4 
years. He also shared a photo of his neighbors new dock which is positioned so that they have no access 
to place their dock in the water. Sophie noted that she did a site visit. Ashey clarified that when they took 
their dock out, the neighbor put his new dock in their right-a-way. Todd added that the neighbor did not 
have a dock prior to placing the new one this spring. Bob noted that he did not recall an RDA for that 
property. Mike L. asked if there are minimum requirements for placement of docks and Bob replied that 
Sophie checked with the DEP. The Commission regulates were it touches the land but not where it goes 
into the water. He stated that this has the makings of a civil dispute between neighbors. Todd and Ashley 
are requesting to place their dock but the neighbor did not seek permission, so he will need to take his out. 
Mike asked if the neighbor would be amenable to moving his dock and Bob replied their role is to 
approve or disapprove but not to mediate. They may need to talk to the neighbor and do an Enforcement 
if he did not get permission for his dock. Ashley pointed out the neighbor’s dock on an aerial photo and 
said the new dock is a second dock.  Mike Gormley – 609 & 611 Reservoir Rd. – said he read the 
proposal which did not have dimensions. He stated that the dock at 607 Reservoir Rd. was 20’ wide with 
a jet ski drive on dock. Their dock used to be on the north side, with their boat in front of their property. 
Since he completed his permitted retaining wall, Todd and Ashley have located their dock on the other 
side, adjacent to his property at #609, angling it so it blocks his view plus access to the lake. Mike G. 
screen-shared site photos and Bob asked him if he got a permit for the new dock. Mike G. replied he 
always had a dock and never knew of anyone on Lake Shirley having to get a dock permit. Bob replied 
that they issue permits every year for Lake Shirley. Mike G. said he would get a permit if required and he 
shared more pictures of the neighbors’ dock. Rich noted that the town of Lunenburg owns the lake and 
that the neighbors need to work together to place their docks perpendicular to the water’s edge so they can 
all use them. He added that they can come back to the Commission or take their dispute to the Select 
Board.  
Motion: Jeff V ., Second: Mike L. 
For a negative determination on the RDA with the condition that the dock is perpendicular to the 
shoreline.                                Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
CONTINUED PUBLIC HEARINGS 
Note: 189 Hemlock Drive was already continued to 5/1/24. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on an Abbreviated Notice of Resource Area Delineation by Kevin O’Brien at 390 
Howard Street (DEP # 208-1304) (Continued to 4/17)- none present.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
To continue 390 Howard Street to 5/1/24. 
Roll Call Vote- Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye.  (Jenny not able to vote.) 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Stefan McSweeny for the construction of a single family 
home and associated site work at 255 Sunny Hill Road (DEP #208-1320). (Continued from 2/21 to 4/17) 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V. 
To continue 255 Sunny Hill Road to 5/1/24. 
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and Municipal 
Bylaws a public hearin g for a Request for an Amendment to the Order of Conditions DEP#208 -1310 by 
Matt Mitrano for new site improvements of a staircase, reconstructed porch with expanded footprint, 
reconstructed concrete walkway & masonry walkway within the buffer zone of a wet land on Lake Shirley 
at 386 Sunset Lane- (Continued from 4/3 to 4/17) Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) – representing the owner, 
screen-shared the revised site plan, noting the existing walkway is about 210 sq  ft and they are proposing 
to replace it with pervious pavers, not to exceed 250 sq ft. They will use Techno block pavers, filled with 
pea stone, and placed on a bed of stone. They have requested removal of a 12” maple within the 30’ and a 
24’ oak outside of the 30’, replacing the maple with 2 red maples. The spiral staircase will be installed on 
the south side, further from Lake Shirley. In addition, they want to replace the concrete pad under the deck 
with pervious pavers. Rich asked if Ryan had schematics for the Techno Blocs, which Ryan shared. Rich 
stated he would not be in favor of adding impervious area in the 30’ buffer. He asked Ryan to supply hard 
copies of the block specs  and update the plan showing the removal of the impervious area under the deck  
as well as placement of the spiral staircase.  The Commission agreed to continue.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V. 
To continue 386 Sunset Lane to 5/1/24. 
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
Pursuant to MGL ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing on a Notice of Intent by Steven Powell for the construction of a single 
family and associated site work at 171 Arbor Street. (Continued from 2/7 to 4/17)– Brian Marchetti 
requested to continue to 5/15/24. They are still working with the neighbors and are in the process of filing 
with the ZBA. 
Motion: Jeff V., Second: Mike L. 
To continue 171 Arbor Street to 5/15/24. 
Roll Call Vote- Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye.  (Jenny not able to vote.) 
 
Note: 141 Hemlock Drive already continued to 5/15/24. 
                                                                        ---------------- 
Extension Request Permits: 
---Order of Conditions extension for #208-1174 Reservoir Rd. – Sophie noted this property has a long 
shared driveway with a proposed bridge and a wetland replication area. Most of the work appears to be 
done but the wetland replication area is incomplete. Another condition is for crushed stone per the plan. 
The owners confirmed that the silt fencing and wattles are installed now, which was not the case at her 
first site visit. They are asking to extend the Order of Conditions for 1 year.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
===PAGE 4===
To extend the Order of Conditions for 1 year. 
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
Certificates of Compliance: 
---305 Arbor St.- DEP #280-387 – Sophie reported that she did some going back and forth to find plans 
but did a 2nd site visit. There was no erosion in the wetland and no wetland replication but she had no 
concerns. She said she would recommend going forward. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V. 
To issue a Certificate of Compliance for 305 Arbor St. 
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
---41 Country Way – Sophie stated she is waiting for the applicant to res eed. They have removed all the 
debris on their property and the neighbor’s property. She will visit again after they hydroseed.  
---39 Island Road  – Sophie reported that the erosion controls were removed pre -maturely, allowing 
sediment to go into the buffer zone of the resource area. There has been no seeding or grass growing so she 
would not recommend issuing the COC. 
---200 Burrage St.- Sophie stated the property is in total compliance without any issues.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
To issue a Certificate of Compliance for 200 Burrage St. 
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
ENFORCEMENT: 
Violations (Enforcement Actions and Hearings) 
---141 Hemlock – Sophie stated she is still going back and forth about scheduling a site walk. 
---10 Mass Ave- Sophie reported she has not heard anything and confirmed it is still under a work 
stoppage.  
---205 Sunset (Beers lot)- Sophie stated she had trouble finding the location. Bob noted they are 
watching this property because they questioned the Commission’s authority to give a deadline for the 
removal of a deck, which Jeff confirmed as 3/15. Bob gave a history of the issue and noted that if the 
deck is not out, they will issue fines at the next meeting.  
---1168 Mass Ave Rear – no update 
---12 Fire Road-hearing – no update. Bob stated they issued an order to remove pavement which they 
did not do. Town Counsel is aware of the issue and Sophie said she visited the site with Mary. Bob added 
that they issued an Enforcement and they have an OOC but they are not complying. Bob suggested having 
Sophie send a letter to have them appear at the 5/1/24 meeting and they may start issuing daily fines.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jenny P. 
To direct the Conservation Administrator to issue 12 Fire Rd . a notice that they are in violation of 
their Order of Conditions, they are to appear at the 5/1/24 meeting and they may be subject to daily 
fines.  
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
---950 Chase Road- Bob noted this is a barn on the property line. It is an encroachment and enforcement 
issue.  Jeff said he has a drone that could be used to look at the property.  
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
Topics unknown 48 hours in advance of meeting- none 
OLD BUSINESS: 
Update on Title Searches – Bob reported he will be meeting with Town Counsel later this month. He 
screen-shared the GIS map for the Fairbanks Gift Land and conservation land nearby. He asked the 
Commission for permission to have Town Counsel find out if the land comes with any access rights.  
Motion: Rich B., Second: Mike L. 
===PAGE 5===
To give Bob permission to ask Town Counsel to find out if the Fairbanks Gift Land comes with any 
access rights as a rear property.  
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
  
Update if any on encroachment issues at: 
315 Lancaster Ave.- Bob noted Town Counsel re-sent the Encroachment letter but there is no update. 
950 Chase Road – Regarding removal of the shed, Bob suggested they consider paying to have the shed 
removed since the courts were reluctant to make the people remove it. He would want to wait until they 
receive money from the Raino property. Mike suggested asking the Fire Department if they could burn it 
as an exercise and Bob said that was a good suggestion.  
Open Space and Land Use:  
Grants and Conservation Improvement Updates – none 
  
Hollis Road Residence: 
Update – Mike reported that the sign at the Community Pollinator Habitat had fallen down due to the 
posts rotting at ground level. He is checking with a volunteer who may be able to help with fixing it. Bob 
also suggested talking to Chris Ruth (Facilities).  
Committee Reports – Stormwater – Jenny noted that they are meeting on 4/18. 
Public Comment: Rich B. stated that they need to make sure that what an applicant shares is actually part 
of their application.  Bob asked Sophie to ask 607 Reservoir Rd. to send a copy of their PowerPoint for 
the records. 
---Bob asked for a motion for an Enforcement Order for 609 Reservoir Rd. 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jenny P 
To have the Administrator do an Enforcement for Mr. Gormley’s dock at 609 Reservoir Road.  
Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-no, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
 
Motion: Rich B., Second: Jeff V . 
To adjourn at 8:40pm.            Roll Call Vote- Jenny-aye, Rich-aye, Jeff-aye, Mike-aye, and Bob-aye. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 
 
             
             
             
   