===PAGE 1===
Mary Wilson, Chair   
Jennifer Pewtherer, Vice Chair 
Richard Bursch      
Jeffrey Viviano        
Michael Larouche 
Chris St. Germain 
-V acancy-    
Tel: (978) 582-4146  
960 Massachusetts Ave  
Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Sophie Dorow  
  Conservation Administrator  
Maddison Berthet 
   Conservation Assistant  
 
   
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Conservation Commission 
 
October 2nd, 2024, 7:00PM, ZOOM REMOTE 
Minutes 
Roll Call: Jenny P., Chris S., Mike L., Jeff V ., Mary W., and Sophie D. (Admin) 
Call to Order at 7pm by Mary W. 
Announcements & Public Comment - No comments. 
 
 
APPOINTMENTS/HEARINGS 
 
Office Equipment Purchasing from WP A Account – Sophie requests that the Commission approves the use 
of the WPA Revolving Account to purchase new equipment: a soil augur not to exceed $200.00 and boots 
not to exceed $90.00, totaling to $290.00.  
Motion: Mike L., Second: Jenny P. 
To approve $290.00 for office staff technical equipment.   
Roll Call Vote: Mike-aye, Chris-aye, Jeff-aye, Jenny-aye, and Mary-aye. 
 
Pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing for a Request for Determination of Applicability by Paul J & Lois 
Block, represented by Matthew Proctor for the installation of a 30’L x 30”W steppingstone pathway from 
the dwelling to the existing dock on Hickory Hills Lake, all to be built without use of heavy equipment. 
The proposed work will span the 30-foot buffer zone at 451 Townsend Harbor Road (OpenGov.com 
Record ID# RDA-24-6). - Matt Proctor, representative to the applicants, is present as well as the 
applicants themselves. Mike Larouche recuses himself from participating in this application. Matt 
describes the pathway, which will not exceed 30 inches wide and will be made of 2” thick bluestone with 
regular flagging grass space between each stone leading from the back porch of the home to the existing 
boat dock. The project would be completed without heavy equipment and would not disturb water flow. 
Mary and Jenny do not have concerns about the project. 
Motion: Chris S., Second: Jenny P. 
To approve the proposed project.   
Roll Call Vote: Chris-aye, Jeff-aye, Jenny-aye, and Mary-aye. 
 
Pursuant to MGL Ch 131, s 40 as amended and the Town of Lunenburg Wetlands Protection and 
Municipal Bylaws a public hearing for a Notice of Intent by Daniel Hernandez, represented by Dillis and 
Roy Civil Design Group, for the proposal of a garage addition, removal of vegetation and structural 
renovations to an existing single-family dwelling. The proposed work is within the 100ft buffer zone of 
bordering vegetated wetland and 200ft riparian zone of an intermittent stream at 48 Island Road (DEP# 
208-1331) (OpenGov.com Record ID# NOI-24-1). - Greg Roy (of Dillis and Roy) is present to represent 
the applicant. Proposed changes: Removing deteriorated bump outs on the back wall of the dwelling and 
replacing them with a new bump out, removing a shed off the back wall, building an addition to the 
dwelling over part of the existing driveway, adding a new entryway, removing six trees with one-to-one 
mitigation planting, flattening the area, and constructing a retaining wall along the property line. These 
proposed changes occur within the 100’ buffer zone of a bordering vegetated wetland and many occur 
===PAGE 2===
 
   
 
throughout the 100’ inner riparian zone and 50’ & 30’ buffer zones. Greg states they still need to quantify 
riverfront disturbance and, due to the small size of the parcel, the Rivers Act allows for up to 5,000 ft2 of 
disturbance in this case. Mary requests that the applicants provide an updated plan with quantified 
riverfront disturbance. 
 
** At this time, the Zoom meeting was brought to a standstill by interference of obscene and vulgar 
material. ** 
 
All further hearings will be continued to the meeting to be held on 10/16/2024 at 7:00 pm 
 
Informally adjourned at 7:24 pm due to interference. 
-- 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Maddison Berthet 
Conservation Assistant 
 
 
             
             
             
   