===PAGE 1===
TCP BUILDING DESIGN COMMITTEE 
 
 
Gregory Roy, Chair            978-582-4144 
  David Blatt, Vice-Chair           Fax 978-582-4148 
Michael Mackin, Clerk           17 Main Street, 
Damon McQuaid, Member           P. O. Box 135 
  Brian Lehtinen, Member           Lunenburg, MA  
David Passios, Member            01462 
Tanner Cole, Member 
  
            Meeting Minutes 
  December 18, 2019 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios Michael Mackin, Brian Lehtinen, David Blatt 
Members Absent: Tanner Cole, Damon McQuaid 
Town Staff: NA 
Public: John Londa 
 
6:00 PM – Meeting was called to order 
 
1.  Public Comment: None 
 
2. Review and Approve Minutes: Dave Passios made a motion to approve of minutes from 
November 13, 2019. Brian Lehtinen seconded. Michael Mackin, aye; Brian Lehtinen, aye; 
Dave Passios, aye; Greg Roy, aye. Minutes from November 13, 2019 approved. 
3. Review and discuss the procedure for evaluating architects. 
Summary of discussion: Greg Roy stated the RFQ was advertised last Wednesday. There were 30 
packets send out and a good response so far. We set the due date for the bids for the 8th. Our next 
meeting is the 98th and the town manager will have those ready for that meeting. It is in the 
committees purview to determine the top 3 candidates since we determine the scoring. How to score 
the candidates was discussed. Based on the evaluation criteria we will determine who we will 
interview. Each category the architect will be given a 4,3,2, or 1 based on the rubric in the RFQ. As 
a committee we have to come up with a score, score them separately and come up with a 
composite.  
Review starting on the 8th and interviews on the 22nd. What if we get 3 bids vs 30 bids? It may be 
useful to have lead time to give everyone a chance to review the packets and have their comments. 
It is unrealistic to have the bids the day before and then meet. How many back will drive what we do. 
Either way we need to distribute them on the 7th or 8th. Meeting date changes were discussed to 
create more lead time. The town manager will be getting 10 copies. Dave Blatt commented to meet 
on the 8th and do an initial complete or incomplete and start the review process. Greg Roy stated we 
can make the determination at the meeting on the 8th to determine if we need another meeting in 
between.  
===PAGE 2===
Completeness review planned for January 8th meeting. This would be followed by a review by 
members on their own and come together with a composite for the meeting on the 22nd. The 
schedule would be each candidate would have an hour. It was discussed the town manager may 
narrow down the completed packets for the committee as the submissions come in completed or 
incompleted. Greg Roy stated he would check with the town manager if that would be done. Michael 
Mackin inquired whether the town manager would be involved in the selection. Dave Passios stated 
it was our responsibility to take it from the completed submissions. Brian Lehtinen stated the RFQ 
includes the town manager makes the determination and the committee would make their 
recommendation. Greg Roy stated the town manager will be included in the interview process.  
4. New Business 
David Blatt stated we have the responsibility to bring this to the town and we will have two buildings 
that people will be looking at. Do we want to have ideas of what to do with these buildings. As a 
taxpayer I don’t want to hear that there are two new vacant buildings. At the end of this, do we want 
to have ideas of what could be done in these spaces. In an attempt to sell this proposal. Dave 
Passios stated we should stay with what the committee is charged with. Brian Lehtinen stated that 
we are taking an action and other committees could do the same. Michael Mackin stated we are 
doing what the town meeting asked us to do and questioned getting consensus with so many 
moving parts. Greg Roy mentioned the public comment on a comprehensive plan. Michael Mackin 
stated our response is is the job you gave us. Greg Roy stated he wants to be participants in those 
conversations. Dave Passios stated these openings could open up a lot of opportunities.  
 
5. Future Meeting Schedule: Greg Roy stated we have already discussed dates. 
 
6. Public Comment: David Blatt stated he was at the teen center and they asked if they could have a 
chance to participate. Greg Roy stated Michelle at the center asked if we had public comment. David 
Blatt stated there was a lot of room there and a whole section for them to use. Dave Passios stated 
we have to be careful with how many uses we can have. The limitations and movement through the 
building with school children could be a concern. Michael Mackin stated there are no new additional 
school uses of the school department wing.  Greg Roy stated the superintendent said there is 
enough space in the school buildings for them to grow. Dave Passios stated it was mainly used for 
school offices. Dave Blatt mentioned the Brooks house used to be used as a school space. Michael 
Mackin stated we want to accommodate community use and we want to hear organizations needs. 
The building has limitations and we were told what our priorities are to address. Dave Blatt stated the 
boys and girls club is one of the most successful groups in town. Greg Roy stated he reached out to 
Michelle for an opportunity to speak. Dave Passios stated lets see what we can efficiently fit and see 
what we have left. Greg Roy stated the boys and girls club probably need to be one of the groups, 
including the senior center. Dave Blatt stated it makes more sense for the senior center than the boys 
and girls club and it could be tough with kids running around during business hours.  
 
 
7. Adjourn:  Michael Mackin made a motion to adjourn after the tour of TCP. Dave Passios 
seconded. Michael Mackin, aye; Brian Lehtinen, aye; Dave Blatt, aye; Greg Roy, aye. 
Meeting adjourned at 6:39 PM 