===PAGE 1===
TCP BUILDING DESIGN COMMITTEE 
 
 
Gregory Roy, Chair            978-582-4144 
  David Blatt, Vice-Chair           Fax 978-582-4148 
Michael Mackin, Clerk           17 Main Street, 
Damon McQuaid, Member           P. O. Box 135 
  Brian Lehtinen, Member           Lunenburg, MA  
David Passios, Member            01462 
Tanner Cole, Member 
  
             Meeting Minutes 
    December 4, 2019 
Members Present: Greg Roy, Tanner Cole, Michael Mackin, Damon McQuaid, Brian Lehtinen 
Members Absent: David Blatt, David Passios 
Town Staff: Heather Lemieux 
Public: John Londa 
 
5:38 PM – Meeting was called to order 
 
1.  Public Comment: None 
2. Review and Approve Minutes: None 
3. Review and Discuss the Request for Qualifications from the Town Manager 
Summary of Discussion:  
Greg Roy stated it was very well done, noting he had a few minor things. 
Damon MacQuaid noted he had a few minor comments. 
Brian Lehtinen commented about blank December dates for publishing in the paper. 
Heather Lemieux stated it was just a requirement to be published in paper. Many people will get bids 
off the central register. 4 weeks, minimum 2. Recommendation would be 4 weeks.  
Damon MacQuaid stated 4-6 weeks. Greg Roy stated because of the holidays, possibly add another 
week.  
Greg Roy: We will let you roll with that guidance on those dates. 
Greg Roy stated in public comment last week about a desire to make sure the firm had CAD 
capabilities, what is the legality around requesting that? 
Michael Mackin: I have a suggestion, are we going to have interviews? Some kind of presentations 
and part where we will have questions? 
Heather Lemieux: Yes 
Brian Lehtinen: Page 9 project includes IT and graphics used. 
Greg Roy: see page 14 for interview portion. 
Heather Lemieux: Page 16 mentions selection criteria and interviews and evaluation criteria. 
Greg Roy: Inquired about guidance on number of community forums.  
Michael Mackin: large one prior to vote and smaller ones in the community with different groups, 
particular audiences, end users, town employees, schools. 
===PAGE 2===
Greg Roy: Stated he had 3 in mind. Different time and different venues. 
Michael Mackin: More formal kind of presentations, but could show up for more formal Q&A’s like at 
the senior center. 
Greg Roy: see Page 9, do we need to get them to identify a projected schedule.  
Heather Lemieux there is a projected schedule. Trying to schedule that we meet at annual town 
meeting. It will be tight. They will know we have an aggressive time frame. 
 
Michael Mackin: as we get into it, he would rather get it right than get it fast. Special town meeting is 
more compressed agenda but better to have this fall. 
Heather Lemieux: 2/3’s vote at a special town meeting is required, meeting with any appropriations 
requires 2/3 to pass. At the Annual, only a majority.  
Michael Mackin: I don’t need us to commit to anything now, but wanted to open the discussion to get 
people to understand the eventual proposal and also get supported by the community. 
Greg Roy: If we don’t make it, still would be good to present at town meeting. Target schedule here 
with a few revisions and based on how advertising goes. Do we want to ask them in their proposal 
what they can commit to? When I look at these things, I see how fast do they want it. If I can’t 
accommodate, I don’t do it. Page 17 includes a proposed timeline. I don’t want to push the timeline 
so tight, but also don’t want to write a blank check and I don’t know how that works. 
Heather Lemieux: Capacity to undertake is listed. 
Damon MacQuaid: One thought is if we wanted to shoot for annual town meeting, a 4 week 
submission deadline and if someone thinks they can do it in the timeline they will submit. But if we 
don’t get any responses we know we will need more time to do the project and resubmit. 
Heather Lemieux stated to keep it 4 weeks. 
Greg Roy stated he is on board with that. As long as we don’t think it will limit the number of 
proposals. 
Heather Lemieux stated it will take 1 to 2 meetings to review finalists.  
Damon MacQuaid inquired whether we have to accept. 
Heather Lemieux stated we have a clause that says we can reject all. Based on questions you are 
getting from a bid, if they are based on timeline, we can put out an addendum. 
Greg Roy stated we could extend or start over and we would know the schedule is too compressed. 
Michael Mackin still working on page 17 
Tanner Cole arrived at 5:59pm 
Heather Lemieux stated she could do the central register get it published by next Wednesday. 
Heather Lemieux 4 weeks puts us at January 8th. 
Greg Roy We could do that on the 8th that’s a big meeting then. We could interview on the 22nd,  
Damon MacQuaid 2 the first night, then second night finish presentations and deliberate. 
Greg Roy stated we schedule the 22nd and 29th and deliberate on the 29th. Heather Lemieux can 
award and negotiate contract after that. 
Michael Mackin discussed having a future discussion on how we do the evaluations, as a whole, 
separate, and come together. 
Brian Lehtinen stated the School Committee will be meeting on the 8th and 22nd 
Greg Roy agenda for next meeting will be a discussion on evaluations and ratings.  
Tanner Cole stated something that is not in RFQ, but would like to have a better understanding of 
what some of the design needs are, community and school needs, beneficial to have a more 
concrete idea of what that is specifically. From his experience some architects are focused on one 
thing, like schools, they have a specialty and prefer that type of work. Knowing what the end goal is 
should influence who you pick in your mind. Are boys and girls paying for the space or not? 
Watching special town meeting, town meeting rejected what town selectmen and finance committee 
put forward. We need to be careful to gain support at town meeting.  
Michael Mackin stated in terms of other users the task that we are given, we know about town 
offices, existing school uses addressed, and community uses, and accessible to community and the 
===PAGE 3===
large spaces used. 
In terms of seniors and boys and girls club, if they are looking for extended services this is not in our 
purview and should be discussed with the town, and that is speaking as a 10 year member of the 
board of boys and girls club. 
Tanner Cole stated what I’m trying to avoid is designing for everyone’s needs and it drives the costs 
up. 
Michael Mackin stated there are 3 specific end users, and if there are others that can be 
accommodated without significant cost. Seniors and Boys and Girls club, creating programming is 
different. 
Damon MacQuaid stated it should be flexible space. 
Michael Mackin stated meeting space is always at a premium. 
Damon MacQuaid stated they should be hardwired for cable access. 
Greg Roy stated this is for housing town offices, Ridder building, school offices, and school uses 
and community use space. Later it states here is our current make up, here is what PACC, and the 
schools use.  
Damon MacQuaid stated there needs to be a conversation with PACC for space to build a studio or 
are we building a space for studio for them. 
Tanner Cole stated it influences it in some way but it is more of a general observation. Feeding off of 
the town meeting and taxes and our tax rate keeps going up and has been an issue the last town 
meetings. 
Michael Mackin concern about our ability to communicate within that timeline. 
Greg Roy stated he felt like we are ready to go and he will take a motion. 
Michael Mackin made a motion to approve the request for qualifications as amended. Brian 
Lehtinen seconded. Michael Mackin, aye; Tanner Cole, aye; Damon MacQuaid, aye; Brian 
Lehtinen, aye; Greg Roy, aye. 
 
 
4. Community Outreach: 
Michael Mackin once we get the design in place it would be a good place to start the discussion.  
Damon MacQuaid stated we can talk to deptartments on space needs, end users to incorporate 
concerns. 
 
5. Future Meeting Schedule: Greg Roy stated we will be meeting in two weeks, December 18th. 
5:30pm and at the end, go and tour the building. It will be a quick meeting.  
Brian Lehtinen stated 6pm might work better for everyone since he had already walked the building 
with John Londa.  
Greg Roy stated we will meet December 8th , January 2nd, and January 29th 
Brian Lehtinen departed 6:24pm 
 
6. Public Comment: John Londa asked whether it would be a phased construction or not and whether 
this would be inquired of the architects. Would everyone out of the building or not? He noted the 
timeline of February 1st date maybe, and then 90 days you will get the design then you drop on 
finance committee a week before. Heather Lemuix stated the timeline is very tight. 
 
7. Adjourn: Damon MacQuaid made a motion to adjourn. Michael Mackin seconded. Michael 
Mackin, aye; Tanner Cole, aye; Damon MacQuaid, aye; Greg Roy, aye. 
Meeting adjourned at 6:26 PM 