===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting minutes 
January 29, 2020 
Members Present:  Greg Roy, Michael Mackin, Tanner Cole, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Damon McQuaid 
Members Absent: David Blatt 
Town Staff:  Heather Lemeux 
 
Meeting called to order: 6:01 PM 
 
Interview of 3 finalist for Architect town will work with for TC Passios Reuse Project 
First Interview: Johnson Roberts Associates 
Presenters:  Stu Roberts, Phil O’Brien 
Talked about projects that they have done. Concentration on the Lunenburg Library Project 
Questions from Board: 
Cole  Describe previous project that is similar to our project? 
JRA  Marshfield – Renovation of old shopping center for mixed use by Town, Library, and others 
Passios  With a mix use building, how did the deal with sectioning building? 
JRA  Talked about having security doors and access cards for individual use 
Passios  Concern with age of building. Verify scope of work includes hazardous material assessment? 
JRA  Do not believe it is part of Scope of work however will include 
Mackin  What is your approach to delivering cost effective project? 
JRA  Do their own cost analysis. Extensive interview with individual Department 
Roy  Of the projects you have developed, rough % projects that were funded? 
JRA  Had not thought about this. Estimate 55-65%. Key is community outreach in early stage 
Roy  Any concerns with timeline? 

===PAGE 2===
JRA  Design phase will be most critical 
Lehtinen How much work is done in house vs outside consultants? 
JRA  75% In house/ 25% Outside consultants 
McQuaid What are the challenges you foresee? 
JRA  No Red Flags. Concern is with unknown 
Lemieux Road Access is a huge concern especially with school. Your approach? 
JRA Will do traffic analysis. Talked about the Windham Museum sharing property with other 
buildings 
 
Second Interview: DeGeorgio Associates  
Presenters:  Tom Lam, Ed DeSavio, Chris Sullivan, Kimberly, Todd Chase, John Inx(?) 
900 person company, 50 in boston. Reviewed In-House Team and folks that will be working on project. 
Most of the services are all in house. Very little outsourcing. Dedicated FTP site to store data and files. 
Presentation included their understanding and approach to the project.  
Cole Walk us through a previous project that involved multiple entities sharing same space? 
DA City of Boston project, former hospital then used as homeless shelter. Assessment was to 
determine what was there and what would be involved for different types of groups being 
there. Another example where they worked with two different town committees to get them to 
work together as the messenger between both groups. 
Passios Building built in 52-53. Verify that your proposal includes complete Hazardous Material study 
and mitigation plan? 
DA This would be part of their initial assessment. They have an in-house team to do this. Use 
independent lab if necessary. Report would give preliminary cost estimate. Everything is 
internal except Civil and Landscape. 
Passios Concern with multiple use and security? 
DA Looking at Electronic Card Key Access as well as physically separate the different usage. Also to 
use different wings for different functions. 
Mackin Approach to insuring project is cost effective and best possible scenario? (cost containment) 
DA Start with spreadsheet of sq. ft needed by different groups. Work with possible scenarios that 
could fit. This is all done with contingency for future growth. All this with a basic $/sq ft 
understanding. Look at this with existing building conditions. Work with subs to generate 
quotes to make sure they are accurate. 
Mackin Percentage that come in under budget? 
===PAGE 3===
DA 10-15%. Most are very accurate. Might be +/-5%. Used to designing to guarantee maximum 
price where they would be liable for any overruns. 
Roy Thoughts on your vision to community outreach? Types of services provided by firm for this? 
DA Key thing is getting community buy-in. Work with group to make sure town is engaged during 
the entire process. Key is to engage community. 
Roy What is your success rate? 
DA 90+%. Reason is because of getting buy-in of different parties prior to town meeting 
Roy We have set forth an aggressive timeline. Any portion of that timeline gives you concern? 
DA Personally they like aggressive schedule. Able to put a lot of meetings on site to quickly get 
initial info and make schedule work.  
Roy Do they use Revit 3D modeling on all your projects? 
DA Yes, it helps with getting all parties to understand the design and development of project. 
Example of downtime Hospital the old way would be 60 hours. New method is to use special 
scanner that can do it in 4 hours.  
Roy Is a site survey/land survey included in the proposal? 
DA Yes, this is done in house with scanner drone. Able to take 3D scan and remove/add items to 
show how it will look like. 
Lehtinen Percentage of work that is subcontracted out? 
DA Only sub is Meridian for Civil, Utilities and Landscape. Might be 5-10% as main focus is inside 
the building. 
Lehtinen Talk about 24/7 use during construction? 
DA Key is communication between town and firm. They do not perceive the need for nights and 
weekends however will be able to work with us to make sure this is not an issue. 
McQuaid Other than aggressive timeline any challenges you perceive? 
DA Not really a challenge however having as much documentation upfront will help verify and 
accelerate the process.  
Lemieux Access to site is the same as high/middle school. Example of another project similar? 
DA Concern with traffic. Not sure if extensive traffic study is necessary. Many things can be done to 
slow traffic down. This is part of the proposal. Utilize any traffic studies that have been done 
and to mitigate any bottlenecks.  
 
Third Interview: Abacus Architects 
Presenters:  David Eisen, David Pollack, Annie Steele 
===PAGE 4===
They have been involved on town side interviewing and accessing architects. Have other internal folks as well 
as outside consultants that they have worked with for years. Have done public projects in 
surrounding towns. Many of their projects are adaptive reuse. Believe the best approach will be 
continuous communication. Key will be working with the committee. All starts with surveying 
the individual entities involved. Reviewed thoughts on existing building. Often schools are 
difficult to make into municipal buildings. Very big on “feel” of building and open spaces. Work 
up “Decision Matrix” of different options to help Committee to way the options and understand 
best bang for buck.  
McQuaid Other than timeframe, what other issues do you see with the project? 
AA Experience with tight timeframe RFP but find that is not typically what committee wants. They 
will do whatever works for us. Other challenge will be to test the work that has been done and 
come up with a cost line for getting the existing building up to date.  
Lehtinen What percentage of the work will be done by subs? 
AA Relying on Vertex report on initial assessment. 60% in / 40% out 
Roy Do you see including a land survey as part of civil work? 
AA Need a survey early on. Part of their scope of work. Have not done a significant fee analysis 
however believe it can be done.  
Roy Of the projects you have worked on, what percentage have been funded? Things that were 
successful to help get project funded. 
AA Communication is the key to get buy-in from the town. Win a few/ Lose a few. 
Mackin Proposed approach to delivering cost effective solution? 
AA Two components; cost and effectiveness. It is laying out the options to let us make that 
decisions. Concentrate on 3 things that are most important to the town/committee to make 
this project successful. This will be the bulk of concentration and budget 
Passios Given age of building, verify scope of work will include full Hazardous Material assessment, 
mitigation plan and cost estimate 
AA Consultant that they work with for this is very thorough and complete in their work. Problem is 
with unknow. Conversation around the extent of destructive testing needed.  
Cole Previous project that involved several different community groups sharing the same space? 
Security concerns? 
AA Different ways to approach this. Example is Middleton where they get different entities talk to 
each other and understand there are ways to work and live together. Did not address security, 
more getting common ground of all the different folks using it.  
Lemieux Explain your experience your approach to traffic flow? 
AA Many of their buildings are tight urban sites. Have not thought about it because in their mind 
there is plenty of space. Worth looking into working with a traffic consultant if it makes sense. 
School related use of building is in their opinion will be the most troublesome.  
===PAGE 5===
Chair  Tabled the agenda item regarding discussing candidates 
Maklin  Generally pleased with caliber of presentations. 
McQuaid Need to do the decision process quickly 
Chair  Future meeting schedule. Do we continue with every week schedule? 
  Next meeting set for following Wednesday Feb 5th at 6PM 
  Follow up meeting on Wednesday Feb 12th at 6PM 
  Meeting on Wednesday Feb 26th 
Maklin  Checking on references 
Chair  Chair will coordinate the checking of the references. Present summary of results next meeting. 
Cole  Question on timeline. Do we need to have a decision by Feb 10th to stay on schedule? 
Consensus was to have each member have their score for each candidate before the next meeting to expedite 
the process. Important that a decision be made at the next meeting. 
Passios motion to adjourn / Maklin Second      Passed unanimously. 