===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
November 9, 2020 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Blatt, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew 
Allison 
Members Absent: none 
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: NA 
Community Guests: NA 
 
Public Comment: Matthew Allison stated he was sworn in last Monday and watched the previous 
meeting and was pretty worked up and did not feel he would be an effective communicator at the 
meeting. Greg Roy welcomed Matthew Allison as the planning board representative. Matthew is 
currently the chair of planning board. Matthew needs to leave at 6:30pm tonight for a meeting. Dave 
Passios stated he had conversations with community members that are getting itchy for numbers and 
Dave Passios stated we are moving as thoroughly and quickly as possible and floor plans have delayed us 
a month. Dave Passios also stated he was looking for patience and we would not be ready to expose 
numbers for fall town meeting. Michael-Ray Jeffreys welcomed Matthew Allison.   
Committee Reorganization: We have a new member, planning board member, Matthew Allison. Greg 
Roy stated the committee is short a clerk. Brian Lehtinen volunteered as clerk. Dave Passios nominated 
Brian Lehtinen for clerk, Matthew Allison seconded. Roll call vote: Matthew Allison aye, David Blatt aye, 
Dave Passios aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, and Greg Roy aye. 
Review and Finalize Architect Presentation: Greg Roy stated he told the town manager she did not need 
to attend tonight’s meeting. The town clerk mentioned that the town moderator said brevity is 
important in the presentation.  Greg Roy turned it over to architect Tom Lam to review the architect’s 
presentation. David Blatt stated he sent a presentation to the committee for review based on the 
information from Greg Roy.  Tom Lam shared the slides for the architect’s presentation. The 
presentation will include a separate slide for each wing of the building and each purpose. Greg Roy 

===PAGE 2===
stated we could go slide by slide to review. Dave Passios agreed that would help see the slides more 
clearly. First slide was ‘acknowledgements’. Dave Blatt mentioned to put emphasis on importance and 
priority, Brian Lehtinen and Michael-Ray Jeffreys agreed. David Blatt asked if the next two slides could 
be combined. Tom Lam mentioned the graphic was not that interesting (civil engineering).  Ed DiSalvio 
stated we should keep the more interesting graphic. David Blatt stated he wants to get this to 10 slides 
or less, currently there at 13. Greg Roy agreed to get rid of the civil engineering slide. Slide 4: David Blatt 
stated to add the previous slides two bullets. Brian Lehtinen stated the picture was a former iteration 
and not the current design. Dave Passios stated he would rather see the parking lot graphic for this slide. 
David Blatt stated the graphic on the next slide could be moved. Dave Passios and David Blatt agreed we 
could keep the same graphic for both slides. David Blatt added we should add that we interviewed the 
following groups as the initial bullet. Discussion took place on design concept and changing 
miscellaneous and public use to both community use space.  Greg Roy stated in handouts graphics 
should be as large as they can be.  Michael-Ray Jeffreys asked about doors. Greg Roy stated doors would 
be in design development but also the kind of question we will get at town meeting. Tom Lam stated we 
can take care of it. David Blatt mentioned Lion’s Club should be listed as community food pantry. David 
Blatt mentioned adding square footage of storage to meeting room square footage. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys asked Matthew Allison if the space would be adequate for the Grange. Matthew Allison stated it 
would be sufficient. David Blatt stated we could eliminate the sign off slide and state it in the 
presentation. Michael-Ray Jeffreys disagreed and was concerned about people who were not at the 
meeting and only looking at the slides. Dave Passios agreed and thought it an important slide to have as 
a selling point. Brian Lehtinen agreed. Greg Roy agreed.  Greg Roy questioned ‘Engineering narratives’ 
and would like to see something people will better understand like analysis of building systems. 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated the graphic needed the most recent version. Michael-Ray Jeffreys asked if 
the parking graphic could have north at the top. Tom Lam rotated the graphic. 
 
Town Meeting TCP Committee Presentation Preparation: Greg Roy shared the presentation. Members 
and former member’s names were added. Early history slide was truncated for brevity. Committee 
charge was listed.  Key Milestones/Events slide listed events from November 2019 to November 2020. 
Matthew Allison mentioned we should be prepared for questions about the property line as well as the 
skate park adjacency planned. Brian Lehtinen noted RFQ needs to be corrected. Tom Lam mentioned 
nothing going on in March to May. Preliminary Plan Development slide was reviewed. ‘Preliminary’ was 
changed to ‘schematic’. Greg Roy stated we would present first, then the architects.  Future Work slide 
was discussed and we would not ask for questions and state there is more work to be done and the cost 
is forthcoming. Greg Roy stated we should discuss who is going to give the presentation. Dave Blatt 
stated he will be there and could present if needed. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he could present but 
stated Greg Roy would be best suited. Brian Lehtinen agreed. Dave Blatt agreed. Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
stated we should welcome questions at our future meetings. Greg Roy also stated we will likely get help 
from the moderator. Printing was discussed. Dave Blatt stated the building outline slides. Greg Roy 
agreed. Greg Roy stated we should put the slides online. Michael-Ray Jeffreys mentioned showing the 
slide with parking (site map).   
Review and Approve Minutes: None 
Future Meeting Schedule: We will be meeting on Monday, November 30th at 5:30pm.  
===PAGE 3===
Public Comment: none  
David Blatt made a motion to adjourn, Michael Ray Jeffreys seconded. Brian Lehtinen aye, Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys aye, David Blatt aye, Greg Roy aye.  
Meeting adjourned at 6:42 P.M.  
 
 