===PAGE 1===
,
 
 
February 26, 2020 6pm 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Greg Roy, Tanner Cole, Damon McQuaid, David Blatt, Dave Passios 
Members Absent: Michael Mackin 
Meeting called to order 6:00pm 
Public comment: Brian Lehtinen said he had a school committee meeting at 7pm. 
Minutes were tabled. 
Discussion on spring town warrant articles: 
Greg Roy stated he touched base with the town manager, she has gone back and forth with architect 
and she has gone back from the initial proposal to ask for ala cart items to negotiate.  She didn’t give the 
overall price but still needs work to be done to get an acceptable contract. Still working but not ready 
for today.  She anticipates running it by town counsel, the architect will likely do the same. It is taking 
longer than we thought. Greg Roy stated he told the town manager not to come tonight and he would 
give the update. 
We spoke last time about putting a placeholder article in the warrant. The general idea would be one 
warrant article to be an update; stand up and give a presentation. Placeholder for a cost presentation is 
looking less and less likely.  
Dave Passios is getting questions on the street about how far along we are, and are you coming to spring 
town meeting. Way to close. Warrant closes March 16th.  
Brian Lehtinen stated we could withdraw it if needed. 
Damon McQuaid stated we could pass over it. 
Tanner Cole stated it would be better off not doing anything at all if we are two weeks out from initial 
kickoff. There are a lot of moving pieces, to put an architect in there and demand a finished product for 
a May 2nd town meeting. 
Dave Passios stated he agreed with Tanner Cole. It gives the impression we are trying to ram rod it 
through and we can give the architect some breathing room and the architect could rush through the 
process. 

===PAGE 2===
Tanner Cole stated by putting the placeholders on the warrant, it gets shipped and the residents will see 
it, and you open the box at that point, it’s better government I think if you have everything locked and 
loaded. We run into this in planning board, it’s a disservice to the residents. If it isn’t a last minute 
change, I’m not a big fan. 
Damon McQuaid stated but it isn’t a change, it would be passing over. 
Brian Lehtinen stated the first warrant as an update, at the end you say this is where we are at and we 
are passing over the next warrant. 
David Blatt said in 6 weeks, we will not get what we want. 
Dave Passios made a motion to put only an update warrant on May 2, Tanner Cole seconded. 
Damon McQuaid stated he would still rather hear from the architect that they can’t do it in time. 
Dave Passios stated we don’t feel like we have enough time to get it done. 
Greg Roy stated but we could wait though, it closes the 16th of March and we have another meeting 
before that. 
Dave Passios stated nothing in that time will change my mind. 
David Blatt stated he thinks there are a lot more people to talk to besides the users, there is so much we 
can do with that building. 
Tanner Cole stated he knows March 23rd planning board is planning a meeting on Brooks house. Last 
spring town meeting we approved selling the structure and not the land. APBP has sought to carve out 
land for the house to sit on and this will come into play with this discussion and we are trying to figure 
out who owns the land, but it is in the care and custody of the schools.  
Greg Roy stated TCP building was given back to the town, and it is part of the main parcel. It was for 
MSBA approval.  
Damon McQuaid stated schools are not claiming they own the property. 
Tanner Cole stated they just have full control over it. 
Dave Passios stated an easement of cell phone tower, verbiage, legally under care and custody of town 
up to 2015. 
Damon McQuaid stated he understands but he doesn’t doubt the architect’s ability to get this done. 
In favor of 2 until they say they can’t do it. 
Greg Roy asked can we pull it before. 
Dave Blatt stated we would have one meeting with architect and say what do you think? 
Tanner Cole stated I’m with Dave, looking at the calendar, in my mind you can’t do public outreach, first 
question out of everyone’s mouth is what’s the price tag. At the end of the day you do a disservice to 
the project if you try to push it through. I can remember the last borrowing we did over a $10 million 
price tag. Hazardous material was $800,000.  
===PAGE 3===
Dave Passios stated a good estimate next door was $300,000; you could easily get to $800,000.  
Tanner Cole stated Johnson and Roberts did a $23 million project and could compare our project 
extrapolated to Sturbridge town hall renovations. Can we have Heather put TCP in her presentation? 
Dave Passios stated if we are to present from the committee, it would need an article. 
David Blatt stated maybe it will get more people in the town meeting. 
Tanner Cole stated it would be the first of public outreach. 
Greg Roy stated we need enough time to do that really well. I hear Damon’s point but I don’t want to 
come across like we are hindering in any way or we are not being transparent or rushing things. 
Dave Passios stated if we do push off to the special town meeting, there would have to be a special 
election, we did do it for the new school. The other point I keep bringing up is a 2/3 vote rather than a 
majority and if it passes then we did a good job. 
Brian Lehtinen asked if we postpone would we want to wait until May and put on a ballot? 
David Blatt stated either way it will be on a ballot. 
Tanner Cole stated the only argument to that is cost savings to have a special election. Has the charter 
been approved? 
Dave Passios stated no, pushing for ballot. 
Motion to have only one update article on warrant: Dave Roy, aye, Tanner Cole, aye, Damon McQuaid 
no, David Blatt, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Brian Lehtinen, no. Motion passes. 
David Blatt stated a report, progress or no progress. 
Dave Passios asked do we want the architect there? 
Greg Roy stated to leave the door open. 
Tanner Cole stated it as the first step in community outreach 
Greg Roy stated put an article in the paper afterwards. 
David Blatt asked if update on the brooks house on the town meeting? 
Tanner Cole stated they are shooting for March 23 meeting with APDC on the agenda with a goal to 
flush out their thoughts on the future of the Brooks house. The town meeting approved the article but 
then it falls flat. It is up to the government to get it done. To just let it sit there doesn’t make a lot of 
sense. Now the APDP is looking to fulfill their charge. It will not be on for spring meeting, and makes 
sense to proceed with caution due to this project. There is a lot to try to figure out there.  
Dave Passios stated hopefully that is something the architects will look at. 
Greg Roy stated the town manager said she is speaking specifically to the property line and traffic 
patterns. 
Damon McQuaid stated we can write a contract with the library on parking. People are frustrated. 
===PAGE 4===
New Business: David Blatt asked what is the thought on the committee on how often we will meet? 
Greg Roy stated he thinks we just gave ourselves more time. 
Dave Passios stated we don’t want to sit back too long. 
Greg Roy stated he would suggest two times a month and the architect will drive that. 
Dave Passios stated the scenario of shooting for town meeting and push hard for late spring early 
summer, and hit it hard again early fall and go into November town meeting. 
David Blatt stated he would like to have something nearly complete before the summer. Do the 
newspaper outreach and leak stuff out. By the fall have the public comment before town meeting. 
Dave Passios stated to flush out issues early. 
David Blatt stated it would be amazing if we had everything done but the dollar figure. 
Brian Lehtinen stated even better if we have the dollar figure. 
David Blatt stated we need that community support and so much out of our control. 
Tanner Cole stated as we prepare the presentation I hope the strategy or philosophy but does not 
appear set in stone. In a lot of ways, we should be asking for feedback and not telling what we are giving 
you.  
Dave Passios stated this is where we are at, and give a full presentation, then we get the feedback and 
have the time until November to adjust. 
David Blatt stated after we talked to these groups we can see what have we missed. 
Greg Roy stated we can give them a quick timeline of how things progressed. 
Dave Passios stated there is a lot of room in that building, we should be consolidating all town offices. 
Offices in the DPW should also be considered. 
Tanner Cole stated he doesn’t want to speak for them, but their theory is it should be all under our 
house. 
Dave Passios stated there are arguments for both sides. 
Brian Lehtinen stated we will have architect at least talk to them. 
Dave Passios stated he would like to have their thoughts on it. 
Damon McQuaid stated it would be nice to have flex space and room for expansion. 
Brian Lehtinen stated floor plan will likely change, everything is going to be reviewed at this point. 
Dave Passios stated the superintendent does not need to be with student programs as it is now. 
David Blatt stated that’s why we have the architect. 
Future Meeting Schedule was discussed. 
===PAGE 5===
Greg Roy stated probably the 4th or the 11th and 25th for placeholders. We would not meet next week 
unless the architect is ready or we have pressing business. We can readdress once we have the architect 
in place. On the 11th I may have to leave early.  
Public comment: Dave Passios stated the finance committee meeting is tomorrow evening and will be 
reviewing fire department and police budgets.  
David Blatt stated the green group is getting together tomorrow to talk about street lights and meeting 
at the library. 
Damon McQuaid motioned to adjourn at 6:39pm, Dave Passios seconded. Brian Lehtinen, aye, Dave 
Roy, aye, Tanner Cole, aye, Damon McQuaid, aye, David Blatt, aye, Dave Passios, aye. 
 
 
 