===PAGE 1===
 
March 11, 2020 6pm 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Greg Roy, Tanner Cole, Damon McQuaid, David Blatt, Dave Passios, 
Michael Mackin 
Members Absent: none  
Architects: Ed DiSalvio Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux, John Londa 
Meeting called to order 6:03pm  
Public comment; Greg Roy leaving at quarter to 7 and will turn over chair to David Blatt 
Brian Lehtinen school committee meeting at 7. 
Tanner Cole leaving at 7. 
Comment from public: none 
Meeting minutes: none 
Meeting with the architect: kickoff meeting summary 
Introductions were made. 
Discussion from Architects:  
You will see us at every meeting and Chris Sullivan and another architect Sebastian will come with Ed or 
Tom.  We will get a walkthrough and get engineers here all at once. We will have hazmat and 
environmental come at the same time. We will have the building scanned. As far as scope of services we 
will reference RFP and outline what we plan to do. Visioning sessions start tonight and consolidate when 
we come back. Phase 1, tasks 1 and 2, space needs assessment. Combine all information given to us and 
get a fresh set of eyes and move forward. We intend over a 6 week period to wrap that up. These 
meeting dates we can change. Week of April 6th we will have done all the study and existing review and 
have a walkthrough. That meeting we will give a quick assessment and any red flags. A dozen architects 
and engineers. Any restricted access? We have Cori’s and will be coordinating with the town manager 
and John Londa from the school department.  Meeting three we will narrow it done on pricing. Design 
development services is going to schematic services and showing all the major rooms and adjacencies 
and more doors and detailed information. From the architectural standpoint these are the types of 
windows and doors and a detailed cost estimate. Ed will have the structural narrative. Site and civil will 

===PAGE 2===
have the drawings. Wrap it up in the middle of August. And we will talk about potential alternates. 
Michael Mackin asked about the level of detail and discussion on choices. Architects said it is important 
to talk the building committee and the detail on a cost estimate and send it to the town manager and if 
you need more information we can provide that. The worst thing is we are not on the same page.  
Contract execution: we added more detail. When would the committee be satisfied and get the contract 
executed. The town manager stated the architect and town manager would sign the executed contract. 
Greg Roy stated the town manager is the procurement officer and will do the financing.  
Michael Mackin stated this schedule takes us to August. Greg Roy stated we voted last meeting for only 
an update article for the town meeting. Dave Passios asked what does this do for the November 
meeting and what do we do in August to November. 
The Architects stated one possibility is we keep meeting and complete the report. Maybe a month or so 
before we meet and freshen up the materials. We might want to hold off on the community meetings. 
Dave Passios mentioned 2 town meetings in the RFQ. Greg Roy stated we want to give an update at the 
town meeting. Architects stated we plan to be completed in the August time frame. We anticipate the 3 
meetings in additional to the 2 town meetings. We might want to have another prep meeting before 
town meeting. End of March first week of April would be good for a walkthrough.  
David Blatt said it would be good to wait for community outreach. Greg Roy stated the town meeting 
would be the first community outreach. We wouldn’t really need to do a forum until we get past the 
pre-schematic stage. David Blatt stated having the existing 3d model would be good to have for the 
town meeting. Dave Passios inquired about the plot plan and footprint. Tanner Cole stated there is no 
plot plan and is not drawn to scale. It is the plan that draws the schools having the care and custody 
because of the new school, a graphic representation of who has the care and custody. Architects stated 
they plan to do a survey of the land. Tanner Cole asked if people can be in the building for the scanner. 
Architects stated they can do it after hours.   
Architects asked what do you envision for the building in the future and what is unique about this 
building. David Blatt stated it is a community building and great potential for that and the town greatly 
needs that. A place for community to gather. Dave Passios stated community organizations space and 
for town offices and departments. We have the school entity which creates issues but not 
insurmountable. Separate entrances for entities. Damon McQuaid stated the number one reason is to 
have the town offices in there and everything is under budget, no grandiose features. Gathering spaces 
that are truly town spaces. The gym and the café don’t need to be a grandiose meeting hall. The gym is a 
great use for boys and girls club, senior center, and adult sports. Freshen the spaces up. It would be nice 
to have the setup for recording meetings and the school use and what they need. They use the 
classrooms now. Focus on town offices, clean and nice.  
Architects asked if there is a security system you would like it matched up to. The town manager stated 
we can talk to school and public safety.  David Blatt mentioned using cubicles for future change. Greg 
Roy stated centralizing town offices as a priority. Dave Passios stated classrooms do not need to be used 
for single offices and walls are removable. Dave Passios stated the superintendent does not need to be 
in close proximity of classrooms. David Blatt stated we want you to talk to people and use your 
expertise. Michael Mackin stated it should be easy for the community to find out where they can go and 
===PAGE 3===
how the campus will integrate with the surrounding buildings like parking. Architects added that we can 
add architectural features that tie entry points together.  
Architects asked if there were any consistent graphics for the town. Damon McQuaid stated there is no 
standard. Dave Passios stated his vision is town hall is to the left, and to the right is the community 
center and we brand it that way. Schools are an additional use but in the back. David Blatt stated, yes 
there is an entrance but there is not entrance and it may not be the entrance you pick and could use a 
facelift. Damon McQuaid stated we need one big meeting space and a lot of others. David Blatt stated 
the cafeteria could be a good large space for meetings. Michael Mackin stated the library space is often 
booked. The town manager stated we would need space for staff trainings as well. Rooms for under 20 
person meeting rooms would be good. Dave Passios stated the Parks Department is partnering with the 
school and we could see some more from that.  Michael Mackin stated the cafeteria would make for a 
better selectmen meeting than the gym.  
Michael Mackin asked how do you get more stakeholders involved? Architects stated they will discuss 
with other stakeholders and we will facilitate that process. Dave Passios asked if we set up one day 
where they have 20 minutes with you and give their vision.  David Blatt stated this is our open house 
and people do not show up.  David Blatt mentioned discussions with senior center and boys and girls 
club.  Dave Passios asked the town manager about consolidating the DPW town departments. Town 
Manager stated we are not moving police and fire. Tanner Cole asked if you are going to move the 
trucks too. Dave Passios stated administration should move. Tanner Cole stated Parks and Recreation is 
under the DPW, and same thing with sewer.  Dave Passios stated he wants the command staff in all one 
building. David Blatt stated we should still ask if they would like to be in the building. The architects 
asked what do you want at the completion of the project? Efficient cost effective, useful, addition to the 
community, clean, welcoming, community center. Dave Passios stated he would bring something into 
the meeting about a plaque for his father and all of the principals.  
The architects asked what are your priorities for this building: efficient use of space, visually pleasing, 
accommodating, cost effective, efficient flow of business. David Blatt stated the schools use it because it 
is extra space. David Blatt mentioned schools using the Brooks house. There is no ramp and not 
handicap accessible. Dave Passios stated it is a historical building. Damon McQuaid stated security is 
going to be an important question to answer to the town, that students are safe. There is a fear of 
asbestos and we need to answer those fears and concerns and will need to be a part of the 
presentation. Architects mentioned we will be doing that in phase 1 and incorporate into the 
presentation. Dave Passios asked whether this would be phased or vacant? The architects stated we will 
consider that and due the due diligence. Damon McQuaid stated it is important to know where to spend 
the money. David Blatt stated we have several buildings that will be vacant and that is a large obstacle. 
Not the architects issue but is a concern. Dave Passios stated people won’t consider it until the building 
is vacated. Dave Passios stated we would like to do a questionnaire for the public at the town meeting. 
Damon McQuaid stated understanding traffic and being next to the school is important. The architect 
stated they will be doing a traffic study and analysis. Tanner Cole asked which intersections were you 
looking at?  Dave Passios mentioned engineering traffic to not add to school traffic. Tanner Cole stated 
the design when the new school was done missed something. Damon McQuaid mentioned that the 
superintendent had stated if you do not like the drop off line have your child take the bus. Tanner Cole 
stated the driveway and Oak Ave should be included in the study.  Damon McQuaid stated we did get a 
grant to improve sidewalks. 
===PAGE 4===
 David Blatt mentioned to the architects to reach out to us with any questions. Dave Passios stated 
information can be disseminated but not discussed.   
Public Comment: None 
Future Meetings: April 8th and then 22nd meeting.  
Damon McQuaid made a motion to adjoin, Dave Passios seconded. Roll coll vote:  Damon McQuaid, aye, 
David Blatt, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Michael Mackin, aye. 
Meeting adjourned at 7:41pm 