===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
January 13, 2021 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew 
Allison 
Members absent:  
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Steve Walker, Heather Lemieux, John Londa 
Community Guests: Lunenburg Ledger 
Meeting called to order at 5:33pm. 
Public Comment: 
Greg Roy asked if any members of the board have any conflicts tonight where they have to leave early. 
David Blatt stated he has to leave around 7pm.   
 
Steve Walker, 227 Pleasant Street, also the chair of the public access cable committee stated he sent an 
email to Greg at the end of last year just wanted to make sure that the topics got properly covered 
which may or may not be simple. The first one is that the last meeting there was a discussion on the 
outside doors for the buildings and Steve Walker wanted to remind the committee that PACC also needs 
an outside door to the building for out of house access and would request that it has the same 
appearance as the other doors, needs card access, as well our main corridor entrance or the internal 
corridor of the building not the internal one of PACC needs to look like the other entrances. Also PACC 
needs to have a monitor mounted right next to the door in whichever manner meets code and doesn't 
cause an obstruction in the corridor such that PACC can have a silent display of our channels plus one 
additional internal channel or just switch it to one channel so in the design for the internal doors we 
would like to ensure that that is included.  The third topic to raise is the building needs a loading dock in 
all probability not only for making the major move when it's necessary but also on an ongoing basis 
suppliers, office supplies, new copiers, but also PACC will need occasional access to something like that 
and if PACC could be part of any discussion you may choose to have on that. Dave Passios stated he 
wanted to bring the attention of the committee and thank Mr. Londa and his maintenance crew, an 
issue was brought to his attention on the outside of the Passios building, a panel had actually fallen off 

===PAGE 2===
between one of the windows on the west wing exposing two by fours and allowing rain and snow to get 
into the interior wall and possibly run down and damage interior finishes. Once they were made aware, 
it was taken care of very quickly and publicly thanked them. 
 
Update from Design Team: 
A review of updated plans and information from the architects on the design team. Tom sent out some 
materials this evening but I’ll turn it over to Tom and Ed. 
Tom Lam: I'd like to have Ed do some updates first. Ed has another commitment that he has to leave 
around 6:30   
Ed DiSalvio: Right before this meeting we sent out an updated civil site plan that showed the parking 
areas of the new full depth pavement and the overlays. What's different with this plan from this evening 
from one you've seen previously is we've added back in the existing sidewalks around the west wing 
based on our recent user meetings for the west wing we were told that they'd like to keep the existing 
exterior doors.  What's different from the previous version is the west wing previously we were going to 
remove all that sidewalk because it was intended to remove all those existing exterior doors and we had 
some additional meetings with the user groups and they would like to keep those exterior doors as a 
second means of egress so we've kept those walkways and the purple color indicates we're doing a bit 
pavement overlay over those existing walkways. All the other walkways that are to remain we are also 
doing an overlay on the east parking lot which was brought up at the last meeting.  As well we took a 
second look at the pavement in that east parking area and agreed that it should be overlaid with a fresh 
coat of pavement. The new parking is the same parking counts.  
Brian Lehtinen: I like the sidewalk on the north east for access for the kids from the middle and high 
school I think that makes sense for that walkway. I did have a question, did you consider kids coming 
from the middle in high school going to the boys and girls club towards that southwest. I feel they would 
follow that crosswalk continue west, there should be a consideration of a crosswalk in that southwest 
corner to make sure that we don't have kids crossing traffic trying to get to the boys and girls club 
 
Dave Passios: Ed if you can give me a number of feet of area impacted from either the existing walkway 
along the front west wing or off the foundation of the building to up into where the retaining wall is and 
where the road will be constructed and parking. I'm wondering how much of that area is going to be 
impacted by the construction and grading and so on and so forth. 
 
Ed DiSalvio: I'll have to ask our civil engineer to checked out on his cad drawing to give you an actual 
number on that.  
 
Dave Passios: From the foundation of the existing building to the outside of the excavation to create 
that road through perpendicular from the belt and at the upper corner also where the retaining wall is 
going to be because there will need to be a don't disturb area that's more conservation but beyond that 
green area there's going to be an area that's going to be dedicated to grading and no impact on that wall  
 
Matthew Allison: You have existing sidewalks and then you're going to build the new sidewalk in front of 
the parking side from the existing trees which I'm not even sure the condition of. Is there a reason not to 
bring the nose of the parking stalls right up to the existing walk instead of building a second one?  
 
===PAGE 3===
Greg Roy: does it make sense to talk about the doors then we can back into the walkways. 
 
David Blatt: I say my big thing is why we have so many doors still especially since those doors are in the 
middle of somebody's office, needing to be the fire rated and they're going to have to have card access.  
Those are really expensive and it's a single floor. 
 
Tom Lam: We were talking to a couple of the users and they found that if the doors are there then in 
case there's a fire at the entries of the department there is a second way out.  Looking from the building 
code standpoint none of the office areas require a second means because of the number of occupancy 
so from the building code standpoint it is not required and the fact that architectural assessment reports 
show they are in reasonable conditions that they could be saved.  We would change the hardware only 
but keep the doors, essentially nobody can get in, only it can be opened out. 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys: I agree I think that having a private entrance is probably nice to have but I think it 
comes with the cost and if they are just going to be exit only and emergency handles then that will 
resolves my concerns but then I don't see the point in having all the sidewalks that have to then be 
maintained and shoveled and taken care of.  
 
Discussion took place to run narrow walkways directly out to the parking lot sidewalk and eliminate the 
one that runs parallel to the building or just pads outside each door. Discussion took place on whether 
to save the trees because that's a lot of wasted space, typically putting the parking closer to the 
building. 
 
Discussion took place on if they can slide that driveway maybe closer to the building. 
Dave Passios: I move that we instruct the engineers to move the parking lot, remove the trees, and 
move the parking lot up to the existing walkway and any other changes that they see are necessary to 
accomplish that, with the intent of planting new trees, seconded and roll call vote: Brian Lehtinen, aye, 
Michael-Ray Jeffries, no, Dave Passios, aye, Matthew Allison, aye, David Blatt, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
 
Ed DiSalvio: We have started the construction cost estimate. The different design disciplines have been 
providing drawings and sketches and design narratives to our cost estimator Tom and I actually had a 
couple of specialty meetings today with our design team in the class estimator on the building envelope 
and the HVAC so we're working hard on that cost estimate pulling all the pieces together.  We are also 
doing the soft cost side of it in addition to the hard cost side so you have the full picture and one of the 
questions pertains to escalation.  
 
Discussion took place on the timeline of the project to add that escalation cost.  
 
Ed DiSalvio: I think this construction is going to be say 12 months all in to the construction duration. 
 
Tom Lam: I'd like to discuss with the committee the loading dock issue. From the school standpoint to 
move the directors and the nurse office closer to the door where the students are coming in for the ace 
program they also want to add some sort of a kitchen with a stove so we need to make sure we talk to 
our engineer about that we want to define this kitchen washer dryer area so we're just going to change 
the floor coloring to make it look a little different. The other two changes are to swap the location of the 
extended day with community link. They found us better to be on the other side so cost wise is not 
going to make any difference. Regarding PACC area, it's not necessary to have another interview studio 
so we're making the master studio bigger, we are creating a server room here that used to be another 
===PAGE 4===
function one of the things that Steve brought up was the packs area would be opened after hours so he 
wants to make sure that there's security that people coming from the packs suite when they have to go 
to the bathroom, they won't have access to the conference rooms or to the other parts of the building. 
That's why we put in after hour limited access. Steve mentioned earlier there are some very expensive 
equipment that needs to be stored or transfer into the building if there's a discussion of the loading 
dock so I wonder if this is an appropriate time. 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffries: Looking over these plans first of all I think a lot of work has been done 
so really thank you for all the hard work that's been put into this. My only question is about staff 
bathrooms. I think it's really important for staff to have a dedicated bathroom but I don't know if it's 
necessary to have a dedicated male and female bathroom of this size given the amount of staff that are 
in the building so I would be in favor of converting one of these bathrooms to leaving one as a staff 
bathroom and then converting the other one to another public female bathroom. So that would be my 
preference, it's a one unisex staff bathroom and one additional public female bathroom.  
 
Discussion took place on the location of the family toilet and ADA toilets. 
 
Tom Lam: the building or the plumbing code does not segregate public toilets or staff toilets so the way 
that we located the toilets is really we need a certain number of male toilets and female toilets so from 
the plumbing code standpoint we have the number of toilets.  
 
Discussion took place on the loading dock. 
 
Steve Walker: PACC doesn't need a dedicated loading dock. The concern was when we started talking 
about two things, one was first moving into the building, and in the normal operation of the building you 
are likely to need somewhere where you can have deliveries.  
 
Greg Roy: I think that loading docks are expensive uh the others preface with I've designed some, there's 
a whole host of logistical issues particularly on this building where I can't envision a spot where we 
would have the grading that would really allow for a nice smooth transition where we wouldn't have to 
create like a ramp and then you have all kinds of drainage issues and issues moving snow and if we're 
doing it for a pretty infrequent thing.  
 
Discussion took place on possibility of instead of having stairs making that a ramp a handicap accessible 
ramp so this way if you want to move things. Code was discussed and likelihood that it was not going to 
be that convenient to use it. 
 
Greg Roy: If it was a situation where it was going to be more frequent or something that you know it 
might it might make sense but I just it just doesn't seem to me that it's going to rise to that level.  
Tom Lam: So there's another uh pack related issue and there parking is needed for one of the 
New trucks where all the equipment is being stored so we had a discussion about security for that truck 
parking in this facility.  I believe the garage is currently used by the facilities departments and so I 
I don't know if the committee has any idea or comments regarding security of a van being parked 
in this area around the building in one. 
 
John Londa: We were looking to retain that for school maintenance. That's the only heated garage space 
that we have available so we were looking to try to retain it.  
 
===PAGE 5===
The budget was discussed in regards to furniture needs and cost estimates. Tom would reach out to 
local vendors the town manager uses. Flooring was discussed and standardized flooring was preferred.  
 
A discussion took place on sliding windows at the transaction counters. We all agree that there should 
be because of covid there should be some sort of a separation, some sort of a barrier.  The town 
manager would really prefer to have a sliding window. 
 
Town Manager:  I think there is a customer service vantage point that I think a sliding window adds 
and as well as addressing security in our current day of age.  
Tom Lam: Steve's group is taking care of the studio equipment so I'm not going to be including that 
in the soft cost.  
 
Discussion took place on the kitchen equipment.  
 
Tom Lam: I would say with the size of what you have it may be talking about $250,000 to $300,000. 
Discussion took place on if we want to raise funds later as a part of another project. There will be some 
sort of a generic commercial kitchen. 
 
Tom Lam:  Can we discuss equipment for the meeting rooms and the conference room area. 
 
Greg Roy: It should be included in the cost estimate for the meeting rooms. We need to be able to 
conduct meetings with cameras in those rooms.  The studio at town hall would be relocated and if we're 
going to outfit as much as we can with what we've currently got. 
 
Discussion took place regarding vaults, security cameras, panic devices, and including them in the cost. 
Discussion took place on stage and that it was not needed at this time to be included in the cost. Also 
discussed was furnishings for meetings rooms.  
Discussion took place to just to remove all the lead paint because we are touching and there's a lot of 
partitions that need to be reconfigured so we may have only a few walls with lead paint that's 
not being removed so we are proposing that led paint just be completely removed from the building.  
Discussion took place regarding the chimney would be very expensive to repair and to take the chimney 
out.  
 
Discussion took place on the importance of taking account acoustics in room design.  
 
Review and Approval of Meeting Minutes: Dave Passios moved that we approve the minutes as 
presented for November 30th and December 14th, Brian Lehtinen seconded. Brian Lehtinen, aye, 
Matthew Allison, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
 
Public Outreach: discussion took place on when to have a public forum sometime in February or March.  
 
Public Comment:  
 
Karen Menard: I have question on your public outreach part and not fully understanding it if your 
intention is to present to the public and get feedback from them the closer you get to presenting this at 
town meeting the less of an opportunity you'll have to take their feedback into consideration I guess I'm 
just not sure what the purpose of public outreach meeting is if you're getting down to the wire. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Matthew Allison: I'm going to regurgitate some things and make some new points. The schools didn't 
want this building, they gave it to the town the town decided to take it and make a municipal space out 
of it now we've got the school uses. We filled every nook and cranny of this building with 
whatever it's filled with but there's no room for expansion. There's three things this town 
typically cares for and provides for schools, public safety, and seniors. This is the opportunity for a 
municipal space for everybody between 20 and 50 to have opportunity. 
 
Dave Passios: a request for a future agenda item to discuss amongst the committee members talking 
about the historical significance of the Passios building. 
 
Brian Lehtinen: I would talk about school programming. If they had to, they had this discussion before 
that they could go back to Turkey Hill or the primary school but there wasn't a designated space just 
for those after school programs and it wasn't ideal to put it in the cafeteria for programming and it 
didn't make sense to put it back into the classrooms where they're using somebody else's classroom, 
where that teacher has all their setup and they're ready to go for the next school day. The idea 
was that it had a separate space for that programming similar to the boys and girls club that have a 
separate space for their programming. And that age group, for the extended day, is a different age 
group that doesn't have their own separate space for their programming. 
 
Greg Roy:  I would echo Dave and Brian but I think Dave in particular and just say thanks Matt.  I think 
that there's that's not the only one in town that feels that way perception is everything. I appreciate you 
bringing it up if for nothing less than directing our thoughts to make sure that we are clear on how that 
all came to be. I think to Brian's point we probably got the most input in this process was from the 
school department and the superintendent was on quite a bit.  The space is not being renovated to a 
point where we're sort of eliminating options for its future use.  
 
  
Motion to adjourn made by Matthew Allison, seconded by Dave Passios, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Matthew 
Allison, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Greg Roy, aye. 
 
Future Meetings: January 27, 2021 at 5:30pm. 
 
Meeting was adjourned due to zoom disconnection at 8:23 PM. 
 
 