===PAGE 1===
TCP Building Design Committee 
Gregory Roy, Chair 
David Blatt, Vice-Chair                 T: 978-582-4144  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member                F: 978-582-4148 
Brian Lehtinen, Member         17 Main Street, P.O Box 135 
David Passios, Member        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Member 
 
 
TCP Building Design Committee 9/08/21 
Members Present: Gregory Roy, Brian Lehtinen, David Passios, Kristina Masaitis  
Members Absent: 
Architect: 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux  
Community Guests: 
Call to Order: 5:34  
Public Comment: 
Public Comment from the Committee: 
Input to/Update from DiGiorgio:  
Contract is finalized with DiGiorgio. John Zychowicz is the new Architect. Time frame of contract is 60 
days. Wants to discuss about the layout, where programs and parking would be. Talks about separate 
access points for different programs as well as hours of operations.  
Dave Passios thinks it would be a better idea if the architects tell us where the best place to put everything 
is. Brian and Greg both agree. There is a want from parking to be at least the same size as it was before 
and have it more centralized. There is also a want to optimize green space and a need to have travel 
access around the whole building. Wants to make sure that the architect is thinking about children safety.  
Discussion of Proposed Warrant Articles: 
Reached out to the Selectboard to talk about the three proposed warrant articles. Talks about making sure 
that everything is done my town meeting. Everything needs to be finalized in time or else all three articles 
will have to be pulled.  
Greg Roy will send out a draft article to Town Manager for the proposed article. Wants to confirm with 
DiGiorgio about the escalation rate before sending this. The purpose of all three have not changed. 
Motion by Dave Passios to request and post a joint meeting with the Selectboard on September 14, 2021 
and if there is no quorum authorize chair to represent the committee. Second by Brian Lehtinen. Kristina 
Masaitis aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Greg Roy aye. Motion passes. 
===PAGE 2===
Correspondence to and from the Committee: 
Concern with pressed time till the Town meeting. 
Future Meeting Schedule: 
9/22/21 
10/13/21 
10/20/21 
10/27/21 
Public Comment: None 
Adjourn  
Motion by Dave Passios to adjourn meeting at 6:57PM. Seconded by Brian Lehtinen. Kristina Masaitis 
aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave Passios aye, Greg Roy aye. 
 