===PAGE 1===
TCP Building Design Committee 
Gregory Roy, Chair 
David Blatt, Vice-Chair                 T: 978-582-4144  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member                F: 978-582-4148 
Brian Lehtinen, Member         17 Main Street, P.O Box 135 
David Passios, Member        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Member 
 
 
TCP Design Meeting: 8/25/21 
 
Members Present: Gregory Roy, David Blatt, Brian Lehtinen, David Passios, Matthew Allison,  
Members Absent: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Kristina Masaitis 
Architect: None 
Town Employees: None 
Community Guests: Lunenburg Ledger 
Call to Order: 5:34 
Public Comment: None  
Public Comment from the Board: Dave Passios comments about making sure to get articles ready in time 
for special town meeting as there are other projects from different committees such as the Select Boards 
School Street Project.  
Review Scope of Work/Contract from DiGiorgio: 
Heather Lemieux has been working with DiGiorgio to add in additional items that were talked about last 
week. Might need to have a meeting in person for this. Tom Lan has left DiGiorgio. Ed will not be the 
project lead 
Planning for Future Study Efforts: 
Greg Roy asked about parking and how that can be maximized.  
Discussion on what the board can do to help the planning efforts of the building. There is talk of what are 
noise generators in the building. The gym, stairwells and afterschool program was brought up. Suggestion 
that the Lyons club be put on the first floor to minimize the need for stairs.  
Greg Roy brings up wanting to rely on the architects to do most of the work and that they come up with a 
list of problems to give to them.  
===PAGE 2===
Talks of how parking can be maximized. Suggestions of 20 minutes parking and handicap parking and 
where it could be put. Putting parking closer to the school would be the best place for school overflow 
parking. Concerns about amount of blacktop and blacktop maintenance.  
Discussion of Proposed Warrant Articles: 
What are the articles going to entail? Are they fact finding and how many? 
Discussion on an update article that says what the committee has been doing and the cost the second 
would be a funding article to talk about cost of renovations. There is an obligation to bring the article to 
town floor as that is the charge of the committee.  
Talk on a third article for if second article to get money to build a new town hall 
Warrant opened this past Tuesday and closes September 28th  
Review & Approve Minutes  
Minutes of 6/16/21 
Dave Passion Motions to Approve Minutes for the June 16, 2021 meeting.  
Dave Blatt Seconds 
Roll Call: Dave Blatt aye, Matthew Allison, Aye Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave Passios Aye, Greg Roy Aye 
Motion approved.  
Correspondence to and from the Committee: 
Future Meeting Schedule: 
9/8/21, 9/22/21 
Greg Roy Motions to adjourn meeting, seconded by Matthew Allison. Dave Blatt aye, Matthew Allison, 
Aye Brian Lehtinen aye, Dave Passios Aye, Greg Roy Aye. Meeting adjourned 6:23PM 