===PAGE 1===
TCP Building Design Committee 
Gregory Roy, Chair 
David Blatt, Vice-Chair                 T: 978-582-4144  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member                F: 978-582-4148 
Brian Lehtinen, Member         17 Main Street, P.O Box 135 
David Passios, Member        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Member 
 
 
TCP Building Design Committee 10/13/21 
 
Members Present: Gregory Roy, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Brian Lehtinen, David Passios, 
Matthew Allison, Kristina Masaitis  
Members Absent: 
Architect: 
Town Employees: Megan Lordan  
Community Guests: Rhonda Lizio  
Call to Order: 5:34  
Public Comment: 
Public Comment from the Committee: 
Michael-Ray gave an update on the select board and some of the hesitancy of them. They are concerned 
that the  
Chairman of the finance committee thinks it would be beneficial of having a joint meeting with the 
finance committee. 
Input to/update from DiGiorgio 
Discussion of Proposed Warrant Articles  
Dave Blatt is concerned that the pictures showing the building are not up to par. He will make sure that he 
finds photos that are simple and easy to follow so everyone understands what is being proposed. He is 
going to break down what is going on each side. There are not good renderings of the building as there 
was not a budget to have them done. 
Review & Approve Minutes 
Motion to approve minutes from 8/25/21 Greg Roy aye, Kristina Masaitis aye, Dave Passios, Aye Brian 
Lehtinen aye, Dave Blatt aye Michael-Ray Jeffries Abstain 
Public Outreach: 
===PAGE 2===
November 10th will be a Public Outreach meeting. Information would need to be sent in Tuesday 
November 5th by 5PM the week of to the Lunenburg Ledger. Talks about what to outline from the articles 
for the Ledger. Dave Blatt will get info together for next week. 
Correspondence to and from the Committee  
Ms. Lizio reached out to the committee about the archival space in the building and would like to see. She 
was sent information. Committee discusses about how the storage is not only important but obligated by 
law. 
Talks with the finance committee about numbers related to the amount being borrowed and the borrowing 
capacity of it. Michael-Ray Jeffreys will go to the meeting to propose the article.  
 
Future Meeting Schedule: 
10/20/21, 10/27/21 11/3/21 and 11/10/21. 
Public Comment  
Rhonda Lizio 181 Reservoir Rd is concerned with the fact that there is so much money being dedicated to 
the archival area. Is wondering why there is nothing being put into the old town hall. 
 
Adjourn 
Motion by Dave Blatt to adjourn at 6:44PM. Seconded by Brian Lehtinen. Michael Ray, Dave Passios 
Dave Batt, Brian Lehtinen,  Kristina Masaitis, Greg Roy all aye.  
 