===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
April 7, 2021 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
Members absent: Matthew Allison 
Architects:  none 
Town Employees: Heather Lemieux 
Community Guests: Lunenburg Ledger 
Meeting called to order at 5:34pm. 
Public Comment: none 
Update from Design Firm: Final report has been circulated. It is approximately 500 pages. The 
committee plans to discuss the report at the next meeting then post it. The architects and committee 
are still sharpening pencils on the scope of the work for an estimate for a new building. We have to 
make sure we have a rock bottom scope of work to create a cost estimate of new building. We should 
have this by next week. Finance committee would to have the numbers when we have it. 
Greg Roy stated he would be away at our next meeting. Vice-chair David Blatt would be able to run the 
meeting.  
Discussion took place on having an update article and a funding article likely for fall town meeting or 
town meeting in 2022.  
Discussion took place on the presentation and areas to highlight in the presentation. Heather Lemieux 
would check with the finance director to see if there are available cost comparisons from recent town 
buildings. 
Discussion took place on the feedback from the superintendent of schools and facilities director that 
MSBA would not be cover costs of these specific school related areas in the TCP building or a future 
school building. 

===PAGE 2===
David Blatt said he would create an initial slide show and send it out. It was decided the presentation 
would be just the committee, without the architects, saving the architects for a future funding article. 
 Review and Approve Minutes: Dave Passios motioned to approve the minutes as presented for March 
9th, seconded by Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Dave Passios, aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, 
David Blatt, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
Dave Passios motioned to approve the minutes as presented for March 17th, seconded by Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys, Dave Passios, aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, David Blatt, aye, Greg Roy, 
aye. 
 
Future Meeting Schedule: April 21st. Dave Passios stated the committee should meet fairly soon after 
the town meeting to chart out forward motion.  
 
Public comment: none 
 
David Blatt made a motion to adjourn, Brian Lehtinen seconded at 6:21pm. Roll call vote: Dave Passios, 
aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, David Blatt, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
 