===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
January 27, 2021 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios, Brian Lehtinen, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew 
Allison 
Members absent:  
Architects:  Ed DiSalvio, Tom Lam 
Town Employees: Steve Walker, Heather Lemieux, John Londa 
Community Guests: Lunenburg Ledger, Peter Beardmore 
Meeting called to order at 5:30pm. 
Public Comment: David Blatt has a ZBA meeting at 7pm.  
 
Committee review of updated plans, cost estimate and information/update from the Architect: 
We have received a preliminary cost. 
Architects described the site plan updates on crosswalks and the gate. The traffic engineer said yes that 
would invite a lot more traffic to cross the site and the recommendation is to leave that gate closed. 
For parking overlay, it made more sense just to overlay the entire parking lot.  Architects also are 
recommending an overlay on the existing pavement and the existing walkways close to the building.  
Architects are still calculating costs of cameras, recording devices, and all the network information. 
Discussion took place that the committee will focus on the building itself and then leave for future town 
meetings the opportunity to make improvements in office spaces, to focus on only purchasing new 
equipment and furnishings only to the extent that they would be absolutely required to achieve 
functionality in the new space.  
Anticipating May 2022 when construction can start and this will have an impact on escalation cost on a 
three-phase construction. 14-month projection to make assumptions to create the preliminary 
estimates. Some general reasoning why this estimate is high: first is that there's extensive infrastructure 
upgrade, we need a new electrical service system, new plumbing, the hvac equipment and distribution, 
new sprinkler system, we also need a new roof, insulation, asbestos and lead paint abatement. We are 
assuming three to four percent of escalation a year.  
 

===PAGE 2===
 
The architects presented a preliminary estimate, subdividing the estimate into divisions based on 
different disciplines and traits, including general requirements, labor, building demolition, interior 
demolition, hazmat, masonry, hvac equipment, the roof, insulation, new doors and windows, new 
flooring, new ceiling,  new interior partitions,  paint,  sprinklers, plumbing systems, electrical, permitting, 
Insurance, bonds, construction contingency, design contingency, overhead, performance and payment 
bond,  escalate to 2020 to 2021 and 2022. For this preliminary estimate, all these numbers together is 
21 million.  
Discussion took place in agreement that 21 million dollars is far higher than any of us were thinking and 
what the cost may be from the ground up. The average cost for this project with this preliminary 
estimate is four hundred and nine dollars a square foot based on fifty one thousand four hundred 
square feet of area. Discussion took place on potentially reducing costs through reducing phasing costs 
involved and find alternative space for a shorter period of time. Discussion took place on whether the 
DPW could provide services of the construction to save costs.  
Discussion to place on the age of the building and next year this is a 70-year-old building. It needs 
everything, all the systems are pretty much at the end of his life except for a very few things that we did 
in 2004.  The cost estimate includes a building permit fee that the general contractor and the submitters 
would have to pay and that's probably $125,000 dollars for a building permit fee for this size project but 
if the town is willing to waive that there's an opportunity to save there.  
Discussion took place on the next steps: a list with some with some costs associated with savings items. 
The architects plan to deliver a revised cost estimate to the committee on February 12th and the 
committee could meet on February 17th.  
 
 Review and Approve Minutes: Greg Roy motioned to approve the minutes as presented for December 
17th, seconded by Dave Passios, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, Matt 
Allison, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
 
Public Outreach: Discussion took place about maybe a public forum in the March time frame. 
 
Correspondence to and from the Committee:  
Greg Roy received an email from the Lions Club and wondering if we would be reaching out to the lions 
club relative to the food pantry. Discussion took place on if TCP is successfully redesigned, then two new 
buildings are sitting vacant. Discussion took place on answering those types of questions. Discussion 
took place to send a communication over to the select board. Greg Roy stated he would draft something 
and circulate it so that we have it for next agenda.  
 
Name of Building: Dave Passios stated that his wishes and his siblings’ wishes are that the Passios' 
names stay on the building no matter what the uses. Also presented was outside funding for a bronze 
plaque.  Discussion took place that the building itself remaining as the TC Passios building but the actual 
building itself being called something else whether it's town hall or something else like the town of 
Luneburg town hall at the Passios building and the Lunenburg community center at the Passios building 
as describing what's in the building.  
 
 
Future Meeting Schedule: February 17, March 3, March 17 
 
 
Public comment: 
===PAGE 3===
Peter Beardmore wanted to thank the committee for incredibly diligent work, this has not been an easy 
process. Planning for May 1st for the town meeting, with a subsequent vote 14 days later at a town 
election, nothing can go wrong because the town needs to consider this, absorb it, discuss it, think 
about the effects on the tax burden, think about what we really need and what we really don't need, 
and what some of our out costs are going to be relative to other debt that we need to take on that really 
don't have a lot to do with the TC Passios building, Turkey Hill. We can probably just squeeze this in if 
you guys sharpen your pencils and make it work. I'm very concerned that we don't have the amount of 
time that we're going to need to really think this through amongst the various committees in town that 
will want to consider this. The envelope has shrunk in terms of what's available for open space that's 
available for our kids. There's the primary school property, 635 mass ave, that we could potentially 
acquire in front of the public safety building, there are other options to accommodate our needs for 
town office space and when you're looking at a rehab cost that is at or potentially significantly above 
replacement cost I think that this is going to be a hard sell.  
 
Greg Roy stated he has really appreciated working with everyone. Tonight's a hard night, so he 
appreciates everybody's efforts and he is sure that we're ready willing and able to roll up our 
sleeves and continue to roll up our sleeves and work on this problem.  
 
Dave Passios made a motion to adjourn, Brian Lehtinen seconded at 7:50pm. Roll call vote: Brian 
Lehtinen, aye, Dave Passios, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, Matt Allison, aye, Greg Roy, aye.  
 