===PAGE 1===
 
 
Meeting Minutes 
February 17, 2021 5:30pm 
Members Present: Greg Roy, David Passios, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew Allison 
Members absent: Brian Lehtinen 
Architects:  none 
Town Employees: John Londa 
Community Guests: Peter Beardmore 
Meeting called to order at 5:32pm. 
Public Comment: none 
 
Committee review of cost reducing alternatives:  
Greg Roy stated he wanted to have a round table with the committee to discuss the cost presented or 
any information we have received from the architects. David Blatt shared the cost estimate and 
decrease in soft costs. Greg Roy stated the design contingency decreased and it is not necessarily a good 
idea and contingencies are there for a reason.  David Blatt stated the contingency went from 20% to 
about 10%, is there a standard? David Passios inquired what the school had for contingency? Matthew 
Allison stated the school had $5 million. Greg Roy stated the process was different due to already having 
unknowns absorbed as we went through the steps of the process. David Blatt stated there is not much 
left to take out looking at the cost comparison when looking at HVAC and electrical. Discussion took 
place on a $18 million renovation on a 70 year old building. Discussion took place on a tear down and 
rebuild and a “quick ball park” or “back of the napkin” square foot cost, with no design work for a total 
of $17.8 million or $357 per square foot. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he wanted to see offices and 
buildings consolidated but does not want to rehab a building at more cost than to rebuild a new one and 
interested in a more in depth cost of a tear down and we should expect that at town hall. Dave Passios 
stated if it doesn’t make sense then he would not support it. Dave Passios stated a two story building 
will save costs. Dave Passios stated 8 years ago we would not need as much replacement.  Matthew 
Allison stated if we tear down it doesn’t make sense to rebuild to the same footprint and possibly 

===PAGE 2===
multiple building campus, and there could be one phase instead of three and with less escalation. 
Discussion took place on how long buildings should last and after the renovation. Discussion took place 
on structural steel and the possibility of doing phases that effect only 25%. Discussion took place on 
doing things now to create more efficient systems for the future. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated new 
buildings will need little maintenance the first 10 years and building codes now allow buildings to last 
longer and with typical maintenance you only have large expenses every 30 years. Dave Passios had 
concerns that minimal has changed in this building and upkeep has not always been done.  Dave Passios 
stated the windows were redone.   John Londa stated many systems are 70 years old and it needs a lot. 
Back in 1986 roof was done and all classrooms got new double pane windows. In 2000 a project took 
care of gymnasium and cafeteria. In 2003-2004 heating and hot water systems were redone.  There is 
also 70 year old sprinklers and piping.   How much of the building do you actually retain? In the Tappe 
study there was an option to take the whole back wing out. David Blatt mentioned the town needs and 
we are using all square footage now.  Michael-Ray Jeffries stated we need to know what leveling the 
building and building new would cost because of minimized and alternative costs. David Blatt mentioned 
the old primary school location as a potential spot. Dave Passios questioned the amount of space at the 
old primary was not enough space. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated there is town sentiment that the old 
primary space would meet needs but we are limited on that lot. Greg Roy was looking for consensus 
with the committee because this will increase the cost for services. Discussion took place on 
determining a cost of a tear down with a new design and layout and also lowering the current cost 
estimate of the redesign. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated the town manager did not have concerns with the 
financing or debt in regards to this project if it started soon. There is also the concern about a decision 
that is going to be made soon on Turkey Hill. Dave Passios stated we have done our due diligence on this 
task and if we have a good project but we think it is expensive we can then go to the select board for 
next steps. Greg Roy stated once we have the final number then the town manager and others can work 
on talking about financing and next steps. Dave Passios stated concerns over increase in lumber costs 
and materials. Discussion took place on the minimal cost savings that was done in the cost comparison 
document. Discussion took place on possibly reducing parking for savings and if we can hear why they 
dropped the contingencies. Greg Roy stated that is was likely we were not going to see a lot of 
reductions because we were asking for a low cost estimate. Discussion took place that schools and PACC 
were the current users that would be able to make due if phasing was reduced.  Greg Roy is planning to 
reach out to the DPW for costs savings such as paving and curbing. Currently the DPW maintains the 
town offices but currently the school maintains the building. Dave Passios would like a breakdown of the 
site work on a separate document.  
 
 Review and Approve Minutes:  none 
 
Correspondence to and from the Committee: Greg Roy stated he had not drafted a letter to the select 
board but would like to have a presentation for them with the final cost. Dave Passios stated he has 
heard that the building is on one floor and that is something a lot of people like about the uses being at 
TCP. Matthew Allison stated elevators can be less expensive with hydraulics instead of cables. Dave 
Passios stated we should setup a timeline of when we want to meet with select board.  Discussion took 
place the committee is meeting March 3 and we could meet on March 9th.  Discussion took place that 
town meeting will not have a renovation funding article but potentially a funding article for funding to 
perform an estimate for a tear down and rebuild.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Future Meeting Schedule: March 3rd and 17th  
 
Public comment: Peter Beardmore wanted to discuss funding. Approximately $265,000 has been spent 
so far. If the committee needs additional funding to determine an alternative that we need to look at all 
the potential alternatives such as the primary school and 635 Massachusetts Ave. Conversations should 
have with select board and town meeting and what is the most likely path to please the most people. If 
this is not the project then we need to be deliberate about what the next thing is. Greg Roy asked about 
bringing it to town meeting. Peter Beardmore stated you will get a good sense of what the town 
meeting voters think of something and you will have a better likelihood to succeed rather than the 
select board. Town meeting needs to hear a report and some directional options.   
 
Dave Passios made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Matthew Allison at 6:56pm. Roll call vote: Dave 
Passios, aye, Matthew Allison, aye, David Blatt, aye, Greg Roy, aye. 
 