===PAGE 1===
TCP Building Design Committee 
Gregory Roy, Chair 
David Blatt, Vice-Chair                 T: 978-582-4144  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member                F: 978-582-4148 
Brian Lehtinen, Member         17 Main Street, P.O Box 135 
David Passios, Member        Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Matthew Allison, Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Member 
 
 
TCP Building Design Committee 11/10/21 
Members Present: Gregory Roy, David Blatt, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Brian Lehtinen, David Passios, 
Kristina Masaitis  
Town Employees: Megan Lordan  
Community Guests: Peter Beardmore, Chris Menard, Susan Carr 
Call to Order: 6:41 
Public Comment from the Board:  
Dave Passios has concerns about all the money that they plan to spend in the next few years. Concerned 
that the presentation will not be able to show the space of what the building will provide and that the 
public won’t think that there will be.Dave is also concerned about passing over the articles at town 
meeting as these articles have been pushed under the rug and the opinion of the town is not well heard 
when the select board passes over the articles.  
The number from Turkey Hill are numbers of projects that have occurred and been brought up over the 
past few years and added in increased cost at the average acceleration. This number does not include the 
future population needs. TCP renovation assume a 30% spike in inflation and now  
Discussion of Proposed Warrant Articles/Review Town Meeting Presentation:  
Dave is concerned about the presentation pictures and whether or not they are too fuzzy. The slide is the 
first slide and there is a need to present a good quality of presentation.  
Public Forum: 7:01 
Chairman Roy begins to give presentation talking about the reason this project has started and the history 
of it. The cost analysis and what the different uses of the building will be. There was an update on what 
the committee has been doing since spring town meeting and opportunities that have been taken like 
looking into a new building all together 
There was an explanation of the cost and how they were retrieved by the architects reaching out to 
subcontractors and getting real time costs of projects, labor and materials.  
Dave Passios expressed that the numbers may go up and that there is a need to look at the data that is 
presented today and to consider it.  
===PAGE 2===
Information on article 8 presented by Michael-Ray Jeffries. This will allow the town to study and go 
through the process of starting the project of building a whole new town hall. Mr. Jeffries became to talk 
about how town projects are the development of the project. The use of the building will combine many 
different needs for town, school and community. He talked about the needs of the current town hall and 
the structural damages that are in it at this current time. There is a large need for better storage that is 
OSHA compliant. There is a lot of asbestos and mold as well as current rooms that no one can go into at 
TCP.Building a new town hall will fix these problems and then create a new community events space and 
create a sense of community and preserve town center. Mr. Jeffreys went through the history of the 
project and the start of the TCP Design Committee.  
 
Public Comment: 
Peter Beadmore, 282 Pleasant,. We have been put into a hard space because there is hyper inflation due to 
the pandemic. When funding was approved for this project this would be a smart way to fix the needs of 
the town. We weren’t thinking about the codes that the building needed to get up to before we used it. 
This has been a long process and there was lots of work put into finding out what needs the building had 
to meet. As times changed there was a need to do an apples to apples comparison. There is a thought that 
we need to spend all this money for what the building was set to make and not what can we afford and 
how can we use this money to get what we need not how much money do we need to get what we want. 
Beardmore does not think that we are at a point where we can build this building and get what can afford 
and can support  from the community.  
The town financial advisor has run a report on what the average townsperson will be contributed. (Pulls 
out wallet). This will be funded by the taxpayers and they will be supporting what will happen to the 
Turkey Hill School. 
There is a concern if we stay in this inflationary period then we will have to ask the taxpayers to increase 
their taxes. Asking the taxpayers to be paying this is not feasible and this will put us well beyond the tax 
service levy. We should wait another 6 months to get a better idea and we should make sure that we think 
about historical preservation with Town Hall and Ritter building.  
Board Public Comment: 
Mr Jeffreys does not agree with everything that is said. We did not start this thinking it would cost this 
much. There is not a lot of good history on going back on costs of projects in the town. He does not want 
to support going forward with this project for now and going back to see if there is a better way to go 
about this. The work of this committee has been stellar and that in the spring there will be something 
better that they will come up with. There needs to have a shift in the community as to where the money 
should be going and that we should pull back from spending all our money on children and working on 
the rest of the community. If we say this should cost x amount of dollars then this is not something that is 
going to be set in stone.  The town employees are not working in acceptable conditions and if we keep 
pushing it the cost will continue to go up. 6 months is perfectly acceptable to say not 6 years.  
Kristina: Kids go to TCP and having it sit in the state that it is in then that is unacceptable. There needs to 
real solutions to problems instead of continuing to put band aids on it.  
Dave Blatt: When the committee started it was clear the town really needed something more from the 
building than just offices. This towns needs to step up and do things now instead of letting it get pushed 
under the rug. If this gained support the amount the building could do would be endless.  
===PAGE 3===
Brian Lehtinen: People don’t always realize the disrepair that these buildings are in and that there is a 
need to do something now 
Dave Passios: There is a need for citizens to listen and show up to the meeting and to have a full 
discussion. The committee has made solutions that they were tasked to make and there is nothing that 
they can do till the voters decide.  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys: Seniors are very nervous about the cost of taxes raising so much and what this 
project would do to them. Their taxes are higher than their mortgage ever was. There is a need for senior 
tax relief and that it would hit the tax payers but that is something that is needed.  
Greg Roy: This committee was tasked with a specific task. The charge was to develop a cost estimate for 
the renovation of TCP for school and town uses. It was then expanded to allow give an apples to apples 
cost estimate for a new building. Should the town renovate an old building that will still be old when its 
done or should they create a new building? The committee has no choice to decide whether or not to pass 
over them that is the job of the selectboard but the committee has to still present no matter what. It is not 
appropriate to pass over as a committee.  
Greg Roy speaking as a member of the public: There is still a need to rethink what is going on whether or 
not we should move forward and that the financial impact is too much and it very compelling. Something 
that should be reviewed. People need to come to the town meeting and there is a need to listen to what 
everyone has to say. The numbers will always change and no one will ever like the numbers. He looks 
forward to hearing what people have to say at the public forum.  
Motion to End forum by Greg Roy, Second by Dave Blatt. All in favor 
 
 
New Business  
Dave Passios The ledger will have a brief explanation of the three articles and what the accomplish. If 
both articles fail what will the committee be working with to find out new information. Dave Passios 
looks forward to seeing what the citizens have to say for the future of the committee 
Michael-Ray Jeffryes advises that they do not make a recommendation despite what the selectboard has 
asked.  
Adjourn  
Motion to adjourn by Greg Roy, Moved by Dave Passios Second by Kristina Masaitis. All in favor. 