===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
   
LUNENBURG MUNICIPAL  
BUILDING DESIGN COMMITTEE 
 
 
 
MEETING NOTICE 
 
Monday, April 4, 2022 – 6:00 PM 
AGENDA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over 
the Lunenburg Public Access channel. The recording of this meeting will be available on the Lunenburg Public Access YouTube channel 
within 24 hours. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, 
this public meeting is being conducted remotely. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely:  
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: Join Zoom Meeting 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 766 316 
7607#.  If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is needed, 
just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the 
“raise hand” feature to request to speak. Public participation is encouraged, and public comments may be permitted on regular agenda 
topics in addition to the public comment periods, at the discretion of the Chair.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. Public participation is encouraged, and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions, at the discretion of the Chair. 
 
6:00 PM - Call to Order 
1. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. APDC Representative 
c. Committee Members 
 
2. Review Vertex, Tappe, and DiGiorgio 
Reports to identify: 
a. recommendations at Ritter 
Building 
b. recommendations at Town Hall 
 
3. Discuss Program Priorities 
a. Review current prioritization list 
b. Review existing and requested 
space needs 
c. Criteria for reprioritization 
 
4. Discussion on Committee Communications 
and Public Outreach 
a. Correspondence to the 
Committee 
b. Prepared updates, findings, 
positions, and questions to 
appointing boards 
c. Social Media Engagement 
 
5. Old Business 
a. Agenda Requests & Action 
Items 
 
6. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
7. Future Meeting Schedule 
First and third Monday of each 
month, at 6PM 
a. April 13, May 2, May 16, June 6 
 
8. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. APDC Representative 
c. Committee Members 
 
9. Adjourn 
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chair, Select Board  
David Blatt, Vice-Chair, Community Member 
Brian Lehtinen, Clerk, School Committee 
Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee 
Matthew Allison, Planning Board 
Gregory Roy, Community Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Community Member 
 
 
