===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
August 29, 2022 6:00pm 
Members Present: Kristina Masaitis, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, David Blatt, Greg Roy, Tom 
Gray, Matthew Allison 
Members absent:  
Town Employees: none 
Community Guests: Anthony Sculimbrene, APDC representative 
Meeting called to order at 6:03pm. 
1. Public Comment:  None 
2. Review Draft Position on Storage Needs and child-related services. 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys read and reviewed the draft position paper on storage needs and child related 
services. The position paper highlights a cost of storage between $275-$350 per square foot, operational 
file storage, long term storage, cost of digitizing, and the LMBDC will minimize long-term storage in 
permutations of plans. Michael-Ray Jeffries stated the town is going through a digitizing process and the 
schools should also be encouraged to use digitization. Iron Mountain is used by municipalities and 
states. Greg Roy stated the committee should minimize storage through digitizing and use off site 
storage to minimize costs. Michael-Ray Jeffries states #6 in the paper is the minimization and #7 is the 
ask from departments. Discussion took place that originally in this process we were planning TCP to be 
the storage area, both short term and long term which increased the size and costs of renovations. 3000 
square feet of school department storage is the largest target of this goal. Digitize or store off site is the 
main goal because of the cost of storage. Digitizing is also a space saving and increases access. Michael-
Ray Jeffries asked to send this back to our appointment boards and share on social media. Matthew 
Allison and Greg Roy recommended clarification on committee findings and committee decisions to 
clarify our position. Motion to approve position paper by Greg Roy, seconded by Anthony Sculimbrene. 
Roll call vote: Kristina Masaitis yes, Brian Lehtinen yes, Michael-Ray Jeffreys yes, David Blatt yes, Greg 
Roy yes, Tom Gray yes, Matthew Allison yes, Anthony Sculimbrene yes.  
3. Review Criteria for Program Utilization  
There were no questions or concerns on the criteria for program utilization. 

===PAGE 2===
  
4. Discuss Member Provided Ideal Scenarios for Ritter, Town Hall, and TCP  
 
Committee members ideas for building use were discussed and the goal was to provide 3 common ideas 
based on building use for each building.  Ritter building had school administration as a commonality. 
Brian Lehtinen mentioned the superintendent said it was possible with renovations, and putting a use in 
the building was helpful in getting the plan passed. Town Hall was seen as community and meeting 
space as a commonality. TC Passios common theme was demolish wing(s) to reduce costs. Dave Blatt 
was concerned about Turkey Hill. Brian Lehtinen mentioned that the superintendent had mentioned a 
new building of Turkey Hill did not need to be at TCP land and could be at the field near Turkey Hill. 
Michael Ray-Jeffreys asked about renovations and expansions as an alternative. Brian Lehtinen 
mentioned remodel was described as needing alternative rooms and temporary classrooms due to 
length of renovations needed. Kristina Masaitis said we should not focus on the schools and focus on 
what we have currently. Greg Roy stated school programs should stay at TCP and let schools figure out 
what to do with Turkey Hill and use TCP as needed until a new building is decided. Anthony Sculimbrene 
stated to keep the school building conversation separate and Turkey Hill is outside the LMBDC.  Kristina 
Masaitis asked with storage minimization could Ritter be used for all municipal offices. Michael Ray-
Jeffreys stated Ritter would not be big enough without an addition. TCP idea 1 focus was demolish north 
wing and update the kitchen. Idea 2 was future site of Turkey Hill and use of school programming.  Brian 
Lehtinen PACC could also go in idea 1 in TCP and identify costs.  Michael Ray-Jeffreys stated the three 
ideas would be presented to the select board and get feedback, then then bring one idea to the town.  
Brooks House recommendation was demolish or sell. Due to the location it was not considered as 
residential. The town is willing to sell the building but not giving up the land. There was no interest. Ideal 
scenario is a parking lot, green space, or garden. Town meeting wanted the land. From the capital 
planning committee updates the building needs costly updates to maintain as well. Anthony 
Sculimbrene brought up the historical character of the building as well as selling the building but 
maintain a lease on the land. Brian Lehtinen mentioned leasing the building as idea 2 with potential zba 
variance. Storage would be idea 3 for Brooks.  Idea 2 would include an Annex to Ritter for town offices. 
Town Hall could be an office and preserve 2 floor in idea 2.  David Blatt mentioned historical society. 
Michael Ray-Jeffreys mentioned historical society is a 3rd party and has an easement on the property. 
Idea 3 new town hall at 30 School Street due to voter feedback on this topic that people did not want to 
build a park at 30 School Street. Select board will wait until LMBDC on 30 School Street. Discussion took 
place on whether new town hall should also include community space, kitchen and gym. Idea 3 would 
also include TC Passios demolished wings, keeping community space, PACC, kitchen and gym. Greg Roy 
stated the new space should be as small as possible to minimize cost and not build a gym and kitchen.    
Greg Roy stated limited parking is available at town hall. Town hall idea 3 would include community 
rooms and preserving 2nd floor for meeting room. Matthew Allison asked about the new Primary School 
as a town hall. Michael Ray-Jeffreys said it was looked into but due to timing and funding it would need 
to be done in approximately 20 years. Dave Blatt and Brian Lehtinen mentioned transition space be 
utilized in idea 2 and 3 at TC Passios. Grreg Roy agreed to use TC Passios as transition space. Idea 3 adds 
facilities to Brooks House. Idea 1 and 2 would be green space for 30 School Street. Matthew Allison 
requested all the king for a day scenarios sent out. Michael Ray-Jeffreys stated he will send those out so 
we all see the entirety.     
===PAGE 3===
5. Discussion on Committee Communications and Public Outreach:  No warrants but update potentially 
but unlikely.  
 
6. Old Business: Agenda Requests and Action Items: Matthew Allison inquired about asking the facilities 
director to be a part of this discussion. Michael Ray-Jeffreys said he will be invited.  
 
7. Review and Approve Minutes: Tony Sculimbrene moved to approve minutes from June 6th 2022, roll 
call vote: Kristina Masaitis aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys aye, David Blatt abstain, Greg 
Roy abstained, Tom Gray aye, Matthew Allison aye, Anthony Sculimbrene aye. 
8. Future Meeting Schedule: Next meetings will be September 19, 2022 and October 3, and 17, 2022.  
 
9. Public Comment: None 
  
10. Adjourn: 
 
David Blatt, made a motion to adjourn,  seconded by Tom Gray at 7:52pm. Roll call vote: Anthony 
Sculimbrene, aye, David Blatt, aye, Tom Gray, aye, Greg Roy, aye, Kristina Masaitis, aye, Matthew 
Allison, aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye. 