===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
   
LUNENBURG MUNICIPAL  
BUILDING DESIGN COMMITTEE 
 
 
 
MEETING NOTICE 
 
Monday, July 18, 2022 – 6:00 PM 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
AGENDA 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over 
the Lunenburg Public Access channel. The recording of this meeting will be available on the Lunenburg Public Access YouTube channel 
within 24 hours.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. Public participation is encouraged, and public comments may be welcome 
during committee member discussions, at the discretion of the Chair. 
 
6:00 PM - Call to Order 
1. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. APDC Representative 
c. Committee Members 
 
2. Review Draft Position Paper on Storage 
Needs and child-related services 
 
3. Review Criteria for Program 
Prioritization 
 
4. Discuss Member Provided Ideal Scenarios 
for Ritter, Town Hall, and TCP 
a. Identify 3 scenarios the 
Committee should pursue 
 
5. Discussion on Committee Communications 
and Public Outreach 
a. Correspondence to the 
Committee 
b. Prepared updates, findings, 
positions, and questions to 
appointing boards 
c. Social Media Engagement 
 
6. Old Business 
a. Agenda Requests & Action 
Items 
 
7. Review & Approve Minutes 
 
8. Future Meeting Schedule 
First and third Monday of each 
month, at 6PM 
a. August 1, August 15, September 
19 
 
9. Public Comment 
a. Public 
b. APDC Representative 
c. Committee Members 
 
10. Adjourn 
  
17 Main Street, P. O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA  01462 
978-582-4144   Fax 978-582-4148 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chair, Select Board  
David Blatt, Vice-Chair, Community Member 
Brian Lehtinen, Clerk, School Committee 
Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee 
Matthew Allison, Planning Board 
Gregory Roy, Community Member 
Kristina Masaitis, Community Member 
 
 
