===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
May 16, 2022 6:00pm 
Members Present: Kristina Masaitis, Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Matthew Allison 
Members absent: David Blatt, Greg Roy 
Town Employees: Superintendent Burnham, Steve Walker 
Community Guests: Anthony Sculimbrene, APDC representative, Carol Archambault, Laura Kelly, Sophie 
Shapiro 
Meeting called to order at 6:02pm. 
1. Public Comment:  None 
2. Discuss Extended Day Programming Needs with School Committee and Superintendent of Schools: 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys summarized the change from TCP Building Design Committee to the Municipal 
Design Committee and the need to involve stakeholders in the process. Brian Lehtinen summarized the 
contingency plan for school programs at TCP to initiate a discussion with the superintendent and school 
committee members. Kristina Masaitis asked about enrollment in programs and what the reduction 
would be. The Superintendent stated the cap for extended day is 75 but could not say what the exact 
enrollment would be if programming would move to the cafeteria of the schools.  The enrollment would 
be no greater than 30 in each school but would depend on staffing. The gym space is not available due 
to basketball programming.  The superintendent discussed the ACE program and the importance of life 
and job skills in the community in which these students live in, rather than outsourcing. Peter 
Beardmore commented that this needs more discussion and that TCP is not a long term space for the 
programming and we need to find another space for them. He stated he would like to see feasible 
alternatives, because we know the programs are in jeopardy but what is the path forward. The 
superintendent responded the response was just in regards to bringing programs back to the school 
buildings. There is a possibility of using available municipal buildings for programming. Community Links 
Programs also need a dedicated phone line per the grant.  The superintendent stated it was premature 
to reach out to Fitchburg and Leominster Public Schools about taking on the students from our ACE 
program for work experiences which would be more cost effective than renting space. Matthew Allison 
stated that many adults do not have children in the schools and all four programs are like day care. The 

===PAGE 2===
superintendent stated that all these students are entitled to a public education until age 22. Matthew 
Allison stated that we heard from the Superintendent stated we could relocate programs to the schools. 
Brian Lehtinen stated that at prior meetings we had discussed that school programs could be moved 
back to the schools if space was needed for expanding town hall and offices but it was not ideal, as we 
see in the letter from the superintendent. Kristina Masaitis asked about shared space for some of the 
programs like at the Boys and Girls Club during the day.  Brian Lehtinen also stated he has concerns that 
the TCP building and space may not be available for school programming and could Ritter or Town Hall 
be a possible location and what would need to be done to the buildings for the schools to use the space 
or a Turkey Hill renovation or new build have space. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated that the town will not 
support a $40 million dollar project and we have to focus on what we can pass and whatever solution is, 
we cannot have a net loss to the community in order this to pass. There is likely a time that TCP will not 
be in use and the most cost effective way is to remove the occupants. A long term solution may be 
Turkey Hill add on for permanent homes of these programs.  Michael-Ray Jeffreys inquired of the school 
committee on a position on the land of TCP and should it be used for a future school. Additionally, can 
the schools do a records review to save square footage space on record keeping similar to how the town 
just approved. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated we need to get buy in from both seniors and parents. 
Anthony Sculimbrene asked about the four programs, how many are required to be provided a public 
education, and are they here to stay. The superintendent stated 3 out of 4: ACE, Community Links, and 
the Pre School program have an educational component and the programming is here to stay because of 
the community needs. The ACE program is a school program that is required by the state. Other 
programs could fall under the recreational department or a boys and girls club. The boys and girls club 
had stated prior that they could not accommodate for more grades. The superintendent is not sure if 
she will be able to staff a safe program that is self-funded. Staff are paid by the fees and if we need to 
raise the staff pay to hire someone, the fees may become too high.  We also cannot go back to the 
numbers before moving to TCP because the numbers were too high and not sustainable for staffing.  
Carol Archambault stated extended day has been around for a very long time, at least 25 years. The 
School Committee is more than willing to talk about other places in the community for programming 
and the School Committee would like to talk about Turkey Hill and possibly add these programs. There is 
a concern that TCP building is first to be dealt with and then Turkey Hill. Brian Lehtinen agreed with 
Carol Archambault and location of the school building did not matter to the School Committee and 
whatever works best for the town for locations, but more about students and staff having a safe place to 
learn. Laura Kelly also stated she looks forward to a Turkey Hill discussion. Sophie Shapiro echoed the 
other School Committee members and location was not a concern for future schools and the center of 
our town is a valuable resource and hopefully we can make it a more useful space.  Superintendent 
Burnham stated we walked through both teen center and Ritter building to see if they could 
accommodate school office space and ACE program be collocated with director of student services. The 
Ritter offered more opportunity but costs to upgrade for confidential office space. The teen center could 
not accommodate with the early learning center or community links because of the play equipment.  
Michael-Ray Jeffries asked the Superintendent if the Ritter would be possible for offices and ACE 
program. Superintendent stated she would have to walk through again but it was doable with 
renovations if funding was available. The School Committee adjourned at 7:00pm. Kristina Masaitis 
inquired about Turkey Hill. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated Turkey Hill is outside our purview. Brian Lehtinen 
added we should be in the conversation of the short term and long term placements of the programs 
located at TCP.  Matthew Allison stated concerns about mixed use of schools and town and wants 
===PAGE 3===
schools to stay on school properties and the high percentage of town budget that is schools.  Peter 
Beardmore commented we are funding debt service that funds the public safety building, library, and 
two school buildings. We also have a capital plan that was about 5-6% school department related, part 
of which was the air conditioning that was neglected since we built the building and we have to be 
measured and careful about how we talk about those investments. Brian Lehtinen stated there is a need 
for these programs, we see it in the success of the boys and girls club, but that is only for a specific age 
group, and these programs offer something for those other age groups and we will need to find space 
for these programs that will likely not be a in a town hall building.  
 
3. Continue to review Vertex, Tappe, and DiGiorgio Reports to identify recommendations at Ritter 
Building and recommendations at Town Hall:  
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys shared the reports highlighting areas that are updated, areas that were covered 
under the capital plan, and areas that still need to be addressed. Peter Beardmore mentioned the 
capital plan is diligently working down the vertex report and we have made an investment and progress 
in the capital plan. Brian Lehtinen stated he is on the Capital Planning Committee and the DPW director 
brings priorities for projects and Ritter interior was a priority but there were concerns about where 
people would be relocated and interior renovations should be taken into consideration if schools were 
to go in that building. Anthony Sculimbrene stated he looks forward to having a facilities director to give 
recommendations on how best to use the buildings and in terms of maintenance.  
  
4. Discuss Program Priorities: 
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated the facility requirements process will be picked up once we have our new 
facility manager in place. Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated he would send the space needs file to everyone to 
review space needs and review prioritization and layout your ideal layout. Michael-Ray Jeffreys received 
a response from the town manager on record storage and that we would be able to replace paper 
copies if we can document that we will continue to keep them in a format that is accessible, allowing 
use to reduce the square footage for records. Michael-Ray Jeffries noted we were at 6,000 square feet 
alone for storage, so there are significant cost savings in reducing the storage space for town records 
and in school records.  Discussion took place on possibly using the public safety building as storage and 
that it was in the capital plan request and that PACC deserves its own discussion at a future meeting. 
 
5. Discussion on Committee Communications and Public Outreach: None 
 
6. Old Business: Agenda Requests and Action Items: None 
 
7. Review and Approve Minutes: None 
 
8. Future Meeting Schedule: Next meeting is June 6, 2022 and July 18, 2022.  
 
9. Public Comment: None 
  
10. Adjourn: 
 
===PAGE 4===
Peter Beardmore made a motion to adjourn, Brian Lehtinen seconded at 8:04pm. Roll call vote: 
Matthew Allison, aye, Peter Beardmore, aye, Brian Lehtinen, aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye, Kristina 
Masaitis, aye. 
 