===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
November 8, 2023 6:30pm 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Greg Roy, Tom Gray, David Blatt, Matthew 
Allison 
Members absent: Kristina Masaitis,  
Town Employees: Town Manager Heather Lemieux  
Community Guests: NA 
Meeting called to order at 6:31pm. 
The Town Manager and the Facilities Director met with the Municipal Building Design committee to 
discuss a proposal to repair the roof of the Municipal Building. The roof is leaking in the middle portion 
of the building where the school has offices and the PACC has their studio space. 
The roof is beyond its life expectancy, there have been several leaks, and the Public Access area is fully 
utilized. The town has funding left over from the 30 School Street project, so it seemed like a logical 
place to move the funding from. 
The town manager asked for approval of $300,000 for the replacement of the roof over the central 
portion of the TC Passios. The council members agreed and Heather added that the roof is getting worse 
every time they go up on it to patch it. 
Heather asked a question about repairing the roof at this time when we have other plans for that space 
and possibly demolition. She said that we still need to use that space and can't jeopardize public health. 
The town received a hard quote of $300,000. I don't think that this represents a waste of funds and we 
wouldn't necessarily have to do major structural changes to the roof system. 
We need to have that building in workable condition for us to do phase one and phase two, and if we 
don't do it we'll have to spend a lot of money on other things to house the people in the Ritter and Town 
Hall. 
The water damage underneath the central portion of the roof has compromised the asbestos, and the 
tile with asbestos containing material is the number one thing that gets airborne. 
The Municipal Building Design Committee unanimously recommends approval of Article 11 at the 
special Town Meeting in 2023. They thank the Town Manager for their time and attention, and say they 
will have a presentation prepared for the meeting. 

===PAGE 2===
We want to break this process into three phases: renovate the Ritter building, build an addition, and 
move all town offices into the new town hall. Then renovate the current Town Hall to become the 
historic Town Hall. 
The town would consolidate town and school offices into one location, and dedicated community space 
for meetings. The third phase is to create a community center in TC Passios. 
We will decrease some of the code upgrades, but we also want to maintain locations for voting, food 
pantry, PACC, and town clerk and similar offices. We are partnering with the school committee to work 
on what is needed to shore up Turkey Hill. 
TC Passios would be a better building to do all those things we want it to do, and would also be able to 
address critical needs. The school committee has asked for a capital planning study of the Turkey Hill, 
and Mr. Allison is procuring a computer with CAD, and the intention is to come to the town with a 
funding article in the spring. 
Mr Blatt would work with Mr Jeffreys on the presentation.  
The moderator will accept questions after the update, but the presentation will be brief and the 
audience will be the same as the past for the most part. 
We should put in the presentation what we are working on between now and the spring to identify cost 
and timeline so that we can kind of preempt some of the questions that are going to come up. 
The size of the annex to the main building is roughly the same as a 35,000 square foot building, so the 
cost should be substantially lower at least.  
We have some good language and will use some of the ARPPA funds to get a cost estimation going. We 
will make award at our first meeting in January and have all the numbers in the early part of the spring 
and ready for town meeting. 
We are meeting again on the 21st, the week of Thanksgiving to talk about RFP language in detail so we 
can get that out the door. Mr. Lehtinen provided some minutes to us, and we will do a roll call vote on 
them. Mr. Gray, Mr. Roy, Mr. Allison, Mr. Blatt, Mr. Lehtinen unanimously approved. 
The board will meet again on Monday, November 20, and will then meet again on the 4th and 18th of 
December.  
 
 
Tom Gray, made a motion to adjourn,  seconded by David Blatt at 7:01pm. Roll call vote: Tom Gray, aye, 
Greg Roy, aye, David Blatt, aye, Matthew Allison aye, Brian Lehtinen aye, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, aye. 