===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
November 4, 2024 5:30pm 
 
 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Greg Roy, David Blatt, Kristina 
Masaitis, Matthew Allison, Tom Gray 
 
Members absent: David Blatt 
 
Town Employees: na  
 
Community Guests: Anthony Sculimbrene  
 
Meeting called to order at 5:35pm. 
 
The meeting resumed with a review of the RFP, starting with a review of the tours provided 
to potential firms. There was one firm, Taylor and Burns, that submitted before the deadline. 
One firm submitted after the deadline and it was discussed it cannot be accepted. The 
committee discussed options available with only one submission. The committee reviewed 
the submission and evaluated the proposal with the evaluation criteria for proposals. 
In regards to scoring General Quality of Response, Brian Lehtinen, Kristina Masaitis, and 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys ranked the firm Advantageous, Thomas Gray, Matthew Allison, and 
Anthony Sculumbrine ranked the firm Acceptable.  
In regards to scoring Experience with projects of similar size and score, Brian Lehtinen, 
Thomas Gray, and Michael-Ray Jeffreys ranked the firm Highly Advantageous, Matthew 
Allison and Kristina Masaitis ranked the firm Advantageous, and Anthony Sculumbrine 
ranked the firm Acceptable. 
In regards to scoring Historic Preservation Experience, Brian Lehtinen, Kristina Masaitis, and 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys ranked the firm Advantageous, Thomas Gray, Matthew Allison, and 
Anthony Sculumbrine ranked the firm Acceptable.  
In regards to scoring Project Approach, Brian Lehtinen, Kristina Masaitis, Thomas Gray and 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys ranked the firm Advantageous, Matthew Allison, and Anthony 
Sculumbrine ranked the firm Acceptable.  
In regards to scoring Firm Stability and Capability, Michael-Ray Jeffreys ranked the firm 
highly advantageous, Brian Lehtinen, Thomas Gray, Matthew Allison, and Kristina Masaitis, 
ranked the firm Advantageous, and Anthony Sculumbrine ranked the firm Acceptable.  
 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys and Anthony Sculimbrine will reach out to the references for the 
committee. 

===PAGE 2===
Interview questions should be prepared by the 14th. Members can send Michael-Ray Jeffries 
questions ahead of time.  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys made a motion to approve minutes from September 9, 2024, September 
23, 2024, October 16, 2023, and November 8, 2023 was seconded by Brian Lehtinen, 
unanimously passed.  
 
Motion to adjourn by Thomas Gray at 7:20pm, seconded by Matthew Allison, unanimously 
passed. 
 