===PAGE 1===
 
Meeting Minutes 
February 4, 2025 7:00pm 
 
 
Members Present: Brian Lehtinen, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Greg Roy, Tom Gray 
 
Members absent: David Blatt, Kristina Masaitis, Matthew Allison 
 
Town Employees: NA 
 
Community Guests: Tony Sculumbrine, Steve Walker PACC 
 
Meeting called to order at 7:47pm. 
 
 
The Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee held a joint meeting with the Select 
Board and the architects. The architects provided a presentation of the design layout.  
Discussion took place on the columns in the basement of the town hall and reducing the 
effects of moisture.  New timber columns to add support could be used and strengthen joists 
to improve the meeting house. Regrading the outside to support accessibility was discussed. 
The first floor would have some walls removed. The design will include verification for 
structural support. Squeaking floors will be addressed. In the Ritter building it is much less 
invasive. Two walls will be taken out, one may have bearing elements. Support of excavation 
would be needed for new town hall basement construction. Supports under the Ritter building 
will be made as we construct near Ritter. Steele Composite frame, steel brace frames for 
stability. Concrete foundation on composite deck. Concrete elevator pit with masonry shaft 
wall. No concrete on roof. Mechanical systems, new fire protection, sprinkers, new piping , 
fixings per code. Heating though heat pumps, new electrical services, panel, wiring and fire 
alarm. Public construction needs to limit fossil fuels, all three buildings would be off fossil 
fuels per government regulations. Cost estimate was completed two days prior, independent 
estimate outside of the architects, Peter Bradley. In the middle of most bid packs. Meeting 
House Renovation $2,624,842, Ritter Memorial Renovation $2,068,279, Town Hall 
$6,937,445, Sitework $1,657,520. Subtotal Trade Costs $13,288,086. Contingencies and 
Escalation is 12% and 3% respectively. Total Project cost w OPM and Design Frees 
$21,409,100-$22,301,145. Alternates include Alt 1 PV Canopy $1,768,800, Alt 2 Meeting 
House Basement Slab $97,279, Alt 3 EV Chargers (21 units) $281,400. Basement slab will 
extend life due to moisture; a 3 inch slab. Code requires conduit and pole boxes to support 
infrastructure.  
Tom Alonzo asked about removing squeaking from second floor. The architects will include 
this in the design. Tom Alonzo asked about the odd shape of new town hall. The architect 

===PAGE 2===
explained the building is shaped to create a courtyard open space, also the connection 
between the town hall and ritter should be a 90 degree angle and school street does not meet 
mass ave on a 90 degree angle so the new building follows school street allowing us to have 
more square footage.  Additionally, after renovation we will still have a limited usage lift. 
Concerns are the complaints about the current lifts, it is not a normal elevator, and makes 
people feel less than a full citizen. If we did this in both buildings it would be $250,000 each 
building and reconfigurations. Tom Alonzo mentioned that heat pumps are concerning due to 
Unitil electricity. Operating cost assumptions should be given. Architects stated this would be 
done later in the design. Amanda Moore asked about the PACC space. Architects initially 
proposed a separate building but as the process went on they determined they could 
accommodate that in the basement at a cost savings.  Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated PACC 
confirmed the contact with PACC. Safety and security was asked about. Michael-Ray 
Jeffreys consulted the interim chief and was told emergency shelters would need generators 
and were not needed for this structure and this residential area and negatives. Additionally 
questions on safety film and safety of the building were considered. Card access was 
discussed and level of detail will be in the next iteration. Amanda Moore also asked about 
staff feedback. There was a lot of feedback from staff. Michael-Ray Jeffreys also mentioned 
there is a time capsule in the Ritter and potentially opening it. Caesar Nuzzolo appreciated the 
work o1 the committee and the work on the 92 parking spots added that was incredible. 
Schools are the only new addition to the offices in the center. The parking will shift to 
parking lot and create better parking for the town center.  Support was given for the design 
aspects and details. The basement was discussed not only PACC but also allows mechanicals 
to go in the basement and allow 1st floor space for offices. Future proofing was discussed.   
Tom Alonzo asked about finance director and town accountant. Future growth concerns were 
brought up about these positions being two, not one in the future. Additionally, Tom Alonzo 
had concerns over no conference room in the school side. The design is to have the meeting 
house used for conferences. The superintendent has a space in her larger office to meet with 
her team. Offices will also be larger to accommodate meetings with family and a reception 
area and the design anticipates that staff will walk across to the meeting house. Tom Alonzo 
mentioned that people do not like to walk across in certain weather conditions.   
 
The meeting was adjourned at 8:45pm, with a unanimous vote.  
 