===PAGE 1===
INITIALS            
 
Open Space Committee Action Item Minutes 
Nov. 14, 2013 
Attendees: Rob Verge, Marion Benson, Rich Brockleman, Brandon Kibbee, Sharon Jordan & 
Paula Bertram (Board of Selectmen) 
 
The principal agenda topic was the potential acquisition of the Lane Property on Holman St. and 
the structure/responsibilities of the group established to advise us on the acquisition (the 
Acquisition Advisory Team), based on the presentation we made at the Board of Selectmen on 
Oct. 1, 2013. 
 
Jan Carrier moved that Brandon Kibbee represent the Open Space Committee on the Acquisition 
Advisory Team, seconded by Rich Brockleman; unanimously approved.  Brandon will take lead 
responsibility for discussions with Chris Rodstrom of Land Vest. 
 
The team will have 4 members: Paula Bertram from the BOS (alternate is Tom Alonzo), Toby 
Bakaysa from the Planning Board, and JJ Cote from the Conservation Commission, as well as 
Brandon.  The team is a temporary advisory group whose purpose is limited to the potential 
acquisition of the Lane property on Holman St., representing the town’s interests to the sellers.   
 
The team will determine what the town’s viable options are for pricing and configuration of the 
property, present recommendations to the Open Space Committee and report back to their own 
boards.  The Open Space Committee will review and approve the team’s recommendations, and 
present the proposals for approval to the Board of Selectmen.  The team may negotiate on the 
town’s behalf with the sellers to develop a proposal that would be in the town’s best interest, 
muster support town support for the acquisition, prepare grant applications to be submitted by 
the Open Space Committee to the state or other funding sources, and engage interested land 
trusts in the discussions regarding funding and/or conservation restrictions. 
 
The Open Space Committee also discussed the list of priority criteria for determining 
conservation values of available and potentially available properties, which we created and 
approved in August and September 2013.  We recommend that the Board of Selectmen request 
that other town boards develop similar acquisition criteria relative to their scope of 
responsibilities, and that a process be established for acquisition procedures. 
 
The Open Space Committee unanimously approved the minutes of the Sept. 10, 2013 meeting. 
 