===PAGE 1===
INITIALS             
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Open Space Acquisition Advisory Team 
Minutes 
March 27, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
 
Members Present:  Paula Bertram (Board of Selectmen), Brandon Kibbe (Open Space Ad Hoc 
Committee), Jean-Joseph Cote (Conservation Commission), Emerick Bakaysa (Planning Board) 
 
Members Absent:  none 
 
Meeting Called to Order:  5:45pm 
 
1. The committee reviewed and approved executive session minutes from 3/ 20/14 
meeting. 
2. Committee reviewed draft presentation to be given to Finance Committee later that 
evening.  Paula Bertram suggested adding information about the impact to the Town 
budget development of the property could have on the community, partic ularly related 
to the cost per student residential development would have on the school budget .  The 
committee agreed that the financial impact of residential development would be of 
interest to the Finance Committee.  Because the committee did not have sp ecific 
numbers relating to state reimbursement of costs, it was decided to highlight the 
residential development “cost avoidance” attribute of the project while discussing the 
conceptual development plan, and again at the end of the presentation.  The 
presentation was otherwise approved for delivery to the Finance Committee. 
3. Brandon Kibbe updated the committee on the status of the appraisal.  Ken Croft of the 
The Foster Company (Leominster, MA) was selected as the appraiser from 3 successful 
bids.  The 3 bi ds were all within a couple hundred dollars of each other, and since the 
agreement with the seller involves an appraisal contingency on price, Brandon Kibbe 
reviewed the 3 bidders (exclusive of bid price) with seller’s realtor, Keith Ross of 
LandVest.  Mr.  Ross approved of Mr. Croft and one other bidder as satisfactory 
appraisers.  Since Mr. Croft’s firm was local and more familiar with the local market, and 
===PAGE 2===
because his bid was lower than the other firm, the Town selected Mr. Croft.  Appraisal 
due date is April 24th, 2014. 
4. Brandon Kibbe updated the committee on the status of the Purchase and Sale contract.  
Last outstanding item is whether or not the seller will agree to cut and cap the water 
line; their contractor has been out of town, and they want to disc uss prospective cost 
prior to agreement.  No problem is expected.  P&S should be finalized in time to be 
signed by the Selectmen at their upcoming April 1st, 2014 meeting. 
 
Meeting Adjourned:  6:45pm 