===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Brandon Kibbe 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Todd Dwyer Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Bob Pease 978-582-4147 extension 5 
Richard Brockelman 
David Prokowiew 
 
 
 
MINUTES 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
May 9, 2018  
Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
 
 
Joint meeting with the Conservation Commission for discussion of updating the Open Space and 
Recreation Plan.  Open Space Members present:  Brandon Kibbe, Todd Dwyer, Bob Pease, Richard 
Brockelman, David Prokowiew.  Meeting called to order 7:35pm. 
 
1. Bob Pease introduced as new Conservation Commission appointee to the Open Space 
Committee. 
 
2. Brandon Kibbe reviewed the structure of the Open Space Committee as ad hoc advisory 
committee to planning board.  Matt Marro reported that the committee structure was 
being reviewed by town manager and land use director. 
 
3. Brandon Kibbe reviewed the history of the prior Open Space and Recreation Plan, the 
process for developing an update to the plan, and suggested a framework for how to 
proceed.  Overview of accomplishments from prior plan.  New plan can be valid from 5 to 
7 years.  Plan purpose:  (a) guide open space and recreation goals and objectives, and (b) 
make available significant sources of state funding. 
 
4. Group discussed how to begin the process for gathering public input (online and/or 
hardcopy surveys to be distributed in tax bills etc., public information meetings/charettes, 
cable access, social media) and input from other municipal boards (Conservation and 
Planning, but also Parks and Rec, School, Selectmen, Ag Commission, others?).  In 
particular, capital planning objectives for open space and recreation investments should 
get reflected in the plan to further bolster funding assistance from available state grants. 
 
5. Matt Allison, Ag Commission, offered assistance to include information about Lunenburg 
farms.  Group reviewed prior plan goals for keeping Lunenburg farms viable, and 
accomplishments in supporting that goal.  
 
6. Kick-off public information meeting tentatively scheduled for May 30, 2018, 7:30pm at 
Town Hall to facilitate recording/cable access broadcast; Matt Marro will check on 
availability and confirm.  Discussed schedule for remainder of year, to be determined, but 
===PAGE 2===
group agreed that having a goal of plan submission to the state for review/approval 
should be before Thanksgiving 2018.  Brandon Kibbe can do mapping and 
organizing/advising, but the committee will need to “divide and conquer” for key 
components of the plan to assure work can be completed in a timely manner. 
 
7. Group discussed need to integrate other planning objectives (master plan, economic 
development, etc.) into this planning effort, but that the open space and recreation plan 
needs to be a specifically-formatted, stand-alone plan to be approved by MA Executive 
Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs, and ultimately to qualify for EEA funding. 
 
8. Meeting adjourned at 8:13pm. 