===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Brandon Kibbe 960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Todd Dwyer Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Bob Pease 978-582-4147 extension 5 
Richard Brockelman 
David Prokowiew 
 
 
 
MINUTES 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
May 30, 2018  
Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 
 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:35.  Members present were Brandon Kibbe, Bob Pease, 
Richard Brockelman, and David Prokowiew.  Absent: Todd Dyer.  Richard Burch, Chair of the 
Conservation Commission also participated in the meeting.   
 
1. Public information presentation about Open Space and Recreation Plan purpose, benefits, 
and outline of proposed process. 
 
Brandon gave a PowerPoint presentation that reviewed the development history of our 
present Open Space and Recreation Plan and explained the purpose and benefits of an Open 
Space and Recreation Plan.  Among the presentations key points: 
 
Having a valid Open Space and Recreation Plan makes the town eligible for certain categories 
of state grants for open space/conservation and parks/recreation.  Open space/conservation 
the town may be reimbursed 64% up to $400K.  Parks/recreation the town may be 
reimbursed 64% up to $100K.  There had been some missed opportunities for 
recreation/parks grants including Wallis Park, the MSHS recreation facilities, and the 
resurfacing of the turf field.  Luneburg has received 35 state grants for open 
space/conservation and parks/recreation.  However, the only grants received since 1975 were 
Hunting Hill acquisition in 1999 and the Lane Property acquisition in 2014. 
 
There was no open space plan from 1993 to 2011.  In 2008, the Open Space Ad Hoc 
Committee was formed as a subcommittee of the Planning Board to began the work of 
developing an Open Space Plan.   The Plan was submitted in 2011 and extended through 
2016.  It is hoped that a new plan will be good for seven years.  
There was no representation from parks/recreation on the 2008 committee.  
The committee surveyed the town about open space and recreation needs and received over 
400 responses.  The survey had been sent out with tax bills. 
 
The Goals of the present plan included: 
 Maintaining Lunenburg’s  rural character 
 Enhancing and improving Lunenburg’s existing open space and recreation assets. 
 Developing new open space and recreation assets. 
===PAGE 2===
 
As a result of having the plan Luneburg: 
 Passed a right to farm bylaw 
 Established an Agricultural Commission 
 Established a Chapter 61 withdrawal notice/protocol 
 Established open space acquisition criteria 
 Obtained a $270,000 grant to acquire the Lane Property. 
 
 
2. Public information questions and answers. 
 
Matt Charpentier asked about the updating of maps for wildlife habitats and vernal pools and 
expressed concern that wildlife be protected on conservation lands after they are acquired. 
Suggestions from the public included adding parking for the Lunenburg Public Beach. It is the 
committee’s understanding that Matt Allison will be a liaison to the Agricultural Commission.  
It was suggested that Adam Burney reach out the Recreation Commission and the 
Department of Public Works to solicit their participation in the work of the Open Space 
Committee. Committee members expressed interest in the participation of and input from the 
Parks Commission. 
It was noted that the Conservation Commission is working on developing trail maps for 
Lane/Large Town Forest, Cowdrey/Small Town Forest, Hunting Hill, and Robbs Hill. 
 
3. Regular meeting of the open space committee: 
 
a. Review and approve minutes from joint meeting with Conservation Commission on May 9, 
2018. 
 
Minutes approved unanimously (motion: Bob, second: Dave) 
 
b. Develop a calendar of meetings and milestones for planning process. 
 
The Committee agreed that the plan would be revised by the Committee without the use 
of outside consultants or regional agencies. 
The goal would be to complete the Open Space and Recreation Plan prior to Thanksgiving.  
Tentative Meeting dates are: Tuesday – June 19; Wednesday – July 25,  
Wednesday – August 22, Wednesday – September 26, Wednesday – October 24, 
Wednesday – November 7 
 
c. Review survey and results from prior plan.  Discuss revisions to survey and/or new survey 
questions to be considered for soliciting public input for current process.  Discuss vehicles 
for distributing survey (Survey Monkey, online links, hardcopy distribution, inclusion with 
tax bills, etc.) 
 
There was a consensus the survey should be implemented using Survey Monkey, PDF 
copies online, and hard copies in public places and , if possible, a mailing with the tax bills.  
Dave will contact the town hall about the possibility /time line for including the updated 
open space survey with tax bills. 
===PAGE 3===
There was agreed that the 2018 survey should be based on the 2008 survey so the data 
could be analyzed for changes.  
There was a discussion about possible changes to the 2008 survey including eliminating 
Questions 1 and 2, adding as possible recreational options or enhancements farmers 
markets, community garden plots, separate categories for mountain biking and road 
biking, snow mobile use, ATV use, golf driving range, horseback riding, winter trail 
grooming, trail maps. On questions such as seven, asking respondents to rank the options 
will provide more information than “check all that apply”.  In questions 8 and 9, “in the” 
should be “in Lunenburg”. 
Given the short time line for possible inclusion of the survey with tax bills, it was agrees 
that Brandon would use the ideas discussed at the meeting to revise the survey on behalf 
of the full committee.  
 
d. Review prior plan and discuss which sections need to be reviewed/edited, and which need 
to be entirely revised.  Assign section leads. 
 
The Plan Summary Section and the Introduction Section will be revised toward the end of 
the revision process.  For the June 19th meeting, Dave will review Community Setting 
Section (Rich will review Population Characteristics within the Community Setting 
Section); Bob will review the text of the Environmental Inventory and Analysis, and Rich 
will Review the Inventory of Lands of Conservation and Recreational Interest. 
 
e. Review mapping requirements, prior plan’s maps, and draft map revisions (if available).  
Discuss overall mapping objectives for plan revision/update. 
 
Brandon said the mapping requirements have not changed and that he will work on 
updating the mapping. 
 
f. Discuss assessments of existing infrastructure.  Review list from prior plan and make 
additions/subtractions as necessary.  Assign leads to inspect and complete assessments of 
each area, including ADA assessment, narrative description, facility infrastructure 
inventory, and photography. 
 
Brandon would like to have committee members visit each of Lunenburg’s existing 
conservation/open space and park/recreation assets to prepare an assessment that 
includes a narrative description, inventory of the facilities, relevant photographs, and an 
ADA assessment.  The committee will further discuss this at a future meeting.  Matt Morro 
noted he has experience/knowledge in completing ADA assessments and volunteered to 
complete the ADA portion for the assessment of each asset.  
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:22 (Motion: Bob, Second: Dave) 
 