===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
 
 
Brandon Kibbe    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Bob Pease    Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Dennis Mannone    
Richard Brockelman 
Sarah Cammer 
vacant      
 
 
 
OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
MINUTES 
September 26, 2018  
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 
Time:  7:30 PM 
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Bob Pease, Richard Brockelman, Sarah Cammer 
Absent: Dennis Mannone 
Also Present: Karin Menard, Ashley Maillet 
 
Meeting was called to order at 7:36 pm. 
 
Topic I. Minutes of 8/22/18 were reviewed and approved.   
 
Topic II. Committee Membership was discussed. Presently we have a six (6) member committe e with 
one (1) vacancy designated for the Conservation Commission.  We have two (2) seats for Conservation; 
one for Planning.  All members present intend to remain active; however, we could modify our 
membership to include an additional At -Large Member.  M embers present discussed suggesting 
modifying our committee membership from two (2) Conservation Commission members to two (2) At -
Large Members.  
 
Ashley Maillet was introduced.  A. Maillet is interested in wildlife related activities.  She has a Bachelor’s 
in Biology and works as a molecular technologist.  She asked what the expectations of members are and 
received information from the group.  
 
A summary of the Open Space Ad -Hoc Committee’s duties are included as discussed: The mission is to 
do an Open Space and Recreation Plan (OS&RP).  It is a 5-year plan and the Committee had a goal to get 
it done by Thanksgiving.  As of this meeting, there were two more scheduled meetings, one in October 
and one in November.  After the OS&RP is drafted, historically, th e Ad -Hoc Committee is involved in 
Chapter 61 review.  Chapter 61 land is under land which the Town has the Right of First Refusal (ROFR), 
which the Town has a process for reviewing, and the Ad-Hoc Committee looks at the land in regard for 
how it achieves o bjectives of the OS&RP.  Having the OS&RP that the Committee is updating and 
drafting (from the Town’s earlier OS&RP) allows the Town eligibility for other grant programs that rely  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 09.26.18 
Page 2 
 
on the open space connection.  The OS&RP does not have to be approved at town meeting ; it goes to 
Town Boards for approval.  Major edits would make us reconvene.  Typically this plan is done at 5 -year 
intervals, but through discussion with the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs (EEA), B. 
Kibbe confirmed we can have a 7-year plan instead of a 5-year plan. 
 
A Motion to change Committee was made.  The Motion was to remove a Conservation Commission 
member and add on a n At-Large Member; it was seconded, and all were in favor.  D . Prokowiew will 
take to the Planning Board.  The position will likely be advertised and the candidates will need to be 
approved by the Planning Board. 
 
The Committee discussed voting within the Committee.  Often, committee members from other boards 
are rotating as they can’t always make the meetings.  The Committee is comfortable with their 
participation as members. 
 
Topic III-Compiled Survey Results 
B. Kibbe presented the Open Space survey results.  The Survey was sent out with tax bills, and available 
electronically.  K . Menard compiled all of the results.   There were 360 paper copies returned and 78 
surveymonkey.com responses.  
Residents were asked: “Why live here?”  The leading response was the rural at mosphere (70% of 
respondents), followed by the school system. 
Residents were asked to assess needs area, along with stating the years of residency.   The areas of 
needs selected by residents included, in order from greatest to least selected: Trail maps, hi king, 
conservation, skiing, beach improvement.  Write in comments in this area included accessibility, better 
sidewalks and trail discussions. 
Residents responded to the question “Who Needs Conservation?” with a response that it was needed by 
every age group (adults, seniors, teens, young children).  Comments suggested more recreation options 
and sidewalks would be helpful. 
Surveys showed that residents strongly believe there is a great importance in resource protection and 
many residents selected that they  would support town-driven acquisition, voting for the Community 
Preservation Act (CPA) and that they would vote for zoning changes to protect resources. 
According to the survey, the best ways to reach respondents and communicate about recreation include 
using the newspaper, websites, and mailing.  
The resources used by residents, ranked from greatest percentage of respondent to the least number 
were: Library, Pick Your Own Produce, town conservation and trails, paved bike paths, gazebo, 
walking/jogging areas, playgrounds and boating.  Respondents reported, in high percentages, repeat use 
of existing sidewalks, where available; the public library; and Town conservation and boating for their 
recreational needs. Categories where interest was expressed included ice fishing and ice skating. 
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 09.26.18 
Page 3 
 
Topic IV/V: Discussion of Trends and Draft of Needs/Plan  
Needs identified, and potential ideas for a plan were identified by the Committee through discussion.   
These are listed below:  
1. Trail maps-Several groups are working on a regional trail. 
2. Improve walkability and accessibility-Sidewalks, bike trail—A biking map of Lunenburg/Sidewalk 
Map would be useful; perhaps a community agreement could be made to set  up a fund for 
sidewalks as people build. 
3. Walking trail, exercise trail in Marshall Park-This would benefits adults, kids, seniors. 
4. Create hubs of activity  for conservation lands, allowing people diverse recreation that is 
connected and walkable. 
5. Beach improvements-Need: Parking, lake frontage (could it cost about $500,000?). 
6. Accessibility, ADA grant discussion - A Committee member report ed that the Town has an ADA 
grant that is due shortly, and it was brought up at a Select Board meeting that this Committee 
may have information about ADA needs for  conservation for the next meeting.  However, since 
the Committee is still drafting the OS&RP, the Committee cannot produce a deliverable about 
accessibility for the next Select Board meeting or in time for this grant.  Nevertheless, the 
document may help for future grant applications. 
7. Re-allocating resources to serve needs highlighted by respondents:  West Street parcel ( Trail 
Riders) and Pleasant Street farm (hay) were brought up.  There was discussion about using 
parcels and transferring them to different parties (rec/conservation) for different needs.  This 
would need to be a case-by-case discussion for each site of interest.  
8. Pick your own produce . A community garden could serve t his purpose, perhaps through the 
Eagle House. 
Topic VI: Discuss the Value of a Charrette 
After some discussion of the needs and ideas, which occurred simultaneously, the Committee discussed 
the value of a planning charrette.  In order to make a representative set of goals and objectives to 
incorporate into the OS&RP, it would be helpful to have additional discussion of the Survey results 
within the community and the Committee.  Additionally, the Committee has viewed maps as they  have 
been updated, but the charrette will allow us to view all of them along with the community and guide 
the OS&RP that is drafted.  The Committee agreed to schedule a charrette for October 16 @7pm.  The 
next Open Space meeting, post-charrette, is October 24.  
 
Topic VII: Review Revisions to Assigned Plan Sections 
Section 3-done; Section 4-Almost done, will have for next meeting; Section 1-D. Prokowiew and B. Kibbe 
will work on accomplishments of last plan; goals and objectives, survey results at next mee ting.  The 
goals and objectives and survey results will be discussed at the charrette on 10/16/2018 and inform that 
section of the OS&RP.  Section 5 -Conservation and Recreation Interests -Parks will be looking at their 
aspect of t he OS&RP and thinking about where parks are needed and what types.  K. Menard will be 
looking into it and seeing what is there, and describe where the deficiencies are.   
  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes 09.26.18 
Page 4 
 
Topic VIII: Review Maps- Maps will be reviewed at the Charrette. 
 
Topic IX: ADA self-evaluation discussion - The ADA portion of the OS&RP was discussed.  The ADA 
appendix to the OS&RP has three parts: Coordinator (Part I), program accessibility (Part II), and  
employment practices (Part III). This applies to parks and conservation and does not need to address 
school lands.  The Plan we have presently is acceptable for conservation, but the Town needs to make 
updates for the Lane, Cowdry and Robb’s Hill properties.  There is no expectation that conservation 
lands are fully accessible, bu t improvements can, and should, be conducted.  There was a discussion of 
how this information pertains to parks.  For the park ADA compliance, some items need to be updated 
and there were action items.  For the OS&RP, we need to make a list of items that need to be improved. 
 
Some items that have been accomplished were discussed:  There was a missing handicap accessible 
viewing ramp in Cowdry ~2014, done by Snow Riders.  Committee members asked if it is accessible to 
the ramp?  It was reported that it is fully ramped up to the viewing station.  The ADA portion as it relates 
to schools and conservation was discussed.  It may be that the schools may already have their plan with 
an ADA individual/employee.  We should see if we can get it.  
 
Following this discussion, a  review of the next items to be accomplished was conducted.  B. Kibbe will 
look into scheduling the charrette, and the next meeting on the 24 th will include reviewing drafts of the 
sections of the Plan and the maps.  The meeting was called to close, seconded, and adjourned at 
9:04PM.  
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting:  
08/22/18 Minutes  
 