===PAGE 1===
  
OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE 
MINUTES 
JANUARY 8, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main St, Lunenburg, MA and Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts 
Avenue, Lunenburg, MA
Time: 6:50pm
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, David Prokowiew, Sarah Cammer, Karin Menard, Bob Pease, 
Richard Brockelman, Ashley Maillet
Meeting called to order at 6:55pm
D. Prokowiew motioned and Sarah Cammer seconded to approve the minutes of December 20, 
2018. Approved 7-0.
B. Kibbe circulated a letter he had written on behalf of the committee to be read into the record at 
the joint meeting with the Board of Selectman. D. Prokowiew motioned and K. Menard second to 
submit letter and for B. Kibbe to read it into the record at the joint meeting. Approved 7-0.
Meeting continued at 6:56 and reconvened during the Board of Selectman meeting at 7:25pm.
B. Kibbe introduced the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee and read the letter into record.
J. Toale said that he has been involved in the discussion with town council as this has proceeded 
on. 
B. Kibbe points out that this type of withdrawal is not common and then when Chapter 61 
statuses were readdress it didn’t cover intents to convert without a sale because it is so rare.
K. Adams added that it would have been nice to have known at the beginning of the process and 
not at the end so that if it was a parcel we wanted the town could have had time to act. D. 
Prokowiew replied that its not that we didn’t know its just that there was no oﬃcial trigger to set 
this process in motion. 
B. Kibbe add that when you think about what the towns Right of First Refusal intended for- intend 
to acquire the property for open space and that we don’t want to acquire the property as a solar 
development so we should be having conversation at the front end and not the back end. If a 
new policy can be put into place, it  opens up dialogue and a negotiated solution if its a property 
we are interested in as that is the best outcome for all parties involved.

===PAGE 2===
J. Toale applauded the committee in their vision in addressing this issue. His belief is that the 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee is recommending that we, as a town, get involved earlier, look at 
all of our chapter inventory and open discussions and develop exit strategies that make everyone 
whole.
B. Kibbe agreed and added that there are many properties enrolled in chapter 61 but only a 
handful that the town may be interested so we should be making sure that when those properties 
come before us we are able to make that decision.
P . Luck asked how we would decide what land would be of interest and B. Kibbe explained that 
we have criteria in the Open Space plan that would help us decide and if its a deﬁned priority 
space in town it must meet 3 of the 6 criteria.
D. Prokowiew added that we need to think about the future so we don’t ﬁnd ourselves in this 
same predicament.
 
Board of Selectman motioned and agreed by unanimous vote to take no action and allow the 
right of ﬁrst refusal to lapse.
J. Toale also said going forward we should all put our heads together to ﬁgure out how to be 
more proactive on this issue.
P . Luck commented that she has looked into the amount of money that the town has made since 
2004 and believes we should seriously think about putting that money aside for open space. 
Public comment - Peter Stella 31 Chase Rd. - Commented that he doesn’t like the idea of putting 
money aside for open space. It should go into the general fund. 
B. Kibbe said that a dedicated fund for open space / conservation is a big decision and there are 
lots of ways that could be accomplished.
D. Prokwiew motioned and S. Cammer seconded to continue meeting and relocate to the Ritter 
Building.
Meeting reconvened at 7:52pm at the Ritter Building. D. Prokowiew remained at Board of 
Selectman meeting.
K. Menard told the group that the Park Commission was meeting the next day and would ask for 
a letter of support. 
B. Kibbe said that most of the additional edits have been relatively minor and grammatical.  He 
also said the one item outstanding is the School Committee approval. He said they had concerns 
about the section for the TCP Building and the Brooks House as well as a wedge of land oﬀ of 
Mass Ave that is shown as being owned by them that they are unaware of. 
D. Passios mentioned that he believes that piece of property was used as part of the septic 
system of the old high school and that its use was discontinued when the school changed over 
to town sewer.
K. Menard will look through Town Meeting records to determine if there was ever a vote to move 
this property back to the Board of Selectman.
Meeting adjourned at 8:20pm.