===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Brandon Kibbe, Chair    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Vice Chair   Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Bob Pease    978-582-4147 extension 5 
Karin Menard    
Sarah Cammer   
Michael Toohill 
Lynne Man 
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Minutes November 24, 2020 
 
The Committee met via Zoom as scheduled with the following members present:  Karin Menard, Bob 
Pease, Lynne Man, Mike Toohill, Brandon Kibbe and Paula Bertram. 
1. Call to Order - Chairman opened the meeting at 6:03 and read the pandemic notice as posted 
on the agenda. 
2. Review/Approve 10/13/2020 Minutes – Bob Pease made a motion to approve the minutes of 
10/13/2020, seconded by Lynne Man.  Approved unanimously by roll call vote. 
3. Discussion with Nashua River Watershed Associated regarding USDA Forest Legacy Program, 
possible regional Application, ways Lunenburg can be involved – Al Futterman of Nashua River 
Watershed and the Wild and Scenic River Stewardship Project explained the Forest Legacy 
Program to the Committee.  The purpose of the Forest Legacy Program is to identify and 
conserve environmentally important forest areas that are threatened by conversion to non-
forest uses.  The program focuses on threatened unprotected land that is an important natural 
resource and has strategic value.  Land can be sold outright or landowners can enter into a 
conservation restriction with a governmental agency.  Lunenburg has several tributaries to the 
Nashua River and Al requested that the Open Space Committee provide a single point of contact 
to assist with development of priority properties in Lunenburg that may be well suited for the 
program.   Al will provide additional written information about the program to the Committee. 
4. Adding Layers to the CAI AxisGIS website, including a trails layer and a Town properties layer – 
Bob Pease informed the Committee that he is investigating adding a trails layer and possibly a 
town properties layer to the Town’s GIS system with the Assessors and the Land Use Director.  
Groton currently utilized Open Street Maps and MRPC is using Mr. Mapper.  Chris Menard, 
resident, suggested that whatever is done should be compatible with other hiking apps such as 
Open Street Maps. 
5. Revision of Conservation Commission land use policy – Bob Pease informed the Committee 
that the Conservation Commission will be holding a public forum on December 2nd to discuss the 
conservation land use policy.  Items to be discussed include hunting, snowmobile use and trail 
maintenance permission.  The agenda will be posted and residents are encouraged to 
participate remotely. 
===PAGE 2===
6. Continuation of discussion regarding 360 Flat Hill Road Chapter 61A Withdrawal Notice; vote 
on recommendation to the Select Board – Brandon relayed that he met with the Board of 
Selectmen a couple of weeks ago regarding this property and had conversations with several 
people in Town and there is a donor who is willing to make a sizable donation to protect this 
property, he has not heard from North County Land Trust.  The property owner is unable to 
negotiate or discuss a lease back program as the property is under agreement and it would be 
breach in contract.  Committee discussed the feasibility of working with North County Land 
Trust on this parcel; North County may be able to assist with bridging the financing, but we 
would need to locate a buyer for farming rights and possibly subdivide the property to assist 
with cost.  It is not feasible to bring all the pieces together to acquire necessary funding and 
agreements to purchase this property and meet the legal timeline.  Following discussion Paula 
Bertram made a motion to recommend to the Selectmen that the Town waive its right of first 
refusal, Mike Toohill seconded, passed unanimously by roll call vote.  Paula asked that the 
Committee hold an information sharing session so that members can learn about the various 
programs and funding sources that may be available to protect desirable land in the future.    
7. Review updated Town-owned property list.  Discuss prioritization for general municipal 
properties and proposed next steps – Committee members identified several parcels for future 
discussion including Fire Road 12, 380 West Street, 1162 Mass Ave, 247 Highland, 690 Goodrich 
Read, 860 Leominster Road, Parmenter Road and 0 Flynn Road.  Committee members will 
research these properties further and review other parcels under general municipal ownership 
for further discussion at the next meeting. 
 
8. Public Comment – 
 Paula Bertram asked about the status of 250 Howard Street.  Brandon responded that an 
agreement has been signed and that Special Town Meeting voted to approve the acquisition 
and passed over exercising its right of 1st refusal.  The buyer is in the process of putting 
together an ANR plan for approval. 
 Chris Menard suggested that the Town needs to take a proactive approach to protecting 
desirable open space such as 360 Flat Hill and that creation of a special stabilization fund 
should be considered so that a funding source is available when property becomes available.  
Chris will offer the suggestion to the Finance Committee and Paula will relay to Capital 
Planning. 
9. Adjourn – Paula Bertram made a motion to adjourn at 8:23 p.m., Lynne Man seconded.  Voted 
unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Paula Bertram 
 
 