===PAGE 1===
Open Space Minutes 
February 8, 2022 
 
The Open Space Committee met remotely as posted.  Following members were present:  Eric Hinds, Brandon, 
Kibbe, Paula Bertram, Bob Pease and Mike Toohill. 
1. Call to Order – Chairman called the meeting to order at 7:36 p.m. and read the meeting notice. 
 
2. Minutes: Review & Approve 12/14/2022, 11/9/2022, and other outstanding minutes – Bob Pease made a 
motion to approve the 12/14/21 minutes, seconded by Brandon Kibbe, passed unanimously by roll call vote.  
Bob Pease made a motion to approve the minutes of 11/19/21 with the stipulation that the date on the 
footer be corrected, seconded by Brandon Kibbe, passed unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
3. Review & Approve Annual Report -Brandon Kibbe read the draft of the Annual Report to the Committee.  
Paula Bertram made a motion to approve the report as drafted, Bob Pease seconded.  Motion passed 
unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
4. Review tax foreclosure list and recommend any parcels for open space purposes – Committee reviewed 
the tax lien sale from the Tax Collector as requested by the Town Manager.   
 
Committee reviewed 356 Hollis Road, 250 Hollis Road and 56 Carr Avenue.  There is an existing ball field at 
356 Hollis that was formerly used by Town baseball organizations.  Combined, these 3 parcels are about 45 
acres and could provide recreational and open space benefits for this densely populated area of Town.   
 
101 Pleasant Street is adjacent to existing Town owned land and across from the Laurel Bank Conservation 
area.  This parcel has just been approved by Conservation and Planning Board for subdivision.  This property 
would be beneficial as conservation land. 
 
Bob Pease made a motion to recommend that the Board of Selectmen remove 356 Hollis, 250 Hollis, 56 Carr 
and 101 Pleasant from the tax lien sale.  Paula Bertram seconded.  Passed unanimously by roll call vote.   
 
5. Committee Reorganization & Select New Chairperson – Paula Bertram thanked Brandon for serving as the 
Chairman for many years and all of the work he has done, then made a motion to nominate Mike Toohill as 
chair, seconded by Brandon Kibbe.  Passed unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
6. Public Comment  
 
Bob Pease informed the Committee that he is working on acquiring several parcels through the tax title 
process that are within or adjacent to existing conservation lands; 250 Howard Street Rear, 1529 Mass 
Avenue Rear, 731 Page, 0 Old Turnpike Road R/W.   
 
Bob is working on cleaning the documentation up on several parcels that are identified and classified as 
conservation land.   
 
Bob informed the Committee that the Conservation Commission is developing a plan for improvements on 
various parcels of Conservation land.  Northwest Town Forest they are planning on a trail through 260 
Howard Street which will require an NOI for wetland crossings.  Town owns a right of right way to Northwest 
===PAGE 2===
Town Forest through a right of way that the Town purchased on West Townsend Road and Conservation 
would like to create a path to provide meaningful access. 
 
At Table Rock desire to put a parking lot at the north end and Seth Meyer is willing to do that (abutter) at 
the southern end put road off to the left and install a parking lot and a trail directly to Table Rock.   Brandon 
pointed out that having set back parking sometimes invites problems and suggested that access and parking 
off Northfield Road might be preferred with bridges (such as at the Lane property).   
 
At Hunting Hill the bridge needs to be rebuilt and there is a hay field that is not being maintained in 
accordance with the conservation restriction (because they cannot get farm equipment there).  Bob is 
looking to meet with Town of Shirley and Division of Fish and Wildlife to get access for farm equipment. 
 
Within Small Town Forest Bob would like to create a return loop trail along the west side of the parcel. 
 
At the Harold Harley site Bob noted that the Lunenburg Snow Riders built a beautiful wildlife viewing 
platform however the road is flooded by beaver activity.  Bob is looking into the possibility of an ADA grant 
to raise the road, install gravel and move the kiosk closer to the road. 
 
Clarks Hill conservation would like to enlarge the parking spot in consultation with the DPW and Zoning 
Officer.  There are plans to put up a trails kiosk and publish a trails map for the Hawes Conservation Land. 
 
At the Land and Large Town Forest Conservation would like to add two larger culverts under the access road 
where it passes through the swamp.  Crushed stone and gravel stockpiled by the Lunenburg Snow Riders 
would be utilized to harden and raise wet/muddy areas on the access road.  Paula informed the Committee 
that the Snow Riders recently submitted a grant and requested additional material and plan to assist with 
gravel installation and erosion mitigation. 
 
Harris Conservation Area there is a desire to develop a loop trail, create parking areas, install a kiosk and 
publish a trail map. 
 
At the Rayno Conservation Area investigating use of logging operation to create a clear trail to the back of 
the Rayno property to the Hirsch Property, create a graveled landing zone on the Hirsch property which 
could then be used a s parking lot.  Following completion of the parking lot, a kiosk would be installed a 
trails map published.   
 
Bob informed the Committee that a joint Shirley Lunenburg open space/trail planning meeting has been 
scheduled for Monday, March 21 at 2:00 to explore open space priorities on the Shirley-Lunenburg border 
as well as trail connection possibilities for a North South trail through Shirley and any trail connection 
possibilities into Lunenburg.  Open Space members are encouraged to attend. 
 
Paula gave an update on 0 Shirley Reservoir, she had talked with Town Counsel regarding the parcel.  The 
first step on the parcel is to get clear title, if it is not complex they would do it inhouse, if complex they 
would outsource.  Cost could range from $300-$1500.  Paula met with Town Manager who indicated that 
she has a contact that may do the title search cheaper.  In 1959 1.8 acres was taken by eminent domain for 
the proposed layout of Reservoir Road and parcel of interest could be part of that taking.  Paula will check 
with Town Clerk for the plans.  There are two common owners in this area, one is Peter Montenan, who 
unfortunately did not record all plans referenced in various deeds and the other is St. Cyr.  Paula is in the 
===PAGE 3===
process of reviewing various abutting deeds.  Brandon pointed out that the Open Space Committee does 
have the $10,000 donated by Bright Farms that could be used for this purpose.   
 
Paula questioned if the funds donated by Bright Farms went to the general fund.  Brandon said that the 
funds were allocated for open space and an account has been established and confirmed from the Town 
Manager and the Town Accountant. 
 
If the Committee wants to move forward with the Title search, it will have to be brought to the Board of 
Selectmen for approval. 
 
Bob requested that classification of the Pleasant Street and West Street parcels be on a future agenda. 
 
7. Adjourn – Paula Bertram made a motion to adjourn at 8:56, seconded by Brandon Kibbe.  Voted 
unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Paula Bertram 