===PAGE 1===
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Wednesday, October 25, 2023 – 7:30 PM 
Minutes 
 
Members Present: Mike Toohill (Chair), Brandon Kibbe (Clerk), Ana Lockwood (Vice Chair), Mary 
Wilson, Matthew Allison (not participating due to technical issues), Eric Hinds. 
1. Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:32pm. 
2. 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake (aka Stump Cove) and Parmenter Road – Continued Discussion: 
Report from Chair.  Has visited both sites with M. Wilson, and several conversations with Town 
Counsel.  Parmenter Road has clear title, and several encroachment issues.  Numerous concerns 
raised by neighbors.  Considered for hand-launch lake access.  Some challenges with access; 
drainage easement, slopes.  Stump cove parcel is larger, not good roadside parking.  Several 
other good access points from elsewhere on the parcel, off fire road 12 there is an old road with 
access.  Further down Fire Road 12 there is a small parking area built and used by an abutter 
where access could be gained.  Town counsel is comfortable with town’s ownership of the 
parcel, without 100% clarity on title.  B. Kibbe explained that, while pragmatically accurate, 
clarity of title could create a challenge for partnership with outside potential partners like state 
funding sources.  A. Lockwood inquired about steps necessary to quiet title.  M. Wilson supports 
care and control being conveyed to Parks Commission. Chairman suggests Open Space 
Committee make a recommendation to Selectboard.  B. Kibbe motion: recommend Selectboard 
transfers care and control of 51 Parmenter Road Assessor Parcel 136-0006 and 0 Shirley 
Reservoir Lake Assessor Parcel 137-0012 to the Parks Commission, subject to Town Meeting 
Approval. Seconded by M. Wilson.  Roll call vote.  In favor: E. Hinds, B. Kibbe, A. Lockwood, M. 
Wilson, M. Toohill.  M. Allison abstains due to technical difficulties. 
3. Committee Comments/Concerns: Parcel 4 Leominster Road Chapter 61B Notice of Withdrawal, 
A. Lockwood shared plans regarding proposed development on the parcel into 5 lots, greater 
than the original plan, before planning board.  Not yet in front of Conservation Commission.  A. 
Lockwood made the case that acquisition criteria should be expanded.  Town missed an 
opportunity to protect this important resource.  M. Wilson provided updates on activities of 
conservation commission, busy season for routine committee work, volunteer activities, grant 
opportunities. Parks Commission has an article on Special Town Meeting regarding Marshall 
Park required by State Grant programs. 
4. Public Comment: None. 
5. Next meetings: December 13, 2023; January 10, 2024 
6. B. Kibbe motion, M. Wilson Seconded.  Unanimously voted.  Meeting adjourned at 8:39 pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Brandon Kibbe 