===PAGE 1===
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee 
Wednesday, January 11, 2023 – 7:30 PM 
Minutes 
 
Members Present: Brandon Kibbe, Ana Lockwood, Michael Toohill (Chair), Eric Hinds, Matthew 
Allison 
1. Chairman Toohill called meeting to order at 7:32pm. 
2. Review and Approve Minutes, 9/8/22: Tabled, minutes not available. Lockwood to revisit 
meeting recording and provide minutes for next meeting. 
3. Select Vice Chair and Clerk: Toohill explained roles, Vice Chair to run meetings in Chairman’s 
absence, Clerk to take minutes.  Vice Chair: Lockwood, Clerk: Kibbe. Unanimously voted. 
4. Report on Title Examination of 0 Lake Shirley Reservoir: Title report inconclusive.  Toohill to 
follow up with Town Counsel to review title examination and discuss next steps. 
5. Discussion-Parmenter Road: Lockwood presented Parks Commission interest in development of 
cartop access for canoes and kayaks at Parmenter Road property, currently owned as “general 
municipal” land by the Town; could be converted to care and control of the Parks Commission. 
Parks Commission would like Open Space Committee to provide advice and guidance on process 
to be led by Parks Commission. Kibbe inquired about process and timing for when care and 
control should be pursued, earlier or later in the process, while such a project is being 
evaluated. 
6. Annual Town Report: Toohill will be filing FY’22 town report. 
7. Notice of the MA Open Space Conference.  Toohill reports that the Open Space Conference is 
coming up in February, he has participated in the past and found it to be very helpful, and 
recommends others attend if they can. 
8. Open Space Plan 2019-2026: Toohill reports that a link to the open space committee website 
provided on agenda for public information and access to the Open Space Plan. 
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/boards-commissions-committees/open-space-ad-hoc-
committee 
9. MassTrails Grant: https://www.mass.gov/guides/masstrails-grants. Toohill announced 
availability of MassTrails Grant.  Kibbe reports that the program is one that has been effectively 
used by the Conservation Commission, with support from the Lunenburg Snowriders, to 
accomplish many successful access improvements on Lunenburg Conservation Lands.  Parks 
Commission could also utilize such grants for improvements at Northfield Park (former Saliba 
property on south side of Northfield Road), possibly collaborative project with Conservation 
Commission. Lockwood mentioned interest in trail development at Marshall Park down to pond, 
with ADA accommodations. 
10. Committee Comments/Concerns: No comments 
11. Public Comment: 
a. Joel Swenson – Neighbor. Was under impression of a boat ramp not cartop access at 
Parmenter Road, but now understands. Town lot is corner lot at intersection of 3 roads, 
two of which are dead ends and serves as school bus turn around. Atypical to allow on-
street parking on an outside turn/corner lot. Does not agree that this is “perfect lot” 
===PAGE 2===
based on grade, could be very difficult to meet ADA requirements and comply with 
Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw. 
b. Mary Perkins – Neighbor. Asked about role of Parks Commission, which was answered 
by Lockwood. Concerned about trailer access, particularly for jetskis. Concerned about 
invasive species, public safety and sanitation, assurance that users are Lunenburg 
residents. Lockwood answered that these are exactly the types of questions we need to 
be identifying to see if a project can be designed. Ms. Perkins continued to describe 
work of Lake Shirley Association, and the association’s fundraising, to keep the lake 
beautiful. “Millionaires Cove” once choked with weeds, cleaned up by Lake Shirley 
Association.  Toohill interjected to remind participants that the Open Space Committee 
only serves an advisory role and cannot make any decisions about the future of this 
property; the committee is very interested in understanding the public’s interests and 
concerns to inform its participation in the process. 
c. Tracy Casavecchia – Neighbor. Concerned about trailer access at Parmenter Road parcel 
and on-street parking hindering resident and emergency access to the residential area. 
d. Gary & Maureen Stint – Neighbor. Concerned about parking at Parmenter Road parcel 
that could encroach on neighboring properties, cause damage, limit access by residents 
to their properties.  Supports posting no parking in areas to limit on-street parking. 
e. Karin Menard – Former Parks Commission chair and former member of Open Space 
Committee.  Encourages the participation of the public with Parks Commission. 
Clarifying comments by Lockwood regarding previous comments mentioning trailers 
were not intended to infer boat ramp at Parmenter Road site, but that some users may 
bring their light craft to such a cartop access site on a trailer for their ease of loading 
and unloading boats to then be carried to and from launch. Asked about former grants 
written and received to support Saliba acquisition; Kibbe wrote and will share those 
applications, as well as review and advise on other grant applications being pursued by 
Parks Commission. 
f. Joel Swenson – Former owner adjoining parcel had fence on property and was asked to 
remove. Concern about town liability for injury if area is not improved. Encouraged 
town to consider existing cartop access point on Reservoir Road. Chairman Toohill 
reminded the group of the earlier conversation during this meeting about that parcel 
and title constraints. 
g. Mary Perkins – Asked about grants for invasive species and lake management.  Kibbe 
recommended looking into the Massachusetts Coalition of Lakes and Ponds (COLAP).  
Lake Shirley Association likely members.  Most expertise and best resource for lake 
associations.  Perkins continued to ask about property on Hickory Hills recently 
bequeathed to Conservation Commission. 
h. Matthew Allison – Hickory Hills parcel not owned by the town; the Conservation 
Commission will be the beneficiary of proceeds from the sale. Clarified that care and 
control is approved by Town Meeting, confirmed by Kibbe. Supports idea of cartop 
access at Parmenter Road parcel.  Supports limiting Parmenter Road parcel to 
cartop/hand-carry access. Could increase police patrols. Could issue town permits (like 
Town Beach).  Planning process has a long way to go. 
===PAGE 3===
i. Kibbe – Site and design limitations can limit the total access pressure on a cartop access 
at Parmenter Road. Small parking areas at conservation areas, for instance, similarly 
limited, do not have paid attendants or permits. 
j. Lockwood – Asked that this topic be on future agendas for the Open Space Committee 
to make a recommendation. 
12. Next Meeting Scheduled: 2/8/2023 
13. Kibbe motion, Allison Seconded.  Unanimously voted.  Meeting adjourned at 8:51pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Brandon Kibbe 