===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Open Space Committee
Meeting minutes
February 12, 2025  – 7:30 P.M.
Meeting was fully remote via Zoom/recorded
Members Present:
Michael Toohill  (Chair)
Ana Lockwood
Glenn McLeod
Timothy  Lawless
Meeting was called to order at 7:30 P.M. by Chairman Toohill
Attendance of members present was taken by roll call vote
Minutes Approval:
A. Lockwood motioned to approve minutes from the January 8, 2025 meeting.
G. McLeod seconded the motion.
Members present v oted unanimously in favor of approving minutes by roll call.
100 Townsend Harbor Road Right of First Refusal:
Discussion on whether the committee should recommend the Lunenburg Board of 
Selectmen  exercis e  its first right of refusal to  acquir e  the 100 Townsend Harbor Road 
property. The property in question is being removed from  Ch. 61A.  G. McLeod 
expressed some reservations  of acquiring the property.  General c onsensus  of  
discussion remained favorable of recommending the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen 
acquire  the property . Dis cussion included many attributes and potential desirable  
community  uses of the property.  Discuss ion  indicated the property may  achieve  three 
(3) of the six criteria the OSC  uses to assess  properties such as this.
Discussion
Ongoing issue of OSC not receiving timely notification  or formal request to review  
properties coming out of chapter was discussed. OSC  chair  was notified of c urrent 
property (100 Townsend Harbor Road)  by D. Passios. G. McLeod indicated this issue 
falls on him and is currently working to have th ese issues  addressed through OpenGov.
Consensus was to table the discussion to our next meeting to receive input from 
committee members unable to attend this meeting.
D. Passios and J. Duffy  participated in the discussion and were supportive of acquiring 
the property.
Reports from other boards:
===PAGE 2===
G. McLeod advised the Chairman  of the Planning Board extended an open invitation to 
have a dual meeting of OSC and Planning Board.
Chair Toohill reiterated the OSC did not receive formal notification of 100 Townsend 
Harbor Road  was coming out of chapter. G. McLeod indicated the issue was still on the 
radar and that Open Gov. would likely be the appropriate solution.
Citizen Comments:
Supportive comments made during the 100 Townsend Harbor Road Right of First 
Refusal discussion.
D. Passios indicated he would continue to assist  ensuring open and effective 
communications occur between boards and departments .
Committee Positions:
Continuing discussion of committee structure , c hair man , vice chair and secretar y . Chair 
Toohill agreed to continue on  in his current role while the discussion of committee 
structure continues. A. Lockwood expressed her desire to remain as vice chair. One 
member , B. Kibbe,  has had recent conflicts impacting his ability to participate in 
meetings.  Chair expressed hope  member Kibbe  would be able to remain on the OSC, 
indicating h e is an important member of the committee and  ha s  been consistently relied 
upon. 
Meeting schedule:
3/12/25 (Remote)
4/09/25 (In-person)
Adjournment:
Motion to adjourn the meeting was made by A. Lockwood and seconded by G. McLeod.
Members present v oted unanimously in favor by roll call.  8 :36 P.M.
These minute were approved by the Open Space Committee at its May 14, 2025 
meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
Michael Toohill, Chair