To answer your additional questions-

Callback is response of Off Duty Career and On Call Personnel to respond and cover the Station and/or staff additional apparatus when there is a call.  With a few exceptions for non emergency type service calls that are handled strictly by the On duty staff, most calls require callback.
On most calls, the duty crew is committed on that first call or first piece of apparatus, so personnel respond to staff the Station in the event of another call for assistance.
The On duty staff can generally only staff one unit, or possibly a second unit with only a Driver.  Personnel coming in on callback will staff other equipment as needed depending on the call.
For Career staff, callback is paid out of the Overtime line
For On Call Staff, they are paid out of the Call Firefighter Salary line (Which also pays the Per diem coverage as well
We have no idea when back to back/simultaneous are going to occur, so we try to be prepared at all times.  However, as we have gotten busier, we do not see as much callback on incidents.  Sometimes it may be several people, sometimes it is none.  It is often a function of who is available to come back in.
Simultaneous Calls
Calendar 24- The average was 16.4 incidents of simultaneous calls per month.  Or roughly every other day.  This resulted in an average of 3.4 incidents per month requiring mutual aid assistance
Calendar 25- the average was 17.8 incidents of simultaneous calls per month.  This required an average of 5.6 incidents per month requiring mutual aid
Simultaneous calls may be only two calls, or it could be several intertwined.  And again, we don't know when these are going to occur so we have to be ready at all times. 
How many times mutual aid is called is an average here.  That means some months may only have one or two occurrences.  Others may have 10.  Again, I must emphasize that we have to plan for what might happen.  We don't know what each day may bring.
The 4th Shift Proposal keeps 3 Full time Staff on duty each day.  We still have in budget funding for 96 hours of per diem staffing, and as stated in my letter sufficient funding for an additional 16 hours per week of per diem staffing.  (In the FY 27 Budget Request / Tier 1 Override.)  There is no need for additional funding beyond the FY 26 Call Firefighter Salary Line to support this.
The goal of this Per diem staffing is to supplement the 3 Career Staff on Duty with a 4th Firefighter/EMT or Paramedic 16 hour per day.  From 8am-midnight.  
This is generally our busiest time of day
Benefit of a 4th FF supplementing the Career Staff
A 4th FF on duty allows the 2nd ambulance to be staffed without relying of whether we have callback in or not.  (2 FF's on each Ambulance)
If one ambulance is on a call, it still allows two other FF's to be available for another call exclusive of callback.  While not ideal for a fire call, 2 FF's can accomplish far more than a fire engine with just a driver on it.
If a Fire call is received with all personnel in the station, the first fire engine can respond with 4 Firefighters on board.  This meets national standards.  It has also been proven in studies that a 4 person Engine or Ladder company is 50% more efficient than a 3 person company.
As the Per diem shifts are a supplement to the Career Staff, we would not be forcing Career Staff to cover these shifts as we already have the core 3 personnel on duty.  If there was a Per diem vacancy, we would remain at 3 FF's.
Reallocating the Per diem coverage has been part of the overall plan since the 4th shift was proposed.  See presentation Jul '25.  It is using funds we already have.
In the current balanced budget, the Call Firefighter Salary has been effectively reduced to 70 hours per week.  This translates to 10 hours per day of Per diem coverage rather than 16 hours.
While the balanced budget is certainly an improvement to coverage, it is not what we had hoped to see in the FY 27 budget
We can provide 4 FF's on duty for some of our "Peak time" activity, but not all of it.  We will continue to rely strictly on callback more of the day than we did under the original FY 27 budget proposal
I would also point out that the Per diem personnel are being paid their hourly Call Firefighter rate and are not benefitted personnel.
