
Library Budget Impact Statement
Budget Line: Library Staff Salaries Line
Reduction: $42,971.04
Services: Staff Librarian-Young Adult Services, partial loss of absence coverage
Impact: This cut will create immediate and noticeable impact on library services, through Staffing Reductions. The change would eliminate the Young Adult (YA) Services Librarian position (30 hours/week; 0.75 FTE). The community would lose a key professional librarian role (1 of 5 Master’s-level librarians) who works with the important young adult demographic. The loss would be especially impactful shortly after town leaders committed a significant amount of capital to improving the Teen Room with more than $120,000 from ARPA funds. The reduction also decreases staff availability for absence coverage to meet operational safety requirements.
Approximately 25–45 young adults who visit daily after school will lose access to a dedicated librarian. This number has increased since the Teen Room renovation project. Young Adult programming and events are expected to decrease by at least 50%. The library will need to eliminate structured after-school activities and Teen Advisory Board volunteer opportunities. Additionally, the community will see reduced quality and frequency of Summer Reading Program for Young Adults, book displays and collection maintenance, and outreach and partnerships
Operational impact will include increased strain on remaining staff to cover evening shifts, potential scheduling gaps, negative impact on staff morale and increased difficulty to retain staff talent. To partially counter the morale and retention impact, the library might close one evening per week, but this reduces community access by 25% for evening space use, creating significant impacts on local groups such as Scouts, and would result in lost shifts for one Library Page.
Other impacts will be less immediately visible but will reduce teen-focused programming and increase reliance on outside funding sources.
The Young Adult Services Librarian represents 11% of total staff hours and plays a critical role in supporting teen engagement, literacy, and safe after-school space. Reduced staffing and resources will directly affect service quality, accessibility, and the overall user experience for the community.


Budget Line: Programming
Reduction: $1,500
Services: Programs and Events
Impact: The impact of funding Library Programs at this level will likely not be immediately apparent. The dollar reduction may apply directly to Young Adult Programs, reducing the quality and frequency of events for this important demographic. This reduction equates to approximately five fewer events that the library can schedule. Fewer opportunities to engage with programming will negatively impact other service statistics for this demographic. 

Budget Line: Library Materials
Reduction: $10,737
Services: Circulation Services-New Items and Digital Resources
Impact: Funding at this level will be a reduction in service. Immediately noticeable for dozens of users of the digital resources that we will need to cut, including staff. We will eliminate our Niche Academy resources, which helps teach how to use digital tools and resources, the Morningstar Investment database, National Geographic Kids database, and Fold3, one of our genealogy resources databases. In addition to dropping those four digital resources, we will be able to buy about 200 fewer physical books for the collection next year.
