===PAGE 1===
UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY
Boston, Massachusetts
PERFORMANCE BOND
Bond No: UCSX2X6021
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That
Dee Bus Service, Inc.
33 Great Road
Shirley, MA 01464
(hereinafter called Principal), and
UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
f Nebraska with their principal offices located at 303 Congress Street, Suite 502, Boston, MA 02210 (hereinafte
alled Surety), are held and firmly bound unt
Town Of Lunenburg
1025 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg MA 01462
(hereinafter called Obligee),
Two Million Nineteen Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Five Dollars and 00/100
in the full and just sum
($2,019,685.00
to the payment of which sum, well and truly be made, the said Principal and Surety bind themselves, their and each of
their heirs, their administrators, executors, successors and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
WHEREAS, the above bounded Principal has entered into a certain written contract with the above mentioned Obligee
Provide Student Transportation Services for the period of July 1, 2026 through June 30, 2027 only
)
WHEREAS, the Obligee, by virtue of acceptance of this bond, agrees to accept a bond guaranteeing the performance of
said contract on an annual basis.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that if the above bounded Principal shall
well and truly keep, do and perform, each and every, all and singular matters and things in said contract set forth and
specified to be by the said Principal kept, done and performed at the time and in the manner in said contract specified
during the term of this bond, and shall pay over, make good and reimburse to the above named Obligee, all loss and
damage which said Obligee may sustain by reason of failure of default on the part of the said Principal, then this
obligation shall be void, otherwise to be and remain in full force and effect.
Provided, however, that this bond is subject to the following conditions and provisions:
1.
This bond is for the term beginning 07/01/2026
and ending
06/30/2027
2.
In the event of default by the Principal in performance on the contract during the term of this bond the
Surety shall be liable only for the loss to the Obligee due to actual excess costs for performance of the
contract up to the termination of the term of this bond. The amount of this bond shall be automatically
reduced by the value of the work completed by the Principal.
3.
No claim, action, suit, proceeding, except as hereinafter set forth, shall be had or maintained against Surety
on this instrument by any person, entity or corporation other than the named Obligee, and unless same be
brought or instituted and process served upon the Surety within six months after the completion of the
contract during the term of this bond, unless said term is extended by Surety under condition 5.
4..
Neither nonrenewal by the Surety, nor failure, nor inability of the Principal to file a replacement bond shall
constitute loss to the Obligee recoverable under this bond.
5.
This bond may be extended for additional terms at the option of the Surety by continuation certificate executed
by the Surety.
Signed and sealed this 8th day of July, 2026
Dee Bus Service, Inc.
BY:_
United Casualty and Surety Insurance Company
DeborahA Nolleran
Attorney-in-Fact Deborah A. Holleran
===PAGE 2===
UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS
PAYMENT BOND
Bond No: UCSX2X6021
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That_Dee Bus Service, Inc., 33 Great Road Shirley, MA 01464
(hereinafter called the Principal), and UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY, a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Nebraska with their principal offices located at 303 Congress Street, Suite 502,
Boston, Massachusetts, 02210 duly authorized by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Division of Insurance, as
surety (hereinafter called Surety), are held and firmly bound unto Town of Lunenburg
called Obligee), in the full and just sum of $2,019,685.00
payment of which sum, well and truly be made, the said Principal and Surety bind themselves, their and each of their
heirs, their administrators, executors, successors and assigns, jointly and severally, firmly by these presents.
WHEREAS, the above bounded Principal has entered into a certain written contract with the above mentioned Obligee
to provide Student Transportation Services for the period of July 1, 2026 through June 30, 2027 only.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE CONDITION OF THIS OBLIGATION IS SUCH, that if the above bounded Principal shall
pay all persons who have furnished labor and material directly to the Principal for use in the prosecution of the aforesaid
work, each of which said persons shall have a right of direct action on this instrument in his/her own benefit, then this
obligation shall be null and void, otherwise to be and remain in full force and effect.
Provided, however, that this bond is subject to the following conditions and provisions:
1.
This bond is for the term beginning 7/1/2026
_and ending_6/30/2027
The amount of this bond shall be automatically reduced by and to the extent of any payment or payments
made in good faith by the Surety.
3.
No claim, action, suit, proceeding, except as hereinafter set forth, shall be had or maintained against Surety
on this instrument unless such claim, action, suit, or proceeding is brought or instituted upon the Surety
rithin one year from termination or expiration of the bond term; or after the expiration of ninety (90) day
fter the day on which any person last supplied the labor and/or materials for which the claim is made
hichever occurs first. If this limitation is void or prohibited by law, the minimum period of limitatio
vailable to the Surety as a defense in the jurisdiction of the suit shall be applicabl
4.
Neither nonrenewal by the Surety, nor failure, nor inability of the Principal to file a replacement bond shall
constitute loss to the Obligee recoverable under this bond.
5.
This bond may be extended for additional terms at the option of the Surety by continuation certificate executed
by the Surety.
Signed and sealed this 8th
_day of
July
_ 2026
Principal Dee Bus Service, Inc.
UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY
BY:_
Reborah A. Alleran
Attorney-in-Fact Deborah A. Holleran
===PAGE 3===
UCS
UCSX2X6021
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: That United Casualty and Surety Insurance Company, a corporation of the State of Nebraska, and US Casualty and Surety Insurance
Company and United Surety Insurance Company, assumed names of United Casualty and Surety Insurance Company (collectively, the Companies), do by these presents
make, constitute and appoint:
Robert F. Thomas, Justin D. Casey, Colleen A. Cochrane, Deborah A. Holleran, Stephen M. Welsh, Michelle L. Wilson
Ruben Sarmiento, Laura Wallace, Julie L. Vowell, Matthew Edlund, Francely Rosario, Kevin McCosh
its true and lawful Attorneys)-in-Fact, each in their separate capacity if more than one is named above, with full power and authority hereby conferred in its name,
place and stead, to execute, acknowledge and deliver any and all bonds, recognizances, undertakings or other instruments or contracts of suretyship to include
riders, amendments, and consents of surety. This Power of Attorney shall expire without further action on December 31, 2030.
This Power of Attorney is granted under and by authority of the following resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Companies at a meeting duly called and
held on the 1" day of July, 1993:
Resolved that the President, Treasurer, or Secretary be and they are hereby authorized and empowered to appoint Attorneys-in-Fact of the Company, in its name and as
its acts to execute and acknowledge for and on its behalf as Surety any and all bonds, recognizances, contracts of indemnity, waivers of citation and all other writings
obligatory in the nature thereof, with power to attach thereto the seal of the Company. Any such writings so executed by such Attorneys-in-Fact shall be binding
upon the Company as if they had been duly executed and acknowledged by the regularly elected Officers of the Company in their own proper persons.
That the signature of any officer authorized by Resolutions of this Board and the Company seal may be affixed by facsimile to any power of attorney or special power of
attorney or certification of either given for the execution of any bond, undertaking, recognizance or other written obligation in the nature thereof; such signature and seal,
when so used being hereby adopted by the Company as the original signature of such officer and the original seal of the Company, to be valid and binding upon the
Company with the same force and effect as though manually affixed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Companies have caused this instrument to be signed and their corporate seals to be hereunto affixed, this _
18th day of March, 2026
UNITED CASUALTY AND SURETY INSURANCE COMPANY
US Casualty and Surety Insurance Company
United Surety Insurance Company
ues
ucs
UCS
Corporate Seals
R..
Rule Fowler
R. Kyle Fowler, Treasurer
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
County of Suffolk ss:
On this 18th day of March, 2026
- before me, Colleen A. Cochrane, a notary public, personally appeared, R. Kyle Fowler, Treasurer of United Casualty and
Surety Insurance Company, US Casualty and Surety Insurance Company and United Surety Insurance Company, who proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence
to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he executed the same in his authorized capacity, and that by his
signature on the instrument the person(s), or the entity on behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
I certify under PENALTY OF PERJURY under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts that the foregoing paragraph is true and correct.
WITNESS my hand and seal.
_(Seal)
Notary Public Commission Expires: 10/27/2028
COLLEEN A. COCHRANE
Notary Public, Commonwealth of Massachusells
My Commission Expires 10/27/2028
1, Robert F. Thomas, President of United Casualty and Surety Insurance Company, US Casualty and Surety Insurance Company and United Surety Insurance Company do
hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a true and correct copy of a Power of Attorney, executed by said Companies, which is still in full force and effect;
furthermore, the resolutions of the Board of Directors, set out in the Power of Attorney are in full force and effect.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seals of said Companies at Boston, Massachusetts this
8th day of July, 2026
Corporate Seals
Polul7. Themar
Robert F. Thomas, President
ucs
TO CONFIRM AUTHENTICITY OF THIS BOND OR DOCUMENT EMAIL: CONFIRMBOND@UNITEDCASUALTY.COM