===PAGE 1===
  
Page 1 of 6 
The benefits herein described, for non-affiliated employees as defined within, does not 
supersede any contractual agreements with bargaining units or district policy set by the 
Lunenburg School Committee. 
 
I. Employee Categories 
 Employees (uncovered by another agreement) 
 Extended Day Staff (including Program Coordinator(s) and Director) 
 COTAs 
 Greenhouse Assistant 
 Temporary Personnel 
 
II. Temporary Personnel: 
 
A. Definition 
This category refers to persons who are employed for a short period of time to handle 
special work assignments or to replace regular employees who are absent 
(substitutes). No fringe benefits (i.e. sick leave, personal leave, paid vacation leave, 
holiday pay) or payroll deductions are granted to this category of personnel. 
 
B. Salaries 
Temporary personnel will be paid in accordance  as follows: 
 
1. Short-term and long-term teacher substitutes will be paid per district policy. 
 
2. Support-position substitutes (cafeteria workers, paraprofessionals, 
custodial/maintenance staff and secretaries) will be paid as follows: 
 
Cafeteria Workers: $11.57 per hour 
 
Paraprofessionals: $11.00/$14.36 per hour (Non-Degree/Degree) 
 
Custodial/Maintenance Staff:  $11.57 per hour 
 
Student Support Staff (custodial, clerical, aides): $11.00 per hour 
 
Secretaries: $13.72 per hour 
 
The Superintendent of Schools reserves the right to temporarily increase any of 
the above-stated rates should a situation arise the warrants such action. 
 
 
3. Nurse Substitutes will be paid 130 per regular school day.  Should a long-term 
substitute be required, the Superintendent of Schools may elect to pay the long-
term substitute at a higher rate not to exceed the per diem hiring rate for RN on the 
salary schedule. 
  
III. Permanent Personnel  
 
A. Definition 
===PAGE 2===
  
Page 2 of 6 
This category refers to persons who are employed on a regular, continual basis who 
are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement or another employee benefit 
document.   
 
B. Salaries and Fringe Benefits 
 1.  Salaries  
Salaries for permanent personnel covered by this document are set forth in the 
salary schedule addendum that follows.  The Superintendent of Schools will 
determine placement on said schedule at time of hire. 
 
 
 2. Fringe Benefits 
Twelve month employees working a minimum of 20 hours per week are eligible 
the following fringe benefits. School-year employees working a minimum of 20 
hours per week are eligible for following fringe benefits EXCEPT holidays and 
vacation leave.   
 
a.  Sick  Leave 
   Eligible employees will be awarded sick leave hours on July 1 of each year 
based on individual work schedules equivalent to twelve workdays for 
personal illness.  Sick leave will be prorated for persons who become eligible 
for this benefit after July 1 or in the case of school-year positions after the start 
of the school year.  Sick leave hours may be accumulated up to the hourly 
equivalent of 180 days without loss of pay 
 The Superintendent may require certification by a physician after five (5) 
consecutive days of sick leave. 
 The hour equivalent, based on individual work schedules, of five days per year 
may be used for illness of an immediate family member, residing in the same 
household, which necessitates the employee’s absence from work. 
b. Personal Days 
Eligible employees will be allocated the hour equivalent based on individual 
work schedules of three personal days per school year that cannot be carried 
over to the next school year.  Personal leave will be prorated for persons who 
become eligible for this benefit after July 1 or in the case of school-year 
positions after the start of the school year.  Personal leave is to be utilized for 
the purpose of attending to personal or family business, which cannot be 
conducted outside of school hours or for personal or family illness.   
      At least 48 hours notification is required before the day of the proposed 
absence. 
 Personal days will not be granted the first five days of the school year, the last 
five days of the school year, or immediately preceding or following school 
vacation periods or holidays without express permission of the Superintendent 
of Schools 
If the employee wishes to use a personal day for illness, illness of a family 
member, or emergency, the requirements for a 48-hour notice will be waived. 
c. Bereavement Days 
===PAGE 3===
  
Page 3 of 6 
An absence of up to 5 calendar days will be granted for the death of an 
immediate family member without the loss of pay.  An immediate family 
member includes: spouse, child, parent, sibling, grandparent, grandchild, or in-
law. 
In the event of a death of a close friend or relative not listed above, one day 
will be granted. 
d. Military Leave   
Military leave will be approved in compliance with state and federal law.  
 
e. Jury Duty 
Persons permanently employed, full-time or part-time, called for jury duty 
shall be paid an amount equal to the difference between the compensation paid 
for a normal working period and the amount paid by the court.  This excludes 
allowance for travel and will be certified by the Superintendent upon 
presentation of the check for monies received by the court. 
f. Vacation 
Eligible employees shall receive vacation based on their average weekly hours 
on the following schedule: 
1. Upon completion of 10 months continuous service, the equivalent in hours 
 of 10 days or 2 weeks. 
2. After 5 years continuous service up to 10 years continuous service, the 
equivalent in hours of 15 days or 3 weeks. 
3. After 10 years continuous service up to 15 years continuous service, the 
equivalent in hours of 20 days or 4 weeks. 
4. After 15 years continuous service up to 20 years continuous service, the 
equivalent in hours of 25 days or 5 weeks. 
5. After 20 years continuous service up to retirement, the equivalent in hours 
of 30 days or 6 weeks. 
With the permission of the Superintendent, vacation time in excess of 2 
calendar weeks may be accumulated to a total of 6 calendar weeks. 
Employees who resign or retire in good standing shall receive compensation 
equivalent to accrued vacation days provided they have been in continuous 
service of the town for 10 months.  Employees who are discharged or 
suspended shall receive compensation equivalent to accrued vacation days 
provided they have been in continuous service of the town for 10 months. 
 
g. Holidays 
Eligible employees shall be paid their regular straight time wages for the 
following holidays.   
 
New Year's Day Veteran’s Day 
Martin Luther King Day ½ Day before Thanksgiving 
Presidents Day Thanksgiving Day 
===PAGE 4===
  
Page 4 of 6 
Patriots Day Friday after Thanksgiving  
Memorial Day Day Before Christmas 
Independence Day Christmas 
Labor Day Day before New Year’s Day 
Columbus Day  
 
A day of holiday pay shall be computed on the basis of the employee's regular 
straight-time hourly rate m ultiplied by the number of hours per day the 
employee is regularly scheduled to work.  In the event a holiday falls on a 
scheduled workday during the employee's vacation period, he/she will receive 
an additional day's pay with his/her vacation pay. 
 
h.   Longevity 
 Beginning July 1, 2012 Longevity:   Employees shall be paid annual longevity 
pay, in the first pay period of December, based on completed years of 
continuous service to the District as follows: 
 
Years Amount 
10 $200 
15 $250 
20 $300 
25 $350 
 
 
IV. Retirement Plans 
Due to the fact that municipal employees do not have social security taxes deducted from 
their gross pay, all Town employees are required to contribute a portion of their gross 
salary to one of three designated retirement plans.   
Massachusetts Teachers’ Retirement:  Long-term Substitutes and Nurses are the only 
employees listed under this policy that may participate in this plan. 
Worcester County Retirement (minimum 20 hours/week, 1040 hours/year): Custodians, 
Secretaries, Nurses, and the Greenhouse Manager may participate in this plan. 
OBRA:  Tutors, Title I Tutors, Aides, Extended Day Staff, Cafeteria Staff, Substitutes, 
Long-term Substitutes, and any employee listed under Worcester County Retirement that 
does not fulfill the minimum required hours for that plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
  
Page 5 of 6 
 
 
 
 