===PAGE 1===
Agreement
between
Lunenburg Paraprofessional Union
AFSCME Council 93, Local 503
and
Lunenburg School Committee
July 1, 2025 - June 30, 2028
1
===PAGE 2===
Table of Contents
Article I
Article Il
Article III
Article IV
Article V
Article VI
Article VII
Article VIII
Article IX
Article X
Article XI
Article XII
Article XIII
Article XIV
Article XV
Article XVI
Article XVII
Article XVIII
Article XIX
Article XX
Article XXI
Article XXII
Recognition
Management Rights
Grievance Procedure
New or Changed Positions
Professional Development
Compensation
Hours of Work
Sick Leave
Sick Bank
Family and Medical Leave
Bereavement Leave
Personal Leave
Health and Welfare
Jury Duty
Delayed Openings
Use of School Buildings
Entire Agreement
Stability of Agreement
Probationary Period
Reduction in Force and Non-Renewal
Holiday
Discipline
2
5
6
6
10
10
12
13
15
16
17
18
19
20
20
20
20
20
21
21
21
22
23
===PAGE 3===
Article XXII
Article XXIV
Article XXV
Job Postings
Joint Labor Management Committee
Duration
Salary Schedules
23
24
25
Appendix
===PAGE 4===
AGREEMENT
This agreement is entered into this 1st day of July 2025 between the School Committee of the Town
of Lunenburg, Massachusetts, hereinafter referred to as the "Committee", and Lunenburg Paraprofessional
Union AFSCME Council 93, Local 503 hereinafter referred to as the "Union".
ARTICLE I.
RECOGNITION
1-1 For the purpose of collective bargaining with respect to mandatory subjects of bargaining pursuant
to M.G.L. Chapter 150E, the Lunenburg School Committee (the "Committee" or "District") recognizes
the AFSCME Council 93 (the "Association" or "Union") as the statutory representative of all members
of a bargaining unit consisting of all full time and regular paid time Paraprofessionals employed by the
Lunenburg Public Schools (the "District") but excluding all supervisory, managerial, casual, confidential
employees, all substitutes, and all other employees of the District. This Agreement shall be interpreted
so as to be gender neutral in its application. Wherever the masculine gender is used, it shall also include
the feminine, and wherever the feminine is used, it shall include the masculine.
1-2
Union Dues Check Off
The District agrees to deduct Union dues and assessments from the earned wages of each
employee who is a member of the Union and who individually authorizes such deductions in
writing. The District shall make such deductions monthly, and promptly remit the same to the
Treasurer of the Union. The Union Treasurer shall notify the District of the dues rate in
force.
The Union shall hold the District, and its officials and agents, harmless of any liability, and
indemnify the Town for all costs, fees, and expenses incurred arising out of the application of
this provision.
The Union shall indemnify and save the District and/or the Town of Lunenburg harmless
against all claims, demands, suits, or other forms of liability, which may arise by reason of
any action taken in carrying out the provisions of this article.
1-3
Agency Service Fee
Each employee who elects not to join or maintain membership in the Union may voluntarily pay a
service fee to the Union in any amount that is equal to the amount required to become and remain
a member in good standing of the exclusive bargaining agent, and its affiliates to or from which
membership dues or per capita fees are paid or received.
4
===PAGE 5===
1-4
PEOPLE Deduction:
The employer agrees to deduct from the wages of any employee who is a member of the
Union a PEOPLE deduction as provided for in a written authorization. Such authorization
must be executed by the employee and may be revoked by the employee at any time by giving
written notice to both the employer and the Union. The employer agrees to remit any
deductions made pursuant to this provision promptly to the Union together with an itemized
statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay such deductions have been
made and the amount deducted during the period covered by the remittance.
2-1
2-2
2-3
3-1
ARTICLE I.
MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
As to every matter not specifically mentioned or provided for in this Agreement, the District
shall have the powers and duties conferred upon it by law, and may act upon the same without
being subject to grievance or arbitration under this agreement.
By way of example, but not limitation, management retains the following rights: to determine
educational policy; to decide the number of employees assigned to a work project or task; to
determine whether work will be performed by bargaining unit personnel or outside contractors,
regardless of whether such work was formerly performed by such personnel; to determine the
policies and practices involving or affecting the hiring, promotion, assignment, evaluation.
direction, and transfer of personnel; to determine the equipment to be used in the performance
of duty; to establish qualifications for ability to perfolm work; to lay off employees in the event
of lack of work or funds or under conditions where management believes that continuation of
such work would be less efficient, less productive, or less economical; to take actions necessary
to comply with federal or state law, regulations or mandates; to establish work hours and school
day and
year schedules; to take whatever actions may be necessary to can-y out its
responsibilities in situations of emergency; to enforce existing rules, regulations and policies for
the governance of the school and to add to or modify each regulation as it deems appropriate; to
discharge, suspend, demote, or take other disciplinary action against employees; and, to require
the cooperation of all employees in disciplinary investigations, e.g. providing statements or
answering questions about job performance or conduct.
The failure to exercise any management right shall not be deemed a waiver.
ARTICLE III.
GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE
The purpose of this Article is to provide an orderly method for the settlement of certain disputes
between the parties limited to those over a claimed violation of a specific provision of this
Agreement. Such a dispute shall be defined as a grievance under this Agreement and must be
processed in accordance with the following steps, time limits, and conditions herein set forth. If
a grievance affects a group or a class of employees from more than one school, the Union may
commence a grievance on behalf of such a group or class at Step 2 by submitting the grievance
in writing to the Superintendent. Said grievance shall describe the group or class of employees
affected.
5
===PAGE 6===
3-3
Grievances concerning suspensions and other discipline may be brought under the procedure set
forth in this Article. However, should an employee elect to pursue any statutory arbitration
remedy, including arbitration pursuant to M.G.L. c. 71, §42D, such arbitration shall be the
exclusive remedy for the discipline at issue.
In general, letters issued by the District are not grievable, even if the letter points out a
performance issue with which the employee disagrees. In such a case, the employee's sole
remedy shall be to submit a rebuttal to the letter which will be kept with the file copy of the
letter. Such a rebuttal must be submitted within 15 calendar days of the date that the letter is
delivered.
3-4 All grievances filed at Step 1 and 2 of the grievance procedure shall specify:
3-5
a.
b.
C.
d.
the particular contract article and section alleged to have been violated;
the facts supporting each alleged violation in reasonable detail;
the date each act or omission violating the Agreement is alleged to have occurred; and,
the remedy sought for each alleged contract violation.
The Steps of the Grievance procedure shall be as follows:
STEP 1:
The employee shall submit his/her grievance in writing to the building principal within 15
calendar days of the date that the employee or the Union knew or should, with the exercise of
reasonable diligence, have known of the occurrence giving rise to the grievance. Within 10
calendar days of the filing of the grievance, the principal or his/her designee shall meet with the
aggrieved employee. If the aggrieved employee requests, a Union representative shall be given
an opportunity to be present at a time agreeable to the parties. The principal or their designee
shall provide a decision in writing within 5 business days of the conclusion of such meeting.
STEP 2:
If the grievance is not settled in Step 1, the Union may appeal it by giving a written notice of
such appeal to the Superintendent of Schools within 10 calendar days after the Principal's written
answer. The Superintendent shall discuss it with the Union representative at a time agreeable to
the parties. The aggrieved employee may also attend and participate in this discussion unless it
concerns a group or class of employees. The Superintendent or their designee shall give their
written answer to the grievance within 5 school days after the close of the discussion.
If the grievance is not settled in Step 2, the Union may request a hearing before the School
Committee, by submitting a written request, which may include a written summary of the basis
of the grievance, to the Superintendent within 10 calendar days of the Step 2 response. The
Superintendent will present the request to the School Committee in executive session at the next
available meeting, and shall communicate the School Committee's decision to the Union in
writing within 5 days of the decision.
===PAGE 7===
If the decision is a denial of the request, then the Superintendent's written notification of the
denial to the Union shall serve as the District's Step 3 response for the purposes of this Article.
Should the School Committee agree to hear the grievance, the hearing will be held at or before
the next available meeting after the meeting at which decision to hear the grievance is made. If
the School Committee elects to have a subcommittee hear the grievance, then the hearing shall
be scheduled at a time mutually agreeable to the parties. Thereafter, the Committee's written Step
3 response shall be due within 30 calendar days after the hearing.
3-6
3-7
3-8
The parties agree to follow each of the foregoing steps in the processing of the grievance; and if
at any step the District fails to give its written answer within the time limit therein set forth, the
grievance shall be deemed to be denied, and the Union may appeal the grievance to the next step
at the expiration of such time limit. Failure of the Union at any step to process according to the
time limits set forth herein shall mean that the Union has waived the grievance, and the right to
proceed further.
The settlement or remedy of a grievance, including any monetary or back pay remedy, in any
case, shall not be made retroactive for any period prior to 15 days before the date the grievance
was first presented in writing.
Arbitration
1. If the dispute or grievance is not settled in the foregoing steps and it involves the claimed
violation of an arbitrable provision of this Agreement, then the Union may seek arbitration
by filing a written demand for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association. The
demand shall be filed with the American Arbitration Association within 15 days of the
District's answer in Step 2, unless Step 3 review has been requested, in which case, the
demand must be filed within 15 days of the District's answer in Step 3.
2. The arbitration proceeding will be conducted under the rules of the American Arbitration
Association. The arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, subtract from, modify,
change or alter any of the provisions of this Agreement. The award shall be final and binding
on the School District, the Union, and the grievant.
3. Each party shall bear the full cost for its representation in the arbitration and the remaining
costs will be shared equally between the parties. If either party desires a verbatim record of
the proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made providing it pays for the record and
makes copies available to the other party, and to the arbitrator.
4. Any decision which requires the payment of monies which are not available without proper
budgetary action, shall not be acted upon until the necessary budgetary action is taken. The
Committee acknowledges a responsibility, if there are insufficient funds at the time of an
enforceable award, to include such funds in the next budget it adopts.
5. The decision of the arbitrator shall not violate any statutes of the Commonwealth, or
regulations pursuant to such statutes.
7
===PAGE 8===
6. The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding and may be reviewed in court under
G.L.. c.150C, or on the grounds that the award: (1) is arbitrary or capricious, or
(2) Misinterprets or misapplies any provision of law. The dispute, as stated in the request for
arbitration, shall constitute the sole and entire subject matter to be heard by the arbitrator,
unless the parties agree in writing to modify the scope of the hearing.
7. The following matters shall not be subject to grievance-arbitration under this
Agreement or other recourse:
a. Any matter involving the exercise of discretion accorded management under this
b. Disputes over alleged unlawful discrimination;
c. Changes in job descriptions or assigned duties;
d. Any incident which occurred or failed to occur prior to the effective date of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV.
NEW OR CHANGED POSITIONS
4-1 The School District in its discretion, with notification to the Union, may add new job titles and
escriptions within the Union, establishing minimum and maximum wage or salary brackets fo
le same, and reclassifying existing jobs, revising the description and minimum and maximur
wage or salary brackets, at a rate not less than the present Salary Schedule.
5-1
ARTICLE V.
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Unit employees will attend and be paid for a total of 4 professional development days, which
currently include one full day before school begins, another full PD day during the year, and 4
half-day PD sessions during the year. The District reserves the right to change the scheduling
and format (e.g., half-day versus full day) of these professional development days, in its sole
5-2
5-3
Employees required by the District to attend professional development, including in- service
days, will be compensated at the appropriate hourly rate unless otherwise stipended.
At times the District may sponsor voluntary educational courses during off hours or on weekends.
Employees may attend designated courses free of charge based on a first come first serve basis
and job applicability. These courses are not required for employment, and employees will
not be compensated for attendance. If the District requires an employee to attend such a course,
on or off site, the District will cover the cost of such course, and compensate the employee for
attendance.
Full-time unit employees will attend a total of 5 monthly building faculty meetings at the
8
===PAGE 9===
5-5
discretion of the Principal. Those unit members who are part-time will be given the option to
attending if their work hours are not contiguous to the time of the faculty meeting.
Each Bargaining Unit Member will be eligible to receive reimbursement for workshops and
trainings up to a maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per workshop/training,
reimbursement for college coursework up to a maximum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per
course, and reimbursement for graduate coursework up to a maximum of nine hundred dollars
($900.00) per course, subject to the following conditions:
1. The reimbursement total paid to all bargaining unit members in any fiscal year under this
provision shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The fiscal year will be
divided into two reimbursement periods with the total split into equal pools of five
thousand dollars (S5,000.00)
a. Courses taken from July to December will be eligible for reimbursement in February
(first pay of the month, deadline for reimbursement documentation to the Business
Office is December 27'
b. Courses taken from January to June will be eligible for reimbursement in September
(last pay of the month deadline for reimbursement documentation to the Business
Office is July I5th.
c. Employees who choose to pay with a loan/grant from a financial institution/student
loans will not be eligible for reimbursement.
2. In the event requests exceed available pool funds, reimbursements will be apportioned to
Staff as equally as possible.
3. College Courses must be taken from accredited institutions of higher education. Graduate
courses are to be subject content oriented in the teacher's field or be prerequisites for an
approved graduate degree program or deemed beneficial to the applicant in his particular
Lunenburg assignment. On -line continuing education course credit can account for no
more than 60% of the required number of credits for column advancement.
4. All college courses, whether undergraduate or postgraduate, offered by degree granting
institutions will be acceptable for reimbursement if the provisions of the grade of "A" and
"B" are met.
i. All coursework/workshops/trainings must be approved in advance by the principal of
the school in which the paraprofessional is assigned and the Superintendent of Schools
or his/her designee and must support the paraprofessional's primary responsibility in
Lunenburg. Requests to participate in coursework/workshops/trainings must be
submitted for approval on the prescribed form.
ii. A final grade report or official certificate reflecting the successful completion of the
coursework/workshop/training along with payment verification and a copy of the
approval form signed by the Superintendent of Schools must be submitted to the
Superintendent's office no later than June 30 of the current fiscal year to be eligible for
reimbursement along with the last pay of the month in September.
9
===PAGE 10===
6-1
6-2
6-3
6-4
6-5
6-6
6-7
iii. To qualify for reimbursement, Bargaining Unit Members must continue to be actively
employed in the Lunenburg Public Schools during the school year following the
completion of said courses/workshops/trainings. Should a bargaining unit member fail
to return to the employ of the Lunenburg Public Schools the Superintendent may request
that full reimbursement of all funds awarded to that member be made within thirty (30)
days of the termination date.
iv. In the event coursework/workshop/training requests exceed the available pool funds,
reimbursements will be apportioned to staff as equally as possible. Any unused
coursework/workshop/training funds remaining in the pool at the end of the fiscal year
will be forfeited to the school district.
ARTICLE VI.
COMPENSATION
Employees shall be paid in accordance with the Salary Schedule set in Appendix A.
Salary increases, both step and those established by this agreement, will be automatic during the
term of this agreement.
The Superintendent shall have the discretion to determine the step on which an employee will
be hired within the appropriate classification, and may take into account such factors as the
Superintendent deems relevant, which may include prior experience, education, training, market
forces, and the needs of the school district. Any present employee in the same job classification
who can document the same or greater skill and experience as the new employee may appeal
their step placement in writing to the Superintendent.
Advancement to the next higher step-rate will take place each succeeding first payroll in July
until the maximum is reached. Not more than one step-rate increase shall be received in any
(12) twelve month period.
Temporary personnel, hired directly by the school district to perform the duties of the members
of this bargaining unit, shall be hired at a rate not to exceed the highest rate stated in this
agreement for the position.
If an employee is assigned by the District as a substitute teacher for more than 3 hours per day
for any classroom, the employee shall earn the greater of an additional $50.00 on the employee's
wage, in addition to regular wages.
The employee will be responsible for submitting
documentation of these assignments with their timesheets. If a paraprofessional is assigned as a
long-term substitute (an assignment in excess of 10 consecutive days), they will be paid
commensurate with the teacher substitute daily wage.
In order for employees to upgrade salary status from "non-licensed" paraprofessional to
"licensed" paraprofessional, written notice must be given to the Superintendent of Schools on
prescribed form not later than December 15 of the school year prior to the school year in which
such change is to be effective. (No changes of salary schedule placement will be made at the
beginning of the school year or during a school year without prior notification as set forth above).
10
===PAGE 11===
6-8
Longevity: Employees will be paid longevity based on completed years of continuous
paraprofessional (formerly known as aides and tutors) service to the District. Longevity will
'ommence on employees' anniversary dates. Longevity will be added to the base hourly rate anc
paid regularly in all payroll checks as follows:
Years
Amount
10
$0.25
15
$0.30
20
$0.35
25
$0.40
Starting in FY23, the following amounts will be added to the base hourly rates and paid
regularly in all payroll checks as follows:
Years
10
15
20
25
Amount
$0.30
$0.35
$0.40
$0.45
Longevity will not be added to pay rates for work done outside of the paraprofessionals
regular work day (i.e. after school tutoring/programs or school vacation/summer programs).
6-9
Paraprofessionals must work at least 90 school days in a school year to advance a step in the
following school year. Days from the sick leave bank may not be applied toward the calculation
of the 90 days. This model will start with staff hired in school 2020/2021.
6-10 Employees shall have the option to have their pay divided into twenty-one (21) or twenty-six
(26) pay cycles. It is understood that an employee who elects to have their pay divided into twenty-six
(26) pay periods may be required to compensate the District for wages paid, but not yet worked, upon
separation of their employment.
a. Paraprofessionals leaving the employ of the school system will receive their accumulated
summer pay in a lump sum on or before June 30th.
11
===PAGE 12===
b. Paraprofessionals remaining in the school system may receive their accumulated summer pay
in a lump sum if they have so requested, in writing, to the Payroll and Benefits person by June
1st of each year. This also will be paid on or before June 30th.
ARTICLE VIl.
HOURS OF WORK
7-1
The District shall determine the weekly hours and schedule of the Paraprofessionals, subject
to reasonable notice to the union when schedules or hours are to be changed.
Full-time Employees are those who are regularly scheduled to work at least 29 hours per
week.
Employees designated as part-time paraprofessionals work less than 29 hours per week, and
their benefits will be prorated in proportion to their actual hours worked.
Employees who work in excess of 40 hours per week shall be paid overtime in accordance with
the Fair Labor Standards Act, to the extent it applies. Employees may not work overtime with
obtaining approval, in advance, from the building principal, the Superintendent or their
designees.
7-5
Meal Periods
Each full time employee shall be granted a paid twenty minute duty free lunch period.
7-6
Employees required and/or approved by the Principal to extend their work day or work through
a break period will be compensated at the appropriate hourly rate unless otherwise stipend.
7-7 Full time employees who report to work on the day before Thanksgiving will be paid a full day of
salary. Time off days will be employee's appointed daily assignment.
ARTICLE VIll.
SICK LEAVE
8-1 Accrual: Employees will accrue sick leave for each month of continuous service throughout the work
year at a rate totaling 12 days per year. Employees may carry sick days from year to year, but will not
accumulate sick leave beyond a total of 180 days. Employees will not accrue sick leave while on any
type of leave in excess of thirty (30) calendar days.
8-2 Procedure: Where an employee has an illness requiring the use of a sick day, the employee must
speak with the building administrator in charge or designee at least two hours prior to the start of the
employee's work day in order to allow the District to obtain coverage.
8-3 Medical Certification: The District may require an employee to provide medical certification of the
need for sick leave under the following conditions:
1. Where the employee has been absent for more than three (3) consecutive days or for
12
===PAGE 13===
more than five (5) days in any two-week period;
2. After an employee has used sick leave on five (5) or more occasions in a given school
year. An "occasion" refers to one or more consecutive workdays of absence resulting
from a single illness or injury. (For example, a ten consecutive workday absence for a
broken ankle would constitute one occurrence: a subsequent nonconsecutive absence
based upon the same injury would be a second occurrence).
8-4 The District may require an employee to be examined at the District's expense by a doctor of the
District's choosing.
8-5 Uses for Sick Leave: Sick leave may be used only in cases where the employee is genuinely ill, and
where the employee is not being compensated under another leave program, insurance program or in
accordance with statute (e.g. Workers" compensation). For illness of a member of the employee's
immediate family, residing in the same household, which necessitates the paraprofessional's absence
from school, up to ten (10) days per school year may be charged to the paraprofessional's personal sick
leave. "Immediate Family" for the purposes of this provision shall have the meaning provided in Article
XII, Section 12-2 of this Agreement.
8-6 For employees who work variable hours during the week, sick leave will be charged on the basis
of the employee's average daily hours. An employee's average daily hours will be determined by
dividing the weekly hours stated on the employee's annual appointment form by five days.
Example: an employee appointed to work 30.5 hours per week who works four 6-hour days and one
6.5-hour day will be charged 6.10 hours for each full day of sick leave he/she uses.
ARTICLE IX.
SICK BANK
9-1 A Sick Leave Bank will be established for use by qualified members whose sick leave accumulation
is exhausted through prolonged illness and who require additional leave to recover from an extended
illness.
9-2 Each member of the bargaining unit upon the accumulation of twenty (20) sick days becomes
eligible for membership in the Sick Leave Bank. They then will contribute two (2) Sick days initially
and one (1) sick day each succeeding year until each member has contributed five (5) days.
9-3 In the event that the accumulation of bank days falls below ninety (90) days, members shall
contribute additional days as deemed necessary by the Sick Leave Bank Committee.
9-4 Any unused Sick Leave Bank days shall be carried over to successive years.
9-5 The Sick Leave Bank shall be administered by a Sick Leave Bank Committee consisting of two (2)
members designated by the School Committee and two (2) members of the Sick Leave Bank designated
by the association. The Superintendent will serve as an ex- officio (non-voting) member of the
committee.
13
===PAGE 14===
9-6 Application for benefits shall be made in writing to the Sick Leave Bank Committee prior to the
point at which the employee's sick leave is exhausted, and shall be accompanied by a doctor's certificate
as to the need for and anticipated extent of extended recovery time from the illness.
9-7 A prolonged illness will be construed to be one which causes the employee to be absent from
work twenty (20) consecutive school days. Recurrence of an illness must be diagnosed by the doctor
as being related and/or a continuation of the original illness. Under this provision, the twenty (20)
prolonged illness days may be waived.
9-8 If a member's sick days are exhausted because of a prolonged illness, any additional days needed
for other illnesses will be considered on an individual basis provided a doctor has certified the need for
such days.
9-9 The initial grant of sick leave by the Sick Leave Bank Committee to an eligible employee shall not
exceed thirty (30) days.
9-10 Additional entitlement may be extended by the Sick Leave Bank Committee upon demonstration
of need by the applicant.
9-11 Subject to the foregoing requirements, the Sick Leave Bank Committee will determine the
eligibility for the use of the Bank and the amount of leave to be granted. The following general criteria
shall be considered by the Committee in administering the Bank and in determining the amount of leave:
(1) Medical evidence of serious extended illness
(2) Prior utilization of eligible sick leave
(3) Longevity
The decision of the Sick Leave Bank Committee with respect to eligibility and entitlement
shall be final and binding and not subject to appeal.
9-12 Upon return from extended sick leave during which benefits were received through the Sick Leave
Bank, the recipient shall be entitled to commence a new accumulation of individual sick leave in
accordance with the provisions of the collective bargaining agreement on the same basis as other
paraprofessionals.
9-13 Determinations made by the Sick Leave Bank Committee to extend benefits shall have no impact
upon the District's authority to determine: (I) whether an employee may continue on sick leave, or (2)
the legitimacy of any sick leave claim.
9-14 Unit A of the Lunenburg Education Association will be allowed to contribute up to sixty (60)
days from its Sick Leave bank to assist in the initial establishment of this Bank. Said contribution shall
be a one time only event, and will not be repeated.
14
===PAGE 15===
ARTICLE X.
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE
10-1 Notwithstanding anything in this agreement to the contrary, any unit member may exercise his or
her rights to take Family and Medical Leave pursuant to the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
("FMLA"). The FMLA is a federal law that provides for up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave each year for
the birth, adoption or placement of a child, or the serious health condition of the employee or an
immediate family member. Paid leave may be substituted for unpaid leave under ce liain circumstances.
If an employee takes leave for FMLA reasons, the employee must request leave and comply with the
procedures set forth in the District's Family and Medical Leave Policy then in effect. In the event that
an employee qualifies for Family and Medical Leave, the District has the right to designate sick or other
leave as Family or Medical leave in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act and/or Policy.
10-2 Maternity Leave shall be taken in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Policy and
applicable law, except that up to eight weeks of leave may be compensated by the use of accrued sick
leave. With the approval of the Superintendent, such leave may be extended, as unpaid leave, for up to
one year, provided, that the District may require the employee to choose longer or shorter leave duration
that results in the employee returning at the beginning of a school term or year.
10-3 Employees will be required to use accrued paid leave, such as sick or vacation leave, or
compensatory time to cover some or all of the FMLA leave. When paid leave is used, the employee
must follow the Town's paid leave policies and procedures with respect to use of such leave.
ARTICLE XI.
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
11-1 For death in the immediate family of the employee, an absence of up to five (5) consecutive
calendar days beginning with the date of death shall be granted without loss of pay or other leave
benefits. Immediate family shall mean parent, grandparent, grandchild, sibling, parent-in-law, or any
other person who resides within the same house.
11-2 For the death of a spouse or child of the employee, an absence of up to ten (10) consecutive
calendar days beginning with the date of the death shall be granted without loss of pay or other leave
benefit.
11-3 Additional time, if needed under unusual circumstances, may be granted by the District.
11-4 In the event of a death of other close relative, one (1) day will be granted.
ARTICLE XII.
PERSONAL LEAVE
12-1 Each employee shall be allowed a maximum of three (3) personal days off per school year with
pay to handle personal business. Personal leave will be prorated for new employees hired after
the school year begins based on the new employee's start date and a ten-month school year.
15
===PAGE 16===
12-2 Personal business means important appointments or other important matters that cannot be
scheduled to occur outside the employee's work day or work year, including required court appearances,
funerals of close friends or relatives not covered under Article XII, bona fide religious holidays, closing
on a house, and other similar matters.
12-3 Requests for personal days must be made to the Superintendent, or designee, through the
employee's building administrator in charge at least three (3) school days prior to the requested day off.
Requests must be made in writing with the district approved form. In case of emergency, an employee
may request a personal day with such notice as is practicable under the circumstances, and in such cases
the grant or denial of the personal day shall be at the discretion of the District.
12-4 An employee who takes a personal day off without properly requesting and obtaining approval
for that day will not be paid for that day, and may be subject to further disciplinary action.
12-5 Personal days cannot be carried over from year to year, however, unused personal days may be
converted into sick days the following school year.
12-6 Personal leave will not be granted the first five days of the school year, during the last five days
of the school year, or immediately preceding or following school vacation periods or holidays unless it
is to be used in lieu of sick days in cases of family or personal illness, or bereavement of an individual
not covered in Article XII.
12-7 For employees who work variable hours during the week, personal leave will be charged on the
basis of the employee's average daily hours. An employee's average daily hours will be determined by
dividing the weekly hours stated on the employee's annual appointment form by five days. Example: an
employee appointed to work 30.5 hours per week who works four 6-hour days and one 6.5-hour day
will be charged 6.10 hours for each full day of personal leave he/she uses.
ARTICLE XIII.
HEALTH AND WELFARE
Jroup Insurance will be provided by the Town of Lunenburg in accordance with the provisions of G. L.
c.32B. Benefits shall be based upon the programs and premium contributions offered by the Town to other
District employees. The parties acknowledge that insurance carriers frequently modify benefits and co-
payments applicable to certain insurance plans, and may discontinue, replace or rename certain plans, and
that neither the District nor the Town shall have no duty to bargain with the Union concerning such
modifications or their impacts that may occur during the term of this agreement. Should insurance benefits,
co-payments and premium contribution rates change for other school district employees during the life of
this agreement, those changes will apply to employees in this bargaining unit on the earliest effective dates
applicable to other school employees.
ARTICLE XIV.
JURY DUTY
Employees will be granted leave to attend jury duty in accordance with applicable law.
16
===PAGE 17===
ARTICLE XV.
DELAYED OPENINGS
When weather or other conditions on a given day require a delayed opening of school, all paraprofessionals
will be compensated in the dollar amount that would apply to them if such a delay had not occurred.
Similarly, if school is dismissed early because of an unexpected emergency due to weather or other
conditions or events, all paraprofessionals will not be subject to any loss of wages if they report to work.
ARTICLE XVI.
USE OF SCHOOL BUILDINGS
Upon application to the Building Principal, the Union may use a room at a school building for purposes
consistent with the District's policies concerning school building use, at reasonable times and without cost,
if the room is available and if the building is open.
ARTICLE XVII.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
17-1 This Agreement, upon ratification, constitutes the complete and entire agreement between the
parties and concludes collective bargaining for its term. No amendment to this Agreement shall be
effective unless in writing, ratified, and executed by the parties.
17-2 The parties acknowledge that during the negotiations which resulted in this Agreement, the parties
had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to any subject or
matter not removed by law from the areas of collective bargaining, and that the understandings and
agreements arrived at by the parties after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this
Agreement.
17-3 Therefore, for the duration of this Agreement, the parties shall not be obligated to reopen
negotiations regarding matters that are covered or could have been covered under this agreement.
ARTICLE XVIII.
STABILITY OF AGREEMENT
18-1 No amendment of this Agreement shall bind the parties hereto unless executed in writing, signed
by both parties.
18-2 The failure of the School District or the Union to insist, in any one or more instances, upon
performance of any terms or conditions of this Agreement, shall not be considered as a waiver or
relinquishment of the rights of the Committee or of the Union to future performance of any such term
of condition, and the obligations of the Union or of the Committee to such future performance shall
continue in full force and effect.
18-3 Should any provision of this Agreement be rendered or declared invalid by reason of existing or
subsequently enacted legislation, or by any decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidation
of such portion of this Agreement shall not invalidate the remaining portions hereof.
17
===PAGE 18===
ARTICLE XIX.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD
The first three (3) months of a newly hired employee shall be a probationary period, and during such
probationary period an employee shall have no recourse under this Agreement should their
employment be terminated.
ARTICLE XX.
REDUCTION IN FORCE AND NON-RENEWAL
20-1 If it becomes necessary to reduce the number of employees in the bargaining unit, the employees
retained shall be those best qualified for the positions that remain, with seniority within the bargaining
unit to be used as a tiebreaker between equally qualified persons. Seniority shall be defined as the
length of continuous service with the Employer from the employee's last date of hire. The District
shall determine qualifications, and may consider previous experience, employee evaluations and other
relevant factors.
20-2 In the event any bargaining unit member's annual appointment is not renewed for the next fiscal
year, the School District shall give written notice to the affected employee on or before June 1. Non-
renewal shall be without recourse to the grievance and arbitration procedure.
ARTICLE XXI.
HOLIDAYS
21-1 full-time employee will be paid for the following holidays:
Labor Day
Veteran's Day
Day after Thanksgiving Day
Thanksgiving Day
Christmas Day
New Year's Day
Memorial Day
Juneteenth
Indigenous Day
MLK Day
President's Day
Patriots' Day (in FY28)
21-2 A day of holiday pay for a full-time employee shall be computed on the basis of the
employee's regular straight-time hourly rate multiplied by the number of hours per day the
employee is regularly scheduled to work.
For employees who work variable hours during the week, a day of holiday pay shall be
computed on the basis of the employee's regular straight-time hourly rate multiplied by
18
===PAGE 19===
his/her average daily hours. An employee's average daily hours will be determined by
dividing the weekly hours stated on the employee's annual appointment form by five days.
Example: an employee appointed to work 30.5 hours per week who works four 6- hour
days and one 6.5-hour day will be paid 6.10 hours for the holiday.
21-3 The Superintendent may. in his/her sole discretion, declare additional holidays for which
employees will be paid. No aspect of the Superintendent's declaration of or failure to
declare additional holidays pursuant to this provision shall be subject to the grievance and
arbitration procedures of this Agreement.
21-4 The District agrees to continue the practice of paying employees full day's pay on the
Wednesday before Thanksgiving.
ARTICLE XXII
DISCIPLINE
22-1 The Employer shall not suspend, demote, or discharge any non-probationary employee
without just cause.
22-2 If the Employer has reason to reprimand an Employee, it shall be done privately. This does
not preclude the Employer from providing feedback or direction to an employee or
employees in the moment/publicly.
22-3 In general. letters issued by the District are not grievable, even if the letter points out a
performance issue with which the employee disagrees. In such case. the employee's sole
remedy shall be to submit a rebuttal letter which will be kept with the file copy of the letter.
Such a rebuttal must be submitted within 15 calendar days of the date of that the letter is
22-4 In case of discharge, of a non-probationary employee, the employee affected may request and
shall receive from the Employer in writing the reason for said dismissal.
22-5 When an employee is discharged by the Employer, the Union shall be promptly notified.
22-6 All copies of warning notices shall be forwarded to the Union office upon request.
ARTICLE XXIII
JOB POSTINGS
===PAGE 20===
23-1 Any new position or vacancy shall be announced via internal email and posted on the
District's internet site for not less than seven (7) consecutive working days. Employees shall
apply for the posted vacancy as instructed in the posting.
23-2 The posting shall contain the minimum qualifications and job requirements for the posted
position.
23-3 The District will fill the position based on the level of candidate fit with the qualifications.
skills or experience required for the role.
23-4 Transfers- When the District deems the transfer of personnel is necessary, the employee may
request a meeting. with union representation if they so choose. to discuss the merits of such
transfer and any alternative to such transfers.
23-5 If the District and the Union are unable to reach agreement on an involuntary transfer plan.
the District may invoke its management rights to involuntarily transfer employees to ensure
the effective administration of the school academic program.
23-6 Transfers may need to be done on an emergency basis and/or due to critical need with limited
notice.
23-7 Wherever possible, transfers to different buildings, employees should be afforded a two week
notice.
ARTICLE XXIV
JOINT LABOR MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
24-1 With the aim of promoting better understanding between the parties, the Employer and the
Union agree that informal meetings between administration and the Union can be held at
mutually agreeable times and places so as to apprise the other problems, concerns, and
suggestions related to the operations and the workforce.
24-2
Such meetings shall not be construed as opening the Agreement for negotiations. nor shall
any subject matter at the meetings constitute a step in the grievance procedure.
ARTICLE XXV.
===PAGE 21===
DURATION
This agreement shall take effect upon ratification by all parties, and shall expire on June 30, 2028.
Negotiations for a successor agreement may commence upon request by either party after September
I of the final fiscal year of the agreement.
ARTICLE XXVI.
UNION BUSINESS
26-1. The Union shall have the right to designate up to three (3) stewards. The Union will notify
the Employer when an employee has been appointed a union stewards.
26-2. The union steward shall be empowered to discuss the adjustment of grievances with the
Employer. Union stewards shall be recognized by the Employer as representatives of the
employees for the purposes of enforcing this Agreement and shall act as representatives of the
Union on the job.
26-3. The Employer understands and agrees that the Union representative shall have the rights
provided under M.G.L. c. 150E, s. SA.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this CONTRACT have caused these present to be
executed by their agents hereunto duly authorized, and their seal to be affixed hereto, as of the date
first above written:
LUNENBURG:
SCHOOL COMMITTEE
LUNENBURG PARAPROFESSIONAL
UNION, AFSCME COUNCIL 93
LOCAL 503
Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson
===PAGE 22===
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties to this CONTRACT have caused these present to be
executed by their agents hereunto duly authorized, and their seal to be affixed hereto, as of the date
first above written:
LUNENBURG:
SCHOOL COMMITTEE
LUNENBURG PARAPROFESSIONAL
UNION, AFSCME COUNCIL 93
LOCAL 503
2 го
Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson
carollachambault
Secretary
Member
Lam @ Bazaki.
Member
Date
Date
