===PAGE 1===
BlueCross
BlueShield.
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
Serving Massachusatts communities since 1982
NETWORK BLUE®
NEW ENGLAND
$500 DEDUCTIBLE
WITH HOSPITAL CHOICE COST SHARING
MIlA Town of Lunenburg
Plan-Year Deductible: $500/$1,000
3:58
TAP INTO YOUR HEALTH PLAN
MyBlue is your online member account that makes
understanding and using your health plan simple.
MYBLUE
MASSACHUSETTS
Track claims
and benefits
Find personalized
care options
View your
member ID card
Get started
Sign in or create an account today. Download the app or visit bluecrossma.org.
Where you get care can impact what you pay for care.
This health plan option includes a tiered network feature called Hospital Choice Cost Sharing.
As a member in this plan, you will pay different levels of cost share (such as copayments and/or coinsurance) for certain services depending on the network
general hospital you choose to furnish those covered services. For most network general hospitals, you will pay the lowest cost sharing level. However, if
you receive certain covered services from any of the network general hospitals listed in this Summary of Benefits, you pay the highest cost sharing level.
A network general hospital's cost sharing level may change from time to time. Overall changes to add another network general hospital to the highest cost
sharing level will happen no more than once each calendar year. For help in finding a network general hospital (not listed in this Summary of Benefits) for
which you pay the lowest cost sharing level, check the most current provider directory for your health plan option or visit the online provider search tool at
bluecrossma.org/hospitalchoice. Then click on the Planning Guide link on the left navigation to download a printable network hospital list or to access the
provider search page.
This health plan meets Minimum Creditable Coverage Standards for Massachusetts residents that
went into effect January 1, 2014, as part of the Massachusetts Health Care Reform Law.
An Association of Independent Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans
===PAGE 2===
Your Primary Care Provider (PCP)
When you enroll in this health plan, you must choose a primary care provider.
Be sure to choose a PCP who can accept you and your family members and who
participates in the network of providers in New England. For children, you may
choose a participating network pediatrician as the PCP.
For a list of participating PCPs or OB/GYN physicians, visit the Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts website at bluecrossma.org; consult Find a Doctor
at bluecrossma.com/findadoctor; or call the Member Service number on your
ID card.
If you have trouble choosing a doctor, Member Service can help. They can give
you the doctor's gender, the medical school the doctor attended, and whether
there are languages other than English spoken in the office.
Referrals
Your PCP is the first person you call when you need routine or sick care. If your
PCP decides that you need to see a specialist for covered services, your PCP will
refer you to an appropriate network specialist, who is likely affiliated with your
PCP's hospital or medical group.
You will not need prior authorization or referral to see an HMO Blue New England
network provider who specializes in OB/GYN services. Your providers may also
work with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts regarding referrals and
Utilization Review Requirements, including Pre-Admission Review, Concurrent
Review and Discharge Planning, Prior Approval for Certain Outpatient Services,
and Individual Case Management. For detailed information about Utilization
Review, see your benefit description.
Your Cost Share
This plan has two levels of hospital benefits. You will pay a higher cost share when
you receive inpatient services at or by "higher cost share hospitals," even if your
PCP refers you. See the chart for your cost share.
Higher Cost Share Hospitals
Your cost share will be higher at the hospitals listed below. Blue Cross Blue Shield
of Massachusetts will let you know if this list changes.
• Baystate Medical Center
• Boston Children's Hospital
• Brigham and Women's Hospital
• Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
• Cape Cod Hospital
• Fairview Hospital
• Massachusetts General Hospital • UMass Memorial Medical Center
All other network hospitals will carry the lower cost share, including network
hospitals outside of Massachusetts.
Note: Some of the general hospitals listed above may have facilities in more than one location.
At certain locations, the lowest cost sharing level may apply.
Your Deductible
Your deductible is the amount of money you pay out-of-pocket each plan
year before you can receive coverage for certain benefits under this plan. If
you are not sure when your plan year begins, contact Blue Cross Blue Shield
of Massachusetts. Your deductible is $500 per member (or $1,000 per family).
YOUR CARE
Your Out-of-Pocket Maximum
Your out-of-pocket maximum is the most that you could pay during a plan
year for deductible and copayments for covered services. Your out-of-pocket
maximum for medical benefits is $2,500 per member (or $5,000 per family).
Your out-of-pocket maximum for prescription drug benefits is $1,000 per
member (or $2,000 per family).
Emergency Room Services
In an emergency, such as a suspected heart attack, stroke, or poisoning,
you should go directly to the nearest medical facility or call 911 (or the local
emergency phone number). After meeting your deductible, you pay a copayment
per visit for emergency room services. This copayment is waived if you are
admitted to the hospital or for an observation stay. See the chart for your
cost share.
Telehealth Services
Telehealth services are covered when the same in-person service would be
covered by the health plan and the use of telehealth is appropriate. Your health
care provider will work with you to determine if a telehealth visit is medically
appropriate for your health care needs or if an in-person visit is required. For a list
of telehealth providers, visit the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts website
at bluecrossma.org, consult Find a Doctor, or call the Member Service number
on your ID card.
Your Virtual Care Team
Your health plan includes an option for a tech-enabled primary care delivery
model where virtual care team covered providers furnish certain covered
services. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
Value Care Offering Coverage
Your cost share may be waived for initial visits for designated in-person and
telehealth office visits for certain outpatient services. These services may
include: primary care provider office visits; mental health or substance use
treatment (including outpatient psychotherapy, patient evaluations, and
medication management visits); chiropractor services; acupuncture services;
physical and/or occupational therapy services; or services rendered by a
dietitian/nutritionist specialist. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for
exact coverage details.
Service Area
The plan's service area includes all cities and towns in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, State of Rhode Island, State of Vermont, State of Connecticut,
State of New Hampshire, and State of Maine.
When Outside the Service Area
If you are traveling outside the service area and you need urgent or emergency
care, you should go to the nearest appropriate health care facility. You are
covered for the urgent or emergency care visit and one follow-up visit while
outside the service area. Any additional follow-up care must be arranged by
your PCP. See your benefit description for more information.
Dependent Benefits
This plan covers dependents until the end of the calendar month in which
they turn age 26, regardless of their financial dependency, student status, or
employment status. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
===PAGE 3===
Covered Services
Preventive Care
Well-child care exams
Preventive dental care for children under age 12 (one visit each six months)
Routine adult physical exams, including related tests
Routine GYN exams, including related lab tests (one per calendar year)
Mental health wellness exams (at least one per calendar year)
Routine hearing exams, including routine tests
Hearing aids (up to $5,000 per ear every 36 months)
Routine vision exams (one per calendar year)
Family planning services-office visits
Outpatient Care
Emergency room visits
Office or health center visits, when performed by:
• Your PCP, OB/GYN physician, nurse midwife, limited services clinic, or by a physician assistant
or nurse practitioner designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated
as specialty care
Mental health or substance use treatment
Outpatient telehealth services
• With a covered provider
• With the designated telehealth vendor for simple medical conditions
• With the designated telehealth vendor for mental health services
Chiropractors' office visits (up to 20 visits per calendar year)
Acupuncture visits (up to 12 visits per calendar year)
Short-term rehabilitation therapy-physical and occupational
(up to 30 visits per calendar year for each type of therapy*)
Speech, hearing, and language disorder treatment-speech therapy
Diagnostic x-rays and lab tests
CT scans, MRIs, PET scans, and nuclear cardiac imaging tests
Home health care and hospice services
Oxygen and equipment for its administration
Durable medical equipment-such as wheelchairs, crutches, hospital beds
Prosthetic devices
Surgery and related anesthesia in an office or health center, when performed by:
• Your PCP, OB/GYN physician, nurse midwife, or by a physician assistant or nurse practitioner
designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as
specialty care
Surgery and related anesthesia in an ambulatory surgical facility, hospital outpatient department,
or surgical day care unit
• At other general hospitals or by other covered providers
• At or by higher cost share hospitals
Your Cost
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
All charges beyond the maximum, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
$100 per visit after deductible
(copayment waived if admitted or for an observation stay)
$20 per visit, no deductible
$45 per visit, no deductible
$15 per visit, no deductible
Same as in-person visit
$20 per visit, no deductible
$15 per visit, no deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
$45 per visit, no deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
Nothing after deductible
$100 per category per service date after deductible
Nothing after deductible
Nothing after deductible
Nothing after deductible**
Nothing after deductible
$20 per visit***, no deductible
$45 per visit***, no deductible
$150 per admission after deductible
$250 per admission after deductible
Inpatient Care (including maternity care) in:
• Other general hospitals (as many days as medically necessary)
$275 per admission after deductiblet
• Higher cost share hospitals (as many days as medically necessary)
$1500 per admission after deductiblet
Chronic disease hospital care (as many days as medically necessary)
Nothing after deductible
Mental hospital or substance use facility care (as many days as medically necessary)
$200 per admission after deductible
Rehabilitation hospital care (as many days as medically necessary)
Nothing after deductible
Skilled nursing facility care (up to 45 days per calendar year)
Nothing after deductible
No visit limit applies when short-term rehabilitation therapy is furnished as part of covered home health care or for the treatment of autism spectrum disorders or Down syndrome.
** Cost share waived for one breast pump per birth, including supplies.
*** Copayment waived for restorative dental services and orthodontic treatment or prosthetic management therapy for members under age 18 to treat conditions of cleft lip and cleft palate.
This cost share applies to mental health admissions in a general hospital.
===PAGE 4===
Covered Services
Prescription Drug Benefits*
At designated retail pharmacies
(up to a 30-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill)**
Your Cost
Through the designated mail service or designated retail pharmacy
(up to a 90-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill)**
No deductible
$10 for Tier 1
$30 for Tier 2
$65 for Tier 3
No deductible
$25 for Tier 1
$75 for Tier 2
$165 for Tier 3
Generally, Tier 1 refers to generic drugs; Tier 2 refers to preferred brand-name drugs; Tier 3 refers to non-preferred brand-name drugs.
Cost share may be waived, reduced, or increased for certain covered drugs and supplies.
Get the Most from Your Plan: Visit us at bluecrossma.org or call 1-800-782-3675 to learn about discounts, savings, resources, and special programs
available to you, like those listed below.
Wellness Participation Program
Fitness Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in qualified fitness
programs or equipment (See your benefit description for details.)
Weight Loss Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in a qualified
weight loss program (See your benefit description for details.)
Mind and Body Wellness Program
Reimbursement for participation in the Mind and Body Wellness Program
(See your benefit description for details.)
$300 per calendar year per policy
$300 per calendar year per policy
$300 per calendar year per policy
*2 24/7 Nurse Line: Speak to a registered nurse, day or night, to get immediate guidance and advice. Call 1-888-247-BLUE (2583). No additional charge.
QUESTIONS?
For questions about Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, call 1-800-782-3675,
or visit us online at bluecrossma.org.
Limitations and Exclusions. These pages summarize the benefits of your health care plan. Your benefit description and riders define the full terms and conditions in greater detail. Should any questions
arise concerning benefits, the benefit description and riders will govern. Some of the services not covered are: cosmetic surgery; custodial care; most dental care; and any services covered by workers'
compensation. For a complete list of limitations and exclusions, refer to your benefit description and riders. Note: Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc. administers claims payment only and does
not assume financial risk for claims.
*Registered Marks of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. © 2026 Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc., or Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts HMO Blue, Inc.
004706538(4/26) DD