===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
HEALTH INSURANCE OPT OUT PROGRAM GUIDELINES FOR FY 27 
 
Employees who have been enrolled in the Town of Lunenburg’s health insurance program 
for a minimum of one year, and who choose not to continue enrollment on July 1, will 
receive an opt-out payment from the Town.  Please read this form carefully, as it is 
important that you understand all the terms and conditions before submitting an 
application. 
 
Below are the main features of the Opt-Out program: 
 
➢ The program is available to active employees who are eligible for group health 
benefits through the Town of Lunenburg.  
➢ You must currently be enrolled in the Town’s health insurance program for a 
minimum of 1 year. 
➢ You must maintain credible health insurance coverage through a plan not offered 
by the Town of Lunenburg.  In other words, if both you and your spouse (or parent) 
are employed by the Town, you cannot drop your plan through the Town and enroll 
on your spouse’s (or parent’s) plan.  To be eligible for the incentive payment you 
must be off the Town’s health insurance plan completely. 
➢ The annual Opt-Out incentive payment will be: 
• Individual Coverage - $3,000 
• Family Coverage - $6,000 
• Change from a family to individual coverage - $3,000 
➢ Opt-out incentive payments will be paid at the end of the fiscal year. 
➢ The incentive payment will not be considered part of, or included in, the 
employee’s base pay, and will be subject to taxation. 
➢ You will be required to provide the Town with proof of other coverage. 
➢ Mid-year opt-outs will be pro-rated. 
➢ If there is a qualifying event in which an employee who has opted-out needs to opt-
back into the Town’s insurance, the employee will be eligible to do so as long as 
enrollment is done within 30 days of the qualifying event.  Their annual incentive 
payment will then be prorated based on the length of time they had opted-out of 
the Town’s plan. 
➢ Apart from a qualifying event, any employee who has opted-out can re-enroll in the 
Town’s health insurance during any subsequent open enrollment period. 
➢ The Town retains the right whether to continue to offer this program or not.  If the 
Town decides not to offer the program, employees will be given an opportunity to 
get back onto the Town’s health insurance plans if they choose. 
➢ In order to participate in the opt-out program, employees will be required to 
submit an application to Kimberly Gauvin, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator, 
kgauvin@lunenburgma.gov or Town Hall, first floor. 