===PAGE 1===
+.
BlueCross
BlueShield.
MIA-
Serving Massachusetts communities since 1982
SUMMARY OF BENEFITS
BLUE CARE ELECT
$500 DEDUCTIBLE
WITH HOSPITAL CHOICE COST SHARING
MIlA Town of Lunenburg
Plan-Year Deductible: $500/$1,000
3:58
TAP INTO YOUR HEALTH PLAN
MyBlue is your online member account that makes
understanding and using your health plan simple.
+V
MYBLUE
MASSACHUSETTS
Track claims
and benefits
Find personalized
care options
View your
member ID card
Get started
Sign in or create an account today. Download the app or visit bluecrossma.org.
Where you get care can impact what you pay for care.
This health plan option includes a tiered network feature called Hospital Choice Cost Sharing.
As a member in this plan, you will pay different levels of in-network cost share (such as copayments and/or coinsurance) for certain services depending
on the preferred general hospital you choose to furnish those covered services. For most preferred general hospitals, you will pay the lowest in-network
cost sharing level. However, if you receive certain covered services from any of the preferred general hospitals listed in this Summary of Benefits, you pay
the highest in-network cost sharing level. A preferred general hospital's cost sharing level may change from time to time. Overall changes to add another
preferred general hospital to the highest cost sharing level will happen no more than once each calendar year. For help in finding a preferred general hospital
(not listed in this Summary of Benefits for which you pay the lowest in-network cost sharing level, check the most current provider directory for your health
plan option or visit the online provider search tool at bluecrossma.org/hospitalchoice. Then click on the Planning Guide link on the left navigation to
download a printable network hospital list or to access the provider search page.
This health plan meets Minimum Creditable Coverage Standards for Massachusetts residents that
went into effect January 1, 2014, as part of the Massachusetts Health Care Reform Law.
An Association of Independent Blue Cross and Blue Shield Plans
===PAGE 2===
YOUR CHOICE
Your Deductible
Your deductible is the amount of money you pay out-of-pocket each plan year
before you can receive coverage for certain benefits under this plan.
If you are not sure when your plan year begins, contact Blue Cross Blue Shield
of Massachusetts. Your deductibles are $500 per member (or $1,000 per family)
for in-network services and $500 per member (or $1,000 per family) for
out-of-network services.
When You Choose Preferred Providers
You receive the highest level of benefits under your health care plan when
you obtain covered services from preferred providers. These are called your
"in-network" benefits. See the charts for your cost share.
The plan has two levels of hospital benefits for preferred providers. You will pay
a higher cost share when you receive inpatient services and outpatient day
surgery at or by "higher cost share hospitals," even if your preferred provider
refers you. See the chart for your cost share.
Note: If a preferred provider refers you to another provider for covered services (such as a lab or
specialist), make sure the provider is a preferred provider in order to receive benefits at the
in-network level. If the provider you are referred to is not a preferred provider, you are still covered,
but your benefits, in most situations, will be covered at the out-of-network level, even if the preferred
provider refers you.
Higher Cost Share Hospitals
Your cost share will be higher at the hospitals listed below. Blue Cross Blue Shield
of Massachusetts will let you know if this list changes.
• Baystate Medical Center
• Boston Children's Hospital
• Brigham and Women's Hospital
• Cape Cod Hospital
• Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
• Fairview Hospital
• Massachusetts General Hospital
• UMass Memorial Medical Center
Note: Some of the general hospitals listed above may have facilities in more than one location. At
certain locations, the lowest cost share may apply.
How to Find a Preferred Provider
To find a preferred provider:
• Look up a provider on Find a Doctor at bluecrossma.com/findadoctor. If you
need a copy of your directory or help choosing a provider, call the Member
Service number on your ID card.
• Visit the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts website at bluecrossma.org
When You Choose Non-Preferred Providers
You can also obtain covered services from non-preferred providers, but your
out-of-pocket costs are higher. These are called your "out-of-network" benefits.
See the charts for your cost share.
Payments for out-of-network benefits are based on the Blue Cross Blue Shield
allowed charge as defined in your benefit description. You may be responsible
for any difference between the allowed charge and the provider's actual billed
charge (this is in addition to your deductible and/or your coinsurance).
Your Out-of-Pocket Maximum |
Your out-of-pocket maximum is the most that you could pay during a plan
year for deductible, copayments, and coinsurance for covered services. Your
out-of-pocket maximum for medical benefits is $2,500 per member
(or $5,000 per family) for in-network and out-of-network services combined.
Your out-of-pocket maximum for prescription drug benefits is $1,000 per
member (or $2,000 per family).
In an emergency, such as a suspected heart attack, stroke, or poisoning,
you should go directly to the nearest medical tacility or call 91l (or the local
emergency phone number). After meeting your in-network deductible, you pay a
copayment per visit for in-network or out-of-network emergency room services.
The copayment is waived if you are admitted to the hospital or for an observation
stay. See the chart for your cost share.
Telehealth Services
Telehealth services are covered when the same in-person service would be
covered by the health plan and the use of telehealth is appropriate. Your health
care provider will work with you to determine if a telehealth visit is medically
appropriate for your health care needs or if an in-person visit is required. For a list
of telehealth providers, visit the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts website
at bluecrossma.org, consult Find a Doctor, or call the Member Service number
on your ID card.
Your Virtual Care Team
Your health plan includes an option for a tech-enabled primary care delivery
model where virtual care team covered providers furnish certain covered
services. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
Value Care Offering Coverage
Your cost share may be waived for initial visits for designated in-person and
telehealth office visits for certain outpatient services. These services may
include: primary care provider office visits; mental health or substance use
treatment (including outpatient psychotherapy, patient evaluations, and
medication management visits); chiropractor services; acupuncture services;
physical and/or occupational therapy services; or services rendered by a
dietitian/nutritionist specialist. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for
exact coverage details.
Utilization Review Requirements
Certain services require pre-approval/prior authorization through Blue Cross
Blue Shield of Massachusetts for you to have benefit coverage; this includes
non-emergency and non-maternity hospitalization and may include certain
outpatient services, therapies, procedures, and drugs. You should work with your
health care provider to determine if pre-approval is required for any service
your provider is suggesting. If your provider, or you, don't get pre-approval when
it's required, your benefits will be denied, and you may be fully responsible for
payment to the provider of the service. Refer to your benefit description for
requirements and the process you should follow for Utilization Review, including
Pre-Admission Review, Pre-Service Approval, Concurrent Review and Discharge
Planning, and Individual Case Management.
Dependent Benefits
This plan covers dependents until the end of the calendar month in which
they turn age 26, regardless of their financial dependency, student status, or
employment status. See your benefit description (and riders, if any) for exact
coverage details.
===PAGE 3===
Covered Services
Preventive Care
Well-child care exams, including routine tests, according to age-based schedule as follows:
• Ten visits during the first year of life
• Three visits during the second year of life (age 1 to age 2)
• Two visits for age 2
• One visit per calendar year for age 3 and older
Routine adult physical exams, including related tests (one per calendar year)
Routine GYN exams, including related lab tests (one per calendar year)
Mental health wellness exams (at least one per calendar year)
Routine hearing exams, including routine tests
Hearing aids (up to $5,000 per ear every 36 months)
Your Cost In-Network
Your Cost Out-of-Network
Nothing, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
All charges beyond the
maximum, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
Nothing, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Nothing, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
and all charges beyond the
maximum
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Routine vision exams (one per calendar year)
Family planning services-office visits
Outpatient Care
Emergency room visits
Office or health center visits, when performed by:
• A family or general practitioner, internist, OB/GYN physician, pediatrician, geriatric specialist,
nurse midwife, limited services clinic, licensed dietitian nutritionist, optometrist, or by a physician
assistant or nurse practitioner designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as
specialty care
Mental health or substance use treatment
Outpatient telehealth services
• With a covered provider
• With the in-network designated telehealth vendor for simple medical conditions
• With the in-network designated telehealth vendor for mental health services
Chiropractors' office visits (up to 20 visits per calendar year)
Acupuncture visits (up to 12 visits per calendar year)
Short-term rehabilitation therapy-physical and occupational
(up to 30 visits per calendar year for each type of therapy*)
Speech, hearing, and language disorder treatment-speech therapy
Diagnostic x-rays and lab tests
CT scans, MRIs, PET scans, and nuclear cardiac imaging tests
Home health care and hospice services
Oxygen and equipment for its administration
Durable medical equipment-such as wheelchairs, crutches, hospital beds
Prosthetic devices
Surgery and related anesthesia in an office or health center, when performed by:
• A family or general practitioner, internist, OB/GYN physician, pediatrician, geriatric specialist,
nurse midwife, or by a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as primary care
• Other covered providers, including a physician assistant or nurse practitioner designated as
specialty care
Surgery and related anesthesia in an ambulatory surgical facility, hospital outpatient department,
or surgical day care unit
• At other general hospitals or by other covered providers
• At or by in-network higher cost share hospitals
Inpatient Care (including maternity care) in:
$100 per visit after deductible
(copayment waived if admitted or for an
observation stay
$100 per visit after in-network
deductible (copayment waived if
admitted or for an observation stay
$20 per visit, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$45 per visit, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$15 per visit, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Same as in-person visit
$20 per visit, no deductible
$15 per visit, no deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
$45 per visit, no deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
Same as in-person visit
Only applicable in-network
Only applicable in-network
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$20 per visit, no deductible
Nothing after deductible
$100 per category per service date
after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Nothing after deductible
Nothing after deductible
Nothing after deductible**
Nothing after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$20 per visit***, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$45 per visit***, no deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$150 per admission after deductible
$250 per admission after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Only applicable in-network
• Other general hospitals (as many days as medically necessary)
• In-network higher cost share hospitals (as many days as medically necessary)
Chronic disease hospital care (as many days as medically necessary)
Mental hospital or substance use facility care (as many days as medically necessary)
$275 per admission after deductible 20% coinsurance after deductible
$1500 per admission after deductiblet
Only applicable in-network
Nothing after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
$200 per admission after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Rehabilitation hospital care (as many days as medically necessary)
Nothing after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
Skilled nursing facility care (up to 45 days per calendar year)
Nothing after deductible
20% coinsurance after deductible
No visit limit applies when short-term rehabilitation therapy is furnished as part of covered home health care or for the treatment of autism spectrum disorders or Down syndrome. |
**
Cost share waived for one breast pump per birth, including supplies.
*** Copayment waived for restorative dental services and orthodontic treatment or prosthetic management therapy for members under age 18 to treat conditions of cleft lip and cleft palate.
T
This cost share applies to mental health admissions in a general hospital.
===PAGE 4===
Covered Services
Prescription Drug Benefits*
At designated retail pharmacies
(up to a 30-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill**
Your Cost In-Network
Your Cost Out-of-Network
Through the designated mail service or designated retail pharmacy
(up to a 90-day formulary supply for each prescription or refill)**
No deductible
$10 for Tier 1
$30 for Tier 2
$65 for Tier 3
No deductible
$25 for Tier 1
$75 for Tier 2
$165 for Tier 3
Not covered
Not covered
Generally, Tier 1 refers to generic drugs; Tier 2 refers to preferred brand-name drugs; Tier 3 refers to non-preferred brand-name drugs.
Cost share may be waived, reduced, or increased for certain covered drugs and supplies.
Get the Most from Your Plan: Visit us at bluecrossma.org or call 1-800-782-3675 to learn about discounts, savings, resources, and special programs
available to you, like those listed below.
Wellness Participation Program
Fitness Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in qualified fitness
$300 per calendar year per policy
programs or equipment (See your benefit description for details.)
Weight Loss Reimbursement: a program that rewards participation in a qualified
$300 per calendar year per policy
weight loss program (See your benefit description for details.)
Mind and Body Wellness Program
Reimbursement for participation in the Mind and Body Wellness Program
$300 per calendar year per policy
(See your benefit description for details.)
* 24/7 Nurse Line: Speak to a registered nurse, day or night, to get immediate guidance and advice. Call 1-888-247-BLUE (2583). No additional charge.
QUESTIONS?
For questions about Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, call 1-800-782-3675,
or visit us online at bluecrossma.org.
Limitations and Exclusions. These pages summarize the benefits of your health care plan. Your benefit description and riders define the full terms and conditions in greater detail. Should any questions
arise concerning benefits, the benefit description and riders will govern. Some of the services not covered are: cosmetic surgery; custodial care; most dental care; and any services covered by worker
compensation. For a complete list of limitations and exclusions, refer to your benefit description and riders. Note: Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc. administers claims payment only and does
not assume financial risk for claims.
*Registered Marks of the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. © 2026 Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts, Inc., or Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Massachusetts HMO Blue, Inc.
004706521(4/26) JM