===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
-14
Sam)
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/14/10
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M.
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Tom Alonzo, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Meeting opened at 7:02 P.M. with
the Pledge of Allegiance
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave expressed appreciation to the Boy Scouts on their 9-11 ceremony, noted that it was both educational and a reminder for
everyone. Also noted the dedication of Kevin's Gate, it's a beautiful addition to the field area a memorable event. Senior Class had their
electronics recycling drive, expressed appreciation to all for their participation.
Ernie also acknowledged the ceremony and Kevin's Gate as this is a beautiful addition to the community.
Tom noted that that whole area is such a wonderful athletic complex.
Rebecca Lantry, member of Historical Commission clarification on the Jones House and comments within the Sentinel as it was
reported sold for $10,000 which is a total misnomer, this property will be put out to bid and it is a requirement within the bid that this
property will retain its historical significance. She is very concerned that in the timetable we set forth; and noted the maintenance that is
necessary to prevent any further damage to this historic property.
Kerry informed her that we haven't released the RFP and we were going to take the recommendations from the Historical Commission.
Dave noted that Town Meeting needs to approve the sale of that property.
Kerry had our facilities director investigate necessary repairs and has a cost estimate of $1200 to make a repair to the porch roof where
it ties into the house. Tenant had agreed to make that repair last year, which wasn't done and we were not notified of this until a
conversation was had with a member of the board, noted that this particular repair is taking place.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. State Reps candidate's debate hosted by the Lunenburg Civic Forum, on Monday Sept 27M@7:00 pm, Town Hall.
Cultural Council is also seeking funding opportunities, receipt of applications is open until October 15t for cultural events in Lunenburg,
email Pete McCarron at WWW.mass.culture.org/mcc/public or call.
Poles are open tonight until 8:00 PM
Yard Waste Days, October 16' to November 20th at closed Landfill, Youngs Road.
Saturday October 23d, Recycle Your Reusables event at Ayer High School.
APPOINTMENTS
1. One Day Beer & Wine License for Library's Oktoberfest Event - Carolyn Sabol, and Jean Cooke Friends of the Library, for a
beer and wine tasting to raise funds for the endowment fund for the Library on October 23d from 7:00 - 9:00 PM. Elena's will be
participating as well, cost will be $20 per person ahead of time and $25 at the door. There are about 20 local artists who have
designed serving trays and these will be auctioned off as part of the event.
Ernie move to approve the one day license, Tom seconded voted unanimously.
2. Trish Domigan, P.E., VHB Engineerng (Summer Street Project) - To date all of Trish's services have been donated, free of
charge and we are at a point where the board needs to determine whether we'll be contributing towards the design.
Trish has been working with Jack Rodriquenz and Kerry for over a year now and the town has applied for DOT Construction which the
project was approved. At this point funding for design services is currently not available. 6.3 Million dollar construction cost per the
estimates. They have met as well with the Cities of Fitchburg and Leominster for their visions. Reviewed the attached plan. City of
Fitchburg has requested a median, which will also be considered for Lunenburg, as well as the installation of sidewalks on the
residential side of the roadway. Trish commented on the drastic land use from residential to industrial to retail and could demark the
areas by installing "Gateways" such as Welcome to Lunenburg on one side, Welcome to Fitchburg on the other with landscaping
Paula questioned what the costs would be for the design and Trish referred to the attached proposal which was based upon the
construction cost estimate. She would recommend looking at what an alternative proposal would cost and then moving ahead.
Discussed stormwater treatment and what are the ideas. The recommendation would be curbing with a defined gutter along the
roadway, with a completely closed drainage system that would drain into some type of retention before draining into Baker Brook. The
cost for this is calculated into the proposal, the detention cost is the excavating in itself and the landscape design. As we are reducing
the pavement, which is an impervious service and could actually collect the drain off within the grassed areas, the logical area for a
detention would be near Baker Brook. Permit for this would be going to the local Conservation Commission and they are working with
DEP on infiltration measures and various options.
===PAGE 2===
Inasmuch as we have major developments going in down this section of town, Ernie questioned whether they've looked at traffic
signalization. This will be investigated as part of the whole traffic analysis.
Tom questioned what we need to do so that we can time this with the neighboring communities and their willingness to move forward
as well. Per Trish, would need to vote to move ahead to secure this project any further, as far as support from neighboring
communities, met with Mayor of Fitchburg and she is in favor. The design could be phased in so that you could fund over a number of
years and not all at once.
Tom noted that at a price tag of 6.3 million dollars, there is no way without funding opportunities that this will move forward. We need to
look forward to fixing this road and need to get this started.
Altematives analysis would take all the existing data, traffic counts, land use and information from town on whether a two lane roadway,
linear park on one side, many options that could develop if they wanted to. VHB could provide models to see which option fits best for
the town. Cost is included in the proposal, but it would be taking this component out and doing this separately. Memorandum of
Understanding is Trish's recommendation in moving forward between the three communities.
Steve's concern is about the costs to Lunenburg with the split as the bulk of the share is in Lunenburg. The $460K seems like we're
taking the lion's share and noted that we're down hill from Leominster. Per Trish the cost was based upon how much construction was
in each town, the linear foot in each community and the construction costs.
Trish also met with MRPC to discuss the TIP for this region and this project is very substantial for their target and would want to put it in
a TIP where there are funding opportunities, also may be another round of stimulus funding. MRPC Tip is for five years and from a
needs perspective this project ranks 6 out of 24 but even though, this project is dependant upon project readiness.
Kerry believes we have a unique opportunity to fund some of this, as you know we've received funds for the Tri Town project and her
recommendation would be to use some of these funds as they will be the area most impacted.
Paula concurred that using these funds is appropriate expenditure and would support placing this on town meeting warrant to move
forward. Board concurred and stressed the need to get an agreement in place between the communities.
3. Mark Mitsch, Weston & Sampson, Lake Shirley EAP& O&M Manual - Operations Mtc. and draft operations plan were provided
electronically. Provided the update for the EAP which was originally written by Dubois & King. Most of the updates are simply making
sure that we have the right contact notifications, phone numbers etc. Flood inundation map is still appropriate and is perfectly fine.
Advice is to take ownership of the document, the right people must be responsible for the dam and understand what is within this
document.
Three items that we need input on and will be coming from the Town of Shirley, Fire Chief, Dennis Levesque as the flook inundation
area is all within the Town of Shirley. Also, need local evacuation procedures from Shirley and information related to their portion of the
emergency notification checklist. All the evacuation procedures are completely out of Lunenburg's hands. Paula's biggest issue with
the emergency action plan has been the absence of this information and here we are three years later and still waiting for that
information. Per Mark, their scope of work was to update the plan for Lunenburg, which is what they did, reveiwed the document in its
entirety and specific things that have been done, and this is why he encourages the town to take ownership of the plan. Paula would
like to understand what the scope of services were as she is still seeing a huge hole, the lack of information from the Town of Shirley.
Mark stated the you don't want to pay a consultant to go online to get a listing of the abutters. What you've paid for was the review and
updating the information which we've done. Now have a complete listing of the equipment that is available. Paula noted that she still
sees a big hole on the equipment list as the only items listed are from the Lunenburg Water District and when she had done a report for
the Hickory Hills Lake Association and she was able to get this information from the DPW, the Fire Department and Emergency
Services.
Per Mark with the incorporation of the missing data within the document meets the state requirements and you don't want to pay
consultant services to obtain this information. As the plan has not been finalized, no inspections have been conducted as of yet. We
were assured that Dennis was working on getting this information to us.
Kerry questioned is it fair to expect the Shirley Fire Chief to put this information together or should we just put this together and per
Mark, it should be in collaboration with the Shirley Fire Chief.
Paula expected more would have been done as this is really a reprint of the Dubois & King report. Acknowledged that they have done
the operations maintenance plan and other than that, don't see any other changes that were done and wants to go back to the Scope
of Services to review what was done. Would have expected that at least at a minimum there would have been a letter requesting this
information as we are attempting to gather this information.
Tom would like to think that there is something in the state that we can go back on and per Paula there is nothing in the regulations
only that the owners of the dam are required to include a list of property owners downstream and we have a responsibility to at least
put this request in writing.
Emie would like to see who is the responsible department for this, is it the DPW or the Board of Selectmen. Questioned who the dam
keepers report to and who are they dealing with, noted that this should be on the document. Also, section 5 and 5.6 of the Operations
Maintenance Plan. Believe that this falls into place with the Emergency Action Plan and this should be included so that we meet the
obligation of notifying the Emergency personnel.
Per Mark under the monitoring section we could refer to the Emergency Action Plan.
===PAGE 3===
Kerry pointed out that as the EAP was not fumished electronically, she was not expecting to have this level of discussion here tonight
as not all members have seen the EAP, she will forward to board members.
Mark discussed the Emergency Maintenance Plan and the process of dropping the water level and the time frames associated with
draw downs. Steve noted that we also notify the Shirley Conservation Commission which is a requirement of the Order of Conditions.
Mark stated that this language is within the document and added visual references, guidelines to go by. Paula questioned if these
actions are being done and per Mark to date this information is being done and is kept within the gatehouse. Paula would like to see
as owners that we are able to keep this information and would like to see under section 5.6 "maintain all records". Section 5
maintenance plan and where we are with maintenance and the recommendations made in the plan. We need to have an inhouse
discussion as maintenance is an ongoing situation with regards to the crackling and spawling within the dam. It makes sense to clean
off the broken concrete and patch, don't want to see the metal exposed and begin to rust.
Tom would recommend that the Order of Conditions be incorporated into the Operations and Maintenance Plan.
Dave noted the repairs that need to be done, specifically we need to identify these costs and address so that we're not talking about
this in three years. Many of the issues need to be addressed in house.
Kerry and Jack have heard loud and clear and there are maintenance funds within the budget and this will be addressed this year. As
far as trees on private property; they need to go, need to check on whether an easement exists with these property owners.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Community Wish List - Dawn Proctor and Dawn Johnson have suggested putting together a wish list on projects that
departments would like to have done. One example is painting bleachers for the Park Department, would like to get the input from the
board so that we can get this out to the departments. Ernie suggested a garden taken care of and maybe in return we can
acknowledge who has been taken on some projects with small sponsor signs. Paula noted that she personally is not opposed, but
recalled that a number of years ago this was extremely controversial. Tom motion to approve forwarding requests to departments,
passed unanimously.
2. Minutes - None
Warrants - #13 11, 9/8/10 - $123,685.33, #6P 11, 9/16/10 - $620,201.73 and #12 11, 9/7/10 -$180,180.35 reviewed and signed
Action File Issues - None
3. Committee Updates -
• Dave attended regionalization committee meeting last night and the Superintendent's presented proposed budgets. The final
anaylisis is there would be more spending on the Lunenburg side, noted legacy costs and that this is the first draft, interesting
beginning to the process. Confirmed that the numbers that Loxi has been using have been working directly with the Town
Manager. Per Kerry that question has been asked and is difficult to answer as yes, there is some reduction in workload but we
still have to have positions to support the remaining organizations; we still need payroll, accounts payable etc. Won't think that
all those funds necessarily go to the regionalization. There have been many conversations on this and most of the information
has been taken right off of the Schedule 19 which is an annual report to the State. No decision as of yet as to when it will
come to a vote.
> Questioned the status of the Computer Advisory Committee and per Kerry the Technology Director has been running ragged
• and almost all of her time has been utilized in addressing school related issues. Dave noted that the intent with appointing
more computer oriented volunteers would assist her in lightening the workload.
• Dave questioned the "new" fire vehicle and noted that it used to be a policy in town that we didn't add to the fleet and per
Kerry it is not a new vehicle, it is an old cruiser that was transferred down. Dave's concen is that adding to the fleet is causes
increases in maintenance and it seems that we're undermining items upstream. He would like an update as once we go down
that road we're going to have to start building more buildings.
• Steve noted that the DPW Building Committee has finalized the RFP for design services and a pre-bid conference is sheduled
for September 20'@4:30 PM. Paula noted that the committee was only appointed about a month ago and they have really
moved ahead with this.
• Paula Planning Board update on subsidizing housing inventory currently at 3.66 and will be meeting September 20t
t, which
will be a workshop to address the goals for Master Planning. Will be looking at the zoning of the community as well as the
• Tom questioned Number 2 on the ballot and how this would effect the Eagle Heights Project, would like to get some input from
Mr. Juhl. Kerry spoke with the Townsend Town Administrator and was informed about friendly 40B's, this is something that
perhaps Mr. Juhl could pursue the approval process as it comes before the Board of Selectmen. Could also look at an overlay
district which Paula noted that this was discussed at the Planning Board last night and whether it would be allowed as an
overlay district.
===PAGE 4===
• Tom had the first conference cali on the Mass Broadband and they are designing the area that is designated as unserved or
underserved. Noted that we were told that this was going to run down 2A and the map that he had was showing them going
down Leominster Road. They will be reviewing to ensure that the maps they have are correct or not and will be analyzing the
poles and the whole infrastructure. Slated to be done by 2013; and will be connecting municipal buildings, residential and
businesses. North Central and Western Massachusetts have not been addressed and the goal is 95% of the residential
population will be within ½ mile for access to broadband.
Ernie attended PACC meeting last night and reviewed Article 12 of the General bylaws; noted that it would behoove us to
change some of the language in the bylaw as it is very specific of the meeting time and date, which restricts the committee
from having meetings at any other town office, such as town hall. Few other items; term limits with one year hiatus, wanted to
look at changing that as it's difficult to get volunteers. Also, there is nothing in Article 12 about expenditure of funds and who is
responsible, who authorizes. There is no mention on how this may proceed. They are looking forward to hiring a coordinator
soon and this would facilitate the increase in programming. Desire to utilize the old Board of Health offices and Building
Inspector's office (Town Hall) for space for the coordinator. Paula spoke with the Town Manager about possible options as the
Town Hall areas have been determined to house town departments and as such the Town Manager is going to be
investigating other options.
4. Department Updates - None
5. Manager Updates -
• Recently went out to bid for salt; mentioned previously that the cost of salt has increased 25%, last year the bid $64.12 per ton
and this year we received bids for $48.56 per ton. We're working with the Shrewsbury consortium and the reason we purchase
so much in the beginning of the year is because there were years where salt was scarce and we have an area to store the
material.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Ch.44, S3B Budget Transfer, FY2010 (correction) - End of Fiscal Year Town Accountant brought to you the adjustments for FY10
and this was omitted, Tom motion to approve, voted unanimously.
2. Schedule Special Town Meeting - Per attached scenario and potential articles Kerry's preference would be 11/16/10. As Steve
voiced concern on whether we would have free cash certified in time, he motioned to set town meeting for November 30, approved
unanimously.
3. Town Manager's Annual Goals - remove investigate regionalizing services with other towns where applicable under goal #2 and
provide organizational chart of all departments (exc.school) w/job descriptions & salary qualifications under goal #4.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 21, October 5, October 12 and October 19.
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 10.24 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 5===
TENTATIVE DATE:
Advertise per Charter Section 2-7(c)
Warrant open
Warrant closed @
CAFO/Selectmen/Finance Committee/
Town Counsel review Articles.
FinCom, Board of Selectmen submit
recommendations on Articles.
Selectmen set sequence of Articles.
Warrants Printed
Five Copies of Warrant for
Selectmen's signatures. Once signed,
forward to Town Clerk for posting Must
be posted at least 14 days before meeting
(no later than 11/17/09)
Warrants Posted and Mailed to Residents
No later than:
Prepare Motion Sheet (week of)
Town Meeting
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING
Tuesday - 7:00 P.M.
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM
(auditorium is currently available on all these dates)
SCHEDULE SCENARIO'S
11/9/10
9/24/10
11/16/10
10/1/10
can be opened anytime from da
scheduled
10/ 4/10
10/11/10
week of / through
Thurs
1075/1024074510
week of / through
Mon
Thurs
10/12/10 - 10/21/10
10/12/10
- 10/15/10
1.0/22 - 10/29
10/15 - 10/22
10/19/10
10/26/10 (not usual Bos mtg)
10/19/10-
10/25/10,
0/31/10
11/ 9/10
11/1/10
11/7/10
11/16/10
1: laura PROJECTS ST November 2010 Schedule doc
11/30/10
10/ 8/10
10/18/10
week of / through
Mon
Thurs
10/18/10 - 11/ 4/10
11/5 - 11/12
11/ 9/10
11/15/10
11/21/10
11/30/10
===PAGE 6===
Summer Street Transportation Improvements
Leominster, Lunenburg, Fitchburg, Massachusetts
Define Curb Cuts
and Driveway widths
nstall Granite Curbing
Improve Intersection
Geometry at Youngs Road
Install Trees
Along Roadway Edge
CUNENBUESE
Reconstruct Pavement
Maintain Existing Width
Reduce curb, cuts ands
Driveway Withs and.
Install Granite Curb
and Bike Lanes
FITCHBURG,
Corridor Length:
8,565 Feet,
Improve
Intersection Geometry at
Whalom Road:
Upgrade Antiquated
Drainage System *
throughout Corridor.
* Reduce 602 Pavement Width:
Reconstruct Pavement
Construct Center Turn Lane
Sidewalks and Bike Lanes
Create Gatewayto
Commercial/Industrial Area
moroveti
Intersection Geometry
at Graham Streeti
VHE
Vanasse Hangen Brustlin, Inc.
• 20 Rehabilitation CP/Overla
in Existine W
PROJECT LIMIT
