===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
AUG 0 4 2010
WORK SESSION MINUTES
LUNENBURG TOWN
7/13/10
The Board OfFerimen Fret SEne Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M.
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Tom Alonzo, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Meeting opened at 6:08 P.M.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. FY'2011 Town Manager Goals - as attached.
Goal #1 - Website - committee has been established and meeting with the top three vendors that provide website hosting on Friday.
Virtual Town Hall, E-Gov link, and QScend. Virtual Town Hall and EGov are the two that are widely used within Massachusetts and
prices are similar. Requested comments from department heads with regards to what they would like to see on the website. Will
discuss standarization of website etc.
Ernie will provide a link for the committee to review, which provides service to a Florida website, which he finds easy to navigate.
Kerry noted that the school department is satisfied with the functionality that is provided by School Center, the current web hosting site.
Board discussed the various web hosting vendors for municipalities within the state.
Tom would like to have the website in-house so that we can build upon it before going live. Paula noted that we need to formulate the
policies with regards to procedures in posting, to which Kerry noted that you should have one person that makes the decision as to
what is placed upon the website.
Goal #2 - Departmental Metrics - Tom commented on the aspect of regionalizing services and what does this effect as it's been on for
several years. Kerry questioned what the boards goal would be, suggested a report as in Perform Operational Review and Analysis to
the Board as an example. Paula would like to understand what areas that Kerry would like to look at for consolidation or increase in
hours, funding, etc., Kerry discussed the fact that it's not static, noted the changes which will be occurring within the school department
in the areas of human resources, accounts payable, and payroll. Paula noted that item #1 ties into #2 and understands that it's all fluid
would expect that the manager have conversations and document the recommendations on changing processes, whether increasing
employees, increasing funding and/or outsourcing. Dave noted that when you've done something the same way over years, it's very
difficult to introduce change. Implementing some sort of reporting requirement and developing the framework should be part of the
metrics for all of the departments. Project plan timelines, department heads are writing the plan and providing the data to the Town
Manager, goals etc., whether they were met on time, why/why not etc. Kerry noted that we do have a ticket system for workorders etc.,
"school dude",
", which is currently being utilized by the IT department but not sure as to what extent the DPW has been using. Noted the
difference between getting a task done and the goals that you want to see done; the over and above. Paula would want to see a
system by which you could measure the day to day operations, then there are goals and objectives for each department and how they'll
be reached and the specific projects that come up and change. Needs to be a project planning component as well.
Dave would like to know that Kerry has gone through every department to understand how they operate and if it makes sense.
Ernie suggested a standardized agenda form that could be used throughout the year, would be repetitive but would give some idea as
to the time frame and actions to be taken.
Kerry questioned how specific the information the board would like to know about. Paula would like the general desciptions that the
departments performs, the number of personnel, plans and objectives, timelines and recommendations based upon evaluating the
general operation such as areas that could be improved or left as it is. If a task is given that a timeline is established for the department
needs to report to the manager of the progress of that plan. Steve's concern in the staffing and whether we're now asking them to
perform more tasks than they're able to. Dave's concern is that he's heard comments of alleged abuse of department performance and
some sort of accountability would enable the board to understand the operations. Tom would expect that the Town Manager meet with
the department head to understand what the goals are for the department and that they been evaluated. Discussed that every
department will be different and Town Manager may also have some, which would be different than the department head.
Paula noted that she would like to see this implemented across the board to include the smaller departments, i.e.; Planning Board, as
well as the larger ones such as DPW, School, Police and Fire.
Goal #3 - Miscellaneous Ongoing Project Reports - Provide Quarterly Status of All Ongoing Legal Issues should be ongoing and not
necessarily as a goal. Questioned the quarterly newletter as a goal and Kerry noted that legally the Tax Collector can only put in a one
page insert with the tax payer. Office may have a copy of one done previously and would look at this being done bi-annually.
Goal #4 - Personnel Matters - Kerry will provide the board with a list of employees who by law are allowed to have a contract and
those that aren't will be incorporated under the Salary Administration Plan. Would like to have all employees not eligible to be under the
Salary Admin Plan and when their current contracts expire this will be accomplished. Items 5 & 6; Consider Personnel Training for
Effective Customer Service and Consider & Recommend Employee Retreat/Seminar for Team Building to be removed from Goal #4.
===PAGE 2===
Under item #7 Conduct Annual Performance Evaluations, should also look at including this language within the union contracts and not
to be used as a bargaining issue. Tom would like to have a department head evaluation of their employees even though it's not
discussed with the employee. Paula noted that if problems are identified within department personnel; wants to have documentation.
Per Kerry, this is how much of the performance evaluation is currently being done; it's in the negative and if there are performance
issues they are documented. The way the contracts are written, if you're moving through steps you're no longer eligible for merit, this
language has been eliminated.
Tom would like to have an employee evaluation, and if they want to be part of the process fine, but we need to have a record of
performance evaluations, how the employee is doing.
Kerry will check with labor counsel as to the legality, particularly if the evaluation doesn't have an impact on their compensation. Kerry
noted that there's difference between work rules and performance rating
Tom noted the need for continuity, and that the town has experienced a number of turn arounds in Kerry's position and this would be
better for new department heads to clearly understand department issues.
Kerry noted that she has those things and questioned what it is that the board is looking for, as she has this information. Is it critical
component, noted that department head evaluations do need to be done. Evaluations are different in a union environment, referred to
the clerical and that it was tied to the merit, which didn't work. You can evaluate union employees but has to be part of their contract.
Kerry will work with union negotiations to incorporate this into their contracts.
Paula would like to add back in the five year financial plan and per Tom the charter requires it, so it doesn't need to be incorporated
into the goals.
2. PAYT Program - Kerry not ready to make a final recommendation at this time as she is still attempting to get a better idea as to
the number of bags and has asked DPW to identify what is out there as of June 30%. Noted that she met with Waste Management and
discussed some of the methods used by other municipalities to realize a cost savings and an actual count as to number of users.
Some communities assume 100% participation and allow residents the opportunity to "opt out" of the program. Noted that three years
ago vendors were charging about $60/month and now we're hearing that they're charging less per month and the only way we'll be
able to determine is by the number that are participating. This is one main item that the town and Waste Management need to get a
clear understanding. on. Currently Kerry is not ready to propose to raise the fees, noted that the contract expires June 2011 and we're
looking at ways to make the program more attractive to get more of the property owners involved.
Kerry informed the board of the solar powered trash compactors and recycle containers, which are made to be placed in public places.
Will hold about five times the amount of a regular container. Kerry would like to ask Emerald Place to purchase a couple of these to
Place with regards to the maintenance of the esplanade. Board would like to pursue this.
3. Town Hall Renovation - Kerry presented a draft renovation plan for the board to review. She has presented to all the
departments in Town Hall and all have basically agreed to the plan. Biggest issues that we're trying to address are giving adequate
privacy, work space. Tried to accomplish when we moved people over to the Ritter, keeping people who work in close proximity to one
another together. The plan that was taken to town meeting was a draft and didn't quite meeting the people's (employee's) needs.
Would be looking to the Sheriffs department for some painting and minor carpentry, also Monty Tech (may have scheduling issues);
have a person willing to donate carpeting, our plumbing and electrical inspector's would be doing the work on an hourly basis. Steve
noted heating / cooling issues and the difficulty that would be experienced in scheduling the work with employees in the building. Kerry
still needs to take this back to Pat Slattery to see if it's going to work and if so, pricing the project out. Only concerns are the
workspaces for the school accounts payable position and the stage area on the second floor.
Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular and Executive Session for 7/6/10 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #1 W/P 10, 6/30/10 - $152,532.09 reviewed and signed, Paula questioned an invoice (Sani-tank) for piping project in
Whalom and if the issue is the work on the rotary was "mitigation requirements", #70317 & 70299. Why are we paying for any
component if it's related to Emerald Place. Kerry will look into this and respond to the board.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 20, 2010 Business Session
August 3, 2010 Business Session
August 5, 2010 Work Session (tentative)
August 10, 2010 Work Session
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Work Session at 8:24 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 3===
Goal # 1: Website
Objective
Chief Administrative & Financial Officer's Goal Progress Sheet
Date: 7/13/2009
Completed
Substantive
Progress
No
Progress
Comments
Independent Website Committee
Examine, Analyze & Recommend
a Municipal Website Package
Develop Plan to Standardize
Town Website
Decentralize Content
Management
Conformity to State Guidelines
(i.e. lunenburg.ma.us.gov)
Organization of Website: Minutes,
budgets, forms, zoning/general by-
laws on line
Procedures for Training
| Policies & Guidelines
===PAGE 4===
Chief Administrative & Financial Officer's Goal Progress Sheet
Goal # 2 Departmental Metrics
Objective
Completed
Substantive
Progress
No
Progress
Date: 7/13/2009
Comments
Perform Operational Review and
Analysis
Establish Method of Metrics upon which
to Measure Department Performance
Investigate Regionalizing Services with
other Towns where applicable
Incorporate "Performance-Based"
Budgeting where possible
===PAGE 5===
Chief Administrative & Financial Officer's Goal Progress Sheet
Goal # 3: Miscellaneous Ongoing Project Reports
Date: 7/13/2009
Objective
Completed
Substantive
Progress
No
Progress
Comments
Provide Quarterly Status of All
Ongoing Legal Issues (summary)
Develop Project Plans for All
Projects Including "next steps"
Provide Periodic Reports on
Ongoing Town Projects
[Reinstate "Citizen Newsletter" to
be distributed w/Tax Bills
Investigate Outsourcing
Opportunities
===PAGE 6===
Chief Administrative & Financial Officer's Goal Progress Sheet
Date: 7/13/2009
Goal # 4: Personnel Matters
Objective
Revise Salaries &
Admin.Plan
w/Personnel Board
Completed
Substantive No
Progress
Progress
Comments
Evaluate Personnel
Board Need
Provide Organizational
Chart of all Town Depts.
(exc.school) w/Job
Descriptions & Salary
Qualifications
Full Review of Contract
Language
Consider Personnet
Training for Effective-
Customer Service
Consider &
Recommend Employee-
Retreat/Seminar for
Team-Building
Conduct Annual
Performance
Evaluations
