===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
11/9/10
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M.
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Tom Alonzo, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with
the Pledge of Allegiance
PUBLIC COMMENT
Polls remain open until 8:00 PM at the TC Passios Elementary School.
Dave expressed appreciation to the school for the Homecoming activities and everyone involved.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Yard Waste Days, October 16" to November 20" at closed Landfill, Youngs Road.
2. Lions Club also has requested that they conduct their roadblock from 9:00 am to 2:00 pm on November 13t. This will be placed on
the agenda for next week.
3. Ernie would like to invite any and all Veteran's to the Board of Selectmen meeting next week to lead the board in the Pledge of
Allegiance commemorating Veteran's Day, November 11, 2010.
APPOINTMENTS
1. 7:30 PM Public Hearing on CDBG Grant [Eagle House Parking Lot & Housing Rehabilitation - Public Hearing opened per the
following notice:
The Town of Lunenburg Board of Selectmen will hold a Public Hearing on Tuesday, November 2, 2010 at 7:30 p.m. in the Selectmen's
Meeting Room at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462 to solicit citizen comments and input on the
following Community Development Block Grant activities:
• FY 11 Grant Application which may include a Single, Joint or Regional Housing Rehabilitation program,
Infrastructure project, Public Social Service program, and other grant eligible projects
• Community Development Strategy
• Target Area and Bonus Points
•.. Any other grant related issues
Any person or organization wishing to participate or provide comment is strongly encouraged to attend or contact the Board of
Selectmen. Lunenburg Board of Selectmen, Paula Bertram, Chairman
Shelly Hatch from MRPC was present and informed the board of the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) FY11 Application
process, grant will be submitted by December 10, 2010.
This year's CDBG applications are due at DHCD on Friday, December 10, 2010. The Town of Lunenburg will be applying on their own;
instead of being part of a joint or regional application. Once the applications are submitted in December, the Department of Housing
and Community Development (DHCD) reviews them and decisions are scheduled to be announced in éarly April. Within a few weeks
after the announcements are made, the Town will sign a contract with the state, an environmental review will be conducted, and
program funds can start being used around the first of June.
There are several points need be to discuss tonight in regards to the new application: the target area requirement, bonus points which
consist of integrated projects and complementary project funds, and the community development strategy. Also again in this year's
application, the Town needs to hold a public forum, which is similar to holding a small Charrette or visioning session. This year, due to
the change in the application deadline, DHCD has decreased the requirement of holding the public forum two (2) months prior to the
application deadline down to one (1) month prior to the December 10thj submittal date. One public forum 'as held in late August during
the day at the Senior Center and the Town held a second forum in the evening on October 5th The participants at the first forum
recommend that the BOS pursue the housing rehabilitation program again along with construction funding for a new parking lot at the
Eagle House.
Target Area: HUD is looking to see an impact from the CDBG funds within the target area, which means the town needs to choose one
area based on a census track/block or a geographical area. Because the town is reapplying for the Senior Center Parking Lot project,
the target area has to be the census area where the existing senior center is located, which is Census Block Group 712 101-2. This
requirement is now a threshold question. Previously you could get bonus points for having a target area but now it is a threshold. If you
don't meet this threshold your application will not be reviewed
Bonus Points: There are 10 additional points that may be awarded to your application in two different ar RECEIVED & FILED
1) 5 points for having integrated projects, and
2) 5 points for showing complimentary projects within the target area.
NOV 1 5 2010
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
The senior center will also be contacting residents within the target area to see if any need assistance on the housing rehab
component. Applications are available at the Town Hall and the Senior Center, per Shelly they have received 7 pre-applications but
really need to have 20 as we need to show that there is a need. Renovations of the Town Hall may be considered complimentary
improvements and Shelly will review this with DHCD. Doreen noted that an additional item would be the installation of a stairway from
the existing parking lot to the Senior Center. Also, may be able to adapt some of the playground equipment, to more "fitness
equipment". Lion's Club addition of a basketball court at the Teen Center, Veteran's Memorial area has received improvements as well
as improvements to the Lakefront Ave. area.
Per Shelly, the Town also may be able to use some chapter 90 projects that have been completed, will need to review these as well
with DHCD. She noted that applicants must be income eligible in order to be eligible for the program which is to address any health and
safety issues up to $35,000, with no monthly payments, no interest. MRC will only place a lien on the property for a period of 15 years
and if the property owner stays in the home, they would owe nothing, only when the property is sold during that term they would have
to pay 50%. There is no age requirement only the income requirement so anyone who meets the income criteria would be eligible. If
the property owner passes away and as long as the family retains the title, they do not have to reimburse. Only if they change title
before the 15 year term, will they have to reimburse. Board will need to provide a support letter, as will the Board of Health, the Building
Inspector and senior's in general to show their support as residents who will be using these projects to support it. As the application is
due December 10th, the board voted unanimously to continue the public hearing to December 7ih to finalize the documents.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request from Salvation Army for Voluntary Road Block - Captain Mark Hager, Salvation Army Corps Commanding Officer was
present with Dave MacDonald of 155 Island Road, also a member of the Salvation Army Advisory Committee. Captain Hager submitted
a request holding a boot drive on the corners of. Whalom Road and Mass Ave. and in the center of town on November 27' from 9:00
am to 3:00 pm, as their Kettle Campaign Kick Off will be on November 11th. All monies collected from these events are put back into
meeting community needs, i.e., clothing, food pantry, fuel assistance and disaster services. Latest program is a bridging the gap
program to assist the youth of the community in ways to deal with stresses that they may be going through. Will be dressed in
reflective gear and have traffic cones. Noted that the Salvation Army's phone number is 978-342-3300 for anyone who may need
assistance: Tom motion to approve, Steve seconded, voted unanimously.
2. Contract for Municipal Aggregation Consultant - Kerry informed the board that we've gone through the process of issuing a
RFP and we received on one response for someone to serve as a consultant to assist the town in preparing bid documents for
Municipal Aggregation. Mark Cappadona was present from Colonial Power Group (CPG).
Paula questioned section 3.4 of the proposal and would like to understand CPG role and the town's role. Per Mark, CPG will be
working with the suppliers as will the town and you'll let us know that this would be agreeable to you and once determined then we
would work to execute a contract. The contract would be between the Supplier and the Town and CPG would work to ensure that the
terms of the contract are correct.
Ernie questioned the postage and mailing costs and methods of delivering the information and those that do not have access to either
cable of web. Per Mark with the DPU, to the average consumer we could have the form, the quarterly breakdown available at the town
hall. A mailing would increase the rate and is a necessary evil today, the information is too technical for the average consumer and
could be available in town hall. If the request were to come in then they could receive this information in the mail.
Tom questioned how CPG would receive payment and per Mark it would be through the supplier the .001/per Kwh charge by those
people who are in the program.
Paula questioned the town's role in the negotiation component, how does the process work. Mark explained the process on going back
and forth with the supplier; could ask the various terms etc., and have them (supplier) provide this information to the town. People
would have some input as to the term and what the output is. Per Kerry, the town has a consultant and he gives us a term, usually it's
been from 12 to 18 months. The Opt-out process is provided to consumer via a direct mailing and they could sign the form to come out
of the plan, if they do nothing, they would be in the program. Just bringing more choice, if they want to opt out, the consumer could also
place a phone call and within two days, they should be opted out, at any time if they so choose.
Ernie would like to question Mr. DiNapoli Municipal and Community Services from Unitil and informed the board that this an opportunity
for the town to move forward to aggregate as many times a year as the Town chooses. They are more than happy to assist the town,
as they are a distributor as this makes the town more competitive.
Tom move to approve the contract with Colonial Power, Ernie seconded, voted unanimously.
3. Contracts
a) Town Manager - Paula informed the public that the Board of Selectmen has signed a contract with the Town Manager for 3
years @ 2% increase, Ms. Speidel has been an asset to this town and pleased to announce that they've settled on a contract.
Kerry will receive:
1. 3-year term
2.2% salary increase per year.
3. Increase maximum accumulation of sick leave from 60 to 90 days
4. Increase severance pay by 1 month each year, for a total of 6 months in the final year of the contract
===PAGE 3===
5 1.5% performance bonus if score of 150 or higher is achieved on the composite evaluation
b) Town Accountant - wage reopener, Board of Selectmen voted unanimously to approve a 3% increase for this year as she has
did not receive an the previous year.
4. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 9/7/10 & 9/14/10 and Executive Session for 9/7/10 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #9 mb 11, 10/28/10 - $812.50, #24 11, 11/2/10 - $284,098.18 and #23 11, 11/3/10 - $306,719.64 reviewed and signed
Action File Issues - None
5. Committee Updates -
• Tom - teleconference with Mass Broadband Institute and they apprise of the the progress of the project. Have sent a letter to
the community Historical Commission and are requesting information on any historical structures. Will be doing the building
survey project and will be informed when they anticipate conducting, will keep town and schools apprised of when he recieves
notice. Also, mapping notification project and will work with either Comcast or the Towns Cable Committee to determine how
much coverage they will have.
• Dave - Finance Committee met last week and discussed articles on the Special Town Meeting Warrant and the Financial
Forecast.
• Paula - October 27% we had the first Chairs meeting, hopefully will be expanding. Kept meeting to slightly over two hours and
next meeting scheduled for December 8th at 6:15 pm, at the Ritter Building. Present: George Emond, BOH; Toby Bakaysa,
Planning Board; Bob Ebersole, Sewer; Don Bowen, ZBA; Rob Verge, Conservation; Paula Bertram, Selectmen, Kerry Speidel,
Town Manager. Discussed a number of issues:
1.
Toby indicated that the Planning Board is working on Master Plan, information and input from various departments/boards will
be needed. Questioned Status of Open Space Plan, Rob. Verge indicated plan is in final phases Sharon Jordan new member
is working on it with Brian Kibbe of Division of Fish and Wildlife.
2. GIS discussion - Sewer Department is looking to incorporate a GIS component into their system to identify sewer locations
and associated data. Much discussion regarding need of communication amongst departments and a central location for
data. Plan of Action:
a. Meeting with Assessors Department to determine what components of a GIS system have already been purchased
•. Circuits sure al on Department to tenth,
b. Circulate survey to all Town Departments to identify what software and databases they are currently using to ensure
that if a central depositary/permitting solution/GIS system are deployed that they can be utilized by all departments.
Need to involve technology department. Kerry and Paula will work on compiling survey and circulating to
departments.
c. Discussion about website and desire to have ability to view permit/project data through secure channels. Everyone
was informed that the website committee is recommending Oscend Technologies, everyone will take a look at their
site.
3. Need to incorporate feedback/input from all appropriate departments. earlier in permitting process was discussed. Toby noted
that currently Tech meetings are arranged by the Planning Director when a subdivision or development is submitted. It was
noted that the administrators attend these meetings; however feedback from the elected/appointed Boards is needed. Toby
will discuss current process with Planning Director and investigate ways to improve.
4. Issuance of earth removal permits - need input from other departments such as Board of Health and Conservation prior to
issuance to determine compliance with their regulations.
5. Need for all board/commission members to take the conflict of interest test. Some members have taken the test, others have
not yet; they will contact Town Clerk for link and information.
6. Toby asked when an email address will be available for all board members. Kerry will investigate with Network Director.
7. Need for training by both staff and employees emphasized. Currently there is not funding within budgets for training. Rob
indicated that several members of the Conservation Commission attend the MACC meeting annually at their own expense.
Everyone was asked to identify seminars and training sessions that they would like their staff and members to attend and
associated costs.
Next meeting scheduled for December 8'n at 6:15 p.m. at the Ritter Administration Building. Will be working on a survey to circulate
among the departments to determine how they are tracking projects etc. All are interested in what has been happening as far as the
website and what we will receive from QScend. Need for the compliance with the Conflict of Interest requirements and updating of
emailing addresses. Also, need for training for both staff for things such as "Smart Growth" which are currently being paid for
individually or they are not able to attend. The need for training in technology as this is one area that has consistently been cut within
the budgets. Tom commented that we really need to get a handle on what the costs are and need to incorporate this back into the
budget as it's necessary to give the employees the skills they need to do their jobs efficiently and effectively.
• Paula - Planning Board meeting on October 25t, Development Plan Review for the United Parish. Looking to expand the
church across the street which is just in the beginning of the process. Proposing to reconfigure the parking spaces on
===PAGE 4===
Memorial Drive to have them "head in" and would like to have this on next weeks agenda. Need to check on the timeline as to
when we can comment until, noted that it's important that the board provide input.
• Ernie PACC met last evening and have recommendations to the Town Manager for the position. No Capital Planning meeting
until this Thursday. Paula noted that there is an application in the Action File for PACC and per Ernie they (PACC) have
spoken with Mr. Wallman of 42 Houghton's Mill Road and would like him appointed. Kerry has tentatively scheduled PACC for
the November 16% Board of Selectmen meeting. Regarding the new programmer position; several candidates have been
interviewed for production and administrative areas. They are looking to hire two people, one for up to 10 hours per week and
the other for up to 15 hours per week.
6. Department Updates - None
7. Town Manager Updates -
• Awarded a DEP grant that we applied for in July to purchase compost bins for $750.
• The Website task force did recommend QScend for the website and we've been able to negotiate a very good price. Funding
will come from unexpended technology appropriations from FY'07 to FY 09 for $15,000, first year for installation and
maintenance. Paula would like to understand what modules specifically were purchased and would like to know specifically
what communities are using them. One is a scheduler program and content is main component. Citizen relation manager that
enables a host of various contacts with citizens, anything from a burnout street light, potholes, just general contact with town
departments. Allows for numerous calendars. Paula questioned who manages the content and per Tom the migration of our
current content into a basic format will be migrated into the new format and we will receive training. Paula really wants to
understand how easy it will be to upload the content, who is going to administer the content. Per Tom this would be a
determination of the Town Manager or the Technology Director as to how this would work. There are training opportuities, they
have on line training. They will not be redisigning anything, just uploading content. Copy of the contract will be provided to the
board as well as a list of communities that utilize this vendor.
Per Kerry, we will deploy the website by establishing a framework, what is acceptable, the procedures and thought this would
run in tandum with the new vendor. The issues that need to be addressed with policies and procedures, envision that this
would be a joint effort and we will discuss the launching of the website. Provided a copy of the General Bylaw establishing the
Computer Advisory Committee, in the three years since Kerry has been here, doesn't believe that the committee has operated
as the charge in the bylaw states. Noted that when she started the committee was made up of department representatives
and has since been reorganized with members of the community that are experience in technology and would like to discuss
this board having a liason to the Committee to get this group back on track. Paula noted that she served as Chair of this
Committee over 20 years ago and at the time was very active group. Noted that we have a real need for an active Computer
Advisory Committee to address the needs, and how to deploy and see that we need to get this re-activated. Kerry would like
the board to consider and questioned if they had any thoughts on this and would like the members to get back to her. Per Tom
currently the perception of the Committee is that a nine person committee is difficult due to the number and their role as
advisory as we are lacking a mechanism to disseminate the work as we really need people to do the work. A more active
committee that could take a task such as the website, they will learn it and set up training opportunities. Paula would like to
revisit the Charter of the Computer Advisory Committee and have changes ready for the spring town meeting, to contact the
Advisory Committee.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles - Per Kerry the articles need to go out to the printer in the very near future and noted that
her recollection of the conversation on the health insurance special legislation.
ARTICLE HI move that the Town vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition the General Court for special legislation to allow for a
special act to read substantially as follows:
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives in General Court assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows;
law to the contrary, the Town of Lunenburg is authorized to negotiate and purchase group insurance policies for Employees, Retirees and
Dependents without being subject to collective bargaining as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 150E.
SECTION 2 Further, the Town of Lunenburg is also authorized to alter current and future plan design features, and that such action not be subject
to collective bargaining as defined in M.G.L. Chapter 150E
SECTION 3 Further, the Town of Lunenburg is also authorized, but not mandated to participate in, and/or join the Group Insurance Commission
("GIC") pursuant to M.G.L. Chapter 32A, and such action shall not be subject to collective bargaining as defined in M. G.L. Chapter 150E.
SECTION 4 The provisions of this act shall not affect obligation under any collective bargaining agreements), while such agreements are in effect.
SECTION 5 This action shall take effect upon its passage.
Adopting MGL Chapter 32B, section 19 doesn't prohibit us from moving forward. Paula does not want to move forward with the special
legislation as the PEC has been working with the town and she doesn't see a need at this time. Dave completely disagrees as things
aren't going to get any better and we need to have every tool that is available and agrees that the employees have been very heiptul
===PAGE 5===
These points would be added onto the final overall score of your entire application. 1f your application scores an 80, and if you qualify
for the bonus points, they would add 10 to the 80, for a total of 90. In the last 3 years funding round, every application that received
funding scored the bonus points. So it is very important that we try to fulfil the criteria to receive all of the bonus points available.
1) Integrated Projects: To meet this requirement, you need to have two (2) projects that will be undertaken in the same target area that
addresses a similar topic. The Town is proposing the senior center parking lot and housing rehabilitation; which are within the same
target area.
2) Complimentary project funds: To receive these bonus points, you have to show that town funds (non CDBG funds) were spent within
the target area on a community development type project, but it can't be for regular maintenance
issues/projects. The installation of a new sidewalk, replacement of water lines, installing playground equipment, feasibility studies, etc.
would be eligible. This is very important, the Town needs to get me a listing of any projects that have occurred within the last year (Dec
10, 2009) or that will occur in the next year (Dec 10, 2011) so we can find ones that meet the criteria.).
Community Development Strategy: The strategy needs to encompass the needs and impact of the town as well as address a
comprehensive, integrated approach to the town's community development priorities. The criteria were increased last year to four
issues that need to be met.
1. The Community Development Strategy must describe the manner in which a community has identified and will accomplish projects
and activities which include, but are not limited to, the subject of the current CDBG application;
2. The Community Development Strategy must conclude with a list of projects and activities in order of the priority in which the
community intends to undertake them;
3. The Community Development Strategy must identify the geographic target areas if any that are intended as the focus of community
development efforts;
4. CDBG applications must document that a Community Development Strategy and its priority list were discussed at a separate public
forum, meeting or hearing, held at least one (1) month prior to the submission of a CDBG application in order to allow for timely
community input. Compliance for this requirement must be documented by copies of meeting announcements, attendance lists and
minutes. Minutes must reflect that the Community Development Strategy and priority list have been presented and that discussion has
occurred.
Distributed copies of last year's strategy, attached. The Town needs to review the document and make any necessary changes,
revisions, deletions as may be needed. The revised version of the strategy will then be presented at the next public hearing, to be
scheduled in late November, and the Board will need to vote to adopt it, The Community Development Strategy cannot exceed seven
(7) pages in length. MRPC is requesting the 805 to continue this hearing until another 805 meeting in late November. Any grant award
to municipalities with CD Strategies that do not meet the four criteria above will be subject to special conditions that address
Community Development Strategy criteria.
Support Letters:
Every year MRPC solicits support letters from various politicians, town officials, departments and committees, and citizens.
Housing Rehabilitation:
To date, we have only four (4) applications on the waiting list. We need to have more than that to show the state that there is a demand
and a need for the housing rehabilitation program. We have to include a second project in the grant in order to score the first 5 bonus
points so we have to work to increase the number of pre-applications. In the FYI 1 program, the application request will be to assist
approximately 10 households so we need to have at Least 20 on the list..
MRC is requesting an announcement be made during tonight's hearing that additional households residing in the target area are
encouraged to apply to continue building the waiting list. We also suggest a town mailing to the households within the target area.
MRF'C will supply the letter and pre-application form but are requesting the Town supply MRPC with town envelopes, mailing list and
postage.
MRPC will be working with the Town Manger to update the Community Development Strategy to be incorporated with the application.
Paula commented that she is having fundamental issue with the parking lot and the costs associated with this project. She would be
very interested in seeing the breakdown of the estimated costs. Advocates the need for additional parking for the elderly and even
though she understands that this is a grant and we have a responsibility to ensure that the money is spent as efficiently as we can. Per
Shelly the costs have gone down significantly and the designer is developing estimates on the project costs. They will be dropping off
bidding documents and will provide to the town, will copy the breakdown of the schedule with what they expect the line items to be.
Shelly provided a listing of the streets and a map of the Target Area, which is posted on the website, the cable station and in town hall.
Doreen read the target area street list:
• ONE SET, NEAL SET AGENT D, WE NINE LIEVE ANE
LANCASTER AVENUE, LAUREL LANE
LEOMINSTER ROAD, LINCOLN STREET, MAIN STREET, MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, MEMORIAL DRIVE, NORTHFIELD ROAD, OAK
AVENUE, PINE GROVE ROAD, POND STREET, PROSPECT STREET, RANGELEY ROAD, REDWOOD ROAD, SAVAGE DRIVE, SCHOOL
STREET, SKYLARK LANE, SUNNYHILL ROAD, TURKEY HILL ROAD, TYLER DRIVE, UPLAND AVENUE, WEST STREET, WHALOM ROAD,
WHITING STREET, WILDERWOOD AVENUE.
===PAGE 6===
with the insurance costs. We need to be able to manage this cost fairly but aggressively, think we can be fair and still work with the
PEC, they can always go elsewhere to work.
Tom questioned if anyone has passed this already and whether the legislature has passed this. Per Kerry, no it's been either the city
council or town meeting, but nothing as she understands it has been sent to the legislature. As such, if we don't have the certainty that
this will go through the legislature and if you attempt to pass this and it doesn't go through, then we have set the stage and really risk
damaging the relationship with the employees. Don't know what we gain, but right now without that being known would be against
moving this forward. Steve concurred with Tom and that we should let some of the decision making come through them (PEC) as
they've been part of this in the past. Understand what we're trying to do, but think that we've been doing a good job at bringing the
costs down, may not be as fast as he would like but it's being done, but even so, he would not be in favor of this right now.
Dave pointed that it's possible to manage without being territorial, plenty of opportunity out there. Don't see how this would totally
undermine a working relationship with employees.
Ernie commented that this does give us another tool to manage our costs, how we manage this tool is up to us. Personally to force
something on the employees, sometimes you have to, but if we don't have the tool we can't do this.
Dave recommend that we do not put on this warrant and get the information that was requested, Tom seconded so long as we have
the opportunity to get information from our employees, Town Counsel and the legislature. Board voted unanimously to remove and
have available for the spring town meeting:
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
None
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may
have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, to conduct strategy sessions in
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective bargaining and contract negotiations
with non-union personnel.
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 8:56 P.M. and opened Executive Session by roll call
vote, Steve aye, Tom aye, Paula aye, Ernie aye and Dave aye, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) for the purpose of
discussing strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the
government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union
personnel; to actually conduct collective bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel. Chairman announced that the
Board would not be returning to Regular Session
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 7===
altus
dental™
Altus Dental Insurance Company, Inc.
Benefit Highlights
Plus Plan
Welcome to
Altus Dental
This flyer highlights your dental
benefits and explains how your
Plus plan works. At Altus Dental,
we pride ourselves on
providing our members with
excellent customer service. We
look forward to providing you
and covered family members
with dental insurance When
your coverage begins, we will
send you an ID card and a
Certificate of Coverage
How to Contact Us
INTERNET
you can access your account
antormation online 24 hours a
day 7 days a week at
www.altusdental.com.
INFOLINE,
1.877 223 0588
Infoline our automated
telephone information system
is also ayailable 24 hours a day
days a week
CUSTOMER SERVICE
1 8770230588
Our customer serva ce
cere enseye are available
Monday - Thursday
8 am to 7 parand
Friday 8 am to 5 pm. ET
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Group#: 6150-0001
The annual maximum is: $1000 per member per calendar year
The annual deductible is: $50 per individual / $150 per family
The maximum lifetime cap is: Unlimited
Pretreatment estimates are recommended for underlined procedures.
Plan pays 100%; Member Coinsurance 0%
Two oral exams per calendar year
• Two cleanings per calendar year
Fluoride treatment for children under age 19 twice per calendar year
One set of bitewing x-rays per calendar year
• One complete x-ray series or panoramic film every 36 months
.
Single x-rays as required
• Sealants for children under age 16, once per unrestored permanent molar every
36 months
• Space maintainers for lost deciduous (baby) teeth, replacement limited to once
every 60 months
Plan pays 80%; Member Coinsurance 20% Deductible Applies
•
Palliative treatment (minor procedures necessary to relieve acute pain) twice per
calendar year
• Amalgam (silver) fillings; composite (white) fillings on front teeth only. For
composite fillings on back teeth, the plan pays what would have been paid for an
amalgam filling. Patient is responsible for the balance up to the dentist's charge.
• Repairs to existing partial or complete dentures once per calendar year
• Recementing crowns or bridges
• Rebasing or relining of partial or complete dentures; once every 60 months
Plan pays 50%; Member Coinsurance 50% Deductible Applies
Extractions and other routine oral surgery not covered by a patient's medical plan
• General anesthesia or intravenous (I.V.) sedation for complex surgical
procedures
• Root canal therapy
• Periodontal maintenance following active therapy - two per year
• Root planing and scaling once per quadrant every 24 months
• Osseous (bone) surgery once per quadrant every 24 months (bone grafts are not
covered)
• Gingivectomies once per site every 24 months
Soft tissue grafts once per site every 60 months
Crown lengthening once per tooth every 60 months
• Surgical placement of endosteal implant and abutment; replacement limited to
once every 60 months
Crowns over natural teeth, build ups, posts and cores - replacement limited to
once every 60 months
• Bridges, build ups, posts and cores, crowns over implants - replacement limited
to once every 60 months
Partial and complete dentures - replacement limited to once every 60 months
Dependent Coverage - Dependent children are covered up until the end of the month that
they turn age 21. Dependent children who are full-time students over age 21 are covered as
long as they stay in school or up until the end of the month that they turn age 26.
Monthly Premium: $36.69 Individual
$73.37 Two Person
$128.42 Family
===PAGE 8===
How Your Plan Works
Dental insurance helps you pay for the most common
dental procedures. And, it's important to understand how
your Altus Dental Plus plan works so you can get the most
from your dental benefits.
How does the plan work! It's easy when you
use participating network dentists.
The preferred provider network includes many of the
dentists in your area, delivering easy access to care
for you and your covered family members. We are
the largest Preferred Provider Organization (PPO)
in the state. We also offer access to dentists nationwide
through the CONNECTION Dental network. All our
dentists must pass our rigorous credentialing process, so
you know it's care you can count on.
Finding a Dentist
Your Current Dentist
If you already have a dentist, simply ask if he or she
participates with Altus Dental. If your dentist isn't in the
network yet, please let us know. We actively recruit new
dentists to the network..
www.altusdental.com
Log on to our website and use our online dentist
directory to find a dentist in a location that's convenient
for you, or to check if your dentist participates with
Altus Dental. You may search by name, location or
specialty. If your card displays the CONNECTION Dental
logo, this means you have access to a national network and
can search for a dentist or specialist in all 50 states. Our
directory will provide you with the names and addresses
of all the dentists that meet your search criteria, as well as
maps and driving directions.
Thanks for choosing
Alus Dental we look forward
to providing you and any
covered family members
with quality dental benefits.
10/09 - 35M
Maximize your coverage with a
participating dentist.
In-Network Care
When you receive care from a participating dentist, your
out-of-pocket expenses will be less. That's because the
dentist has agreed to accept the allowance as full payment,
minus your coinsurance and any applicable deductibles
- which means no "balance" billing. Just show your ID card
and you're done - it's that simple! Participating dentists
will handle all the paperwork and inquiries directly with us.
We will also pay the dentist directly.
Out-of-Network Care
You also have the freedom to receive care from dentists
who do not belong to the network. If you go to a non-
participating dentist, you'll be reimbursed at a usual and
customary level, which most dentists accept as payment in
full, after any applicable deductibles or coinsurance.
Members Online
Once you're enrolled, Members Online helps you
manage your dental benefits with ease. Simply log on to
www.altusdental.com to verify your specific benefit
and eligibility information or to research the status of a
claim. You can also create a personal Claim Activity
Statement and instantly print a copy of your ID card.
Our website is also a valuable resource for maintaining
good oral health - from dental health articles and wellness
commercials to our custom Children's Dental Health
section. Or take the Dental Health Challenge and find out
if you are at an increased risk for dental disease.
Claims and correspondence
should be sent to
Altus Dental
PO, Box 1557
Providence, R 02901-1557
