===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Dave announced the Salvation Army is holding a benefit auction this Saturday afternoon, which will be telecast on radio station WPKZ
105.3 FM and on the internet. Also the MMA 2011 Calendar Photo contest, "The Heart of Your Community" is the theme for the MIMA's
ninth annual municipal calendar photography contest. The top prize will be selected for the front cover, with 13 runners-up chosen for
each month of the year and the back cover. The contest is open to all who wish to participate. Each entry must include one to three
sentences describing the photo. Digital entries MUST be sent as attachments to database@mma.org. Prints can be mailed to:
Calendar Contest, MMA, One Winthrop Square, Boston, MA 02110. Entry deadline is Oct. 30.
APPOINTMENTS
1. Damon McQuaid, applicant for Historical Commission - of 30 Cushing Lane came before board for a brief interview. Also
present was Commission member Patrick Slattery who introduced Damon to the board, Commission hopes to have another candidate
for the board within the next few weeks. Kerry informed the board that Mr. McQuaid met with the Historical Commission in September
and they endorse this appointment. There are currently two vacancies on this Commission (3-year terms). Damon was raised in
Lunenburg and is a draftsman and holds a Masters degree in architecture from Wentworth Institute of Technology, wrote a thesis on
bringing life back to small communities. Paula move to appoint, Steve seconded, voted unanimously to approve.
2. Paul DeBenedetto, Applicant for Constable - of 10 Portland Street, Fitchburg came before the board for a brief interview. Paul
upon applicant providing a bond.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. One day liquor license, Linda Davis Jeha for event on 10/13/11 - Lynda Davis Jeha of 16 Henderson Street, Needham, has
filed an application for a One Day License for the sale of Wines & Malt Beverages for an event to be held on Thursday, Ocuber 13,
2011. The event is an Artist Reception to be held in the George R. Wallace Community Room at the Lunenburg Public Library, from
6:30 - 8:30 p.m. The applicant expects approximately 40 persons in attendance. Chief Bourgeois has reviewed the application and
had no objections to it being granted. Linda was present and informed the board that she is a practicing artist and is excited about
presenting her work in her hometown. She will be serving wine and hor's doueves at the event as a complimentary service.
Ernie questioned as he has been informed that you are not allowed to serve alcohol on public property and per Kerry it's a local option
and this has been a standard practice. Paula motion to approve one day license, Tom seconded, voted unanimously to approve.
2. Request for Abatement of Ambulance Fees - According to Kerry, Chief Glenny is asking the board to abate the remainder of an
ambulance bill for service rendered on February 14, 2011. The party is deceased and the estate is unable to pay the remainder of the
bill. The original bill was $918.00. The Medicare adjustment and payments total $816.87, leaving a balance of $101.13. Kerry
recommends that the board grant the abatement in the amount of $101.13. Tom motioned to abate, Paula seconded.
Steve questioned that we had set our ambulance fees to what Medicare customarily bills, is that what is happening here? Kerry will
have to defer the question to Chief Glenny. There isn't any reason why this request has to be abated this evening, but will bring it back
before the board if the board wants an answer being considering this action. Dave's recollection is that the Chief is supposed to be
bringing this information back to the board and we should get him back to discuss the fee schedule with the board.
Paula questioned the possibility of a tiered rate and wants see if the Chief thinks that this may be a possibility.
Board voted unanimously to abate the ambulance fee.
3. Amendment to Building Permit Fee Schedule - Building Commissioner, Michael Sauvageau provided the attached information
for amendment to the building permit fees. According to Mike it has been about 4/5 years since the board has increased any fees.
Kerry presented the attached two amendments that are different from what the board previously received
===PAGE 2===
to make these inspections and vehicle costs and that these increases are really very reasonable. In most years the fees are either at
the budget or exceed the budget. Ernie commented that he would like to see a basic fee of $25.00 if we have to cover our actual
overhead costs for most of these permits.
Mike noted that the number of the permits is down by about 1/3 but at some point in the future you may see this increase dependant
upon the economic climate, don't want to burden the homeowners.
Tom noted that fees pay for the services of whatever the homeowner is trying to do, we're not charging these as a penalty and would
seem to him that if you mention to cover the costs and if we're losing money then the fee's not right. Should be setting the fees
correctly to what we believe will cover our costs and shouldn't be losing money. In so far as what you're requesting and if they are not
covering what you are doing, we should relook at the fees. Paula commented that a number of communities have a "re-inspection fee"
and would recommend that we look at this, particularly if you have to go back 2 or 3 times. Mike would recommend that when the
larger projects in town drop off then we could relook at possibly doing a $25.00 re-inspection fee.
Paula would recommend under the "Woodstove, Coal Stove and Pellet Stove" also include a $25.00 reinspection fee and move to
approve this as well as the presented fee schedule, Steve seconded, voted unanimously.
4. Minutes - none
Warrants - #19 12, 10/3/11 - $185,409.97 reviewed and signed.
Action File Issues -
5. Committee Updates -
Tom - Finance Committee Appointing Authority Committee has appointed Scott Gile to the Finance Committee, noted that there is still
one remaining vacancy on this Committee and would encourage anyone interested to fill out a Talent Bank Form.
Ernie - PACC met this evening and are still in need of volunteers/help with our televising, videoing.
Steve - DPW Building, is underway; foundation work on new building is being scheduled and expect to begin this phase near to the
scheduled timeline. Dave commented that there is definitely steady progress and we are still on target to getting this done as
scheduled. Jack noted that there was an issue with a nine day delay and the architect owes the contractor nine days on the back end,
as a result, there may be some time of signifance near the end. The finished date won't be as per the contract, the reconstruction of the
old building does seem to be right on schedule.
Dave - School Reorganization Committee has met a couple of times, and are trying to identify cost savings and ideas for potential
solutions. Noted that the new projects have not impacted the enrollment numbers significantly as the overall enrollment has been
dropping for the past few years. Steve commented that they are still building at Emerald Place and this may impact the number of
students. We will see a large drop off of the Shirley students within the next two years and after that they will be "choice". Overall we've
lost a large drop off of students in the past few years. Bottom line is we can't take one school off line right now.
Also, presented the attached letter for submittal to the MSBA, board approved and letter will be sent off.
Tom - commented that the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will be meeting this Thursday, in Town Hall on Nashoba
Valley Regional Dispatch, meeting will be televised.
Ernie - Capital Planning Committee has received one request so far, and will continue to look at department requests as they are
received.
Paula noted that we have to look at the road maintenance plan and this has to be a large component of our budget discussions this
year as it's something we have to address and put something forward for the voters.
6. Department Updates
• Request to eliminate some parking on Main Street & Memorial Drive - Kerry noted that she received correspondance from
Chief Bourgeois who met with DPW Director, Jack Rodriquenz, Chief Glenny and traffic officer Robert Diconza and site visit and
the group agreed upon the following actions that should take place as soon as possible.
1) Eliminate one parking space on Main St. closest to the intersection of Memorial Dr. to provide a better site view for vehicles
exiting Memorial onto Main St.,
===PAGE 3===
Ross Associates, Inc. Noted that what was most impressive was the accident history, which is much more than what he had
projected. What they are basically trying to achieve is to get as close to 90° angles for the intersection from both directions on
Townsend Harbor Road and Mulpus Road. Paula commented that in the 25 years that she has lived in that area, she has
witnessed an incredible number of accidents and that something needs to be done there. Steve concurred but commented that
here needs to be more than just putting a three way stop, ideally before you do any design you have to have traffic counts as
Townsend Harbor Road is classified as a main feeder road and thinks that it would be ludicrous to stop the vehicles on Townsend
Harbor Road. Need to increase the sight distances on Townsend Harbor Road, how much traffic is on each road and design
accordingly, not against some measures being done now, but wants to do the right thing. Paula thinks that having an expert look at
this scenario makes sense. Tom concurred with Steve's concern and noted that Mulpus Road is a less traveled road than
Townsend Road.
Ernie questioned if we could possibly put reduced speed limit in that area on Townsend Road and Jack noted that this may be a
question of enforcement and may want to get the Police Chief input on this option.
Dave recapped for short term fix; reduce speed zones, brush clean up, and restrict the left turn onto Mulpus Road with "do not
enter signs",
"basically "in-house"
changes.
Kerry commented that we don't have funds set aside in the budget for engineering services, would say that we could agree to
come up with $5,000 but doesn't have any more money to do anything more at this time.
Jack will present a scope of work to the Town Manager for her review to ensure that it includes what the board is looking for before
moving forward.
• Pothole Program - Funding of Road Maintenance - Jack presented the attached Asphault Patching Program which was
submitted to the board in 2010 which lays out the objectives, policies and responsibilties of the DPW. Noted that observations by
the general public, the board, the police department and the DPW are what determines the patching (pothole) list. We do have a
program, a protocol and a logot what has been and is being done. Kerry commented that in the near future, we do have the
capability on our website for a citizen service request on our new website, which has not been activated yet, but perhaps it may be
time to consider activating this module.
Jack also reviewed the Pavement Management Plan on the differences between "potholes" and "wheel ruts" which may extend
500 - 600 hundred feet and are a deterioritzation of the road surface itself; some of the roads are just beyond "potholes". Whole
sections of roads need to be milled or overlayed and they are not potholes. Noted that until we appropriate about 1.3 million a year
we re not going to keep up with the road conditions, need this amount just to keep up as they are not going to cure themselves.
Steve commented that somewhere there's a disconnect as somebody is not calling and not getting the information to you. Jack
commented that he can't go places that there aren't potholes, when he gets the reports, they try to do these within 48 hours, but
with the number of employees he has it's difficult to get these all addressed within that timeframe.
Tom commented that every time Jack presents this topic, it's presented very well and noted that this is something that the public
needs to be aware of and we need to be persistent in presenting to the public as well.
Dave noted that we'll continue to improve the process and communication between the people involved
• Update on Streetlights - Jack acquired an inventory of all the streetlights in Lunenburg and last week the staff of the DPW went
out one evening and inventoried the streetlights that are out; approximately 39 or 10%. Kerry's recollection is that we are paying
by tixture and not by actual usage. Board's concern is that if we're paying a flat rate, is it our responsibility to investigate which
ights are working or the electric company; it's their responsibility for them to maintain their utility. Kerry will speak with Johr
iNapoli and discuss an adiustment with our bill and going forward ask what the utility company does with regards to a regula
inspection. We certainly are not going to be able to inventory like this most of the time and wouldn't want to have this as a
resposibility of our Police Department and/or the DPW given the limited staffing in both departments. Tom noted that if residents
see street liahts out, they need to be reporting to make this as efficient as possible. Jack noted that pole numbers are needed in
order to clearly identify the lights and that having the DPW Department doing this twice annually at a cost of several hundred o
dollars wouldn't be unrealistic. Dave would like to have a timetable from Unitil and verify that these are fixed and need to come up
===PAGE 4===
conversation with the School Superintendant today on unemployment costs associated with the layoffs that occurred in 2011 and
this really could be addressed in May and believes that you'd have a much better idea of what those costs would be at that time.
We don't lose out by waiting until May for budget adjustments. Also, noted that the Chair of the Green Communities Task Force
did recommend December as this would allow them more time to present their information to the public. Paula questioned if there
is a compelling reason to have a special town meeting in the fall and questioned if there is sufficient time for presentations for the
article for the Green Communities Act and if we're not having a special town meeting for budget reasons, then why are we doing
this in November. Dave commented that the Annual Town Meeting is not going to be the place to include any aricle for the Green
Community Act as he percieves that this (Annual Town Meeting) may be a two day affair.
Kerry will check with the Green Community Task Force to ensure that they'll be ready should the board decide to have the special
on November 21st
Kerry has heard from Jon Juhl on the Eagle Heights project and he has been informed that this is currently being reviewed by HUD
and that we have a good application and hopefully we'll also have a good evaluation on that application and should be hearing
back from the federal office on this sometime next month.
Massachusetts Councils on Aging is having their annual conference and our "Gray Belts" was nominated as an innovative program
and we have three Lunenburg residents that will be doing a demonstration of what they've learned from the program.
OLD BUSINESS
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may
have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, to conduct strategy sessions in
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective bargaining and contract negotiations
with non-union personnel.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
October 6, 2011 - Joint Session with Finance Committee, Regional Dispatch
October 11, 2011
October 18, 2011 - Joint Session with Finance Committee, Financial Forecast
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 9:53 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Caron-Gustus, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 5===
PERMIT FEE FOR THE CITY OF LEOMINSTER 2011
An average single family home per square foot construction cost comes to $102.00 per square foot.
A custom single family home per square foot construction cost comes to $107.00 per square foot.
On a per thousand dollar construction cost fee basis, $22.00 is charged for the first thousand and $7.00
thousand is added to that.
IE: An average 2,000 sq ft home would fee out at: 2,000 x $102.00 = $204,000.
per
203 x $7.00 = $1,421.00
1 x $22.00 = $22.00
TOTAL FEE: $1,443.00
PERMIT FEE FOR THE TOWN OF BOLTON 2011
$80.00 per square foot construction cost @ $10.00 per thousand.
A 2,000 square foot home building permit fee would be: 2,000 x $80.00 = $160,000.00 x $10.00 per thousand =
$1,600.00.
TOTAL FEE: $1,600.00
PERMIT FEE FOR THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG 2011
$71.00 per thousand construction cost @ $10.00 per thousand.
TOTAL FEE: $1,420.00
===PAGE 6===
Building Permit Fee Schedule
SELECTMEN'S OFFICE
Location in Building
First Floor
Second Floor (finished)
Second Floor (unfinished)
Basement (finished)
Basement (unfinished)
Garage (finished)
Garage (unfinished)
Porch/Deck
Walk in Attics
ALL OTHER FEES
Municipal
Swimming Pool (in ground)
Swimming Pool (above ground)
Renovations
Minor Repairs (roofing, siding,
exterior or interior renovations, windows)
Demolition
Move building
Signs
Solar Collectors
Cost per Square Foot for one and two family dwellings
$71.00
$71.00
$45.00
(Permit fee is $10.00 per thousand of
Estimated cost)
$15.00
$10.00
$20.00
Proposed new fee
$15.00
$10.00
$25.00 up to 250 sq ft.
$10.00
exempt
$100.00
$ 40.00
$50.00
Based on percentage of new
Construction cost
$50.00
$50.00
$ 25.00
$ 25.00
$ 50.00
$ 25.00
$ 15.00
Residential $50.00
Commercial: Based on commercial permit fee
===PAGE 7===
Woodstove, Coal Stoves & Pellet stoves
$ 10.00
Sheet Metal Permit
Residential
Commercial
Mechanical Permit
Residential
Commercial
$25.00
$25.00
Based on Commercial permit fee
$25.00
Based on Commercial permit fee
===PAGE 8===
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA
Re: Mulpus Road / Townsend Harbor Road Intersection
Lunenburg, MA
Dear Mr. Rodriquenz:
At your request, we have done a cursory evaluation of the traffic conditions at the above referenced
location. After speaking with you regarding accident history at the intersection, reviewing the site
conditions, and weighing out the correction options, we have provided our findings and
recommendations below.
Existing Conditions:
Mulpus Road intersects with Townsend Harbor Road at a sharp bend in Townsend Harbor Road.
There are two intersection points on Townsend Harbor Road from Mulpus Road creating a triangular
open space at the junction. This configuration creates a number of scenarios for turning onto or off
of Mulpus Road. A roadway's geometric design will impact the safety of the roadway and sight
distance requirements.
Sight distance criteria have impacts on virtually all elements of roadway and intersection design.
Adequate stopping sight distance (SSD) must be provided so a driver can see an object with
sufficient time to stop safely. Providing adequate SSD at the intersection appears to be the biggest
problem. The SSD deficiencies are caused by the geometric design of the intersection and existing
vegetation along the roadway shoulders.
The suggested speed limit for Townsend Harbor Road in 30 mph as posted on a nearby sign. The
2001 AASHTO Greenbook recommends a minimum stopping sight distance of 200 feet for this
speed limit. This distance needs to be met for all potential queuing scenarios at the intersection.
Exact SSD can not be determined without an on-the-ground survey, however direct observations at
the site clearly show that this requirement is not met for at least three (3) queuing scenarios. They
are: traveling southerly along Townsend Harbor Road turning left onto Mulpus Road at both
locations and turning left onto Townsend Harbor Road from the southern most Mulpus Road
intersection. In all thee cases. there does not appear to be adequate stopping sight distance along.
Townsend Harbor Road in both directions.
111 Fitchburg Road
P.O. Box 368 Ayer, Massachusetts 01432-0368
978-772-6232 978-368-1065 978-448-3916 FAX 978-772-6258
===PAGE 9===
case scenario.
This could be accomplished by eliminating the triangle and creating a "T"
configuation. The top of the "T" would be considered the existing layout of the northern most
Mulpus Rd and Townsend Harbor Rd intersection. The stem of the new "T" would be the extension
of Townsend Harbor Rd into that existing intersection. This would create a nearly 90 degree
intersection and greatly improve sight lines.
A 3-way stop could be created with warning signage
installed prior to the intersection in each direction.
Conclusions:
In order to evaluate the best corrective action for the intersection, a survey will be needed. The
survey will establish existing conditions at the intersection and the extent of the right-of-way. The
survey should measure stopping sight distances from all the queuing locations and verify all
deficiencies. The survey will serve as a base plan to evaluate current problems and determine the
best reconfiguration.
• A preliminary design of the correction mentioned above could then be drawn on the plan. The
proposed design can then have stopping sight distances survey checked in the field and determined if
they are adequate or if adjustments are needed. For budgeting purposes, we would estimate a cost of
$5,000 to get a survey base plan, measure existing and proposed sight distances, and get a
preliminary design drafted for review and comment. A cost for final construction and installation
can not be accurately estimated until after a design is completed.
If you have any questions or comments, please feel free to contact me at our office.
Very truly yours,
DAVID E. ROSS ASSOCIATES, INC.
Jesse Johnson, P.E.
Senior Project Manager
DAVID E. ROSS ASSOCIATES, INC.
111 Fitchburg Road
P.O. Box 368
Ayer, Massachusetts 01432-0368
978-772-6232
978-368-1065 978-448-3916 FAX 978-772-6258
===PAGE 10===
Mass Ave
New West Townsend Rd
Northfield Rd
Oak Ave
Page St
Pierce Ave
Prospect St
Resevoir Rd
Rolling Acres
Shirely-Leominster Rd
South Row Rd
Summer St
Townsend Harbor Rd
West St
West St Terrace
West Townsend Rd
Whalom Rd
Youngs Rd
113, 140, 166, 186, 207, 210, 221|
3
23,32
12
26, 129-76
3
188
60
2
48
4
16,
11
===PAGE 11===
218
INCORPORATIO
ASPHALT PATCHING PROGRAM
Prepared By: The Department of Public Works
July, 2010
===PAGE 12===
Our Town consists of approximately 86 miles of streets, and quality maintenance seems
to be a never ending task. Patching of streets occurs for the following reasons: filling
potholes, repairing failing drainage structures, repairing access cuts for underground
utility replacement or repair, as well as preparing streets for crack sealing, overlays, etc.
With a solid work plan we feel we can improve our productivity, efficiency, and
customer service.
OBJECTIVES
One of the objectives of the Department of Public Works is to provide a plan for the safe
and orderly movement of emergency equipment, vehicle traffic and pedestrians through
the Town.
The Asphalt Patching Program was developed to facilitate this objective.
The procedures presented in this program serve to outline the maintenance provided to
the citizens.
POLICIES
It is the policy of the Department of Public Works to:
1.
Inspect all roadway surface areas for cracking, potholing, or any other form of
degradation. This inspection process shall be considered an on-going event, and
all bad areas will be noted for replacement
Prior to each construction season a review of work zone safety will be required
New personnel shall also be trained in proper patching techniques. All equipment
will be tested for proper operation and all supplies will be restocked to avoid
shortages.
3.
Every effort will be made to address pothole complaints within 48 hours after
notification. All calls and responses will be logged.
===PAGE 13===
mel.
• Supervisor shall maintain a good communication network with Director and other
Departments concerning special requests, service cut patching, etc.
• Supervisor shall also assist crew with permit coordination if necessary, i.e.,
digsafe.
• Location as well as date of repair will be documented.
CREW RESPONSIBILITY
• Initiate work zone setup and patching in a safe and efficient manner.
• Assure that proper permits and paperwork are completed and logged
• Traffic disruption should be minimized.
• Tools and equipment should be maintained to the highest standard practical.
PROCEDURES FOR UTILITY PATCHING
Proper permits and data sheets are generated within Town Departments. Permit locations
are coordinated to maximize team productivity. High volume streets are patched as a
priority.
Traffic control is set up with control devices in proper sequence. Visually inspect traffic
flow.
Area to be patched is removed with the most efficient cutting tool for the job: jack
hammer, or cutting saw.
Remove temporary or defective asphalt from area to be patched. Main streets are dug to
a 4 inch dept. Apply asphalt bonding agent around edge of patch. If base under roadway
is inadequate remove to depth where material becomes firm. Refill hole with proper road
base and compact.
Lay 2 inches of asphalt in hole to be patched, rake level, then compact. Add another
layer of asphalt to be raked level and compacted so that finished product is level with
===PAGE 14===
Remove traffic control devices in reverse order as was set up at start of job.
PROCEDURES FOR POTHOLE PATCHING
Pothole crews respond on an as needed basis. Potholes form in roadways after moisture
has saturated asphalt surfaces causing a breakdown in asphalt.
The pothole must be clean of all debris, water, loose rock, and broken asphalt. A street
broom is used to sweep out smaller particles and clean edges of hole to be patched.
Fill hole with asphalt, mix one to two inches higher than road surface. Asphalt mix is
then wheel rolled with truck tire or compacted with vibratory compactor. Finished patch
should be level with road surface.
On alligator cracks where asphalt breakdown is occurring, area is sprayed with a tack oil.
Area is then covered completely with asphalt mix and compacted to grade. However, this
procedure is only a temporary fix.
Larger cracks in roadways are filled one half of an inch higher than road surface and then
compacted to grade.
===PAGE 15===
Paula Bertram, Mbr.
Laura Williams
Chief Admin. Asst.
MEMORANDUM
To: Board of Selectmen & Finance Committee
KAS
From: Kerry A. Speidel, Town Manager
Date: October 1, 2011
Subject: Request to Consider Purchase of iPads
I have been asked to consider whether or not it is cost-effective to purchase iPads in lieu of
distributing hard copies of agenda packets. As such, I have put together the following
information.
$0.0228
$1.134
40
cost of each copy, all inclusive [paper, toner, etc.]
cost of average BOS agenda packet, assumes 50 pages, double-sided
estimate of the number of BOS meetings per year
$45.36
annual cost of BOS agenda packets, per member
$578
cost of iPad with 2-year service agreement [WiFi, not 3G]
I have not included the cost of any staff time in the above calculation for copying, as it is
minimal.
There are a number of communities across the country that are purchasing iPads as a cost-
savings mechanism. While I don't see this as a cost effective solution, neither is it a budget
buster either. My main concern is moving in this direction is that while some may be
comfortable in receiving only electronic packets, others may not, resulting in distribution of
both electronic and paper copy agenda packets.
/kas
===PAGE 16===
ant
ant
4-Oct-11
14-0ct-11
28-Oct-11
31-Oct-11
4-Nov-11
Monday
21-Nov-11
4-Oct-11
14-Oct-11
28-0ct-11
31-Oct-11
4-Nov-11
Bas
Tuesday
22-Nov-11
yes
yes
yes
maybe
es Act
velopment Bylaw
in for Meadow Woods Water & Sewer Improvements, $456,927.87
'lan to incorporate new position Classifications
Appropriation for Extraordinary Unemployment Costs, from Free Cash
Vehicle Fines [must be done at an Annual Town Meeting]
11-Oct-11
28-0ct-11
11-Nov-11
14-Nov-11
18-Nov-11
Historical
30H
Monday
5-Dec-11
yes
yes
11-Oct-11
28-Oct-11
11-Nov-11
14-Nov-11
18-Nov-11
BOA
BOS
Tuesday
6-Dec-11
yes
maybe
===PAGE 17===
October 3, 2011
Chief Admin. Asst.
Ms. Katherine Craven, Executive Director
Massachusetts School Building Authority
40 Broad St, Suite 500
Boston, MA 02109
Dear Ms. Craven,
I am writing to inform you that the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen has accepted the report and recommendation
of the Lunenburg School Regionalization Committee to withdraw from further discussions with the North
Middlesex Regional School District regarding Lunenburg joining their district.
The Regionalization Committee has devoted 15 months to extensive study and investigation with a North
Middlesex sub-committee into our joining with North Middlesex. Their efforts were aided by an independent
consultant who presented an economic forecast which indicated increased costs for each of the existing member
towns and savings to the Town of Lunenburg before legacy retirement and healthcare costs were accounted for.
With all costs identified, costs also increased for Lunenburg.
Although Lunenburg has been put in the position of being the first to walk away, every member of the North
Middlesex School Committee spoke against our joining, but then refused to take a vote and move on.
As you know, is has been over 5 years since Lunenburg began working toward addressing severe capital repair
needs and educational shortcomings in out high school. We invested community resources and engaged
Drummey Rosane Anderson Architects (DRA) to complete a preliminary Facility Study in anticipation of the
start up of your Authority.
The resulting Statements of Interest have been in limbo as we have diligently studied Regionalizing first with
Ayer-Shirley and now with North Middlesex. We have done our part. We have balanced short term facility
needs against expected useful life while maintaining educational quality for our students. After five years, time
is of the essence.
We are ready to work with the MSBA to resolve Lunenburg's pressing facility needs and respectfully request
your consideration of our pending Statements of Interest.
Sincerely,
David J. Matthews
Chair, Lunenburg Board of Selectmen
