===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
concerns on Memorial Drive and Main Street and suggested recommendations.
Tom agrees with their concerns and noted the congestion and that something should be done along these lines to increase the safety.
Paula also agrees with these recommendations, suggested the possibility of designating parking for "town hall employees only" may be
an option and need to follow up and look at all possible options.
Kerry noted that the parking in the back of this building is not a public lot, and therefore may be difficult to require using a public parking
lot. Board will schedule for the first meeting in October.
Dave MacDonald presented the attached information on the intersection of Mulpus Road and Townsend Harbor Road.
Noted that there is a grant program that we may be able to access (SMART). Mass DOT recommends that we straighten out
Townsend Harbor Road and install stop signs at the end of Mulpus Road and one on Townsend Harbor Road.
Michael Nault, 56 Brookview Terrace noted that many houses on Townsend Harbor Road are across the street from the waterfront and
that this roadway is also a through road from Route 119 to 2A and recommends placing a stop sign from the Townsend side of
Townsend Harbor at the intersection of Mulpus Road.
Bob Musack, 170 Townsend Harbor Road agrees with the recommendations as submitted, commented on the traffic issues that he has
encountered and would like to see something done there.
Mario Angelo, 199 Island Road, Director of Hickory Hills Landowners Association, travels through this intersection several times a week
and sure that many others do as well, submitted letter that was sent to DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz.
Chair would like to have input from the DPW Director and Public Safety to include options and cost factors. Paula noted that this
intersection is very near her home and has seen this safety concern first hand and that this number of crashes may be low as not all
are reported to the Police Department. She shares the concern that the threat of something serious could happen here. Kerry has
known about this situation for a couple of weeks and has spoken with Trish Domigan of VHB and she is not aware of a grant that would
be applicable for this project, but will look at the SMART Grant to see if this may be eligible. She may be able to provide rough cost
estimates, understanding that we are looking to try and fix this problem. She will meet with Jack and see if we can come back with a
game plan. Steve would suggest that we use an engineer to determine the best alternative.
Paula would like to see if we could do something in a paired down approach and would like to look at all the options and see if there is
a way to simplify this process and make this a safer situation.
Tom believes that there may be a simple solution and without engineering services; you could make this a three-way stop, which would
be inexpensive to do and at least in this way we would have time to investigate alternative solutions.
Paula expressed appreciation to those that came forward as this is truly a dangerous situation. Jack, DPW Director concurred that this
is a great idea, but doesn't belleve that it's just as simple as installing stop signs. The plan here is a good one, he doesn't believe there
is a land taking, but doesn't think that this would be exorbitantly expensive. Short money spent to have a conceptual plan in place to
present to this board. He will speak with an engineer to get a price and a timeframe. Kerry will provide an update to this at the board's
first meeting in October.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Tom commented on the invitation that town officials received to attend the asphalt plant opening event that was held recentiy at P.J.
Keatings facility and expressed appreciation to the company as they've always worked well with our departments and a good opening
event.
APPOINTMENTS
1. 7:00 p.m. - Janice Barney, Captain John Joslin, Jr. Chapter, National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution
- presentation of flag - Janice Barney, representative of the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution presented
the "Remember September 11, 2011" banner in honor of the lives that were lost and the sacrifices that were made as a result of the
9/11 incident and in commemoration of the ten year anniversary. Chair accepted and presented this banner to Chief Glenny.
===PAGE 2===
make the next step with the MSBA.
Brandon noted that the other representatives on the committee worked in the best interest of this town and thanks should also go out to
them as well as Superintendent Calmes. He will get back to the board with regards to notifying the State and the board will follow up
once this step has been completed. Dr. Berthiuame noted that the School Committee will be meeting tomorrow night and they are
trying to plan as far down the road as they can. Noted that they still may look at opportunities there may be with an alternative regional
school system, Nashoba. He contacted Ms. Craven (MSBA) the night of the vote and sent off the letter and as of yet, have not heard
back from the MSBA.
2. Approval of Earth Removal Permits - Annual Review - Kerry presented the attached requests for Earth Removal Permit
renewals. All have been inspected by our Building Inspector and his notes are incorporated within. Earth Removal Permits are
governed by Article IX, Section 9 of the Town's Bylaws. Earth Removal in excess often- (10) cubic yards may only be done upon
Issuance ot a permit. Once granted, the permit is valid for a 1-year period. Attached, you will find a list of permits up for renewal, with
their location, any restrictions and notes from a recent site visit attached. The Treasurer has verified that all applicants are current on
Personal Property, Real Estate and! or Motor Vehicle Excise taxes. Staff recommends approval of the permit renewals with all
restrictions noted.
Paula questioned permit #8, states restored 100%, her question is has the entire area been excavated or is the area that was
excavated restored 100%. Kerry did have a conversation with Mike and there is material that is still available, this particular property
owner has restored the area and would like to have this permit remain active for the possiblity of sale. Kerry reveiwed the list as
attached. Paula motion to approve permits as read, Tom seconded, voted unanimously.
3. Review of Hurricane Irene EOC Activities; estimated cost - Chief Glenny presented the attached update on the events leading
up to Hurricane Irene incident. Noted that the preparation of this storm actually began after the 2008 ice storm and as a result of the
Blackboard Connect System he was able to correspond to the residents while away in NY.
Tom commented that as it turns out we may have not needed, but just to pre-empt any questions believes that it was very prudent and
only because of the change in path, in all likelyhood what occurred in Vermont may have been us and that Chief Glenny as Emergency
Management Director conducted themselves as was to be expected as we have learned from past experiences, lessons learned.
Noted that by the end of Monday, all customers that were without power had it restored and overall thinks that Unitil did a good job.
Paula expressed appreciation for all that Scott did and the phone call is a valuable system and noted that it's critical that we be
prepared and in the event that we have to activate the EOC again, we are prepared and should be proud of our personnel and all the
work that they've done for this community.
4. Review of FY11 Close Out; Final Year End Transfer Request - tabled to next week.
5. BOS Policies & Procedures - Kerry forwarded packet to the board which is a compilation of the BOS Policies. Paula had
updated policies based upon the notes from the March 8, 2007 work session minutes. Kerry noted that we also have a number of
procedures that have been approved by the BOS of the years.
Paula has concern on the "procedure files" and believes that a number of these should be included in the various subsections of the
policy manual. As such we may want to push this out a couple of weeks to give the staff time to accomplish incorporating into the
document. Most of these documents will need to be scanned and will be provided to the board prior to their meeting for review.
6. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 8/23/11 reviewed and signed
Warrants - none
Action File Issues - none
===PAGE 3===
the area where the new building is to be installed.
Marion commented that in order to keep the Development Planning Review complete, the Planning Board will need a copy of this
and any changes orders should be filed with their department as well. Noted that Janice Carrier, member of the DPW Building
Committee will be documenting the financials on what's been expended and should be received by the Selectmen within the next
week or so.
• Tom noted that the Finance Committee meets this Thursday with the Finance Committee at the Public Safety Complex.
8. Department Updates -
a. Upate on Planned Production/Affordable Housing - Marion Benson - Marion provided an update on the Towns'
Subsidized Housing Inventory (SHI) Report. DHCD Ch.40B Subsidized Housing Inventory lists the Town of Lunenburg with the credit of
132 units. This number included Pearl Brook Housing, DMR Group homes and Tri-Town currently has 66 completed units. She doesn't
expect an anwer on the third bullding to be built at Ir lown until they are able to get their funding (subsidy's) in place, later in the fall.
Also noted that the 41 anticated units to be built in the former Primary School will be applicable to be counted towards the town's
affordable housing quota. According to the State Office, the Town can use the project entitled Lunenburg Village that was approved on
June 9, 2010 for two years in our count. If they are not in construction by June 2, 2012, they will be removed. There are 64 units in the
project and 25% of affordable will be an additional 16 units. Tri Town filled up immediately and Emerald Place is over 55 as they chose
this over "affordable". Marion noted the change in our bylaws which now incorporates an affordable housing component, however the
Planning Board has not been presented with any potential projects as we do now have set asides to attain our goal of affordable
housing. A form will have to be submitted to put them on the inventory. (Planning Office has the form) Lunenburg has to document 272
units plus 2=274 units to fulfill their quota. The additional 2 units are due to latest census. The State is planning on making a change in
the Group Home criteria. (The town has 12 units.) The Town has not had any Group Homes permitted in the past two years, or maybe
longer. Chair noted that if we can achieve our quota, then the 40B projects would fall off the table.
9. Town Manager Updates
OLD BUSINESS
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
None
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 13, 2011
September 20, 2011
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 8:45 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 4===
non elderly arivers
• The elderly van has trouble when making a
left hand turn especially if large SUV's are
parked on Main St.
• Elderly pedestrians have trouble in cross walk
as it is not very visible.
Suggestions
• Decrease congestion by having TH employees
use lots
• Eliminate 1-2 parking spaces on Main St. thus
conforming to the 20 ft. from intersection law.
• Make Memorial Drive a one way with exit only
from Memorial Dr. to Mass Ave
• Place signage indicating elderly and youth in
area so people are required to slow down
• Place cones in cross walk
===PAGE 5===
Townsend Harbor Rd
Muipue Rd
===PAGE 6===
TEL: (978) 582-4150
FAX: (978) 582:4159
655 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
August 10,2011
Kerry Speidel
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA. 01462
A citizen, David V. MacDonald, came into the Police Station and voiced
his concerns to me about the intersection of Townsend Harbor Road and
Mulpus Road. Mr. MacDonald pointed out that this intersection had been
poorly designed and presented a serious concern to the safety of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Mr. MacDonald, who is a commercial
building contractor, had a traffic engineer design what he thought would
be a much safer intersection. Mr. MacDonald said that he had already
discussed the plan with the Highway superintendent, but wished to solicit
the opinion of the Police Department as it relates to this issue.
In response to his proposal I would first point out that indeed, I agree this
intersection can present some safety concerns and could be easily
improved. I also concur with the design proposal which calls for the
removal of some trees on the southbound shoulder of Townsend Harbor
Ra near the intersection, and eliminates the two entrances and exits on
Mulpus Road. This design, in contrast to the present intersection, provides
for a better line of sight for vehicles negotiating a turn into Mulpus Rd.,
prevents traffic from entering Mulpus Rd. at unrestricted speeds, and
eliminates the triangle that creates three intersecting points.
Townsend Harbor road has been the subject of many citizen complaints in
past years regarding the excessive speed of vehicles. 162 speeding motor
vehicles have been stopped by the police in the last 28 months. In that
===PAGE 7===
Mr. MacDonald's concerns are legitimate and if the resources are
available the proposal would surely enhance the safety of travelers.
Thank you for consideration to this matter. If you need to discuss this
further please do not hesitate to contact me.
Lt. James P. Marino
===PAGE 8===
From: Joseph Frawley (DOT) <joseph.frawley@state.ma.us>
To: "davebettymacdonald@comcast.net" < davebettymacdonald@comcast.net>
Sent: Tuesday, August 16, 2011 2:59:45 PM
Subject: RE: Intersection at Townsend Harbor rd & Mulpus rd Lunenburg ma.
Dave,
Thank you for your email regarding the intersection of Townsend Harbor Road and Mulpus Road in Lunenburg. As we
discussed on the phone on Friday, both roadways are under Town jurisdiction. Therefore, any decisions regarding the
geometry design of intersection improvements and/or traffic control changes rest with the Town of Lunenburg. If the
Town feels that technical advice from MassDOT regarding changes to the intersection would be helpful, they can feel
free to contact me by phone at (508)929-3916 or by email at joseph.frawley@state.ma.us.
Joseph Frawley, P.E.
District 3 Traffic Engineer
Massachusetts Department of Transportation, Highway Division
T: 508.929.3916
F: 508.799.9763
www.mass.gov/massdot
From: davebettymacdonald@comcast.net [mailto: davebettymacdonald@comcast.net]
Sent: Friday, August 12, 2011 5:16 PM
To: Frawley, Joseph (DOT)
Subject: Intersection at Townsend Harbor rd & Mulpus rd Lunenburg ma.
Good Evening Mr. Frawley,
It was a pleasure talking with you today in regards to the intersection @ Townsend harbor Rd. &
Mulpus Rd in Lunenburg, MA.
As we discussed, I will give you an overview of our situation:
I have the police report on this intersection and as we discussed, it is pretty frightening, and I quote
from the police logs.
"Townsend Harbor road has been the subject of many citizen complaints in past years
regarding the excessive speed of vehicles. 162 speeding motor vehicles have been stopped
by the police in the past 28 months. In that time period the police department fielded 9 motor
complaints and responded to 28 motor vehicle crashes."
"Although a traffic count is not available it would be an accurate presumption to say that
Townsend Harbor road is well traveled. A major contributing factor to the traffic volume is that
Townsend Harbor road is a connection between RT. 2A and RT. 119 creating easy passage to
the border towns and New Hampshire."
quote by Lt. James P. Marino
===PAGE 9===

===PAGE 10===
INIEROEUTIUN. PLEAOE DUN WAN UNTIL OUMCONEO RURI VR
KILLED BEFORE THIS IS TAKEN CARE OF AND THE ISSUE IS
RESOLVED.I LOVE MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS AND DON'T WANT
ANYONE TO BE A VICTIM AS A RESULT OF OTHER PEOPLE'S
IGNORANCE AND POOR JUDGEMENT!
DANGER LURKING
YIELD SIGN
has been
REMOVED
Island is being used
as a parking lot for
weekend party goers!
===PAGE 11===
Katherine Craven, Executive Director
Massachusetts School Building Authority
40 Broad Street, Suite 500
Boston, MA 02109
RECEIVED
AUG 3 0 2011
SELECTMEN'S OFFICE
Dear Ms. Craven:
The Lunenburg School Regionalization Committee met in public session on Tuesday, August
23, 2011. The Committee unanimously voted to withdraw from discussion with the North
Middlesex Regional School District (NMRSD) School Committee about joining the district in
a regional expansion.
The Committee has worked for 15 months with a sub-committee of the NMRSD School
Committee. In July, at a joint meeting, a preliminary analysis of operational costs and
benefits of an expanded region was presented by Mr. David Tobin, an independent consultant
for the two school districts (attached). The analysis projected a positive economic impact for
Lunenburg, but not for the NMRSD. At the NMRSD School Committee's meeting on August
22, their sub-committee unanimously recommended against taking the next step of entering
into formal negotiations with Lunenburg for regional expansion, but the Committee deferred
official action until their next meeting. Some members desire more information about the
long-term capital impact of an expanded region on the NMRSD member towns, in order to
satisfy the perceived requirements of the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA).
At their meeting, no member of the NMRSD School Committee spoke in favor of expanding
the region, and a majority expressed opposition. It is abundantly clear to us that there is no
appetite in the NMRSD for negotiation of a true merger of our school districts. It was our
intent to include with this letter a video clip of the discussion at the meeting; however, the
earliest we will be able to secure that video will be next week. Once we have the DVD in
hand, we will mail a copy to you.
Lunenburg's Committee and the NMRSD sub-committee have worked well and in good faith,
though the process has been challenging at times. The Lunenburg Committee has been
committed to moving forward to negotiation of a Regional Agreement, as long as the entire
Agreement could be negotiable. Despite the immense effort that would be required in all four
towns to pass a new regional agreement as well as warrants for funding for a feasibility study
for the NMRSD High School, we have attempted to work with all due haste toward a clear
outcome. We have made the urgency of the determination about committing to formal
negotiations clear to the NMRSD School Committee on multiple occasions, with mixed
results. As you know, Lunenburg has critical facility needs at the Lunenburg High School and
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103
===PAGE 12===
-Sincerely,
Brendan Grady, Chair
Lunenburg School Regionalization Planning Committee
Enclosure
pc: Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes
Dave Matthews, Chair, Lunenburg Board of Selectmen
Representative Jennifer Benson
Senator Jennifer Flanagan
1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, Massachusetts 01462
978 582-4100 ~ fax 978 582-4103
===PAGE 13===
PERMIT
NAME
1
PIC's 2 & 3
Ralph Montouri Const. Co.
8
William R. Proctor, Inc.
PIC's 4 & 5 (transferred from Szocik 4/74)
14
PIC 19
P.J. Keating Company
15
PICs 20, 21
& 23
16
PIC #22
17
PIC 25
18
PIC 26???
P.J. Keating Company
P.J. Keating Company
P.J. Keating Company
P. J. Keating Company
19
P.J. Keating Company
27
P.J. Keating Company
EARTH REMOVAL PERMITS - TOWN OF LUNENBURG - EXPIRATION 8/31/
LOCATION
186 Massachusetts Ave.
Off Mass. Ave. northerly
W. side of Fort Pond Rd.
adjacent to Lancaster
Northerly Leom. Shirley
& westerly of Reservoir
Rd. both sides of B & M
Northerly Leom. -Shirley
Rd. and easterly of
Reservoir Rd. both sides
Round Rd.
Southerly Leom-Shirley
Rd. and easterly of Fort
Pond Rd.
ACREAGE
Southerly Leom-Shirley Rd. &
westerly of Fort Pond Rd.
23.5
27.
8.37
165.
170.
180.
6.8
Easterly of Shirley
Reservoir and Northerly
B &M Railroad on Shirley Town Line
Southeast corner of
Lunenburg approx. 1,300
inland from Leom.-Shirley Rd.
22.
84.
RESTRICTIONS
Standard Restrictions
plus 25' buffer zone
Standard Restrictions
plus no excavation belov
brook level.
Standard Restrictions pl
Conditions in Special
Apportition) % reaso
effort to curtail noise,
traffic, etc. and 15' Buffe
Standard Restrictions an
subject to provision in
lessee document plus 25
Buffer Zone
Standard Restrictions an
subject to provisions in
lessee doc. plus 250'
Buffer Zone
Standard Restrictions an
subject to provisions in
lessee doc.plus 15'
Buffer Zone
Standard Restrictions an
subject to provisions in
lessee doc. plus 15'
Buffer Zone
Standard Restrictions an
subject to provisions in
lessee doc. plus 15 Buffe
Standard Restrictions pl
50' Buffer Zone
===PAGE 14===
28
P.J. Keating Company
29
P.J. Keating Company
30
P.J. Keating Company
42
PIC #24
P.J. Keating Company
Westerly side of
Reservoir Road near
Round Road
Westerly side of
Reservoir Rd. South &
near Goodrich Street
Southeast corner of
Lunenburg approx. 2,200
inland from Rd. abutting the Shirley
Town Line
Leom-Shirley Rd.
6.6
Standard Restrictions
12.5
Standard Restrictions
28.
30.
Standard Restrictions
Standard Restrictions pl
visual barrier of plants
32
Raymond A. Powell, Jr.
PIC's #14#17
Rear of 395 Goodrich St.
approx. 1,150 inland
from C. Nass
16.
Standard Restrictions pl
25' Buffer Zone
5
A.C. Szocik, Inc.
31
PIC #6
A.C. Szocil, Inc.
Easterly side Reservoir
155 Reservoir Rd. (left
side approx. 1,400 from
Page Street)
Off Arbor St. entrance
from Rt. 2A approx.
800' inland
32.8
Standard Restrictions
18.5
Standard Restrictions pl
50' Buffer Zone and prim
entrance/exit to be on R
***Mike's Notes:
KEATINGS: MOST ACTIVITY THROUGHOUT THE SITE IS ABOUT THE SAME AS LAST YEAR WITH THE EXCEPTION OF I
CONCRETE AND SHINGLES.
NEW ASPHALT SILOS INSTALLED
===PAGE 15===
To: Kerry Speidel, Town Manager
From: Chief Scott F. Glenny
RE: Hurricane Irene
total expenditures:
Fire
$ 4,472.42
DPW
$ 3.100.08
3,044.75
PoLice
12,619.25
Wednesday August 24t:
(I was out of town)
Participated in a conference call with Mass Emergency Management Agency (MEMA) and the
National Weather Service (NWS) Predictions that we would feel a significant impact from the storm
Call Town Manager, Police Chief, DPW Director, informed them of the information.
Contacted Fire Department staff to begin preparations. Station generator, spare generators tested,
extra fuel on hand for small engines. Check on available personnel for station coverage.
Thursday August 25th
Participated in a conference call with MEMA and NWS again all indications of a significant impact
for our area.
Contacted Town Manager, Police Chief, DPW Directo advised of information received.
Recorded a notice for Emergency Notification System to be sent out at 6 PM.
Sent e-mail request for a department head meeting for preparations.
(began 6 hr ride home with limited cell service)
Friday August 26th
Department head meeting, all departments represented including water district. Discussions
included emergency shelter, (both human and animal), checked on availability of school buses for
evacuations and transport of non critical injuries if needed, DPW preparations and staffing,
availability of private contractors, Use of Library for FEMA if needed, EOC opening and staffing
discussed. Requested both Hickory Hills and Lake Shirley dams be opened in expectation of heavy
rains. (predictions of 6 to 12 inches), reviewed Fire Dept. storm SOG as it pertained to others
including when it was unsafe to be out and how to protect vehicles when possible, announced a
conference call at 12:30 if anyone wanted to attend.
Chief Bourgeois and I participated in conference call. Gov. Patrick declared a pre land fall state of
emergency. Our area was still expected to take a significant impact from the storm. Advice was to
plan for a category 2 hurricane some time Sunday. Rain fall predictions from 5 to 10 inches with
printed on recycled paper
===PAGE 16===
neavy rains and wind however at this time the storin seems to be moving slighty west increasing the
potential for tornado activity in the north east quadrant.
Sent e-mail and follow up phone call to do a partial opening of the EOC at 5:30 am Police, Fire, DPW,
Town Manager, Secretary.
Checked Dams and water ways for obstructions and flow.
Checked with station, any calls from residents with questions or concerns.
Participated in conference call at 6 pm. Same track as 12 noon. Met with Fire officer detailed to station
duty. While at station received a call from a resident requesting sand bags. DPW called resident
would meet at DPW garage requested 15 bags.
President declared pre land fall state of emergency
Sunday August 28th
5:00 am at EOC beginning set up
5:30am EOC partial activation with Police Chief, Fire Chief, DPW Director, Town Manager, Secretary.
Notified MEMA EOC partial activation
Monitored situation, checked with dispatch for any issues, brought Deputy Chief Sullivan into EOC
so I could leave to check road ways, water ways, dams, with Town Manager, Police Chief, and
Selectmen Matthews.
The EOC was fielding very few call and most of them were tree down calls.
The EOC was closed at 4 pm.
Monday August 29th.
Review of incidents
Meeting with staff all went well no issues
10:00 am Chief Bourgeois and I participated in conference call with Unitil Only issue from my
perspective was the need for outage updates on a regular basis including location.
Discussed EOC operation with Chief Bourgeois. No issues good operation. I did note that we opened
the EOC to be pro active when in actuality the need for the EOC never developed. (although it did
stream line or simplify the DPW response for dispatch when busy)
The town was prepared for the storm and the clean up aftermath. Fortunately we did not have to
respond.
See attached documents for call breakdown and expenses.
I would like to thank all the departments for participating and preparing. The support and
cooperation is appreciated.
printed on recycled paper
===PAGE 17===
ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL ASSIGNMENTS AND RELATED COSTS
Seven additional personnel were «ssigned beginning at 1800 hr on Saturday, August 27". One engine and one
ambulance staffed. (4 On an engine and 3 on the ambulance)
Four additional staff were brought on beginning at 0600 on Sunday, August 28'. Two engines and one ambulance
staffed. (As most staff are EMTs we could staff a second ambulance if needed.)
Staffing dropped to seven personnel beginning at 1800 hrs on Sunday, August 28" until 0600 hrs, Monday, August 29'.
Prior to the incident eight personnel were brought in to help with sandbag detail at the DPW on Saturday morning
After the incident five additional personnel were brought in to help with sandbags on Monday.
Total pavroll=$6,472.42
Breakdown of incidents reported to dispatch
A total of 8 incident related entries were logged during this 36hr. period as follows;
• Three ambulance calls
• Three powerline down
• One hazard removal
• One assist the public
DPW
$ 1,900.08 overtime
Replacement of 2 chain saws $1200.00
printed on recycled paper
===PAGE 18===
August 30, 2011
To:
From:
Re:
Kerry Speidel, Town Manager
Fire Chief Scott Glenny, EMD
Chief Dan Bourgeois
Storm preparation, operation and recap for August 28, 2011
Hurricane Irene
PREPARATION
1) Police Department preparation for Hurricane Irene began on Thursday
August 25th as weather experts predicted the storm to track directly over
New England sometime on Sunday the 28th. The first order of business
was to notify staff of pending event and that no vacation and personal
time for Sunday and Monday August 28th and 29th will be granted. I also
requested all officers advise me of their availability for the entire weekend
of the storm in order to organize a response plan.
2) Cruisers and equipment were checked for readiness and all outdoor
equipment was brought inside. Garage space was cleaned and organized
for potential cruiser storage.
3) Worcester County Sherriff's Department made available their staff and
equipment if needed. Emergency contact numbers noted.
4) Station generator fuel checked for adequate emergency operations if
needed.
5) On August 26th I participated in a Department head meeting called by
Chief Glenny EMD where additional Town wide resources/ plan was
discussed such as emergency shelter, DPW prep. Council on Aging, Water
District, Library, dispatch, EOC (Emergency Operations Center) opening
and staffing as well as other logistics and a 12:30 conference call with
MEMA was announced.
===PAGE 19===
schedule were sajety reminders jor the stajj on parrot ana at wnal ume we
would recall them to the station for safety reasons if the storm becomes a
threat to their personal safety while on patrol. (overview of schedule and
assignments below
8) On Saturday the 27th I fielded numerous messages and e-mails from staff
regarding the schedule as well as HHAN (Health and Homeland Advisory
Network) alerts regarding emergency updates on the storm.
STORM DAY August 28th overview.
1) 5:30am: On duty in EOC. Preparation and briefing with Lt. Marino
regarding the operational plan for the day. Dispatch advised of plan.
2) 6:45am: Reviewed notices received from Unitil regarding their EOC
operation and emergency contact numbers.
3) 7:00am: Reviewed assignments with day shift officers and Sergeant.
4) 9:00am: Reviewed police operational plan with Selectman Matthews.
5) 11:30am: Checked roadways, Lake Shirley Dam, rivers and streams with
Chief Glenny, Kerry Speidel and Dave Matthews.
6) 2pm: Reviewed forecast, schedule and operations with Lt. Marino and
Chief Glenny as storm passes. Began to reduce number of personnel
beginning on the 3-11pm shift and cancelled remaining assignments for
Monday.
7) 3:30pm:
Review EOC operations timeline, forecast and activity with Chief
Glenny
8) 4:00pm: Conclude police operations in EOC.
Operations review; Monday August 29th
1) Review of police incident logs and schedule.
2) 10:00am: Conference call with Unitil. Chief Glenny and I participated.
Chief Glenny advised Unitil that we would appreciate outage updates on a
regular basis especially during emergency operations. All in agreement.
3) EOC review with Chief Glenny. No issues. Operation went well. All staff
worked well together and operation considered successful (with a bit of
help from Mother Nature for sparing us the worst of her furry.) We were
prepared for a Cat. 2 storm and potential cleanup for Monday August 29th.
===PAGE 20===
but as ine storm passea l was decided to keep bree yers rpi
and only one additional until 11pm. (shifts reduced due to reduced storm
intensity and its related affects weakening)
• Three officers scheduled for the 11am to 7am shift on Monday the 29th as
well as two additional officers for the 7am to 3pm shift were cancelled.
Originally posted for public safety related issues due to storm aftermath
damage.
• Two reserves in training came in to assist during the operation at no cost.
Total payroll=$3,046.75 (No additional costs or expenses)
Breakdown of incidents reported to dispatch
A total of 56 incident related entries were logged during this 24hr. period as
follows; (Note; not all patrol initiated checks and assists were logged)
• Road hazard responses (trees, wires and large limbs down affecting
traffic) 21
• High risk area checks (physical checks of gas plant and lines, railroad
yard, bridges, power sub stations, government buildings etc.) 8
• Business area checks 5
• Motor vehicle stops 12
• Accidents 1
• Recreational vehicle complaint 1
• Assist other agency and citizen (Mutual aid) 2
• Suspicious activity 2
• Burglar alarms 1
• Assist rescue 2
• Found/lost property I
• Numerous assists for local utility, tree and DPW crews not logged.
In closing I report that the operation went well and appreciate the support and
cooperation from all Town Departments as well as Town Officials.
Chief Dan Bourgeois
===PAGE 21===
4x4x1/4"
STEEL TUBE
COLUMN
(5 TYP.)
I7'-10"
3 1/2"14"
LVL (TYP.)
4"x1O"x1/2" CAP
PLATE WITH
8"x1O"xl/4" PLATE,
EACH SIDE
(TYP.)
4"x4"xl/4"
STEEL TUBE
COLUMN
(5 TYP.)
6" THICK CONC.
TOPPING (TYP.)
FIELD VERIFY
14'-10"
10"x1O"x5/8"
BASE PLATE
ON 3/4" NON-
SHRINK GROUT
WITH (4) 5/8"
ANCHOR BOLTS
(TYP.) -
- 24"x24"x12"
CONG. FOOTING
WITH (4) #5
EACH WAY
(TYP.)
PARTIAL FLOOR PLAN
1/8"=l'-O"
PARTIAL FLOOR PLAN AND DETAIL
SCALE: AS NOTED
HELENE • KARL
PROJECT:
DPN ADDITIONS / RENOVATIONS
Architects, Inc.
DRAWING TITLE:
61 Skyfields Drive. Groton, MA 01450
ROOF SUPPORT BEAM
PROJECT NUMBER:
10023
SCALE:
AS NOTED
DATE:
8/26/11
BEAM SUPPORT SECTION
1/2"=|'-O"
DRAWING NUMBER:
SK-AT
===PAGE 22===
vulI
state ann pertso, you are nereby airected to
proceed with the work in accordance with SK-A1 dated 8/26/11 for the subject Project. HKA will prepare change order #1
for review and signature by all parties at the meeting on 9/6/11.
Please call if you have any questions.
Gregg
