===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
1/11/11
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present, Tom Alonzo absent. Meeting opened at 7:01
P.M. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Moment of silence observed for the victims of the recent Tuscon AZ shooting
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dan Keohan of 92 Cross Street came before the board in a plea for their assistance, he noted that he is also coach for 8i grade
basketball travel team and was informed that the availability of the school gym has been reduced. As such, Monday, Wednesday and
Friday will be closed @6:00 PM and on Tuesday and Thursday @8:00 pm and the amount of time that they're allowed to practice is
just not enough. This past year the team has run into a problem of not being able to use the basketball courts and on a number of
occasions when he has gone by the school at night, the lights in the gym are still on and in most cases, it's well after 8:00 PM. The
team plays throughout the state and now they're limited to practice down to two hours per week. The schools reasoning's are because
of the heat and having to turn down the thermostats and the costs for lighting the basketball courts. Just received an email this morning
stating that the soccer teams will be using the basketball courts, and added that the gyms need to be opened Monday through Friday
until 9:00 PM.
Paula commented that 5 days a week seems excessive and per Dan, since this new development this season we are having the
recreation program use split courts and in this program you are only able to practice for 15 minutes before the game. In the past we
practiced 3 hours per week and this is what they need. Where we're at now, even the neighboring communities are practicing 3 - 4
hours per week. We have great talent coming up and it's being stymied by someone saying that there's no availability for the courts
and he's asking for assistance from the Board of Selectmen.
Dave questioned if they've worked with the Parks Department and per Dan, they have not intervened at this point. Per Dave he is
aware that the Park Department use to use the facility through a fee system.
Dan just doesn't think that this is right for the kids; we're six games into the season and only have until the end of February, they have
offered to pay a fee, but is being told that this will not solve the problem.
Dave commented that it doesn't seem that this should be an insurmountable problem, but noted that he's dealing with two other elected
boards.
Paula would suggest that the Parks Department be contacted.
Steve believes that we should be able to come to a resolution to this.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Snow announcement for pending snow storm and potential power outages. Local utility companies are providing media relations
and increased the crews in anticipation of the storm event and will be prepared should conditions worsen. Noted emergency measures
to be followed in the event of power in this case Unitil can be contacted @ 888-301-7700. Updates will also be available through their
website @ www.unitil.com.
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Retirement System Overview - Kevin Blanchette, Executive Director - Tabled until next week.
2. Public Hearing Municipal Aggregation Plan - Kerry provided the attached information for the board and as this is not a legal
requirement it has been suggested. Brian Murphy of Colonial Power Group reveiwed where we've been and what brought us to this
point, the concept of aggregation has evloved slowly and the town decided to pursue at the November Town Meeting. Public Hearing is
to engage public input and transparency and is requested by the Department of Energy Resources. The plan has been reviewed by a
number of municipalities, the DPU, DOER, City Solicitors and Town Counsels and as such the document before the board is a very
mature document and what they believe is the best plan available. Overviewed the key factors within the document and noted that we
are slowly exiting the review process. Noted that from the consumers point of view, there are not much changes but they will need to
verify that on their bills they are receiving the towns' rate. Discussed the opt-out option and customer enrollment process. Unitil has
reviewed this plan to ensure that they are comfortable with it and they haven't been informed of any issues on the transactions
processes. Brian also noted and expressed appreciation for Unitil's input throughout this process.
Paula would like to have this placed on the board's agenda for next week for formal vote and to provide copies of this document at the
Library and Town Hall, noted that this has been placed on the Town's web-site and would like to give the public the opportunity to
===PAGE 2===
comment if they so choose as this is the first night that people have heard us go through the plan. Brian noted that CPG's contact
information is within the document and the public should feel free to contact them as well for information.
3. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 10/5/10, 10/12/10 (Dave noted changes to these minutes to which Steve
concurred) & 1/4/11 and Executive Session for 10/5/10 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #37 11, 1/11/11 - $127,281.07 and #38 11, 1/2/11 - $249,724.66 reviewed and signed.
Action File Issues - Ernie would like to discuss Holman Street Bridge and he has a concern on debris accumulating on the bridge
and the possibility of the area being dammed up and the only way he could see in alleviating this situation would be to remove the
bridge all together. Paula noted that this was scheduled for a future meeting and as there is quite an amount of information that the
Town Manager is still waiting to receive from the Fire Chief, Police Chief and DPW Director, believe this is planned for a meeting in
February.
Board commented on the programming that has been occuring on the local access channel and expressed appreciation to PACC for
their efforts.
Noted that Lunenburg Public Schools are closed tomorrow due to the pending storm, town will be making their decision on closure for
tomorrow morning.
4. Committee Updates -
• Dave attended the recent School Committee meeting at which time, the Superintendent presented her budget. Net increase of
approximately $923,000 of last fiscal year and $424,000 over the town manager's projection. Reasons for the large increase is
the elimination of ARRA funding and the Shirley students. At this point looking at the five year projection; there are a lot of
assumptions within their budget. The school has done enrollment projections on the number of students based upon the
developments that are being built in town.
> Ernie PACC met last night and are looking into further acquisitions in order to record events to be televised. They are also
looking at some method to get money back from the DVD's that are produced and sold, possibly a revolving fund. Also
informed the board that the Green Communities Task Force is developing an RFP for the solar array at the Landfill and there
are a number of questions that will involve the Town Manager, should anticipate this coming before the town in a very short
5. Department Updates - IT Director Nancy Strom provided the board with the attached summary of IT activities within the past
year. Paula questioned the Munis access and whether the DPW is being used as a test sight and this is the intent. Noted that having
this access for other departments makes sense. Noted the GIS system and Paula's concern is that departments are not utilizing for
desktop applications. Per Nancy, once we get this accomplished it should be accessed online so that not only the departments but the
public can use. Cartographics and the Assessor's will be having a demo in February with a working website for us. Nancy also noted
that they have now added domain controllers and issues on protections are beginning to smooth out now. One of the intents all along
has been to eliminate the redundancy among the departments so that we can reduce and streamline functions.
Ernie commented on the equipment replacement and seems like we've had a lot in one year and if there's a plan of obsolescence on
this and according to Nancy she's been working on a three year plan, so that most will be replaced within that time.
Paula questioned the balancing of Nancy's work between the Town and School and how this has been working out. According to
Nancy, the school has since hired some employees to assist her and it's working out much better now.
Kerry noted that she has spoken with the School Superintendant and the infrastructure is far more stable.
6. Town Manager Updates
Kerry received information from the Planning Director and the Planning Board is interested in broadcasting one of their meetings per
month and will coordinate this with the Town Clerk's Office. Anticipate that this will not occur until sometime next month.
Overview of the Town Hall renovations; had hoped that this would be completed over the holidays, do expect this to be accomplished
by the end of the month. The big holdup at this time is that we've had to go out to bid for the carpeting and the need to accomplish the
renovations down stairs in a phased in process to be as undisruptive to the business that occurs. Don't anticipate closing Town Hall
during this process. She has been looking to do a lot of this outside of normal business hours as possible and because of the economy
have been able to acquire good bids and will be having the sheriffs office assisting us with the painting process. Also, contacted MC
Shirley to inquire if there is anything that they are able to assist the town with during this process. Hope to have the entire renovation
completed within the next several months.
Eagle Heights Project It appears that in the near future we will be able to reapply for Section 202 Grant Funding, however, due to the
lengthy delay in opening this round of funding, the developer is concered that funding awards will not be made prior to the expiration
of this option to purchase the property. As such, he is seeking consideration for an extension of the option. She will be meeting with
him next week and will provide additional information to you after that time.
The changes in general seem to be clarifications for existing as well as new Section 202 developments that will ultimately enhance the
overall program, including the ability to also secure low income housing tax credits as part of their financing. The Section 202
===PAGE 3===
Supportive Housing Act of 2010 was signed by the President on December 28th, thereby opening the way for RFPs to be issued once
the changes were incorporated. Noted that as the RFP has been delayed our ability to know whether or not we will secure funding by
the July 2011 date is no longer possible, given the RFP once out (no date has been announced as of yet) most likely will have a
submittal deadline of 3 months from its issuance and an additional 4-6 months before a funding award might be announced by HUD.
Therefore, RCAP Solutions, Inc. is requesting an Agreement Extension from July, 2011 to July of 2012 to allow sufficient time to secure
the funding for Eagle Heights. In addition, we would also request an extension on the title review which expired at the end of December
until June of 2011. She would like to schedule a meeting with Representatives of RCAP Solutions, Inc. and the board to discuss these
recent events and RAP's continued commitment to this very important senior housing project.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Update on 5-year Financial Plan - Same document that was presented in November, she was asked to quantify the items in the
new forecast and as such, Kerry provided the attached spreadsheet. Special expenditure assumptions, grouped the new items that
have been added to the budget. Projected Deficit is restoration of items that have been cut totaling $899,314, which are items that are
increasing greater level than other budgets. Dave questioned justification for the Special Expenditure Assumptions and Kerry would
prefer that we have the department heads here if this is the discussion that the board wants to have.
Paula has questions about adding personnel and that this is a discussion we need to have with the departments. Kerry proposes
bringing in the department heads within the next couple of weeks so that the board is able to understand the individual needs of the
departments particularly as we are in the budget season. Paula would like to have a retrospective look at what were the staff levels in
the past 10 years and how these levels have changed the operations of the departments. Also, would like to know what the benetit
costs would be for the increase in personnel levels under the assumptions. Kerry will add this information and is also in the process of
Identitying all the major systems in the buildings and what ones may be needing replacement as there is none of this information in the
Capital Plan requests right now, not being considered this year. The Facilities Manager is compiling this information and formulating a
replacement plan. Kerry noted that there is no way that we're going to sell any increase without a plan in place to present to the
people. She will try to schedule one of the Chiefs' and possibly the COA and Library for next week's meeting.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Adjourned Regular Session at 8:45 P.M. and opened Executive Session by roll call vote; Steve aye, Paula aye, Ernie aye and Dave
aye, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to collective bargaining or
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position. Chairman announced
that the Board would not be returning to Regular Session
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 8:45 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 4===
Town of Lunenburg Community Choice Aggregation Plan
Purpose of the Aggregation Plan
The Town of Lunenburg developed this Aggregation Plan in compliance with Massachusetts law
regarding public aggregation of electric consumers. It contains required information on the
structure, operations, services, funding, and policies of the Town's plan. The Aggregation Plan
has been developed in consultation with the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources
(DOER).
The purpose of this aggregation plan is to represent consumer interests in competitive markets
for electricity. It seeks to aggregate consumers in Lunenburg to negotiate rates for the supply of
electricity. It brings together the buying power of more than 4,000 rate-paying customers.
Participation is voluntary for each individual consumer, Individual consumers have the
opportunity to decline service provided through the Plan and to choose any electric supplier
they wish.
The Town of Lunenburg has distributed this plan for public review prior to submitting it to the
Department of Public Utilities ("DPU"):
CONTENTS
1.0 The Process of Aggregation
2.0 The Organizational Structure and Operations of the Town's Plan
3.0 Program Funding
4.0 Activation and Termination of the Aggregation Program
5.0 Methods for Entering and Terminating Agreements with Other Entities
6.0 Rate-setting and Other Costs to Participants
7.0 Universal Access
8.0 Equitable Treatment of All Classes of Customers
9.0 Reliability
10.0 Rights and Responsibilities of Community Choice Aggregation Program Participants
11.0 The Consequences of Aggregation
12.0 Requirements Established By Law or the Department Concerning Aggregated Service
===PAGE 5===
REQUIREMENTS FOR MUNICIPAL AGGREGATION
The Massachusetts Electric Industry Restructuring Act of 1997 contains several requirements
for municipal aggregators. One requirement is to develop an Aggregation Plan in consultation
with the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources. The Aggregation Plan is subject to
review by citizens in the participating town, and approval by the DPU.
1.0 THE PROCESS OF AGGREGATION
The process of municipal aggregation involves a multi-step public process:
1.1 Vote of Town Meeting to Authorize Aggregation
1.2 Development of Community Choice Aggregation Plan in consultation with DOER
1.3 Review of Aggregation Plan by Town Manager, Board of Selectmen and citizens
1.4 Vote on Aggregation Plan by Board of Selectmen
1.5 Submission of Aggregation Plan to DPU for approval
1.6 DPU Public Hearing on Aggregation Plan
1.7 After DPU approval, selection of date to receive price terms from qualified suppliers
1.8 Selection of supplier by Town Manager
1.9 Notification of Eligible Consumers of automatic enrollment
1.10 Opt-out period begins 30 days prior to first day of service
1.11 Administrative transfer of Participating Consumers to new supplier
1.17 File contract and report with state (DPU, DOER, Inspector General) within 15 days of
signing contract.
In addition to this process, municipal aggregators must comply with open meeting laws, ethical
rules, and certain public bidding and information requirements.
- 2-
===PAGE 6===
2.0 THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AND OPERATIONS OF LUNENBURG'S
AGGREGATION PROGRAM
This section will detail how the Town will organize the daily operations of the Plan and will
assign responsibility to each party.
Lunenburg's Town Government is led by a 5-person Board of Selectmen. Daily operations
are overseen by a Town Manager. Town elections are held the third Saturday in May.
The Board of Selectmen is composed of five members elected for staggered 3-year terms.
Specific powers and responsibilities of the Board of Selectmen are set forth in the Town's
Charter. The operational role of the Town and its agent in relation to consumers is outlined and
described in the following pages.
There are six operational levels to the Town's Community Choice Power Supply Program as
described in section 2.1.
Town of Lunenburg Community Choice Aggregation Plan
Operational Outline
2.1 Description of Operational Levels
Level One: Consumers
Citizens and Lunenburg consumers hold the ultimate authority over the aggregation and its
functions. They can elect candidates for the Board of Selectmen who may take positions
regarding the aggregation. They can participate in local and regional meetings and hearings
regarding issues related to restructuring in general and the aggregation of Lunenburg in
particular. And they can attend meetings to express their views. (Also see Consumer buying
power at Level Six below.)
Level Two: Board of Selectmen
Based upon its existing authority, or authority provided by voters at town elections, the Board
of Selectmen may act on program and policy issues and contract recommendations. In addition,
it may provide instructions to the town's agent regarding specific policy or program decisions to
be made under the aggregation plan. It may also raise issues directed to it by consumers for the
Town to address.
Level Three: Town Manager
The Town Manager carries out the collective decisions and instructions of the Board of
Selectmen and consumers.
- 3-
===PAGE 7===
Level Four: Colonial Power Group, Inc. (CPG)
As the agent for the Town, CPG provides the day-to-day management and supervision of the
business affairs of the aggregation under a Contract Agreement. CPG serves as the Town's
procurement agent, utilizing its staff to solicit services as requested by the Town. In addition,
CPG provides office space and administrative support to coordinate the aggregation's
operations. This administrative support includes: 1) communications; 2) program development;
3) record-keeping; 4) oversight of program administrators who assist in service procurement
and contract oversight and maintenance.
Level Five: Power Suppliers
Power suppliers contract with Lunenburg through its Town Manager. The power supply
program is negotiated, recommended, and monitored for compliance by CPG. No power supply
contract is binding until approved by the Town Manager.
Level Six: Consumers
Every Eligible Consumer in Lunenburg may participate in the Town's aggregation program. All
Eligible Consumers will also have the ability to decline supply service through the Competitive
Supplier and choose any other power supply option they wish. Consumers who are dissatisfied
with services provided under contracts negotiated by the Town may also communicate directly
with the Supplier or CPG via e-mail or toll-free telephone numbers in an effort to alter or
otherwise improve service. Consumers may also bring issues before the Board of Selectmen.
(See Level One above.)
2.2 Program Operations
The plan's operations are guided by the provisions and goals contained in this plan and the
instructions and decisions of the Town, Manager's office, CPG, and consumers.
The goals of this aggregation plan are:
1) To provide the basis for aggregation of consumers on a non-discriminatory basis;
2) To acquire a market rate for electricity supply and transparent pricing;
3) To provide equal sharing of economic savings based on current electric rates;
4) To allow those consumers who choose not to participate to opt-out;
5) To provide full public accountability to consumers; and
6) To utilize municipal and other powers and authorities that constitute basic consumer
protection to achieve these goals.
- 4-
===PAGE 8===
2.3 Programs of the Plan
The Town offers one program to achieve its goals: the Town of Lunenburg Community Choice
Aggregation. In addition, the Plan provides professional representation on behalf of consumers
in state proceedings and in regional or local forums to protect consumer interests in an evolving
marketplace.
The Community Choice Aggregation Program is designed to offer competitive choice to
consumers, and to gain other favorable economic and non-economic terms in service contracts.
The Town does not buy and resell power, but represents consumer interests to set the terms
for service. Through a competitive bid and negotiation process, the Town develops a contract
with a power supplier for firm, all-requirements service. The contract runs for a fixed term. The
process of supply contract approval contains checks and balances. Once the contract has been
negotiated by the Town's agent, it must be submitted to the Town Manager for approval. And
lastly, individual consumers may opt out of the program, and select Basic Service from Unitil or
supply from any other supplier they wish at anytime before or following their enrollment in the
Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program (See section 4.1.7 for more detailed
information on the opt-out process.) No individual consumer is required to receive service
under the Town's contract.
2.4 Staffing and Manpower for Programs
The operations necessary to plan, deliver, and manage the Town's program include: 1) technical
analysis; 2) competitive procurement of services: 3) regulatory approvals; 4) accounting and
fiscal management; 5) contract maintenance; 6) communications; 7) program coordination,
and; 8) administrative support for the Community Choice Aggregation Program. The Town
intends to utilize CPG as the professional, technical, and legal consultants to operate the
program. CPG is a licensed broker of electricity in Massachusetts. CPG has experience
designing, implementing and administering the opt-out aggregation program in place in
Marlborough, MA and under development in Lanesborough, MA and Ashland, MA. CPG will be
responsible for monitoring all aspects of the aggregation plan and any resulting contractual
agreements, including but not limited to monitoring and reporting on compliance with all
contract terms and conditions; resolution of contract issues; implementation of the "opt-out"
process for customers; participation in negotiations with the distribution company serving the
Town as it relates to the implementation of the aggregation program; preparation of reports
on the aggregation program, as directed; and routine updates and attendance at meetings with
the Town Manager and Board of Selectmen.
The Community Choice Aggregation Program has been developed on behalf of the Town by
CPG. Once a contract for power supply has been secured by CPG, CPG will administer the
Community Choice Aggregation Program.
CPG will undertake negotiations with Competitive Suppliers and provide representation at the
state level as needed, at the direction of the Town Manager and Board of Selectmen. The
terms and conditions of any contract for power supply are subject to review by the Town
- 5 -
===PAGE 9===
Counsel, as well as by any outside legal counsel which may be selected by the Town, and may
be further subject to the Town Counsel's approval as to legal form.
3.0 PROGRAM FUNDING
Initial funding for Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program comes from private capital
supplied by CPG. The Electric Supply Agreement with a Competitive Supplier will include a
$0.001/kWh adder that will be paid by the Competitive Supplier to CPG. The $0.001/kWh adder
will fund the on-going costs of the Community Choice Aggregation Program. The start-up costs
to be borne by CPG, include costs for legal representation, public education, communications
and mailing costs.
4.0 ACTIVATION AND TERMINATION OF THE POWER SUPPLY PROGRAM
4.1 Activation of the Community Choice Power Supply Program
Following the process of aggregation and competitive procurement of a proposed contract by
the Town of Lunenburg, activation of the Community Choice Aggregation Program requires
seven steps:
1) Acceptance of the aggregation plan by the Board of Selectmen and Town Manager of
Lunenburg pending DPU approval.
2) DPU approval of the aggregation plan.
3) Town of Lunenburg approval of the final supply contract (final signing of ESA by Town
Manager).
4) Notification of Eligible Consumers of pending automatic enrollment in the Community Choice
Aggregation Program.
5) Notification of Unitil.
6) Activation of Participating Consumers' service on billing cycle dates.
7) Customer Opt-Out
Each of these steps is described below:
4.1.1 Acceptance of the Contract By Board of Selectmen and Town Manager
All power supply contracts negotiated by the Town shall be expressly conditioned upon the
acceptance of the contract by the Town Manager. Suppliers and power supply contracts must
comply with all applicable laws and rules and regulations promulgated by the DPU concerning
competitive suppliers. The Supplier must have in place an executed Competitive Electric
- 6-
===PAGE 10===
Supplier Service Agreement with Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company d/b/a Unitil before
service can commence to any Participating Consumer under the Community Choice Power
Supply Program. All EDI testing between the Supplier and Unitil also must be completed before
service can commence to any Participating Consumer under this Program. Further, nothing in
the Community Choice Power Supply Program, nor its contract with the Town, shall abrogate
the Competitive Supplier's responsibilities and adherence to the Fitchburg Gas and Electric
Light Company's Terms and Conditions for Competitive Suppliers.
4.1.2 DPU Approval of Plan
The Town, through its agent, shall file this aggregation plan with the DPU. The DPU is required
to hold a public hearing on the plan.
4.1.3 Signing of Power Supply Contract by the Board of Selectmen and Town Manager
With the signing of the contract by the Town Manager, the terms and conditions in the contract
will be utilized for service for Eligible Consumers within the municipal boundaries of Lunenburg,
except for those consumers who have selected à competitive supplier prior to the contract
activation date and do not wish to switch to service under the Town's contract, or those
consumers who affirmatively opt out of the program. In addition, all Eligible Consumers
relocating to the area will be enrolled in the Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program
one month after their delivery account is set up with Unitil, unless they choose another
supplier, or opt-out following activation of service.
The Town shall file with the DPU, DOER, and Inspector General, within 15 days of signing by the
Board of Selectmen and Town Manager, the signed power supply contract and a report
detailing the process used to execute the contract
4.1.4 Notification of Consumers
Following approval of the contract by the Town, the Supplier shall undertake notification of all
Eligible Consumers on Basic Service to be enrolled prior to enrollment. The Town may also
generally notify all consumers receiving competitive service in Lunenburg of their eligibility to
receive power from the Town's supplier. The process of Notification shall be multi-layered: 1) a
mailing to be mailed by the Supplier; 2) newspaper notices; 3) public service announcements; 4)
posting of notices in Town Hall. Unitil reserves the right to include bill messages pertaining to
the Community Choice Aggregation Program. All notification expenses shall be borne by the
Supplier.
Prior to enrollment, this notification shall: 1) inform consumers they have the right to opt out of
the aggregated entity without penalty and choose Basic Service at any time before or after their
first day of service; 2) prominently state all charges to be made and a comparison of the price
and primary terms of the Town's contract compared to the price and terms of Unitil's Basic
Service; 3) explain how to opt out; 4) provide written notification that no charges associated
with the opt-out will be made by the Supplier.
- 7-
===PAGE 11===
In those instances when an eligible customer first moves into the Town, the customer will not
be assigned to the Town's designated Supplier until the Supplier submits an "enroll customer"
transaction for such customer. Prior to such "enroll customer" transaction, the customer shall
receive Basic Service.
Unitil will inform new eligible customers requesting service in the Town that they have
generation supply option(s), including the availability of the Community Choice Aggregation. To
facilitate enrollment in the Town's program, Unitil will electronically transmit the name,
address and existing supply option of the new customer to the Town's designated Supplier to
facilitate the notification and Opt-Out requirements of the program. Once the appropriate
notification has been provided to the customer and applicable Opt-Out requirements met, the
Supplier will electronically enroll the customer by submitting an "enroll customer" transaction
to Unitil in accordance with the rules and procedures set forth in the EBT Working Group
Report.
The procedures described above may also be found in National Grid's filing related to municipal
aggregation, docketed as DTE 06-104. These procedures were discussed in numerous meetings
between CPG and National Grid staff and should be applicable to all aggregations in
Massachusetts, regardless of Distribution Company.
The methods by which customers will be enrolled in Lunenburg's Community Choice
Aggregation are consistent with Unitil's terms and conditions for competitive suppliers -
M.D.T.E. Nos. 101A, 201A, and 301A.
4.1.5 Notification of Unitil
Along with notification of Eligible Consumers in the Town of Lunenburg, the Town shail notify
the selected Supplier and Unitil to begin preparation of the administrative process to transfer
Eligible Consumers coincident with each customer's billing cycle. Alternatively, or in
combination with the Town notification, the selected Supplier may notify Unitil to begin
preparation ofthe administrative process.
4.1.6 Activation of Participating Consumers' Service on Billing Cycle Dates
The process of activation is an administrative function with three parts: 1) Data preparation:
Unitil will identify all customers on Basic Service in Lunenburg by eliminating those customers
who have already selected a competitive supplier; 2) Automatic Enrollment: All verified
customers shall be transferred to the Town's supplier coincident with Unitil's billing periods,
unless they have previously sent in notification of their intent to opt out according to
established deadlines. Eligible Consumers will be enrolled with the new supplier over the period
of one month. Unitil shall notify each transferred consumer of the change to the Town's
supplier with its last bill for Basic Service. Service under the new supplier shall begin at the start
of the billing period following transfer.
- 8-
===PAGE 12===
4.1.7 Customer Opt-Out
Eligible Consumers may opt out of service from the Town's Community Choice Aggregation
Program at no charge either in advance of service start up deadlines or at anytime after the first
day of service. Customers who seek to return to Basic Service should provide notice to the
supplier and/or Unitil five (5) or more business days before the next scheduled meter read
date. Participating Residential customers will be transferred to Basic Service in two (2) business
days. Participating Commercial and Industrial customers will be transferred to Basic Service
after their next meter read date provided the meter read date is at least two (2) days after
Unitil is notified of the transfer. There shall be no charge for returning to Basic Service in this
manner. Further opportunities for customer opt-out may be negotiated by the Town and the
competitive power supplier and included in the terms of the contract presented to the Board of
Selectmen, the Town Manager, and made part of the public information offered to each
consumer.
4.2 Termination of the Power Supply Program
The Community Choice Aggregation program may be terminated in two ways
1) Upon the termination or expiration of the power supply contract without any extension,
renewal, or subsequent supply contract being negotiated;
2) At the decision of the Board of Selectmen and Town Managerto dissolve the Community
Choice Aggregation Program:
Each individual customer receiving power supply service under the Town's Community Choice
Aggregation Program will receive notification of termination of the program ninety (90) days
prior to such termination.
In the event of contract termination, consumers would return to Unitil's Basic Service or choose
a competitive supplier.
5.0 METHODS FOR ENTERING AND TERMINATING AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER
ENTITIES
The Town's process for entering, modifying, enforcing, and terminating all agreements
associated with the aggregation shall comply with the requirements of the Town's charter, and
state and federal laws. Where required, the procedures outlined in MGL Chapter 30B shall be
followed. Other agreements shall be entered, modified, or terminated in compliance with the
law and according to the express provisions of the relevant agreement.
- 9-
===PAGE 13===
6.0 RATE-SETTING AND OTHER COSTS TO PARTICIPANTS
The Town of Lunenburg will offer the Community Choice Aggregation Program at rates and
terms to be negotiated with competitive power suppliers. All supplier charges to the customer
will be fully and prominently disclosed under the notification process.
Unitil shall continue to provide metering, billing, and maintenance of the distribution system as
authorized by the DPU. Charges for metering, billing and other distribution services shall be
regulated by the DPU, unless otherwise provided for in law.
6.1 Rates and Rate-setting
Under DPU orders, the local distribution company assigns the customer classification and
corresponding character of service and associated regulated rates. These rates include a
monthly customer charge, a distribution charge, a transmission charge, a transition charge, an
energy conservation charge, and a renewable energy charge that currently make up a portion
of a customer bill. (See sample bill in section 6.3 below.) Although the Town, or its agent, may
participate in regulatory proceedings and represent the interests of consumers regarding these
regulated rates, it will not assign or alter existing customer classifications without the approval
of the DPU.
The focus of the Town, as noted above, will be acquisition of competitive prices and terms for
power supply. This price, or prices, will be set through the competitive bid and negotiation
process, and will be noted on the consumer bill as the "generation charge."
The competitive bid process will seek prices that will differ among the customer classifications
established by the local distribution company's tariffs. The terms and conditions of service may
also vary among customer classifications.
6.2 Other Costs to Consumers
Community Choice Aggregation Program funding will be derived from a $0.001/kWh
commission fee payable by the Supplier to Colonial Power Group, Inc.
6.3 Customer Billing
The Supplier will notify Unitil that it desires "Standard Complete Billing Service.' And will furnish
a rate for each Rate Code. The bill shall include a clear delineation of all regulated and non-
regulated charges. Participating Consumers will receive a "standard complete bill" that
incorporates the power supply charge Unitil's distribution charges on a single sheet. The typical
residential "complete bill" for use of 500 kilowatt hours shows the following charges for Unitil's
Basic Service in December 2010:
- 10 -
===PAGE 14===
Delivery Services
Customer Charge
Distribution Charge
Transition Charge
Transmission Charge
Energy Conservation Charge
Renewable Energy
Total Delivery Services
$.05387
$.02751
$.01733
$.00250
$.00050
X
500 KWH
500
KWH
500
KWH
500
.. KWH
500
KWH
$5.29
$26.94
$13.76
$ 8.67
$1.25
$ 25
$56.16
Supplier Services
Generation Charge
Basic Service-Fixed
Total Cost of Electricity
$.07534
500
KWH
$37.67
$37.67
Total Current Balance
$93.83
7.0 UNIVERSAL ACCESS
"Universal access" is a term derived from the traditional regulated utility environment in which
all customers desiring service receive that service. The DOER's "Guide to Municipal Electric
Aggregation in Massachusetts" has defined universal access to mean "electric services sufficient
for basic needs (an evolving bundle of basic services) available to virtually all members of the
population regardless of income." The Guide also provides that a municipal aggregation plan
meets the requirement of universal access by giving all consumers within its boundaries the
opportunity to participate, whether they are currently on Default Service or the supply service
of a Competitive Supplier." For the purposes of the Town's Community Choice Aggregation
Program this will mean that all existing Eligible Consumers within the borders of Lunenburg and
all new Eligible Consumers in Lunenburg shall be eligible for service from the contracted
supplier under the terms and conditions of the supply contract. Item one of the Town's goals as
- 11 -
===PAGE 15===
indicated in 2.2 above is: "To provide the basis for aggregation of consumers on a non-
discriminatory basis."
Service under the Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program shall include customer
classes in adherence with universal service principles and requirements, and the traditional
non-discriminatory practices of local government. Contracts with all suppliers shail contain
provisions to maintain these principles and equitable treatment of all customer classes.
Existing Eligible Consumers in the Town of Lunenburg shall be transferred to the Lunenburg
Community Choice Aggregation Program unless they have already contracted with a
Competitive Supplier, or affirmatively opt out of the program.
Low-income consumers shall remain subject to all existing provisions of state law regarding
their rights to return to Basic Service and participate in the Community Choice Aggregation
Program as well.
New Eligible Consumers in the service territory shall be automatically enrolled in the program
one month after establishing delivery service with Unitil. However, any new Eligible Consumer
will be informed via direct mail of the right to opt-out of the Community Choice Power Supply
Program before commencing service. New customers will retain the right to opt out anytime
after the commencement of Community Choice Aggregation Program service.
8.0 EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF ALL CLASSES OF CUSTOMERS
All customers will be treated equitably. They will be guaranteed the right to raise and resolve
disputes with the Supplier, be provided all required notices and information; and always retain
the right to opt out of the Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program as described herein
or to switch suppliers. The requirement of equitable treatment of all customers does not,
however, require that all customer rate classes be offered the same pricing or terms and
conditions. To impose such an interpretation to the statutory requirements governing
municipal aggregation programs would, in effect, result in inequitable treatment, as attempting
to apply identical prices, terms, and conditions to customer rate classes with widely disparate
characteristics would have the inevitable effect of giving some customer rate classes more
favorable service than others. The implementation of the Community Choice Aggregation
Program will recognize this reality through appropriate distinctions in pricing and, where
applicable, terms and conditions among customer rate classes.
9.0 RELIABILITY
"Reliability" in power supply and in transmission and distribution is essential to consumers. This
will be accomplished and reinforced by the Community Choice Aggregation Program at several
levels: 1) through provisions of the power supply contract that will include language on
reliability of supply, liability and damages provisions; 2) through traditional proceedings related
to Unitil's regulated transmission and distribution services; 3) through direct discussions with
- 12-
===PAGE 16===
Unitil concerning specific or general problems related to quality and reliability of transmission
and distribution service in Lunenburg.
10.0 RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF POWER SUPPLY PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS
10.1 Rights
All Community Choice Power Supply Program participants shall enjoy the protections of law
afforded to consumers as they currently exist or as they may be amended from time to time
These include rights to question billing or service quality or service practices. Under protocol
developed by the DPU, problems related to billing or service shall be directed to the
appropriate parties. All program participants shall also enjoy the individual right to decline
participation in the Town's Community Choice Aggregation Program as noted in the description
of the "opt-out" in section 4.1.7 above.
10.2 Responsibilities
All Community Choice Power Supply Program participants shall meet all standards and
responsibilities required by the DPU, including payment of billings and access to essential
metering and other equipment to carry out utility operations. Nothing in this Community
Choice Power Supply Program shall abrogate the utility's responsibilities as defined in its
General Terms and Conditions for Distribution Service nor shall it abrogate the Participating
Consumer's responsibilities under the same General Terms and Conditions for Distribution
Service.
11.0 THE CONSEQUENCES OF AGGREGATION
Municipal aggregation functions under the restrictions of state law and carries a range of
results and consequences:
11.1 Consumer Option to Participate in Competitive Market
Many individual consumers lack knowledge and leverage to negotiate terms for power supply.
A municipal aggregator provides them with an option for professional representation and the
leverage of a large group so that they may participate more effectively in the competitive
process and achieve benefits.
11.2 Consumer Ability to Opt Out and Choose Another Supplier
Because the law guarantees the right to opt out, including the right to choose Basic Service at
no charge, all Eligible Consumers have the right to select a supplier other than the one chosen
by the Town Manager and Board of Selectmen.
- 13-
===PAGE 17===
11.3 Indemnification of Consumers and Risk Associated with Competitive Market
In a competitive market it is possible that the failure of a power supplier to provide supply
service may result in the need for consumers to acquire alternative power supply, or tor
consumers to receive power at Basic Service prices. The Town will seek to minimize this risk by
recommending only reputable suppliers who demonstrate reliable service. The Town also
intends to include conditions in its contract with a supplier that will indemnify consumers
against risks or problems with power supply service.
11.4 Other Consumer Protections
The Town intends to negotiate a range of provisions in its contracts to enhance consumer
protection. If necessary, the Town also intends to work with Unitil and the DPU to assure
improvement in the reliability of transmission and distribution services.
12.0 REQUIREMENTS ESTABLISHED BY LAW OR THE DEPARTMENT CONCERNING
AGGREGATED SERVICE
The Town fully intends to comply with the requirements of law and the rules of the DTE.
For additional information contact:
Brian Murphy
Colonial Power Group, Inc.
277 Main Street
Marlborough, MA 01752
Telephone: (508) 485-5858
Fax: (508) 485-5854
brian@colonialpowergroup.com
- 14 -
===PAGE 18===
IT Activities 2010 - 2011
Equipment Replaced with New:
•
3 PCs in Treasurer's office
1 PC in Town Clerk's office
1 PC and 1 laptop in Selectman's office
1 laptop in Town Manager's office
1 Toughbook, 1 portable printer, 1 workstation, and 2 digital cameras in Fire
Department
4 PCs, 1 Mircs PC, 2 laptops, and 2 Toughbooks in Police Department
1 Fax machine in Town Hall
1 PC and 1 Fax machine in Senior Center
• 2 PCs in Planning Office
• 15 PCs, 2 printers, and fax machine in public library
New Equipment
• Server for Public Library
Autoloader Tape Backup System for Town Hall
•
Workgroup printer for Ritter Building
New copiers leased for Police Department and DPW.
•
New leased copier ordered for Ritter Building.
Other Activities:
• Created a domain in Public Library, finally allowing them to share resources and
have central control.
• Trained Jen in Public Library to perform basic network tasks on new domain.
•
Installed VPN.
•
Set up Leigh at DPW to access Munis through VPN.
• Installed Office 2010 in all Town Offices.
• Signed agreement with Qsend to host new town web site.
• Signed agreement with Cartographics to host town maps.
• Installed all hardware and software for town hall backup system. Daily backup
routine now in place.
• Working with vendors to spec out new phone system and get pricing.
• Had to have repairs done on Town Wireless network in December when broken
screen cut fiber cable.
• Installed wireless access point in Town Hall to allow wireless internet access for
laptops.
• Phone system at Ritter burned up after a power outage, requiring a replacement
phone system. Covered under maintenance agreement.
===PAGE 19===
FY2012 - 2016 Financial Forecast
General Expenditure Assumptions:
1. i
All utilities, except telephone, are projected to increase 5% per year
2.
Telephone expenses are projected to increase 2.5% per year
3. All other expenses, except where noted below, are projected to increase 2%
4. All personnel expenses, except where noted below, will increase in accordance with approved contracts.
5. All dues, memberships, training, mileage reimbursement accounts have been restored
Special Expenditure Assumptions:
1. General Government: create PT HR Coordinator position; transitioning to FT in FY2015.
4. Police: Add 1 Patrol Officer per year FY12, 13 & 14; add 1 Sargent in FY15
Fire: Phase in 2nd shift, 2 person coverage, 50% of week in FY12; 100% of week by FY13.
Building Inspection: additional hours for PT Assistant Building Inspector
Emergency Management: increase stipend from $2,500 to $5,000
11. DPW: $50K per year for Crack Sealing Program
DPW: Add one laborer/equipment operator position per year
DPW: Facilities, one additional maintenance worker
COA: add additional PT hours for Outreach
Library: Pay CWMARS membership out of operating budget
22. Contribution to Stabilization Fund to maintain 5% savings target
• $750K toward Pavement Management Plan each year
24. $500K toward Capital Plan each year
Projected Deficit:
back out new costs from projected deficit:
2.
6.
General Government: increase Town Clerk's Salary by 10% in FY12; 2.5% per year thereafter.
General Government: increase Legal Expenses by 3% per year.
Fire: Assume in-house dispatch
Building Inspection: additional hours for PT Assistant Building Inspector
9.
School Department: use Superintendent's projections
10. Monty Tech: assume increase of 3.5% per year
16.
Solid Waste: 5% per year
18.
Library: Increase hours to restore cuts made in FY10
20. Retirement Assessment: increase 10% per year
21.
Workers Compensation: increase 5% per year
FY12
FY13
FY14
FY15
FY16
7,905
7,905
$
7,905
$
7,905
7,905
$
$
$
$
$
$
cocaius
25,000
55,000
38,000
5,000
2,500
50,000
40,000
40,000
15.450
7,500
100,000
750,000
150,000
$
$
$
$
$
$
30,000
110,000
76,000
5,000
2,500
50,000
80,000
40,800
16,050
7,500
104,750
750,000
150,000
$
$
$
$
$
35,000
165,000
76,000
5,000
2,500
50,000
120,000
41,616
16,662
7,500
108,710
750,000
150,000
$
$
$
$
$
$
$
67 67
50,000
228,848
76,000
5,000
2,500
50,000
160,000
42,448
17,286
7,500
112,525
750,000
150,000
$
$
$
$
$
$
6A 6A
$
60,000
228,848
76,000
5,000
2,500
50,000
200,000
43,297
17,923
7,500
116,227
750,000
150,000
sub-total: l
$
1,278,450
$
1,422,600
$ (2,776,890) $
(3,258,448)
1,527,988
$
1,652,108
$
1,707,296
(3,630,185) $ (3,982,234)
$ (4,261,521)
$ (1.498,440)| $
(1,835,848)|
$ (2,102,197)|
$ (2,330,126)
$ (2,554.226)
4,056
$
5,171
4,500
$
6,315
9,135
7,487
13,909
8,688
18.826
$
$
$
$
5,000
777,924
31,780
10,100
6,879
6,250
n/a
58,381
3,000
$
$
5.000
1,700,924
55,153
20,657
14,102
6,250
n/a
122,600
6,150
$
$
$
5,000
2,344,924
79,344
31,693
21,687
12.813
n/a
193,240
9,458
$
5,000
2,911,924
104,382
43,231
29,650
12,813
n/a
270 945
12.930
$
$
5,000
3,495,624
130,296
55,294
38,012
19,703
n/a
356.421
16,577
sub-total: S
899,314 | $ 1,935,336| $ 2,707,293 $ 3,404,784| $ 4,135,753
