===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
HaRB
BOARD OF SELECIMEN
MEETING MINUTES
4/12/11
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M.
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Tom Alonzo, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the
Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Current Board & Committee Vacancies - as attached
2. Annual Yard Waste Days - The Lunenburg Landfill, off of Youngs Road will be open for consecutive Saturdays APRIL 23RD - MAY
28, 2011 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Acceptable material: grass clippings, bark mulch, wood chips, leaves, brush (with a diameter not to
exceed 3 inches, unlimited length). Shrubbery and plantings; with the same restrictions. Any container; bags, boxes, barrels, trashcans,
tarps, flower pots, etc., must be removed and taken by the resident. No household garbage, trash, or rubbish of any kind will be accepted.
No materials within the Landfill area; sand, stone, gravel, etc. are to be given away or sold. Access will be restricted to the disposal area.
Commercial landscapers will not be allowed to dump. OPEN TO LUNENBURG RESIDENTS ONLY. TRAVEL PERMITTED ONLY ON
TOWN EASEMENT. NO TRESPASSING ON TRI-TOWN LANDING CONSTRUCTION SITE.
3. Annual Town Meeting - May 7, 2011 - Saturday @the High School Auditorium @9:00 AM.
APPOINTMENTS
1. Loxi Calmes, Project 582, LHS Community Service Project - Autumn Burrell and Bethany Hudson, students on the Steering
Committee for Project 582, whose motto is: Think Outside Yourself. The group has identified issues throughout town that the group has
planned a day of service to the community. The service times throughout the day will be broken down into three two hour event and will be
held on Saturday, April 30%, from 9:00 AM - 3:00 PM. They will be assisting senior residents with yard work, clearing debris from the
school grounds & fields, Wallis Park, Veteran's Park, Gazebo Park, Teen Center and the Pat Brody Animal Shelter. People can sign up on
line @ www.project-582.webs.com or on the town's website: www.lunenburgonline.com and on the day of event can check in at the
assigned work location or TC Passios Elementary. They are also accepting donations for Lunenburg and Worcester County Food Banks.
Services will comprise of yard work for seniors, school fields, raking, shrubbery plantings, and general clean-up work and will need rakes,
wheel barrels. They will also be at the Pat Brody Animal Shelter to help clean out cages, floors, etc., there will be students there the entire
day and will be supervised by adults. Board extended appreciation to those involved.
2. Representative Jen Benson & Senator Jen Flanagan - Provided an update on issues with the State budget. Tomorrow the House is
going to be releasing their 2012 budget and she has been strongly advocating for local aid, Chapter 70. Today much of the information is
hyperthetical until the definate numbers are released tomorrow. The Ways & Means Committee has been forced to make tough choices to
develop a balanced budget as a result of losing the federal stimulus funding. The State has been able to buffer those costs over the past
few years by cuts in programs and services up until now but the Committee has been trying to devise a sustainable budget that will provide
adequate support for these important programs and services.
Tom questioned the remaining 12 ½ % from the 2008 Ice Storm.
Jen B. met with Ways & Means and has informed them that she is going to be filing an amendment if it has not been included as the
commitments were made to communities. There will not be new funding within this budget, problem has been with the ice storm funding is
that it's a one time expense and the issue is that this is not included within the operating budget.
Tom also questioned the 40S funding for schools with respect for our Tri-Town project and that funding was one of the ways that this
project was approved by the Town of Lunenburg.
Jen B., this hasn't been done yet and not in the Governor's budget as they don't have those figures as of it. They need the final figures to
allocate those funds as they come from the 7D formula. Unfortunately the process with the Town/School and State hasn't been melded yet
and this is the problem.
According to Paula there are 18 students attributed to the project, the question is whether these are new students or students that have
been in the system.
Tom discussed the Quinn Bill as it seems from most of the opinions that this could be remedied if the Quinn Bill had the exemption that
it's agreed upon that the wording within Mass General Law was changed
Jen F., would like Tom to email her on this subject and she will discuss with the Ways & Means, she doesn't know at this time whether it's
included within the State budget.
Dave questioned pension reforms and where do they see this going.
Jen B. is in favor of pension reform and would expect that this session they would be discussing more around pension reform. Jen F.,
believes that you'll see something coming in the next few months.
===PAGE 2===
Dave noted in particular, that the carrying of health insurance for retirees that are able to retire @45 / 55 is a huge expense for
communities. Also commented on the local 40B project and that the developer is trying to be exempt for having to pay privelege fees on
this project, which would result in the burden being placed on those currently on the system.
Jen B., filed specific legislation around 40B and is committed in making changes, need to know more information before this gets to the
final point.
Paula commented that the precident that this could set is enormous as the system costs would be placed upon the current rate payers to
support the infrastructure and as such we need to have the funding in place. We don't have our own infrastructure and rely on the Cities of
Fitchburg and Leominster.
Jen B., anything at this point in time is a late file, which could impact the ability to move through the process.
Steve questioned health care and the move to GIC. Per Jen F., health care insurance reform efforts which is the bence mark. Health care
costs are 2/3 of the budget within the state, so they understand the need to bring those costs down. Possibly will be having these debates
during the hearing sessions. Understand that something has to be done with costs, be it cost shifting, negotiations regarding collective
bargaining. It's been very intricate in the way the state has been trying to deal with this and may be a huge debate about this during
conference.
Kerry questioned implementation time, having difficulty getting information out of MIlA and it's taking a long time and her concern is if there
isn't enough time to be able to analyze the information.
Jen F.., agreed that this is going to be a piece that they'll have to work out throughout the process. It's the plan design versus the bench
mark. May be more expensive for you to go with the GIC versus something else.
Jen B. the July 1 implementation date was set in January and this may change, wouldn't look at this as the due date. Other is to how do we
get the insurance companies to provide the information, and how to lower costs for everybody, consumers and employees. Have to look at
health care costs in general.
Ernie discussed the costs breakdown, percentages paid by communities and questioned if they are able to get these percentages, when
you look at private industry charging 50/50
Jen F., doesn't have a list, but may be able to get from MMA. It could vary by bargaining units within each municipality as well.
Jen B., there isn't a standard across the commonwealth.
Dave expressed appreciation for the additional funding in Chapter 90, to which Jen B. noted that this is a one time funding.
Jen F., noted that one of the issues that makes the budget even more difficult this year is that we lost the ARRA funding, and what's
happening is cost shifting. When they take the votes for the budget it's very difficult because there are impacts as a result of the cost
shifting. Noted that it's extremely difficult to cut services, many social services versus raising taxes.
Jen B., noted that they understand that there will be impacts from the cuts and we need to realize what they are and how they'll impact the
local communities.
They clearly hear the concerns that the board has and have the same concerns on their level. It will be a tedious process as there is no
additional funding on the horizon, don't have the Congress and unsure what is going to happen with the transportation money. Urges the
board to look at the cuts that are being proposed as transportation may have a large hit.
Paula noted that both have been readily available and acknowledges all of the hard work that they've been doing and realize that they
have been listening. Tom concurred and also would like to alert people that sometimes that what they're going to get back, is I hear what
your asking but you can't have it. They are responsive and great to deal with. Also asked about the Municipaly Utility Bill which according
to Jen F., is still in committee and would like to see this go through the Ways & Means. They are going to continue to work on this but the
calendars have just now been set. Will keep the town informed when these will be coming up for testimony.
Jen B., is on Personnel & Administration, Revenue, Education & Post Audit and Oversight Committee.
Jen F., appointed to serve on the following committees: she will be serving as Assistant Vice-Chairman of the Senate Committee on Ways
and Means; Chairman of the Senate Committee on Steering and Policy: Vice-Chair of the Transportation Committee; Vice-Chair of the
Public Service Committee and will be a member of the Committee on Telecommunications, Energy and Utilties.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Sign ATM & STM Warrants - Board signed Election and Town Meeting Warrants for posting.
2. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Executive Session for 3/15/11 & 3/22/11 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #55 11, 4/12/11- $1,197,902.48, #56 11, 4/13/11 - $149,087.17 and #21P 11, 4/14/11 - $648,678.11 reviewed and signed.
Action File Issues -
Dave - Leominster Road is getting to be more and more like a roller coaster, increasingly problematic. Obviously from the sewer project,
trenches are starting to settle, unsure as to what we can do about this. Kerry will ask the DPW to specifically address this, particularly if
there are concerns with fill. Paula would like to know what could be done and costs associated with this within the next couple of weeks.
3. Committee Updates -
Tom noted that the Finance Committee is meeting this week.
Steve DPW building committee has met and it was decided to re-bid the electrical sub-bid. The committee has changed the electrical
requirements and as such have also pushed out the date due for the general bids.
Dave would like to discuss the Capital Planning Committee's proposal.
4. Department Updates - None
===PAGE 3===
5. Town Manager Updates - None
OLD BUSINESS
1. FY12 Budget / FY11 Budget Updates - Kerry informed the board that there aren't any changes to the 2012 budget. Until we see what
the legislatures going to do with the state budget we could potentially lose the $20,000 in state aid. She has not had a chance to tinish up
adjustments that we'll have to make as this is somewhat contingent as to what adjustments will need to be made in the 2011 budget.
Provided the requests from the Capital Plan Committee for the FY12 Plan will be in the amount of $538,765.00 of which $133,765.00 will
be a budget cash item and the sum of $405,000.00 will be borrowed. The items to be included in the budget are Technology - $99,965.00;
Police - bullet proof vests - $9,800.00 (½ cost-other ½ cost supplied by a grant); and Police - Cruiser equipment - $24,000.00.
The Committee has determined the following items have been prioritized as part of the Plan. THMS Parking Lot, $110,000.00, DPW FE
Loader, $125,000.00, General Technology, $54,965.00, School Technology, $45,000.00, Police Equip Cruisers, $24,000.00, Police -
Bulletproof Vests, $9,800.00 (50% of the costs of these vests as we have received a matching grant), Fire - Engine 2 retrofit, $50,000.00
(brush truck body with a high clearance, which will be able to be placed on a newer vehicle in the future), HS Asbestos Abatement,
$15,000.00 (final phase of removal project), HS ADA Access - Main, $25,000.00 (final phase; doors, hardware), THIMS Gym Bleachers &
Gym Floor, $35,000.00, Fire - Radio DPW/Police, $20,000.00 (to complete the final phase of the project for Intradepartmental
communications), THMS Whiteboards, $25,000.00
The balance of the Plan to be borrowed are DPW Front Loader - $125,000.00; Fire Engine #2 refit - $50,000.00; Turkey Hill Middle School
parking lot - $110,000.00; Turkey Hill Whiteboards - $25,000.00; Turkey Hill Middle School bleachers and gym floor - $35,000.00; High
School Asbestos Abatement - $15,000.00; High School ADA Access - $25,000.00; Fire Department - radios DW/Police $20,000.00.
Some items that ranked high with the committee but not included, ADA access to the Track & Field, GIS Mapping for Sewer Department
(borne by Sewer Enterprise Fund), School Technology, Senior Center Parking Lot, Pavement Management Plan, School Feasibility Study
and smaller items such as pickup truck for DPW, improvements to the Library and parking lot were not included.
Dave questioned if there are plans in place for painting of this building and per Kerry this is something that she has asked of the Facilities
Department, to present a maintenance plan for the town buildings. The Finance Committee has made their recommendation to approve
the plan, including the funding, by 4 to 2. Dave's concern is that borrowing is a dangerous road we're going down, would rather see one
time funding, via debt exclusion. Tom agrees that it's more of a fiscally responsible way to manage our money and is not fond of borrowing,
will support this as he realizes we need the items.
Paula realizes that there are not a lot of options out there and would recommend that we have conversations next year regarding funding
the capital plan earlier.
Kerry the DPW project will be coming on line and is being funded within the levy limit, the offset from this versus the borrowing is going to
be fairly close. She noted that many communities fund items by borrowing with a life expectancy of beyond 5 years.
2. Town Meeting Warrant Articles -
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Resignation: Martha Cheesman, Public Access Cable Committee - board accepted with regrets, letter of appreciation to be sent.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 19, 2011
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 8:55 P.M. and opened Executive Session by roll call
vote; Steve aye, Tom aye, Paula aye, Ernie aye and Dave aye, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B for the purpose of discussing
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining
or litigation position. Chairman announced that the Board would not be returning to Regular Session
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Wiliams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 4===
VACANCIES - FY'11
as of 04/12/11
COMMITTEE
TERM EXPIRES
COMPUTACAADVISORY COMMITTEE
Vacancies
COUNCIL ON AGING
2
Vacancies
FENCE VIWERS-1Y - M.GR CA.49
Vacancy
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
Vacancy
HOUSING PARTNERSHIP-3 yrs
Vacancies
MONTACHUSETT JOINT TRANSPORTATION COMMITTEE
Vacancy
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
Vacancy
PUBLIC ACCESS CABLE COMMITTEE (PACO)
Vacancies
SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY TAX WORK-OFF PROGRAM &
Vacancy-Member at Large
SURVEVOEAMEASURER OF LUMBER
Vacancy
AD HOC COMMITTEES
MUNICIPAL WEB SERVICES TASK FORCE
1
Vacancy
UTILITY TASK FORCE
1
Vacancy
06/30/2011
06/30/11
06/30/2011
06/30/2011
06/30/2010, 2011 & 2012
06/30/10
06/30/11
06/30/2012
06/30/2010
06/30/2011
:
