===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
6/7/11
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Paula Bertram, Steven M
deBettencourt, Ernie Sund, Tom Alonzo, Dave Matthews and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with
the Pledge of Allegiance
PUBLIC COMMENT
Tom expressed appreciation to the voters who elected him for another 3 years. Also recognized the high school seniors that performed
at the School's Showcase this past week.
Ernie expressed appreciation to all those who attended the Memorial Day program at Veteran's Park and the Garden Club for their
plantings around the center. Recognized the Eagle Scout for his work on the Veteran's' Park walkway.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
1. Sean W. Zrate, Patrol Officer, effective July 1, 2011 - Chief Bourgeois expressed appreciation to the board and Finance
Committee for funding this position and introduced Sean Zrate to fill this position effective July 1sl. Sean has been an active member as
a Reserve for the past three years and filing the shifts for officers that have been out on Injury Leave. He has shown tremendous ability
and a great addition to the Police Department. He believes that Sean will have no difficulty in making the transition from reserve to full
time officer. According to the Charter, this appointment will become effective on the fifteenth day following the date of this
memorandum or on June 10, 2011. As you are aware, funding was included in the FY12 Budget to hire an additional Police Officer. As
such, Chief Bourgeois posted the opening with our group of Reserve Officers. Three candidates expressed an interest in the position.
All three candidates were interviewed by a committee made up of Chief Bourgeois, Lt. Marino and Sgt. Gammel. Sean Zrate was the
unanimous choice. Mr. Zrate graduated from Lunenburg High School and has been a Reserve Officer in Lunenburg since 2009. He is
currently employed on a full-time basis with the City of Fitchburg as the Parking Control Supervisor. Mr. Zrate has a total of seven
years' experience as a Reserve Office in Lunenburg, Ashby and with Fitchburg State College. M.G.L. requires that all full-time officers
complete Basic Academy Training and obtain certification upon appointment. The Academy is a 20-week program offered by the, MA
Police Training Committee. Fortunately the next Academy begins July 25, 2011 in Boyiston, MA. The cost of the Academy is $2,500.
Board voted unanimously to approve the appointment of Sean W. Zrate as Patrol Officer effective July 1, 2011.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Board Reorganization - Paula nominated David Matthews as Chair, seconded by Ernie, voted unanimously to approve. Dave
expressed appreciation to Paula and looks forward to her help as well as from the board members. Paula nominated Tom Alonzo as
ViceChair, Steve seconded, voted unanimously. Tom nominated Ernie Sund as Clerk, Steve seconded voted unanimously.
2.
Request for Voluntary Toll, - Chester Mossman Teen Center - Michelle Belleza introduced Maureen, Assistant Director at the
Teen Center. Michelle noted that state funding has been substantially cut and hoping that they will be allowed to hold a voluntary toll in
the fall. This is a proposal to the Board of Selectmen requesting permission to hold a voluntary toll in the center of Lunenburg and in
the Whalom District to raise funds to allow children access to healthier after school activities and snacks and help them appreciate the
results of living a healthier lifestyle.
The CMTC is a self-funded, non-profit organizátion that relies heavily on private donations and volunteers. We are asking your
permission to hold a small fundraiser for four hours one Saturday morning in September. During this time, we hope to raise enough
funding to provide our youth members with a free, nutritious snack option during our Power Hour homework program for the 2011-2012
school year. Pairing a healthier snack option with the free produce that The Lunenburg Family Lion's Club delivers to us twice a week
from Hannaford Supermarket opens the door to a healthier lifestyle for many children who spend over lo hours a week at CMTC.
The Plan: We request permission to hold a voluntary toll at the intersection of Main Street and Massachusetts Avenue and a second
toll at the intersection of Electric Road and Whalom Road from 8 am-12 pm on Saturday, September 10, 2011.
Estimated Cost: We anticipate zero overhead cost as all materials will be' borrowed or donated to the event, We will need 8 buckets
(sand pails from CMTC staff), 8 safety vests (hunting vests that are safety orange and yellow from CMT staff and parents), 8 traffic
cones (will approach the LDPW to borrow these).
Manpower: We envision volunteers collecting donations in two-hour shifts from 8am-12 pm. With four sections of road leading to each
intersection, we would need 8 parent/guardian volunteers for each toll giving us a total of 16 donation collectors. We would require that
===PAGE 2===
each volunteer be at least 18 years of age for safety reasons. Youth members will not be allowed to stand with any donation collectors
out of concern for their safety.
Follow-up: In addition to our sandwich board sign posted in front of CMTC with a thank you and how much we raised, all contributors
will receive a postcard size thank you immediately upon donating with information about CMC as well as our website address. Also,
each volunteer will get a hand written thank you for their participation and support.
Tom motion to approve the voluntary toll at both locations contingent upon Police Chief approval, voted unanimously to approve.
3. Chapter 100 Auctioneer License, Michael G. Roy, d/b/a Got Stuff Auctions - Kerry informed the board that Mr. Roy of 107
Summer Street, Fitchburg has requested two permits to hold auctions on June 110 & 18' @ 555 Chase Road. Mr. Roy informed the
board that he spoke with Building Inspector Michael Savageau today and went over the requirements that he needs to comply with
before occupying the building this Saturday. Mr. Roy informed Mike that he will call Jim (Ricci, Fire Department) and Mike to inspect
prior to Saturday (pending the issuance of the license). According to Mike, if the license is granted tonight, then he will still need the
inspection before Saturday or an exit order would be enforced. He has no objection to the issuance of the license tonight and in his
opinion, the Selectman can vote to withold or not pending the Certificate of Occupancy.
Preview will be @ 10::00 am and usually runs until 2:00 pm.
Paula would like to receive something from Mike if this is to continue long term and according to Mr. Roy he will be obtaining a building
permit for future auctions.
Paula move to approve the licenses for 6/11 & 6/18, contingent upon approval of Building Inspector, voted unanimously.
4. New Precinct Map - Town Clerk - Town Clerk, Kathryn Herrick presented the attached description of the boundries of the new
districts that are being created based upon the Federal Census that was recently completed. According to Kathy the determination has
been done by the State and the most noted change is in Precinct B, where the Emerald Place development has now been placed in
Precinct D. Minimal changes that change about two hundred people from one precinct to another. This is what will be in place for the
next ten years and noted that Precinct B will grow because of the developments. Tom move to approve the townwide reprecincting
map and description as presented, Steve seconded, voted unanimously.
5. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 3/22/11 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #25P 11, 6/9/11 - $631,734.53, #66 11, 6/7/11 - $301,710.32 and #67 11, 6/8/11 - $250,257.74 reviewed and signed.
Action File Issues -
5. Committee Updates -
• Ernie Green Communities Task Force reveiwed a presentation on a proposal for a 6 megawatt solar farm. on Chase Road. The
committee is reviewing at present and sending off to the Planning Board. This is a private development and they are close to
having a P&S on the property. The plan has been looked at and thoroughly reveiwed. Probably no net metering on this due to the
project that we have ongoing at the landfill but noted that whichever project is completed first will realize the net metering.
• Dave School Committee met last Wednesday recognized a number of retirementes. New requirements for graduation which will
have an impact,
6. Department Updates - None
7. Town Manager Updates
• Will begin looking at re-appointments and appointments for the next fiscal year. Two officials are not seeking reappointment, one
the Inspector of Animals and our Sealer of Weights & Measures (Joseph Quinn). Kerry is in the process of looking into the
requirements for certification and appointment. She has received information from the Sealer in Townsend and also from Mr.
Quinn on a number of individuals
• Kerry and COA Director, Doreen Noble met with MART last week on the vans that will be available to the communities. MART is
the only regional transportational authority in the state that subsidizes vans to the communities. The new vans came partially from
a State grant and a Federal grant. The State had additional money this year and they are only able to give them to regional
transportation authorities. MART didn"t have money within their budgets to fund a second van for the communities. Kerry
proposed that they (MART) give us the new van as Van 1 for the Council on Aging. They are willing to give us the brand new van
that will operate the same way, under the same formula. They also agreed to give us a second used van, that they are taking out
of operations, that is in better shape than our current van. She has asked the Director to come up with a plan on the use of the
service of a second van. The second van funding will be through fees and fundraising and will be used for supplemental services,
noted chemotherapy treatment and all the paraphenalia that they need to take with them for these treatments. We would then
become the owners of the second van and responsible for insurance and as such Paula requested that we are given the financial
===PAGE 3===
plan to ensure that the fees associated with this are part of the plan. She also questioned whether we are going to be using the
existing revolving fund and according to Kerry, there isn't anything prohibiting us from using that fund. If we are to continue using
past this year, then perhaps we should look at a second fund in the future.
• Thursday Kerry will be attending the hearing at DPU on our Municipal Aggegation Plan. There are three communities going before
DPU and have been informed that this is a normal procedure. Unitil has submitted a petition as an intervenor as has NStar. The
Municiapl Electric Bill, House Bill 969 will be heard tomorrow at the Statehouse and is questioning whether the board is interested
in attending or if they would like her to attend. Board members are not able to attend but would like to send a letter from the board
to be placed on record, information from board members will be forwarded to the Town Manager.
• Also, on the Unitil rate case, all filings of the briefs have been submitted and completed. Each of the parties have filed extensive
briefs and it's mindbogling as to what is in this. The AG has put an incredible amount of time and effort into this and she is
extremely grateful for the time that they have put into this. Noted that the City of Fitchburg has also been an active participant in
this process as well. It is absolutely amazing what Unitil is asking to have built into their base budget.
Dave was struck by the forcifulness of the language and concurred with Kerry that the Attorney General has done a phenomenal
job in this case.
OLD BUSINESS
1. First Right of Refusal - 108 Goodrich Street - Kerry informed the board that both the Planning Board and Conservation
Commission were asked to provide comment on the First Right of Refusal Option for 108 Goodrich Street. Neither has any interest in
this property and has provided the attached statements. Provided a Release of Option which the Board may choose to sign. This
would allow the owner the ability to complete the sale. Tom move to act on the Release of Option to Purchase, Paula seconded, voted
unanimously to approve.
2. Letter of Support - Eagle Heights Project - Kerry informed the board that she asked Paula to sign the letter prior to this meeting
that is in support on the Eagle Heights Project which will be submitted by the end of this month.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) for the purpose of discussing strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position.
2. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(6) to consider the purchase, exchange, taking, lease, or value of real property if such
discussion may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the governmental body. [sale of Jones
House]
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Dave requested that the Town Manager evaluations that were sent out, be returned within the next two weeks to him. Some of the
criteria that were mentioned previously were employee evaluations that have been done and would like to know that they're complete
and what format she has been using.
Tom would like to start very early, next year's evaluation of the budget process in case there are any actions that we want to take,
noted the pavement repair management system.
Paula would like to have a discussion on the status of the regionalization and where things are at this point. Kerry did speak with the
Superintendent yesterday and they hope to have something for the town by this fall. Board would like to have members of the School
Committee in to discuss, which will be scheduled by Kerry.
June 14, 2011
June 21, 2011
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourned Regular Session at 8:10 P.M. and opened Executive Session by roll
call vote; Steve aye, Tom aye, Paula aye, Ernie aye and Dave aye, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) for the purpose of
discussing strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the
government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(6) to consider the purchase,
exchange, taking, lease, or value of real property if such discussion may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the
governmental body. [sale of Jones House]. Chairman announced that the Board would not be returning to Regular Session
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 4===
CONSERVATION COMMISSION
Robert M. Verge, Chairman
Jean Joseph Cote, Vice Chairman
Richard A. Bursch
John Y. Byrne
Sharon L Jordan
John F. Lattanzi
Mark D. Murphy
Karenlee Lefebvre, Associate
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lumenburg, MA 01462
(978) 582-4146 x431
Matthew S. Marro,
Consulting Agent
Janice P. Carrier,
Administrative Assistant
TO:
Board of Selectmen
FROM: Conservation Commissioners
DATE: May 9, 201l
RE:
108 Goodrich Street, Lot 4
The Conservation Commission met on May 4th and discussed the property at 108 Goodrich Street, Lot 4 and
they unanimously agreed not to pursue the town's first right of retusa....
The property consists of 3.99 acres and the area abutting Goodrich Street is mostly vegetated wetlands. To
access the land you would have to traverse 150 feet of wetlands or obtain permission to go over privately
owned land. These obstacles do not make for an easy accessible conservation area..
RECEIVED
MAY 25 2011
SELECTMEN'S OFFICE
===PAGE 5===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
CANENBURG
Marion M. Benson
Planning Director
DIS
Tel: (978) 582-4147 ext 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPORAN
Date: April 28, 2011
To: Kerry Speidel, Town Manager
From: Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 7MB
Re: Rhodin - Chapter Land - First Right of Refusal
At its regularly scheduled meeting of April 25, 2011, the Planning Board reviewed
the above. Upon discussion, and also following Planning Director conversation with
the Conservation Commission, the Board advises against purchasing the Rhodin
property due to the current economy and no designated Town use for this property.
10/3/11-no. additional
comment
RECEIVED
APR 79 2011
SELECTMEN'S OFFICE
Page 1 of 1
===PAGE 6===
Town of Lunenburg
DIB
June 7, 2011
TO: Board of Selectmen
FR: Town Clerk
RE: Town Wide Re-Precincting
Below is the new description of each precinct based on the new federal Census figures. These new precincts
bring the individual numbers of voters into parity. This will become important if the Town should ever vote
to change to a representative form of government instead of open town meeting.
Please let me know of any questions or concerns you may have.
PRECINCT A. Bounded by Massachusetts Avenue on the South; bounded by Townsend Harbor Road to the
Mulpus Brook northerly through Dickinson Reservoir to Horizon Island Road to Island Road, Beachview
Road, Wildwood Road,and South Row Road on the East; bounded by the Town of Townsend on the North;
and bounded by the Town of Ashby and the City of Fitchburg on the West.
2010 Federal Census Population: 2632
PRECINCT B. Bounded by Massachusetts Avenue on the North; bounded by Leominster Road to Sunnyhill
Road to Elm Street to Prospect Street to Whalom Road to Electric Avenue on the East; bounded by the City
of Leominster on the South; and bounded by the City of Fitchburg on the West.
2010 Federal Census Population: 2407
PRECINCT C. Bounded by the Town of Shirley on the East; bounded by Town of Lancaster on the South;
bounded by the City of Leominster on the West; and bounded by the City of Leominster, Electric Avenue to
Whalom Road to Prospect Street to Elm Street to Sunnyhill Road to Leominster Road to Catacoonamug
Brook to Lancaster Avenue to Page Street to Flat Hill Road to Burrage Street on the North.
2010 Federal Census Population: 2422
PRECINCT D. Bounded by the Town of Townsend and Wildwood Road on the North; bounded by the
Town of Shirley on the East; bounded by Burrage Street (including the property at 534 Burrage Street) to
Flat Hill Road to Page Street to Lancaster Avenue to Catacoonamug Brook on the South; and bounded by
Leominster Road to Massachusetts Avenue to Townsend Harbor Road then northerly from Mulpus Brook
through Dickinson Reservoir Horizon Island Road to Island Road to Beachview Road to Wildwood Road on
2010 Federal Census Population: 2625
