===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
14/11
The Board of Selectmen met in the Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room as scheduled with Steven M. deBettencourt, Emie
Sund, Tom Alonzo and Dave Matthews present. Paula Bertram and Town Manager Kerry Speidel absent. Meeting opened at 7:00
P.M. with the Pledge of Allegiance
PUBLIC COMMENT
Vice Chair Steve deBettencourt explained that as the second floor of town hall and the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room are currently
under renovations the board has had to make accommodations with the meeting area.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
1. 7: 15 P.M. MSBA Statement of Interest, Superintendent Calmes - Present was School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes and
Facilites Mgr. John Londa. Loxi informed the board that the school has been in the process of submitting their Statements of Interest
with the MSBA on the High School and continuing to have discussions on regionalization. Still waiting for information from MSBA and
expect to receive this at any time and will keep community updated. There will also be an update of the school's budget at their
meeting scheduled for tomorrow (televised).
John reviewed the Statement of Interest to be submitted to the state and noted that the High School is the first priority and the TO
Passios Elementary School & Turkey Hill Middle School are second. The High School Statement of Interest has already been
forwarded to MSBA and as such the presentation focused upon the priorities for the Elementary & Middle Schools. John reviewed the
major components of both the elementary and middle school facilities. The statement of interest focuses on the replacement,
renovation and modernization of school equipment to make them more energy efficient. Turkey Hill is the highest priority after the high
school. The school's issues are similar to those listed when the School Committee sent a statement of interest to the school building
authority in November 2009. The Committee believes that THMS needs new unit ventilators and would like to extend the digital control
system from the boiler to the rest of the building. Also noted was that the windows are single-pane and not energy efficient. The T.C.
Passios needs heating and ventilation upgrades and also an upgrade to the control system which has the original pneumatic control
system still in place as well as a roof replacement as this was last done in 1986. This statement of interest really focuses on the
elementary school roof, the elementary school electrical system
The roof, boiler and windows need to be replaced, renovated or modernized to increase energy efficiency. The electrical system and
lighting are outdated and should be replaced additionally; pipes wrapped in asbestos above hallway ceilings would be removed.
According to Loxi, when a community submits a statement of interest to the school building authority, it includes its concerns and
challenges but not the solutions. Solutions must be reached in conjunction with the school building authority. It starts with the
statement of interest and as such the first step in a very detailed and lengthy process.
Per Loxi, we are beginning the process of installing a solar array on the school and as such this would be the more logical.
Tom questioned which of the two remaining schools which is in better condition and would be adequate to combine.
Per John both have needs; the Passios has a definite need for a roof. The issue with closing the elementary school is that it has a
shared heating system with the high school and will have to address that need should it be decided to close that school. They have
done work in both schools this past summer to meet the necessary upgrades.
According to Loxi, when you look at the priorities; priority 5 best fits the needs of both those buildings (TC Passios & THMS).
Ernie expessed appreciation to both Loxi and John for all their work with presenting the needs of the schools and keeping the town up
to date.
Steve read the form of vote accordingly:
Resolved: Having convened in an open meeting on January 4, 2011, the Board of Selectmen, Town of Lunenburg, in accordance with
its charter, by laws, and ordinances, vote to authorize the Superintendent to submit to the Massachusetts School Building Authority the
Avenue, which describes and explains the following deficiencies and the priority categorys) for which Lunenburg may be invited to
apply to the Massachusetts School Building Authority in the tuture
Priority 5: Replacement, renovation or modernization of school facility systems, such as roofs, windows, boilers, beating and ventilation
systems, to increase energy conservation and decrease energy related costs in a school facility. The electrical distribution system for
Thomas C. Passios Elementary School is out-dated and should be replaced. Classroom lighting needs to be updated to take
advantage of improvements to lighting technology with daylight saving features. The original roof was replaced in 1986 and at 23 years
===PAGE 2===
old replacement is needed. Leaks from the roof risk damaging asbestos pipe wraps located above the hallway ceilings and causing
indoor air quality concers; and hereby further specifically acknowledges that by submitting this Statement of Interest, the
Massachusetts School Building Authority in no way guarantees the acceptance or the approval of an application, the awarding of a
grant or any other funding commitment from the Massachusetts School Building Authority, or commits the Lunenburg Public School
District to filing an application for funding with the Massachusetts School Building Authority.
Ernie move to approve, Tom seconded, voted unanimously to approve.
Ernie read the form of vote accordingly:
Resolved: Having convened in an open meeting on January 4, 2011, the Board of Selectmen, Town of Lunenburg in accordance with
its charter, by laws, and ordinances, vote to authorize the Superintendent to submit to the Massachusetts School Building Authority the
Statement of Interest dated December 15, 2010 for the Turkey Hill Middle School located at 129 Northfield Road, which describes and
explains the following deficiencies and the priority category(s) for which Lunenburg may be invited to apply to the Massachusetts
School Building Authority in the future
Priority 5: Replacement, renovation or modernization of school facility systems, such as roofs, windows, boilers, heating and ventilation
systems, to increase energy conservation and decrease energy related costs in a school facility. The Turkey Hill Middle School
requires new unit ventilators and extending the digital control system out from the boiler room into the building to allow better control
and more responsive identification of problems. Exterior windows in the building are single pane and in poor condition and require
replacement; and hereby further specifically acknowledges that by submitting this Statement of Interest, the Massachusetts School
Building Authority in no way guarantees the acceptance or the approval of an application, the awarding of a grant or any other tunding
commitment from the Massachusetts School Building Authority, or commits the Lunenburg Public School District to filing an application
for funding with the Massachusetts School Building Authority.
Tom, so moved to approve, Dave seconded, voted unanimously.
2. 7:30 P.M. Pole Location Hearing - Steve read the following: NOTICE TO ABUTTERS - PUBLIC HEARING, December 22, 2010
You are hereby notified that a public hearing will be held at the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg Town Hall 2ND Floor
Conference Room at 7:30 PM on the 4TH day of JANUARY 2011 upon petition of: VERIZON NEW ENGLAND INC. for permission to:
locate poles, wires, cables and tixtures, including the necessary anchors, guys and other such sustaintng and protecting fictures to be
owned and used in common by your petitioners, along and across the following public way or ways: CHASE ROAD: ON THE
EASTERLY SIDELINE PLACE NEW MIDSPAN POLE NO. 12¾ APPROXIMATELY 200 FEET NORTH FROM EXISTING POLE NO.
12½. 1 POLE TO BE PLACED in the ways or parts of ways designated in said petition, along which designated route of line you are an
owner of real estate, as determined by the last preceding assessment for taxation.
Paul Schneider explained that they will be placing a new pole in between as there is currently an underground cable which is getting
infiltrated with water and the best solution is to place a new line above instead of a new conduit line which would entail cutting into the
roadway and installing new manholes. Cable underground will in all likelyhood be abandoned as it may have been an old toll cable.
Tom noted that town's are trying to get away from above ground and are having their lines underground. Paul stated that this section is
antiquated and if only a short section is damaged, then will aerily replace this section only. Dave motion to approve, Tom seconded,
voted uanimously.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 11/23/10& 12/14/10 and Executive Session for 11/23/10& 12/14/10 reviewed
and signed.
Warrants - #35 11, 12/22/10 - $138,196.91 reviewed and signed.
Action File Issues - the Town received a Recognition award from the Mass Central Recycling Council for their outstanding Sold
Waste Program, with each participating household averaging less than 1200 Ibs of trash a year (the state average is over 2000 Ibs per
hh per year).
2. Committee Updates -
• Dave; School Committee will be meeting tomorrow to present their FY2012 budget, will be televised.
• Ernie; Capital Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Thursday.
• Steve; DPW Building Committee should be meeting in the next week or so with the architect.
• Tom: Mass Broadband has a conference call scheduled for noon tomorrow and he will report back to the board on the status
at next week's meeting.
3. Department Updates - Laura forwarded a request from the DPW Director to advise the public of the right-of -way issue(s) during
winter operations. Simply: according to Town bylaw nothing should be placed in that area, and if done so becomes the responsibility of
the homeowner, i.e. basketball hoops, stakes, boulders etc. We are simply looking to protect the safety of the plow drivers and the
travelling public.
===PAGE 3===
4. Town Manager Updates -
OLD BUSINESS
1. Financial Forecast Update -
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
January 11, 2011 - Tom will be absent.
January 18, 2011
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 7:43 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
