===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
IB Saul
BOARDY
OF SELECTMEN
WORKSHOP
September 8, 2011
The Board of Selectmen met at the Public Safety Building with the Finance Committee. Present from the Board of
Selectmen were: David Matthews, Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Steven M. deBettencourt and Kerry Speidel, Town
Manager; Carl "Ernie" Sund was absent. John Male, Mark Erickson, Brian Laffond and Martha McDonald were
present from the Finance Committee. Meeting opened at 6:15 PM.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. REVIEW PROPOSAL FOR REGIONALIZE DISPATCH-NASHOBA VALLEY REGIONAL DISPATCH
Fire Chief Scott Glenny along with Police Chief Daniel Bourgeois presented to those present the specifics of the
regional dispatch project (attached). Lunenburg along with Lancaster, Shirley, Harvard and Devens have been
exploring the possibility of consolidating their police, fire and ambulance dispatch services. Moving to a regional
dispatch center would also meet the EMS 2000 Legislation that requires all communities to have two dispatchers
on duty 24 hours a day, seven days a week by the year 2012. Scott noted that would double the dispatch budget in
fiscal 2013. Having two dispatchers on duty all the time would allow one dispatcher to assess the situation and
dispatch the appropriate responders while the second dispatcher can give pre-arrival instructions; how to do CPR or
control bleeding.
By regionalizing, the estimated cost savings per community for the first year would be
$139,224.00.
Paula had concerns whether having only two dispatchers working per shift was reasonable considering they would
be, quite possibly, handling calls from five communities. She was also concerned about the safety of the lobby not
being manned here at home. Responding, Scott said that there is a possibility to staff the station with purt time
individuals so if someone came in for help there would be a person there to help them.
Police Chief Bourgeois voiced his concerns regarding the following; building security, dispatchers familiar with the
town (losing that personal touch), reservations about the Town receiving the grant money, (it doesn't always show
up) and because we're unique in that we border Fitchburg and Leominster and share in their crimes. He suggested
holding off entering into an agreement and see how the project works out with the other towns.
Steve asked if dispatch could do a breakdown over a two week period showing the calls they receive as well as the
walk-ins. He would like this for their next meeting.
According to Kerry, Harvard has signed on, Shirley is still contemplating and Lancaster seems ready to move
forward.
Dave Matthews would like to look at the numbers before making a decision and asked Kerry for a cost-analysis for
the next meeting which is scheduled for October 6'h at the Public Safety Facility.
Being no further business the Board voted unanimously by roll call vote; to adjourn the meeting at 8:20 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Linda dt. Douglad, Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
