===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 27 2012
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
LUNENBURG TOWN
MEETING MINUTES
CLERK OFFICE
9/13/11
he is
smas
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Absent: Paula Bertram and Tom Alonzo.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ernie Sund said that he would like to recognize the passing of Caroline Porter, wife of Reserve Officer Paul Porter, and
would like to express his sympathy on behalf of the Board, to the family.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1.
Review of FY11 Close Out; Final Year End Transfer Request - Ms. Speidel distributed and reviewed
the FY11 Budget Close Out Report to the Board, which included summaries of revenues and expenditures along
with a request for transfer of funds. (See Attached)
Ms. Speidel requested the BOS approve Chapter 44 S 33B transfers as follows:
Transferred From
Tax Collector's Administration
Tax Collector's Administration
Tax Collector's Administration
Town Accountant
Council on Aging
Lunenburg Public Library
Legal Expenses
Veterans Benefits
Amount
$4.28
$520.82
$4,436.20
$560.46
$1486.79
$2338.84
$1360.36
$152.00
Transferred To
Principal - Loans
Plumbing inspece - Loans
Plumbing Inspector
Central Purchasing
Central Purchasing
Central Purchasing
Band Concerts
Mr. Sund motioned to transfer the amounts as outlined by the Town Manager. Mr. deBettencourt seconded. On
vote, motion carried, 3 in favor, 0 opposed.
BOS Policies & Procedures - Mr. Matthews stated that at last week's meeting they had discovered that there
was a missing file containing a list of procedures and they will be forwarded to Mr. Sund when they are received
Ms. Speidel mentioned that of that missing file there is only about 1/3 of it that actually has any type of written
procedure established with them and she will include them in the document for the board to review.
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes: None
Warrants - 9/13/11 W14-12 $356,574.23
9/14/11 W15-12
: $462,555.15
9/15/11 6P-12
$647,201.09
===PAGE 2===
Action File Issues - Mr. Sund would like the board to look into purchasing iPads for the Board to use during
meetings.
• Mr. Matthews requested an update on the gas station located at 925 Mass Ave.
Ms. Speidel said that Clean Harbors came out yesterday and pumped 573 gallons of waste gasoline. She spoke to
the Fire Chief today and questioned if the tanks had been compromised. Chief Glenny told her that there was no
testing done outside of the tanks but based upon the monitoring that the Fire Dept. has done since the property was
abandoned, which was quarterly, he did not have any reason to believe that there was any leakage.
Ms. Speidel feels that at this point in time she would like to look at the possibility of the Town taking this property
through Tax Title. She will research this further with Town Counsel.
Mr. Sund questioned if the empty tanks had been filled with sand to prevent the tanks from collapsing. Ms. Speidel
replied that it was her understanding that Clean Harbors had prepared the tanks for long term storage but was not
sure if they used sand or not and will get clarification.
4. Committee Updates - Mr. Sund reported that there was a Cable Committee meeting last evening where they
discussed new programs that were being shown this week such as the Card Board Boat Race and the Boy Scouts
Flag Disposal Ceremony.
Mr. Matthews reported that the School Committee had met last Wednesday where they made their appointments to
the School Re-Organization Committee which was expanded in size.
5. Department Updates - Ms. Speidel mentioned that the Boy Scouts held a Flag Raising Ceremony at the Center
Common using a flag which was presented to the BOS by the Daughters of the American Revolution. She
thanked Larry Marshall and Boy Scout Troop 1728 for raising the special flag.
Mr. Matthews stated that there was a ceremony at the Public Safety Building on Sunday morning where a wreath
was placed on a memorial stone which recognizes the fire fighters and police who have served in the town of
Lunenburg.
Mr. Sund stated that he was traveling on Sunday (9/11 Day) and a ceremony was held at the airport he was at by
the TSA recognizing this day.
6. Town Manager Updates - Ms. Speidel updated the board on the paving which has begun on Lancaster Avenue,
which will continue for approximately 1 week.
Mr. deBettencourt suggested that the City of Leominster be informed about the detours that will be associated with
the paving because it has caused problems with their traffic flow.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that pot hole repair work will begin tomorrow on Cross Street.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
Mr. Matthews stated that there was a meeting at the Public Safety Building to discuss exploring cost savings and figures
for joining the Regional Dispatch at Devens. The Board discussed and agreed that the next meeting should be held at
Lunenburg Town Hall so that it can be televised.
Ms. Speidel informed the board that the "Server" room has been moved down stairs to a more secure location at Town
Hall. Moving the servers has made it quieter in the upstairs meeting room.
Mr. Matthews said that there will be no BOS meeting on September 20ü due to the fact that there will be no quorum.
===PAGE 3===
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Mr. deBettencourt motioned to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion carried, 3 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 7:50 p.m.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
No Meeting on September 20, 2011
October 4, 2011
October 11, 2011
October 18, 2011
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 27 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
