===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
1. Tom expressed appreciation to the Town Band, and conductor Steve Archambault for their performances throughout the summer as
well as to those groups that hosted the concerts.
Marion Benson presented the approval of the Development Plan Review for the DPW addition at 520 Chase Road. This has gone to all
the applicable departments for their review/input and noted that the Building Inspector has issued the two building permits for this
project (renovation & addition). She noted that the peer review was conducted pro-bono and was completed as quickly as possible
APPOINTMENTS
1. 7:00 PM Update from Green Communities Task Force -David Blatt of the Green Community Task Force and John Londa
(advisor to the group) were present. According to John, the Landfill project (solar) since the June 1st discussions on the milestones for
project two site visits have been conducted. Connection point and layout of the solar farm were determined and recommendations on
changes to the contract document. On June 30th he had a follow up meeting with the contractor (Berago) and Unitil representative John
DiNapoli. Standard application for the site was accepted by Unitil, and a technical review is required; the fee for this has been
submitted by Berago to Unitil. This review is expected to conclude on or about September 14th. Still waiting for input from Town
Counsel on the contract changes before we can begin negotiations with Berago on the per kilowatt price for energy. Berago is trying to
develop the site and stay off of the actual landfill cap.
Kerry spoke with Rick Holland from Kopelman & Paige and he has assured her that he will have his comments completed by the end of
this week.
John doesn't believe that we'll start the construction phase until next spring and noted that we're not competing with every project
submittal, only with municipal projects. The project on Chase Road is only looking to sell power back to the highest bidder and not to
Unitil.
Paula questioned specifically what areas are they looking at for the solar array. John reviewed the plan that had been incorporated into
the RFP, the plan leaves out the composting area and sweeping and catch basin cleanings. He noted that the connection will be on the
town owned property that abuts the development.
On the Middle School solar project, John noted that this has been up and generating power for about 60 days, last month about 1600
KW/hours, on track with what we had projected and have received our first bills with the power reduction.
David B. noted that at the last meeting the Task Force voted to recommend to the Board of Selectmen that we proceed with the next
step and that is to have a vote at the fall town meeting on becoming a Green Community. The Task Force will plan on holding a
meeting with the Board of Selectmen to bring the information to the public and will have a representative from the State available for
Town Meeting to answer questions, particularly the issue of the Stretch Code. Their belief is that some of the requirements of the
Stretch Code are going to pass legislation as well so some of the requirements in the stretch code will eventually be mandated.
Tom would rather have the Task Force hold a public meeting here, televised, so that we could alleviate the most questions as possible.
David B. wants to be sure that the community is aware of what this means and what the liabilities would be to the town and want to be
sure that everyone's questions are answered.
Board concurred that they want to make this information as public as possible, be it through the media, website and public meetings
prior to town meeting.
Marion, serves as an advisor to the Task Force and noted that there is currently a vacancy on the committee and that there are three
advisors; her, John Londa and Jim Breault.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to Abate Ambulance Bill - Board reveiwed the request submitted by Fire Chief, Scott Glenny to abate an ambulance
bill. The client received service in 2008, total charges were $865.00, the billing company learned that she did not have any insurance
and is currently unemployed and receives child support. Annual income of approximately $9,000. If you were to accept the settlement
of $600, there would still be the balance $265.00 that would need to be abated. Ernie motion to abate, Paula seconded, voted
unanimously.
===PAGE 2===
use assistance with is the Human Resources, we have policies that are mandated and some we can get from MIlA. Would like to
ttempt first and then see if we need assistance. Kerry will discuss turther with Paula and present at next board meeting
om commented that the reason that this never really moved forward is we didn't break this down, didn't go through the official part of
adopting sections. We really need to do this work about what we believe in most of these sections, and come up with what other town's
have done, don't have to re-invent this. Tom would like to see if the board could address a couple of items a meeting. Paula noted that
under Organization of the board in the workshop meeting minutes, nomination should have a second. Workshop minutes, agenda's /
timelines in accordance with Open Meeting Law. For next meeting, we'll have the edits done from the 2007 workshop, then perhaps
Town Manager could put together the financial piece.
4. Minutes - Board of Selectmen Regular session for 8/16/11 and Executive Session for 8/16/11 reviewed and signed.
Warrants - #9 12, 8/16/11 - $149,618.36, #10 12, 8/17/11 - $338,523.79 and #11 12, 8/23/11 - $82,205.14, Water Commission 1st
Qtr. 2012, 8/23/11 - $3276.10 reviewed and signed
Contracts - Town Accountant, Karen Brochu's contract the board wants to stay within the 2½ percent annual increase over the
contract. Expressed appreciation to the Town Accountant for her excellent performance
Also contract for the Clerical Unit for July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2014 signed.
Action File Issues - Tom commented on the rotary at Lakefront Ave. and Whalom Road and as there is no cross walk painted it's
difficult for pedestrians to cross in that area. Would like to have this investigated.
Dave commented on an accident on Mulpus Road and the need for a pole to be replaced, Kerry will check into this.
5. Committee Updates -
Tom - Finance Committee meets this Thursday.
• Dave - School Regionalization Committee met this week and have been discussing the town options and he is not sure how
much longer we'll be held up in this process as at this point there is really no update to give. In reviewing the financial
analysis, it appears that Lunenburg will be paying more as will the other members of the district. Not really sure why we're still
talking at this point and the issues with our buildings really can't be put off much longer. Ernie commented on a report that
he's recently read and he's very frustrated with the fact that it seems to be put back because of Lunenburg. Dave will reach
out to the State Rep and see if she can reach our to the Department of Education. Tom thinks that both regionalization studies
have shown that no scenario is going to be a moneysaver, there may be additional educational opportunities for the district
and the students. We have to be sure that we dedicate ourselves to our academic programs and to maintain the buildings,
either way we're going to be paying more, people just have to understand how we're going to be paying this.
6. Department Updates -
a. Chapter 90 Road Projects - Levelling and overlay on Lancaster Ave and New West Townsend Road are tentatively scheduled
for the second full week in September. These locations remain consistent with the Pavement Management Program. Our vendor, who
was not able to put many of his employees back to work, has been inundated with requests since the release of Chapter 90 monies to
communities, most of whom, like us, would have scheduled the work sooner. The DPW Director also intends on proceeding with the
crack sealing phase and this is expected to occur in September as well. Dave commented that we should utilize the mobile bulletin
board signs to advise commuters prior to commencing the projects and the website scroll so that drivers will be aware traffic issues.
7. Town Manager Updates
a. Jones House Advertisement Schedule - Kerry reveiwed the attached advertisement for the Jones House RFP Process,
releasing the RFP on September 1s with anticipated due date of December 30.
===PAGE 3===
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
EXECUTIVE SESSION
1. M.G.L. Chapter 39, §23B(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may
have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, to conduct strategy sessions in
preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective bargaining and contract negotiations
with non-union personnel.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 6
September 8 - Regional Dispatch Proposal
September 13
September 20
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 8:25 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Laura Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 4===
Paula Bertram, Mbr.
Laura Williams
Chief Admin. Asst.
September 1, 2011
Legal Notice
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
SALE OF PROPERTY - JONES HOUSE
42 MAIN STREET, LUNENBURG, MA 01462
The Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts is soliciting proposals from parties interested in purchasing its
real property, identified as the Jones House. The building is an historic property which is presently
unoccupied. The property is on a recorded lot of 14,948 square feet, more or less and is located at 42
Main Street, Lunenburg, MA. It is located in Residence A Zoning District. The terms and conditions of
the Request for Proposals (RFP) are as follows.
Proposal packets, including a sample Purchase & Sale Agreement with the terms and conditions of the
offer to purchase may be obtained at the Office of the Board of Selectmen, Attention: Laura Williams,
(978) 582-4144, email: Iwilliams@lunenburgonline.com, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462;
between the hours of 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM on Mondays, Wednesdays & Thursday;s 8:00 AM - 6:30 PM on
Tuesdays or 8:00 AM - 12:30 PM on Fridays. Proposals are subject to M.G.L. Chapter 30B, Section 16.
Prospective respondents may attend a Pre-Bid Conference on Tuesday, October 18, 2011 at 11:00 AM
in the Joseph R. Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg Town Hall, with an inspection of the property to
immediately follow the conference. Proposals are due at the Office of the Board of Selectmen, 17 Main
Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 by noon on Friday, December 30, 2011. All proposals shall be sealed and
plainly marked "RFP Jones House Purchase." Proposals received after this deadline shall not be
considered. Any person wishing to withdraw a proposal shall do so in writing before the date and time
allowed for receipt of proposals. The Town reserves ninety- (90) calendar days after opening the
proposals within which to make an award and may require one 30-day extension to complete the
selection of a response ad resultant transaction.
The Town, at its sole discretion, may refuse to consider a proposal that is not in the possession of an
authorized representative by the deadline given here. The Town of Lunenburg reserves the right to
reject any and all proposals, in whole or in part, or to waive any informality, if deemed to be in the best
interest of the Town of Lunenburg.
Kerry A. Speidel, Town Manager
===PAGE 5===
Date:
To:
All Department Heads
From: Marion M. Benson, Chair
CPC Schedule timeline is as follows:
CPC packet sent to Dept. Heads
Sept. 1, 2011
All Capital Request forms return due date
Sept. 30, 2011
for Five Year Plan, FY 13 Requests, & Inventory Sheet
Town Manager pre-review
Oct. 1, to Oct. 14, 2011
CPC review and interviews
Oct. 14, to Dec. 1, 2011
Prioritization and preparation of FY plan
Dec. 1, to Dec. 31, 2011
Note: Only Inventory, Five Year Plan and Form B due Sept. 30, 2011
The CPC packet for FY2013 contains the following
Capital Planning Criteria
Inventory Worksheet
Five Year Plan Form
Form B Request Form FY2013
Form C Notification Form for Capital purchases from FY2013 Capital Plan
Form D Emergency Request Form
Form E Notification Form for Capital Purchase from Operating Budget (over $10,000)
Note: Every department must submit an Inventory and Five Year Plan. Even though you may
not have an FY13 request, return the FY13 Form B with above by noting there is no request.
The Goal of Capital Planning is to provide a means of planning for necessary expenditures,
maintenance and/or improvements of the capital assets and infrastructure of the Town.
All items with a cost equal to, or greater than $10,000.00, shall be included on the FY Capital Plan.
Groups of items of same use which together the cost is equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be
included on the FY Capital Plan.
1
===PAGE 6===
All equipment, rolling or stationary; (or groups of same-ex: lawn maintenance equipment) cost
equal to or greater than $10,000.00 shall be on the FY Capital Plan.
All technology and communication items shall be submitted to the Technology Department, who in
turn, will include these items in its Form B submittal (this includes all telephones, computers,
servers, fax machines, copiers). All above items under Town Departments should be included in
the FY Capital Plan and all above items under the School Department shall be in the school budget.
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee, or to the Technology Department,
shall include a financial impact statement as to the departmental operating budget (See Form B).
Each submittal of each item to the Capital Planning Committee shall include an anticipated
maintenance schedule.
The CPC will review all requests by the Criteria which indicates that each request must address the
health and safety of citizens and property, maintenance of operation, requirements of Federal, State
and Local Laws and Regulations, improvement of infrastructure and improvement of productivity.
Forms C, D, and E are for your use throughout the year.
Form C is for recordkeeping so CPC can know when an item has been purchased and
such knowledge assists in maintaining the current balances in the Capital Budget.
Form D is the process for emergency requests. Emergencies can occur; however, each
Department should anticipate the age, needs and condition of their equipment. Items should
be requested on your Form B's before they become emergencies.
Form E is when a capital item is taken out of the operating budget, grant monies, etc.
This is for recordkeeping for Capital Planning, noting that the item has been secured by
other financial means.
Capplan/procedures/plan and process
===PAGE 7===
c. Injury Leave
d. Time off without Pay
4. Was Rob Bowen's policy ever acted on?
Utilizing Town Counsel - "The BOS will henceforth act as the contact point between Counsel and the
governing body of the town" not currently utilized - eliminate
Workshop 3/8/87
Update "CAFO" to Town Manager in all sections discussed in workshop, renumber charter references
accordingly
Organization of the Board
1. States nominations shall require no second?
Remove minutes taken by Clerk
Relations with Town Residents
1. Reasoning for limiting comment to 3 minutes?
Agendas
1. Timelines spelled out don't follow changes to open meeting law
Selectmen's Policies (F)
1. Need to update Equal opportunity language
2. Alcohol & Drugs:
a. Up to date?
b. In accordance with contract?
c. Do we perform random testing?
3. Medex Reimbursement - Eliminate (PEC)
4. Sexual Harassment - Laura & Dan currently officers - should it be Town Manager?
5. Computer Training Policy - Standardize but maintain for volunteers
6. Recycled Product Policy - Currently followed? Cost effective?
yard waste - letter versus poncy.
Sewer Commission Rates - Elimina
9. Financial Policy - Update and expand
0. Email Policy - update to open meeting law standard;
1. Liquor Policies - combine various policie:
Adopt clear format and divide into sections (similar to Town of Framingham)
• Procedural
a. Establishment of Policies and Procedures
b. Authority
c. Duties & Responsibilities - Standards of Conduct
d. Organization
e. Responsibilities of Officers
Meeting Procedures
i. Agenda
ii. Executive Session
iii. Public Comment
g. Town Meeting
===PAGE 8===
d.
Stabilization
e. Submission of Bills
f. Warrants
• Regulatory
a. Liquor License Regulations
i. Extension of Hours
ii. Carry In Policy
ill. Advertising
b. Street Opening Permits
c. Non-Accepted Streets
d. Access to Town Counsel
• Personnel (Not sure what is redundant due to Union Contracts, should be consistent with contracts)
a. Family & Medical Leave
b. Sexual Harrasement
c. Alcohol & Drug Testing
d. Compensatory Time
e. Hiring
f. Equal Opportunity
g. Injury:
i. Injury Leave
il. Light Duty
h. Contractors
i. Compensatory Time
i. Evaluations
k. Communications with Board/Committees (regular meeting, i.e: once per quarter see Town of
Harvard policies)
Town Communications (ie solicitation by employees using Town communication media, see
Town of Ashland)
m. Cori Policy (Ashland)
Employment of Minors
