===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/22/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews began the meeting by congratulating everyone who was elected in the previous Saturday's elections and
thanked them for serving the town.
Ms. Bertram thanked all who voted for her and said she looks forward to working with the BOS for the next 3 years.
Mr. Sund also thanked the voters for coming out and informed the public that there will be a Memorial Day Service this
coming Sunday at Veteran's Memorial Park at 11:45 a.m. If it rains the ceremony will be held in the Eagle House Senior
Center. He also reminded people that due to a water shortage at the cemeteries, they should bring their own water if they
are planting at the graves.
Pat Slattery, Chairman of the Lunenburg Historical Commission thanked the BOS and the Town Manager on their efforts
of seeing the Jones House project through. He said that the project started 3 years ago and they have gotten it to the point
that they will be able to preserve a significant Lunenburg structure and return it to the tax rolls. The project was overseen
by the Historical Commission and all of the professional services, except for advertising and legal, were donated.
Mr. Matthews thanked the Historical Commission for all of their efforts on the project.
Mr. Sund personally thanked Mr. Slattery for all of his work on the Jones House project.
Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools invited all to the School's Memorial Day celebrations. All three schools will
have programs on Thursday May 24* at various times. Ms. Calmes also stated that the recent vote was disappointing but
unchanged. She thanked the BOS for their continued support of the students.
Mr. Matthews stated that the most important role they play as Selectmen is to get information out to the voters. He will
continue to get information out to the public on how they operate, how they make decisions, and what the impact of the
decisions they make are. He said that with the right to vote comes the responsibility of the outcome and they will
continue working forward in making Lunenburg a town that people want to live in and stay in with all of the services they
can muster.
Mr. Matthews said that a positive outcome of Town Meeting was that people came forward to join various committees
and that anything people can do to get involved with this town makes it better.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
RECEIVED & TEDED
JUNG 8 2012
LEVENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
1. Board Reorganization & Committee/Liaison Assignments - Mr. Alonzo motioned to nominate Dave
Matthews to serve as the Chair of the BOS. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Matthews motioned to nominate Tom Alonzo as Vice Chair of the BOS. Mr. deBettencourt seconded. On vote,
motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Bertram motioned to nominate Ernie Sund as Clerk of the BOS. Mr. deBettencourt seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Bertram will continue to represent the BOS at Planning Board and MRPC meetings.
Mr. deBettencourt will continue to represent the BOS at Sewer Commission meetings.
Mr. Sund Will continue to represent the BOS at Capital Planning Committee and PACC meetings.
Mr. Alonzo will continue to represent the BOS at the Finance Committee meetings.
Mr. Matthews will continue to represent the BOS at the School Committee and School Building Committee meetings.
2. Remote Participation Policy - Mr. Alonzo suggested an addition to the Remote Participation Policy which would
be that remote participation may not always be available at all meeting locations at all times.
Mr. Sund questioned the wording on pg. 2 under technology concerning acceptable media for remote participation. He
said that he would like the word "shall" changed to "may be" because the word "shall" indicates that we must do it and it
could be very costly for the town. Ms. Speidel would like to check that with Town Counsel before the board strikes this
from the policy, due to ADA requirements. She believes you would be required to make that type of accommodation with
the media, if it is required for an individual to participate in the meeting.
Ms. Bertram motioned to accept the policy with the adjustments suggested by Mr. Alonzo and verification with the Town
Counsel with adjustment made by Mr. Sund. Mr. Alonzo seconded. On vote, motion carried, 3 in favor, 2 opposed (Sund
& deBettencourt)
3. Town Manager's Annual Evaluation - Ms. Speidel said that Mr. Matthews had indicated that all forms should be
completed and BOS members meet with the Town Manager by June 12" and that he would compile the composite for the
evaluation for the June 19" meeting.
Mr. Alonzo questioned if the goals were attached to the forms to which Ms. Speidel said that it was her understanding that
at last weeks meeting, Mr. Matthews wanted to do it separately. The BOS would like to have them in hand so they can do
a thorough evaluation. Ms. Speidel will get them to the BOS by tomorrow.
4. BOS Policies & Procedures - Ms. Bertram has been working on revising the BOS policies and procedures and Mr.
Matthews requested that a printed copy be given to each member to review. Ms. Bertram stated that a lot of the
information that had been distributed previously seemed to contain a lot of office staff procedures vs. policy by the board.
She attempted to edit the language to put it in more of a form of a policy vs. instructions for staff. She incorporated some
additional policies and sent samples which she had borrowed from other communities based on the outline she had
formulated several months ago. The Remote Participation policy will need to be incorporated as well.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that as they go through the process of review, that they take one or two items at a time so that they
are not overwhelmed.
Mr. Matthews said he would like to have workshops on this in July and have this completed by the end of the summer.
5. Authorize to provide for the Sale and Issuance of Refunding Bonds, 2003 Bond Issue - Mr. Matthews
stated that the Town Manager, Treasurer, and Financial advisor have found a way to refinance bonds from building
projects from 2003 which will save some substantial money in interest payments. Projected savings will be
approximately $600,000. over the next ten years.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Speidel said that because this is an advanced refunding issue and the fact that it is combined with the regular general
obligation bond issue together in one series of bonds the Financial Advisor suggested that the BOS should vote to
authorize the advanced refunding ahead of time in case there was any reason that the Board was not interested in moving
forward. This will only authorize them to go out to get bids, which will be done next week, and the results of the sale will
be brought back to the BOS at the first meeting in June. If the savings are not significant the BOS can opt not to accept
the bids. These bonds are all exempt, so the tax dollars raised to pay the debt service is done outside of Proposition 2 ½,
therefore, a reduction in total debt service will reduce the amount of additional tax dollars needed to be raised
Ms. Speidel stated that there is a Form of vote that is required to be read should the Board so choose to proceed.
Mr. Matthews read the vote into record. Mr. deBetttencourt moved to accept the vote. Mr. Sund seconded.
Mr. Alonzo questioned if the expected savings was over the life of the bond. Ms. Speidel said yes it would be for 10
years.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues -
Minutes: 3/6/2012 & 5/15/2012
Warrants - 5/21/12 W24P12 $644,737.55
5/22/12 W67-12 $1,502,543.37
5/23/12 W68-12 $662,193.01
Action File Issues -
7. Committee Report - Mr. deBettencourt said that the Sewer Commission is working on trying to keep their budget in
line and they are looking at some of the I & I changes that they will be making to get the water out. He has not received
any information on the metering station in Fitchburg yet.
Ms. Bertram said that she had attended the MPO meeting and it looks like the Summer St. project, although it scored high,
Will not make it onto the next lll. She said that she received comments from MRPC that Lunenburg's consultant really
needs to lobby for this project. She is concerned that if we are in the Appendix, because the project is so substantial, to
move it out of the Appendix into one of the earlier years at a later date is going to be more difficult. She would like to
contact VHB and find out when this project is going to be ready so she can relay the information.
Ms. Speidel said that she speaks with the engineer from VHB weekly and she is sending the design contract to the town to
be approved. The engineer thinks the timetable for approval would be 6-9 months. Ms. Speidel also spoke to the
transportation planner at MRPC and gave him the timetable. She asked him if the time table would enable that project to
be reviewed so it could be taken out of the appendix at the next opportunity and he thought it would be sufficient.
Ms. Bertram is still concerned that the high dollar amount will consume all the funding and that once it is in the appendix
and the TIP is set, it will be difficult to move it out of the appendix and in front of other projects. Ms. Bertram would like
to see the engineer attend the MPO meetings and have the town lobby more for the project.
8. Department Reports - None
9. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel checked with the DPW Director about debris which was left at an accident
scene on the Fitchburg/Lunenburg line and he said that it was removed last week. The reason it was there for so long was
because the insurance company had not come out to finish their work so the town took pictures and removed the debris.
The cabinet at the intersection of Whalom and Electric, which was damaged ten years ago by an automobile accident, will
not be replaced. According to the DPW Director the damage to the cabinet is not impacting the working of the lights and
it's not worth replacing due to the cost. This will be looked at again and the DPW Director will get a repair estimate.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Speidel checked into the bench repair at the lower common and believes that the Eagle Scout who originally made the
bench wanted to do the work himself. If he is unable to do that, then the town will take care of it.
Mr. Alonzo asked about the painted walkway around the Whalom rotary and Ms. Speidel said she has a report on that and
will get it to the BOS.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - Mr. Matthews requested that a letter be sent to
Barbara Reynolds thanking her for many years of service on the Personnel Board.
Mr. Sund mentioned that the High School Pops concert is being shown on the cable channel and heard that it was very
good.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business, Mr. deBettencourt motioned to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 7:48 p.m.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
June 5, 2012
June 12, 2012
June 19, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
