===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
4/24/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Absent was Paula Bertram
Meeting opened at 6:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT - None
ANNOUNCEMENTS - None
APPOINTMENTS - None
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. FX2013 Budget & Override; Review & Recommendations on Town Meeting Warrant Articles -
The Town Manager informed the Board that she had met with the Board of Health (BOH) the previous evening and
has developed three alternative scenarios to the Land Use Department Administrative Assistant position cut that may
be more acceptable.
(1) Increase the combined Conservation and BOS position to 40 hours per week and then reduce both
Building and Planning Dept. Administrative Assistant hours to 34 per week.
(Both the Building and Planning positions are currently 40 hr. per week positions and all 40 hour
positions are being reduced across the board to 36 hrs. This would mean an additional 2 hours for
each of those departments cut.)
(2) Keep all four positions in the Land Use Dept. Building/Planning would be reduced to 35 hrs each.
BOH and Conservation would be reduced to 20 hours each.
(3) Reduce hours in all Land Use Depts. to 27.5 hrs.
All three scenarios would amount to the same in savings as in the originally proposed balanced budget.
Discussion ensued concerning the notification of all Land Use Departments about these scenarios and the concern of
being able to keep all these departments open at the same time. Mr. Alonzo stated that he felt the Town Manager has
done her job and that there was too much time being spent analyzing this issue.
BOH member Dave Passios voiced his concern about all the positions being over-taxed.
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, spoke and said that as a Department Head he feels that the Town in not operating
efficiently and that there is not enough money. He stated that with all due respect it was not the Board's decision to make
on this issue and that they had hired a person to do this job, and they should let her do it.
Mr. deBettencourt questioned the possibility of union bumping with these positions. Ms. Speidel said that all of the union
positions have bumping rights but that it was not up for public discussion.
Corine Scouten Spees repe had why auly on inpatient was being reuced and not all i hi putions cople
reduced to 36 hrs.
The Town Manager will discuss this matter further with all of the Land Use Departments.
===PAGE 2===
2. Establishment of Memorial Day Committee - Not discussed
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues - The following minutes and warrants were presented for approval.
1. Minutes:
None
2. Warrants - 62-12, 4/25/12, $654.909.86
22P-12, 4/26/12, $589,887.73
3. Action File Issues -
Town Manager Reports- Ms. Speidel said that she had received more detail on the Senior Citizen Circuit Breaker
rebate which is that applications will be taken throughout the year (2011) and if you are applying for a 2011 rebate, you
can also apply for rebates for 2010 and 2009. Informational packets on the Circuit Breaker can be picked up at the Eagle
House Senior Center.
The Municipal Aggregation Program will be offering greatly reduced rates as of June 1, 2012 from 7.77 cents per KW to
5.85 cents per KW which amounts to a 25% reduction which gives Lunenburg the lowest rates in the state. The consultant
suggests that the town look into a longer term contract the next time it goes out to bid due to the fact that within the next
six months, the rates may bottom out. Ms. Speidel will have more information at the next BOS meeting.
An Open Meeting Law complaint was filed against the Town Clerk's office and the Board by the Fitchburg Sentinel and
Enterprise newspaper. A reporter from that paper claimed that when she checked the outside bulletin board on Friday
April 13th for the April 17" BOS agenda, it was not there. Ms. Speidel said that she had submitted the agenda on April.
12" and that it was date stamped as such at about Noon. When asked, the Town Clerk told her that it was posted, outside
in the bulletin board, at approximately 6PM on April 12th.
Ms. Speidel told the Board that if they were concerned about the votes that were taken that evening relating to the FY13
Budget & Override and the Memorial Day Committee, then those items will be added again to the agenda for
confirmation at the next BOS meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS -None
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Discussion: Mr. Matthews informed the BOS that he had drafted a letter to Representative Jen Benson, identifying two
concerns. The first was concern regarding the State's attempt to clarify taxation of Solar Farm development. One
proposal under review by the House would severely limit the Town ability to obtain a full and fair tax value on this type
of development. The Town is opposed to approval of this legislation.
The second item was regarding the Quinn Bill. Some Police Unions (excluding Lunenburg) are trying to force towns to
pay the state's 50% share. Lunenburg's contract already addresses this issue and it was also decided by the Supreme
Judicial Court that cities and towns can't be held responsible for the state's share. The Town is opposed to approval of
any legislation that would attempt to override the SJC decision.
Being no further business Mr. deBettencourt made a motion to adjourn.
unanimously to adjourn the meeting at 6:41 p.m.
Mr. Sund seconded.
The board voted
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
May 1, 2012
May 15, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
May 5, 2012 Annual Town Meeting
May 22, 2012
May 8, 2012
June 5, 2012
