===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
:"
1J0905D
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/8/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews thanked everyone for coming to the Town Meeting on Saturday.
John Baker, Chase Rd., spoke about the vote no/yes signs being stolen throughout the town. He feels it is not a "classy"
thing to do and wanted to appeal to the public, and to whomever is watching, to "knock it off".
Mr. Matthew said that he couldn't agree more and people who have their signs out there deserve to be respected.
Lisa Fuellemann, 45 Cortland Circle, said that she has been a Lunenburg resident for 10 years and thanked the BOS for
giving her the opportunity to address the board and to thank them all for their service to the town. She asked Mr.
Matthews about an article in the May 4" Sentinel & Enterprise where he was quoted as saying the people who were for
the override tend to be on the facts, data, and information and the people who were against it had more of an emotional
type of response. She thought it was a powerful statement and that it needed more discussion and asked Mr. Matthews to
explain the reasoning behind his statements further.
Mr. Matthews explained that he has said a number of times that the BOS has been putting a lot of information, facts and
figures about inflation rates and how it out runs the Proposition 2 ½ limit, state aide cuts, new growth and how the town
benefits from it or breaks even. He said that its facts, figures and data that supports where we are going to. He
understands that a lot of the opposition is based on anger which he understands as we all feel like we pay plenty of taxes.
As much as we've tried to have a discussion about the facts and figures, we haven't seen it, We just see the "Just Say No"
signs. He believes that they have to have a conversation about the facts and figures and where the money goes and how
we are going to sustain the town in the future.
Loxi Jo Calmes, School Superintendent informed the BOS that today is Teacher Appreciation Day and she hopes they all
have had a chance to thank an educator in their life. She had just come from the Jazz Band practice and recognized Mrs.
Wardwell for her passion and dedication to the students. She reminded everyone that the Pop's Concert will be coming
up this Friday and how you can get tickets. She stated that the music program at the Primary School will be cut without
funding from the override.
She also reminded everyone that tomorrow is School Nurse Appreciation Day and said that our school nurses really serve
our community so well. She then thanked the BOS for the support that they give them and said it was a pleasure to host
the town meeting at the High School.
Mr. Alonzo stated that if you have not attended a Pops Concert at the High School, he encourages you to do so. He also
thanked the a capella group from the High School for singing the National Anthem at the town meeting.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
HIN 0 8 20012
LUMENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
1. Recap of May 5, 2012 Town Meeting - Mr. Matthews recapped the events at town meeting which included the
new solar bylaw, appropriation of the override, the school building feasibility study, and the Summer St. project. He
encouraged all people, either for or against, the override to come out and vote.
2. Appointments to Memorial Day Committee - Mr. Sund stated that at the present time the only people that came
orward to be on the committee were Loxi Jo Calmes and Chief Dan Bourgeois. He also apologized for not being a
'own Meeting due to recent surgery. Ms. Bertram moved to appoint Superintendent Calmes, Chief Bourgeois, and Mi
Sund to the Memorial Day Committee. Mr. deBettencourt seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues -
Minutes:
Warrants - 5/9/12 W65-12 $151,704.99
5/8/12 W64-12 $54,622.59
Action File Issues - Mr. Alonzo was concerned with the missing bench from the gazebo which had been damaged. He
said that it was an Eagle Scout project and asked if anything was being done about the replacement.
Ms. Speidel will follow up with the DPW on this issue.
Mr. deBettencourt was concerned with the metering system which was wiped out on the Fitchburg/Lunenburg line. He
said that a business owner in the area had questioned when it would be taken care of.
Another concern was the control box meter in Whalom which had been damaged as well.
Ms. Speidel will follow up on these matters.
4. Committee Report - Mr. Alonzo informed the BOS that the Finance Committee meets this Thursday.
Mr. Matthews informed the BOS that the School Building Committee will meet tomorrow night and that they will
tour High School.
5. Department Reports - None
6. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel presented two licenses, that had been previously approved, but needed to be
signed. An "All Alcohol" license for Elena's Gourmet Grocery was presented and Ms Speidel said that once Elena's
Gourmet Grocery receives this license, she will return the Beer & Wine license which will be advertised for anyone in
town that is interested.
A "Base License Golf Driving Range" for Mark Testa doing business as Lakeview Driving Range. There were two
licenses, one for the period that expired 4/30/12 and the other expiring 4/30/13.
Mis. Speidel reported that she had received word from the DPW Director that he had heard from DEP that the land fill
monitoring will now be done on an annual basis rather than a bi-annual basis. This will save the town approximately
$5000 to $8000 per year and she is expecting an official letter from DEP soon on this matter.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that when the new rate for the electric aggregation program goes in to effect on June 1°, it is
estimated, based on average that homeowners will save between $15 and $20 per month which is significant
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
===PAGE 3===
Being no further business, Mr. deBettencourt motioned to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, O opposed.
Meeting ended at 7:20 p.m.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
May 15, 2012
May 22, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
