===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
153. 19 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
1/3/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Tom Alonzo and Car] "Ernie" Sund
were absent. Regular Meeting opened at 7:04 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
None
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Matthews announced that the Central Mass Municipal Recycling Council gave the Town of Lunenburg two
recognition Awards for its Outstanding Solid Waste Program. Each participating household averaged less than 1000 lb:
of trash a year. The Town was also recognized for entering the 30% Recycling Rate Club
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM Joint Meeting Lunenburg Housing Authority to consider appointment to vacant seat - Lunenburg
Housing Authority Director Gene Capuccia thanked the Board of Selectmen along with the Town's Inspectional Services
Department, on behalf of the Housing Authority Board members and residents of Pearl Brook, for their efforts in the
rehabilitation of their complex located at 131 White Street. He also presented "before and after"' pictures of the project
and spoke of the improvement of the operating income to approximately $100,000 per year. He hopes to be able to
continue making improvements to this property in the future.
Paul Doherty, applicant for appointment to Housing Authority - of 214 Townsend Harbor Rd came before the Board
for an interview to be considered for appointment to the unexpired term. Mr. Doherty is the former maintenance person
for 131 White St. and also a member of the Lunenburg Zoning Board Authority. Ms. Bertram made a motion to appoint
Paul Doherty to the Lunenburg Housing Authority Board. Motion was seconded by Mr. deBettencourt. All Board
members approved and motion carried.
7:30 PM Luke DiRenzo, requesting appointment to position of Constable - of 105 Chestnut St came before the
Board for an interview requesting appointment to position of Constable. Mr. DiRenzo has former military experience and
feels that the skills he has acquired will be an asset to him if appointed to this position. Mr. Matthews commented that he
had a note from the Lunenburg Police Chief Dan Bourgeois stating that he has no objections to this appointment. All
appropriate paper work including CORI and $5000 bond agreement is in order. Ms. Bertram made a motion to appoint
Luke DiRenzo as Constable. Motion was seconded by Mr. deBettencourt. All board members approved and motion
carried.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Discussed in following order:
1. BOS Policies and Procedures — Ms. Speidel produced a paper copy of the BOS Policies and Procedures and
commented that there were a many items that were outdated and also a number of things that did not need to be included
un this anymore. Ms. Bertram stated that she had begun looking at the outline format and that she would be happy to
compare the two and then modity the outline. After discussion it was decided that after
Ms. Bertram has had a chance to update the outline they would meet again, in between the regularly scheduled BOS
meetings, to work on the Policy and Procedures before they present it again to the Board of Selectmen. This should be
done sometime in early February.
2. GASB #45 Valuation Update - Ms.Speidel explained that the GASB #45 requirement came into affect for the
Town of Lunenburg on July 1, 2008. This is an accounting requirement which requires the Town to quantify its other post
employment benefits liability. Recently there have been concerns on quantifying health insurance liability for retirees.
Currently the Town only funds the present cost of health insurance but each year the employee accrues benefits, which the
===PAGE 2===
employer provides a certain percentage towards that premium when the person retires. Ms. Speidel said that at present
time the Town is not setting aside funding for anything other than the current year's liability, and is not required to do so
by the State. She feels that in the next 5 - 10 years the State will require towns to set aside funding for this liability. Ms.
Speidel reviewed sections of the report with the Board members.
3. Review CM 101, Performance Measurement, Initiative - According to Ms. Speidel, the Budget Working
Group had recently had a significant discussion concerning introducing Performance Measurements to the Town of
Lunenburg to help benchmark what other communities similar to Lunenburg are doing. The International City
Management Association has put together a program entitled "CPM 101". Currently there are 175 communities across
the United States that participate in this program which consists of 1000 performance measures across 18 service areas
that are being tracked. This is a data base that is available to members of the ICMA for purchase at a cost of $995.00 per
year. Ms. Speidel stated that although there is no money in the budget for this purchase she would like to use monies
from the savings that have been incurred through initiatives with the Town's Insurance Provider, MILA, which add up to
approximately $7000 for this purchase. Training will be available in a couple of weeks.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues -
Minutes: None
Warrants - 01/3/12 (3-12) $132,361.30, 01/04/12 (39-12) $141,563.90 and 01/05/12 w#14P $610,118.38 signed
Action File Issues - None
5. Committee Report - Ms. Speidel reported that the DPW Building Committee opened bids again on the garage doors
for the DPW renovation project. The original bid was for approximately $66,000. The lowest bid this time came from a
local company with a good reputation and was for $31,000, which is a substantial savings. The contract will be finalized
this week. Ms. Speidel is happy to say that this project is completely within budget.
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports: Update on Street Light Issue; Update on October Storm; Update on Temporary Fix to
Mulpus Road/Townsend Harbor Road Intersection -
Ms. Speidel updated the Board on the Eagle Heights project. Funding from HUD was not received, but will be applied for
again in the Spring by Jon Juhl and Associates.
Ms. Speidel reported that the Town received $23,329 in savings simply by making one early payment to the Property,
Casualty and Worker's Compensation insurance on July 1ª of 2011. There was also $7329 in grants/rewards from MIIA
received by the Town by taking part in free training sessions and optional building inspections.
Update on Street Light Issue - None
Update on October Storm - There has been no word yet as to when the Town will receive Federal reimbursement
funding for damage caused by the October ice storm. $626,000 was submitted for debris removal and $58,000. was
submitted for monitoring.
Update on Temporary Fix to Mulpus Road/Townsend Harbor Road Intersection - The DPW has removed trees and
brush from the south bound curve to allow for better vision to drivers. Meetings with the engineer are ongoing and
signage is still being discussed.
8. Annual License Renewals - Central Mass Power Sport, 19 Massachusetts Avenue, has not submitted the completed
paperwork necessary for license renewal. This has been an ongoing request from the BOS and after discussion the Board
saw fit to begin the process of revoking their license for Class 1 & Class 3 Automotive on the next business day.
OLD BUSINESS
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
===PAGE 3===
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business a motion was made by Mr. deBettencourt to adjourn the meeting. Motion was seconded by Ms.
Bertram. All board members approved and motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 8:05PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
January 10, 2012
January 17, 2012
January 24, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
MAR 19 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
