===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
1/10/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
teven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel presen
legular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance
PUBLIC COMMENT
Gerry Wilkins, 251 Burrage St asked if the BOS would be taking questions after the Solar Farm presentation. Mr.
Matthews responded yes and reminded those present that this would be just a preliminary discussion.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - None
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM Consideration of PILOT with Mass PV1, LLC, for 651 Chase Road Solar Farm - Attorney Scott Fenton,
who is representing Mass PV1, LLC explained that he was there this evening to ask for a PILOT Agreement in lieu of
taxes for a 6 mega watt solar project to be located at 651 Chase Road. His reason for this request is because the taxes that
would be assessed on the property would be higher than the profits coming in. He asked the board to appoint the Town
Manager to negotiate a PILOT Agreement.
Gus Abalo, from Mass PV1 explained that their purpose is to sell energy back to Unitil and that he would like to work
with the town to negotiate a PILOT Agreement.
After discussion among the board members and the applicant, it was decided that more information was needed from the
Assessors office in order to have further conversations about this project. Harold Scheid, Principal Assessor, also spoke
in saying that the town must explore whether the project would be considered personal property or real estate, because
they would potentially be taxed differently. Mr. Scheid will gather more information from PV1 and then will present his
findings to the BOS at a later meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discuss appointments to School Building Committee - Ms. Speidel explained that the MSBA
(Massachusetts School Building Authority) has asked the Town of Lunenburg to put together a School Building
Committee to move forward with the renovation or construction of a new school building. According to Town Bylaws
and the MSBA requirements, the committee will consist of 12 individuals, with 9 members voting. These members should
have specific background within the Town organization or should be individuals who have a background in engineering.
architecture and construction. Ms. Speidel has been working with School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes on this project
and together they have come up with a list of candidates for consideration.
She also explained that the appointments under the Town Bylaw are joint appointments made by the Selectmen and the
Town Moderator. This information has been submitted to the Moderator but as of this meeting she has not heard back
from the Moderator. Any appointments that the Selectmen may make this evening are contingent upon the Moderator's
approval as well.
Ms. Speidel presented to the board with a slate of candidates to be appointed to the School Building Committee and they
are as follows: Kerry Speidel, David Matthews, Mike Mackin, Colleen Shapiro, Loxi Joe Calmes, John Londa, Joe
Dillon, Mike Barney, Todd Blake, Richard Cohen and Nathan Lockwood. The Lunenburg Finance Committee will make
a recommendation for a member of their board to be considered as an applicant for the school building committee at their
Thursday meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram made a motion to appoint the individuals as named by the Town Manager with a representative from the
Finance Committee to be appointed at the next meeting. Mr. Sund seconded the motion. Discussion followed the motion
with concerns voiced by Mr. Alonzo regarding prior appointment procedure. Generally the BOS interview the individuals
who are being considered. He said that he has met most everyone that has been presented except for Todd Blake and
Richard Cohen. Ms. Speidel said she would invite them to the next BOS meeting. Mr. deBettencourt was also concerned
about waiting for the Moderator to return to complete the joint appointment.
Ms. Bertram withdrew her motion at this time. Mr. deBettencourt accepted the withdrawal. All board members were in
acceptance.
2. Consider adoption of State-Wide Mutual Aid program - Continued to the 1/17/12 BOS meeting.
3. Update on Lake Shirley Dam Inspection, other issues - DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz began his presentation
by introducing the new DPW Administrative Assistant, Amanda Moore. Mr. Rodriquenz presented a brief slide show to
report on the current status of the dam. Overall, the evaluation determined that the dam is in satisfactory c
although there is a concern with a wet spot at the left downstream area of the dam. They will continue to I
place stakes in this area. This will be a "team effort" between the DPW, Lake Shirley Improvement Assoc U
le
Dam Keepers.
Ms. Bertram requested that any reports/data compiled by the Gate Keepers be forwarded onto the BOS, po Slide
yearly, so that it can be at hand in case of an emergency with the dam.
shor
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues -
Minutes: None
Warrants - w40-12 (1/10/12) $709,144.78 signed
Action File Issues - None
5. Committee Report - Ms. Bertram reported that she attended the Planning Board meeting the previous ‹
ere
discussion was held concerning the proposed Solar Farm Project on Electric Ave/Pleasant St. She said that.
• many abutters present who were concerned with potential issues such as storm water, property values, and
buffer zone. The proponent is proposing an interconnection application with Unitil to which Unitil is favor-
-aid
that according to the developer, if the two projects go through as proposed, than the potențial municipal project will not be
possible. Ms. Bertram feels that the band width for solar power in the community will be breached. There also seems to
be a discrepancy between the Planning Director and the proponent's opinions and information on this project. Ms.
Bertram would like the BOS to look into this further.
Ms. Bertram also stated that there was a Master Planning Workshop that focused on the Town center. She said that they
were looking for feedback from various Town boards and the public regarding goals and objectives in the Town center
and how it can move forward. Once she receives the overview from Planning Board member Nathan Lockwood she will
forward it onto the BOS. Discussion about a Master Planning survey being developed and circulated to the public
ensued, focusing specifically about the pros and cons of this survey being paper or electronic.
Mr. Mathews ended this committee report with assuring concerned abutters about the entrance to the 2"d Solar project,
which is listed as being on Electric Avenue. He stated that it really wasn't the entrance but rather just the entrance for the
land owner via Electric Avenue. The entrance is actually on West St. and Pleasant St. by the big open field. He
encouraged interested parties to attend the January 23d Planning Board meeting concerning this project. Discussion
among the board members was held concerning Solar Bylaws and the impact they have upon communities.
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports: Update on Street Light Issue; Update on October Storm; Update on Temporary Fix to
Mulpus Road/Townsend Harbor Road Intersection -
Ms. Speidel said that the Town Hall had been receiving phone calls about Christmas tree disposal. She gave the
Townsend Recycling Center and the Townsend Boy Scouts as sources for tree disposal.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Speidel informed the board that there is a House Bill #3633 entitled "Restoring Funding for the Quinn Bill" and that
there will be a hearing on this in front of the Committee on Public Service on January 17"
". She will continue to follow
this because she feels that the Town would want to support anything that would restore funding to the Quinn Bill.
Update on Street Light Issue - None
Update on October Storm - MEMA notified the Town that President Obama signed a Major Disaster Declaration for the
October 29, 2011 ice storm. The Town can now go through the process of submitting expenses for reimbursement. They
are still waiting for a final bill from AshBritt for storm clean up. They are also working on gathering comparative data
with the December 2008 ice Storm and the current October storm.
Update on Temporary Fix to Mulpus Road/Townsend Harbor Road Intersection - DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz
reported that both a "Do Not Enter" sign and an "Enter Here" sign have been placed at the appropriate places at this
intersection. They have also placed the Fire Departments large lighted sign in the area which warns of the dangerous
intersection to drivers. He also stated that he has spoken to a representative from David Ross Associates who would like
to expand upon the plan developed by a group of Hickory Hills residents to reconfigure that intersection.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review request to extend Cell Antenna Lase by T-Mobile for Town Hall location- continued to
1/17/12 meeting
2. Approval of Annual Business Licenses - Ms. Speidel reported that there has been no progress on last
week's license renewal and that unless something happens between this BOS meeting and the first BOS
meeting in February they will be looking to begin proceedings to revoke the license. Ms. Bertram voiced
her concern over the amount of time that this business has been operating without a license and she feels
that a hearing should be held before the February meeting to revoke the license. Ms. Speidel said that the
agendas are full and the soonest they could do this would be at the 1/24/12 BOS meeting.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS -
1. Ratification of Police Sergeant appointment, continued to 01/17/1
2. Ratification of PT Building Maintenance appointment - Ms. Speidel told the board she was seeking
ratitication for the hiring of Mr. Kit Walker for a position as part-time maintenance worker at the DPW.
Mr. Alonzo made a motion to ratify the appointment by the Town Manager of Mr. Kit Walker to the
part-time building maintenance position. Mr. deBettencourt seconded the motion. All board members
voted in favor.
3. Appointments to School Building Committee - Discussed under Current Business
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business a motion was made by Mr. deBettencourt to adjourn the meeting. Motion was
seconded by Ms. Bertram. All board members approved and motion carried. Meeting adjourned at 9:10PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
January 17; 2012
January 24, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
