===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
: BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
7/24/12
AUG 27 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
PB
CLERK OFFICE
# -
Sims
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. Regular Meeting
opened at 7:05 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Absent was Paula Bertram
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo informed the public that the last band concert of the season will be held on July 30". He thanked all who
were involved with the band concerts this year.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Matthews read a memo from the Lunenburg Water District concerning a mandatory water use restriction which has
become in effect. There will be no, non-essential water use (watering grass, washing cars or driveways etc...) between
the hours of 9AM - SPM. Water can still be used during this time for vegetable gardens, farming use, and business
purposes.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM Candidates for School Committee Vacancy
Todd Blake; Anthony Caiozzo; Robert Meek-LaVeck
Mr. Matthews explained that the BOS along with the School Committee will be interviewing the candidates separately
and that this would be a joint appointment which will be in effect until the next election.
Todd Blake, 6 Robbs Terrace spoke to the board and explained his reasons for wanting to become a member of the school
committee. Mr. Blake has lived in Massachusetts for approximately 10 years and has two children in the school system.
He would like to become more involved with the town and believes he possesses certain qualities that he can bring to the
table that will help the school committee.
Mr. Matthews had prepared a series of questions for each of the candidates and after they are asked and answered, it was
opened up to the board for their questions.
Interview questions being asked by Mr. Matthews began with Mr. Blake as follows:
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the mission of the schools and the school committee?
Mr. Blake: The mission of the schools & school committee is to provide quality education to all students.
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the greatest challenge to meeting that goal?
Mr. Blake: I guess you can say funds.
Based on the last Prop. 2 ½ override and how things are going I think that the
schools need more money & resources.
Mr. Matthews: What's your goal and motivation for joining the school committee?
Mr. Blake: I don't exactly have a goal, I don't know all the answers because I don't know all the questions & I don't
think it would be right or presumptuous of me to say I have a solution to every problem or any of the problems based on
what I know as a member of the public. I do know that I would look forward to learning what the questions are so that I
could become part of the solution whatever that might be.
Mr. Matthews: What's your experience in public service & community decision making?
Mr. Blake: I have no experience in public leadership. I was briefly a member on the building committee here in town
but had to step down due to a conflict of interest.
Mr. Matthews: How familiar are you with the budget & the budget process?
Mr. Blake: Basic familiarity, not very high.
Mr. Matthews: Given the override discussion & result where do you see opportunities to reduce expenses and/or close
the deficit between the Superintendents recommended budget & the available funds?
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Blake: I think the Town Manager did a great job at finding all the areas that could be reduced. When I looked at the
budget I didn't find anything that stood out that said you could take money from here, it seems like it was pretty much
bare bones at the time. I don't see any place where you can take from one to give to another because you're just shifting
the problem from one committee to another. I think revenue needs to be raised.
Mr. Matthews: Do you see specific areas where spending is a concern, too much or too little?
Mr. Blake: No, I don't think I can intelligently answer that question without going through the budget line by line and
looking at it more in depth.
Mr. Matthews: Do you feel Lunenburg is competitive and effective in school spending vs. our neighbors and in the state
of Massachusetts?
Mr. Blake: No I don't. I think there are plenty of communities that spend more, they have more resources, they raise
more money, they put a greater emphasis on education, and you can see it in the quality of education in those
communities. I would hope that we could raise the same awareness here to make it one of the top notch education areas in
the state.
Mr. Matthews: Do you have experience in negotiating contracts?
Mr. Blake: Yes.
Mr. Matthews: Labor or services?
Mr. Blake: Services, I wouldn't say specifically to labor.
Mr. Matthews: What would your approach be to prepare to negotiate contracts?
Mr. Blake: Take an open mind to see where all parties are coming from, what the issues are, and try to find a reasonable
solution, or compromise. I wouldn't want to go into negotiations with an idea of what's going to happen or this is what
needs to happen. You need to listen first, see what the issues are, and then make a conclusion based on the information
given to you.
Mr. Alonzo: In important decision making in your life, how would you describe your decision making process?
Mr. Blake: You can make two columns, find out what the positives & the negatives are, find out what the costs associated
with doing whatever that is, and see what the long term solution is. Then you weigh it against whatever is happening in
your life now and see what the best course of action is, not just for me but for my family.
Mr. Alonzo: What would you consider your best skills and qualities are that would be transferable to being on the school
committee?
Mr. Blake: I'm an engineer and as an engineer I often problem solve. I'm good at breaking things down, finding out
what the core problems/issues are in any particular problem, and finding a solution to that problem.
Mr. Alonzo: Were you aware that there was an open seat on the school committee for this past election and if you were
why didn't you run for it.
Mr. Blake: I was aware of it, I wasn't ready to commit because I knew it was a big commitment at that time. I didn't
want to come forward and run for it, to find out later that I really wasn't going to be committed to it. I wanted to take that
extra time.
Being no other questions from the board Mr. Matthews thanked Mr. Blake for coming forward. He mentioned that they
had worked briefly together on the school building committee & consolidation committee and that Mr. Blake was a great
help then.
Anthony Caiozzo, 120 Robbs Hill Rd. spoke to the board and explained his reasons wanting to become a member of the
School Committee. Mr. Caiozzo has 4 children, 2 of which are currently in the school system. Mr. Caiozzo stated that he
has interacted with the BOS over the last couple of years and has lived in Lunenburg for approximately 8-9 years and has
lived in Massachusetts for 20 years.
Interview questions for Mr. Caiozzo began as follows:
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the mission of the schools and the School Committee?
Mr. Caiozzo: The mission of the school committee is to oversee the doings of the schools from an administrative, or
policy setting perspective, where is as the schools are much more involved in setting day to day course following the
mandates of the state regarding framework and instruction, ideally promoting our children on to greatness.
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the greatest challenge to meeting that goal?
Mr. Caiozzo: Having been on both sides as a non-parent, looking at the school system as you read in the media as a
defunct entity and now being on the inside of it, I don't think its as bad as people make it to be. My wife is an ex-educator
and I have had exposure to children for a great period of time working as a husband/wife team along with my own
children. I see a great deal of opportunity to improve the efficiency in which our organizations operate. I do see a bit of
===PAGE 3===
disparity when you look at how one entity performs vs. another with slightly different policies and some redundancy. I
see the school committee, with the assistance of the education management team, to be able to provide a more strict
framework to drive those policies and procedures down.
Mr. Matthews: What's your goal and motivation for joining the School Committee?
Mr. Caiozzo: It's twofold, on one side it's been building for a while. Jumping ahead to the question you will ask me at
the end, I've been teetering on the edge for a long time and my thoughts were this is a huge commitment. I'm personal
friends with Dave Rief and I've seen the trials and tribulations of what he's been through. Just something finally pushed
me over the edge and I said this is my moment. When I was Chair of the Technology Committee here in town I really got
an exposure to the inner workings of the beast, seeing what made this place tick, seeing what some of the inabilities are
and there was never really an opportunity to take that next step. I saw this as an opportunity to drive these projects
forward. Obviously there are many other agenda items that people have and hopefully we can drive some commonality
and push forward
Mr. Matthews: What's your experience in public service & community decision making?
Mr. Caiozzo: I've been involved with Lunenburg Youth Soccer Assoc. in varying different roles over the past 7 years.
Most recently, acting in the capacity of the Registrar, which provides organizational framework to the group. They came
from a paper based background and I see a lot of commonality here be able to usher in technology and getting away from
stacks of paper where everything is online. I've served on the Regionalization Committee and became extremely intimate
with school finance, school politics, and all the political factions that go into buildings, grounds, education organizational
structure, Chapter 70, and how all those pieces fit together.
Mr. Matthews: How familiar are you with the budget & the budget process?
Mr. Caiozzo: Too familiar, there is always room for improvement but for an average person who doesn't have to know
this on a day to day basis, I probably know too much.
Mr. Matthews: Given the override discussion & result where do you see opportunities to reduce expenses and/or close
the deficit between the Superintendents recommended budget & the available funds?
Mr. Caiozzo: Speaking from the prospective of projects I've been involved with, I've actually started some initiatives
here to find some of those dollars that I see potentially disappearing from our budget on a monthly basis that don't need
to. Looking at how some of these processes are run, if you're looking for the incentive to innovate, its just not there. So
opposed as a private corporation that has to get by on less, you can't just decide to raise revenue because you decide to
charge people more, it doesn't work that way in the private world. I, as a privately contracted individual, am always
looking for ways to create efficiencies, drive efficiencies through scale, and I see a lot of opportunity here that we're not
taking advantage of. To be able to get into a position here where you can articulate those ideas and execute on those plans
is something that excites me to do next.
Mr. Matthews: Do you see specific areas where spending is a concern, too much or too little?
Mr. Caiozzo: Yes, looking at telephony here in town, both on town side and school side, what we are/are not doing to
embrace technology. Every month we are spending more money then we need to on basic telephony services for our town
and school infrastructure. Another area where I believe we can save money is in-sourcing and with open source software.
Mr. Matthews: Do you feel Lunenburg is competitive and effective in school spending vs. our neighbors and in the state
of Massachusetts?
Mr. Caiozzo: Yes, taking a look at what other towns around us pay per pupil, we are extremely competitive. I think we
have an opportunity here to be a model town/school system and to embrace some of these technologies to drive that
leadership and help propel Lunenburg forward.
Mr. Matthews: Do you have experience in negotiating contracts?
Mr. Caiozzo: My day to day job is spent negotiating contracts with multi-national organizations, both as product as well
as services. I also run a contracting company on the side where I need to negotiate contracts.
Mr. Matthews: What's your process to prepare to negotiate contracts?
Mr. Caiozzo: I like to let the other guy go first. I find quite often that people walk into negotiations with a pre-set idea
with how they want things to go and if you go up against them with your idea, I think conversations quickly stall and get
derailed. You can save weeks if not months taking that tactic.
Mr. Matthews: What happens if you don't have another choice?
Mr. Caiozzo: There are cases when you don't have a choice and you have to find some common ground. I still think the
choice of letting the other person go first is best. I find it's a lot easier to work with a pre-existing model then to try and
throw two pieces of play dough together that may be totally incompatible, give me what you got and we can make it work.
I can't think of a situation where I couldn't make it work.
Mr. Alonzo: While we always look to efficiencies, is it your belief that efficiencies alone will make up the deficit that the
Superintendent believes we are facing?
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Caiozzo: No, I think it will help close the gap, but I don't think it will close it. I've spent a lot of time analyzing
some real cursory numbers to see if there was anything that could be saved.
Mr. Alonzo: What do you think are the biggest changes to putting on your private enterprise hat, to your public one and
how do you reconcile those differences?
Mr. Caiozzo: I think what you have to do in a public enterprise is similar to what you need to achieve in a private
enterprise in terms of day to day function. The mechanics/economics are totally different and there is quite a bit that can
be learned by both parties. There is quite a bit that can be learned from both entities and there is some good cross
pollination that can happen. Joining the school committee does not mean I want to become the Superintendent or
Principal. It's more so that I want to bring my expertise to the school committee to enable the novel solutions that can
develop when you put five broadly minded people together as opposed to essentially saying I need to take off my hat.
Mr. Alonzo: The fact that you have school children in the system, how do you think that would color your decisions as a.
school committee member?
Mr. Caiozzo: I would like to think that I would remain impartial and be looking to do something right for everyone and
in some cases there is no right/wrong you just have to vote a certain way. The function of the school committee is to look
out for the children, by having children to watch out for, not just mine but everyone else's, my voting would be geared
towards doing what's best for the children.
Mr. Alonzo: What do you think your best skills and qualities are for this position?
Mr. Caiozzo: My public experience, my negotiation skills, my technological aptitude, and my problem solving skills.
Mr. Sund: If you were on the School Committee how would you become the person that is in between the schools and
the tax payers and how would you balance that?
Mr. Caiozzo: Putting yourself out there is subjecting yourself to all kinds of public scrutiny. When I worked with the
Regionalization Committee, information that we were putting out there was totally misconstrued by the press. I'm not
excited by that but it's a necessary evil and I understand that.
Mr. deBettencourt spoke and stated that he feels that you are the agent for the tax payers rather than the children. He said
that the School Management team is responsible for the children's education.
Mr. Caiozzo agreed with Mr. deBettencourt in saying that there is a lot of "hats" to be worn here.
Mr. Matthews: Given what you know today, if you are appointed do you intend to run for re-election?
Mr. Caiozzo: I'd love to say yes but I need to find out what it's like to be on the other side. If things go as well as I
expect, then I will definitely run for re-election. If I am not chosen for this position now, I think that I will definitely run
for the position a year from now.
Being no other questions from the board Mr. Matthews thanked Mr. Caiozzo for coming forward.
Mr. Matthews called Mr. Blake back to the podium to ask "Given what you know today, if you are appointed do you
intend to run for re-election?" Mr. Blake responded as of things stand right now, I would be committed to running.
Robert Meek-LaVeck, 33 Lancaster Ave, spoke to the board and explained his reasons wanting to become a member of
the School Committee. Mr. Meek-LaVeck and family moved here 1 year ago from California. Mr. Meek-LaVeck was
involved in the California school system and volunteering with the American Youth Soccer Organization. They picked
Lunenburg to relocate to so to be closer to his spouses work and found that the reputation that Lunenburg had in the
school system was good and their ratings were higher then those in California. He feels that it is very important as a
parent to be involved in the school and community. He was a Foster Parent for 10 years and was involved in different
levels with the Foster Parent Association. He feels that Lunenburg has a good school system which can be used as a tool
to attract other families to the area.
Interview questions being asked by Mr. Matthews began with Mr. Meek-LaVeck as follows:
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the mission of the schools and the School Committee?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I see the mission of the schools is to provide a safe learning environment for the kids in the areas
where the kids are not getting what they need, on the level they need, it's their responsibility to provide it to them at a
level they will learn. The levels of the schools in California are like night and day compared to here. When my children
came here they were slightly behind. I saw throughout the year how the Lunenburg school system took & evaluated each
one of them, attacked it, and brought each one of them up to the level that they needed to be in a very efficient and quick
===PAGE 5===
As a school committee I think it's their responsibility to look at the budget aspects of it, to follow through with
the policies, and to find the best way to help grow the school community. We are looking at building a new school
facility and right now it is difficult because of the lack of funds but in the long run it's going to be what helps and is the
best thing for our community.
Mr. Matthews: What do you see as the greatest challenge to meeting that goal?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: The biggest challenge right now is the decision to consolidate the schools. In some aspects it wasn't
popular with the parents but looking at what the options were, it was the best decision that could have been made.
Funding is always going to be a difficult aspect of it. I think that by keeping our school as a high level educational
institution that will attract more people and help bring more tax dollars in to fund the schools.
Mr. Matthews: What's your goal and motivation for joining the School Committee?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck:_I come as a parent. I bring passion & desire for my kids & others to have a great educational
experience and I want to be part of that. I am a stay at home parent and have the time to put into that and have the time to
educate myself on events that are going on presently that I'm not completely aware of yet.
Mr. Matthews: What's your experience in public service & community decision making to achieve consensus?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: In my experience I've served 10 years as a foster parent. It was a difficult job to do because it was
not well respected.
You don't go into it expecting to make money but rather to provide for the kids. The Soccer
Association was a similar situation. My parents and grandparents were involved in community service and as a citizen I
believe it is our responsibility to be part of the process. By me being involved, it sets a good example for my kids.
Mr. Matthews: How familiar are you with the budget & the budget process?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I'm not overly familiar with the complete process but I certainly have the ability to educate myself
and learn about it.
Mr. Matthews: Given the override discussion & result where do you see opportunities to reduce expenses and/or close
the deficit between the Superintendents recommended budget & the available funds?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I think that given the funds that we have, we are doing the best that we can and down the road it will
take the part of the a community to help build that and to fill the spots that we are lacking so we can get back to the point
where we were, at one point.
Mr. Matthews: Do you see areas of concern where spending is too low or too high?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I do see some areas where we are running on bare bones whether we like that or not that may be the
way it is right now. We have to continue to look and evaluate the funds that we have and make the best decisions
possible. I think that's an area where parents can come into play and help fill in some of those roles. I work with the
P.T.O and one of the areas we saw lacking was with school supplies and we are doing a drive with the parents to help
provide school supplies.
Mr. Matthews: Do you feel Lunenburg is competitive and effective in school spending vs. our neighbors and in the state
of Massachusetts?
Mir. Meek-la Veck:
: Yes I do and that's one of the reasons why I'm here. I looked at the areas surrounding and
specifically chose this area for its schools, community, and safety in the area.
Mr. Matthews: Do you have experience in negotiating contracts?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: No.
Mr. Matthews: If you were to negotiate contracts what would your preparation be?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: My preparation would be to listen to both sides and to everything that is being presented. Then I
would look at what the resources that are available, and then choose the best option for the best value I need to achieve
without necessarily paying big dollars for it, but also not compromising on the quality of what I expect.
Mr. Matthews: Should you be appointed would you consider running for re-election in the spring?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: Yes.
Mr. Alonzo: What other towns did it come down to besides Lunenburg to move to?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: We looked at Groton, Ayer, Shirley, and outside of Boston. We had to look at what was affordable
and it came down to Lunenburg's history in being a top school was important to me. I liked the fact that we had a failing
school that was turned around and was successful and getting back to where it needed to be.
Mr. Alonzo: The fact that you have school children in the system, how do you think that affects your decisions as a
school committee member?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: It puts me into a better prospective of having kids in the school system. As a town's person doing a
household budget, knowing that there are limits we have to stay within and knowing there are options available to us to
get the quality we need for the kids and providing a safe environment for them to learn in which is critical.
Mr. Alonzo: From your experience in California, is there anything that we in Massachusetts could do to learn from their
system as far as school structuring or finance?
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I think that the school system here is much better than in California because of the continuing layoff
of teachers and it was difficult to maintain consistency in the school system. Being part of California and seeing what
they provide for the school system I see an area that we don't want to get into having to continually cut. You need to look
at the whole big picture to make a successful school.
Mr. Alonzo: Have you researched back in the past 5 years in Lunenburg's budgets?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I have not done an extensive research on that but I do know that in the last couple of years there
have been significant impacts just from the economy in general and that it is have been a difficult decision for everyone in
making the choices that have been made.
Mr. Alonzo: Did you know that there was a position open and if you did why didn't you run for a seat then?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: I didn't know there was a position open until just before the election. I was serving in the capacity
of a P.T.O member and when I found out there was a vacancy available I thought this was my opportunity to step up and
make a difference in the community. I don't bring in pre-conceived ideas, I provide open ears, and new eyes on the
situation and having worked as a Paramedic for 12 years I have an extensive problem solving background by making
quick decisions.
Mr. Alonzo: What do you think your biggest hurdles and obstacles are in joining the School Committee?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: The biggest hurdle in any type of position that is in the public forum is making everybody happy
and you won't be able to make everybody happy. The best thing to do is to take the information you have at the time,
make those decisions, and communicate those out to each other. I think I can help bridge that gap that might be there.
Mr. Sund: As a representative of the children in the school and as a representative of the tax payer, how do you reconcile
that?
Mr. Meek-LaVeck: To reconcile that you have to be very transparent in explaining your decision, why you're making
that decision, and realizing that it may not be the most popular decision all the time but we are dealing with their tax
money and its our job to put the best foot forward for them.
Mr. Matthews thanked Mr. Meek-LaVeck for coming forward, and said that the BOS will be voting on this with the
School Committee on August 7, 2012.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Electrical Permit Fee for Solar Arrays/Farms - Discussed at 6PM Work Session, where the Board confirmed
that the existing fee of $10 per $1,000 of value for Commercial Building Permits apply to Electrical Permits for
alternative energy arrays, including solar farms.
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes: None
Warrants :
7/17
6/30
7/24
7/8
6/29
7/19
7/19
W 3-13
W 2W/P12
₩ 5-13
W 4-13
3W/P12
W #2P13
W 2P13M
$608,180.87
$197,943.30
$102,303.87
$346,446.27
$3714.78
$479,982.45
$1549.72
Action File Issues : Mr. Alonzo brought to the Board's attention a letter from the Sentinel & Enterprise reporter
asking about emails concerning the vote pertaining to a vote and the public records law. He pointed out that he
had spoken with this reporter at a public function and asked her what prompted her to write this letter. She told
him that a fellow board member had suggested to her that there were a "flurry" of emails the day that the vote was
taken which is (a) not true and (b) he is concerned and troubled that a member of their own board would be telling
a reporter that emails were going back and forth when it wasn't true and also that he was encouraging a public
records request, which has now been made. Having been through this before he can say that nothing good ever
comes from this and he would hope that people on our own board would not encourage people to make such
requests and not cast dispersions on what the board is doing.
Ms. Speidel said that she also received a public records request from the same reporter on the same subject a few
weeks before the Board had received it and that she responded to it on July 6th. She said that there is a copy of
===PAGE 7===
the response in the action file if the board is interested in reviewing it. Ms. Speidel said that she was happy to
respond for the board to this request. The search that she performed included anything that was exchanged on a
lunenburgonline email. She cannot search any private email accounts. It is up to the board members to inform her
that they have records of response in their personal email. She stated again that if the BOS would like her to
respond on their behalf she would be happy to do that and asked board members if they had records that are
responsive to this matter.
Mr. Matthews said that there are no emails between himself and any other member of this board about this
discussion or issue and the only emails he saw were from the employee and the Town Manager's response to
them. Any statement, belief, or political grandstand that perhaps there was something else going on is utter
nonsense, misleading, misstatement and disturbing to say the least.
Mr. Sund stated that he did not have anything except for what was transmitted to him through the Town Manager.
Mr. Alonzo said that he had the same thing, which are the two emails from the employee and the Town Manager.
Mr. Sund spoke about the Passios building, which is now empty, and he would like to look at the feasibility of
moving all town offices into that building, including the offices from Town Hall and the Ritter Building.
. He
believes the town can divest itself of the Ritter Building at that time. If this happened he would like to swap the
Town Hall building with the Historical Society, and then lump the Historical building in with the senior housing
development.
Mr. Matthews agreed that down the road they may want to do that, but the Passios building is not going to be
empty, and is still controlled by the School Committee. They are potentially looking in the near future at a High
School project. Should they do a renovation they may need some swing space to operate classrooms during
construction and that they do need to be looking ahead at what will be done with that building, but they are a little
ways out before they can do that.
3. Committee Reports - Mr. Alonzo reported that the Finance Committee will be meeting on Thursday evening at
Town Hall at 7PM.
Mr. Matthews stated that the School Building Committee will be meeting tomorrow night and he is hoping that they will
have word from the MSBA that they are ready to take the next step with feasibility.
4. Department Reports - None
5. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel distributed copies of her Self Evaluation to the board members and
apologized for not giving it to them at the work session earlier this evening. She made available copies of all of the
evaluations to board members.
Ms. Speidel produced a copy of the Grant agreement for the Chair to sign, which was applied for, and received by the
Planning Board to assist with the Master Plan. This has already been reviewed and approved by the Planning Department.
Ms. Speidel stated that there is an Executive Session posted concerning the new contract for the Fire Chief and asked if
the board would prefer to go into Executive Session to discuss this or approve the contract in open session.
Mr. deBettencourt said that he would like to ask questions in Executive Session concerning the contract.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Christina Roberts, Principal Account Clerk, Treasurer-Collector's Office - Ms. Speidel stated that she has made
the appointment of Christina Roberts, as Principal Account Clerk, Treasure-Collector's office in accordance with Section
4-2 (c) of the Town Charter which will become effective on the fifteenth day following this notice, or on July 31, 2012.
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Speidel asked the board to ratify the appointment before the fifteenth day so that the individual can begin work. Ms.
Roberts is a resident of Lunenburg and was selected from a pool of a dozen applicants. She has six years experience
working as a teller and customer service representative in a bank and previously owned her own business.
Mr. Alonzo moved that the board ratify the appointment of Christina Roberts as the Principal Account Clerk as presented
to the board by the Town Manager. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION -
1. Mr. Matthews stated that the BOS was going into Executive Session, not to return and read into record M.G.L.
Chapter 39, Section 23B (3), to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position. Also, to conduct
strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective
bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel, specifically the Fire Chief.
Being no further business the board voted unanimously to adjourn regular session at 8:15PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
August 7, 2012
August 14, 2012
August 21, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 27 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
