===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
7/10/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:02 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
7:00 PM PUBLIC COMMENT
RECEIVED & FILED
ANNOUNCEMENTS
AUG 27 2012
APPOINTMENTS
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
CURRENT BUSINESS
federlopment Althorily spoke to the as and old su hate have bec it, redo in it or Frickburs
along with the attorney representing the company looking at this property, that the Title Company will not
accept the waiver of first right of refusal and they must adhere to the 6 month statutory deciding period for the Town
of Lunenburg. Mr. Curley stated that they will begin again, notify the Town of Lunenburg formerly, and the 6
month period will begin again from there.
Ms. Bertram requested that a written opinion from Mr. Curley's Counsel be forwarded to the Town Manager on this
matter.
2. Revise Devens HHW IMA to include admission of Town of Shirley - Ms. Speidel explained the history
of the Devens Household Hazardous Waste Inter-municipal Agreement to the board. By participating in this program
the communities involved can have a Household Hazardous Waste day twice a month for 10 months out of the year at
a reasonable fee. She explained that since the Town of Shirley was not an original signer to the inter-municipal
agreement, the Oversight Committee which oversees this program, are asking all of the member communities to agree
Ms. Speidel recommended that the BOS approve the first amendment of this inter-municipal agreement to allow the
Town of Shirley to join the program.
Mr. Alonzo questioned what the impact will be on Lunenburg and the surrounding towns whether it be a reduced
assessment or is it just an inclusion to include their hazardous household waste. Ms. Speidel will get clarification from
the Oversight Committee concerning that question.
Mr. Alonzo moved to include the Town of Shirley in the Devens HHW IMA. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote,
motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
3. Review proposed Electrical Permit Fee for Solar Arrays - Not discussed; continued to next meeting.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes: 6/1/2010
12/7/2010
6/5/2012
6/12/2012
6/19/2012
Mr. Alonzo spoke to clarify a technicality on a set of minutes which showed a recusal of a vote and requested that
it be changed to an abstention.
Warrants - M4-12 6/26/12 - $244,184.72
===PAGE 2===
WIP13 6/28/12 - $498,895.76
FY12LS 6/29/12 - $344,394.97
75-12 6/27/12 - $88,123.78
W-1-13 7/3/12
- $693,110.14
26P12M 6/29/12 - $46,134.26
Deduction W
- $296,864.75
Accts. Payable - $124,399.78
Action File Issues - Mr. deBettencourt mentioned that a cornerstone at the 43D site off of Summer St. had been
eliminated by a piece of equipment. He contacted DPW so they could return it to the proper spot.
5. Committee Reports - Mr. Alonzo reported that the Finance Committee will be meeting this Thursday.
Ms. Bertram reported that she attended last night's Planning Board meeting where they discussed the EPG Solar
Findings & Directives, Emerald Place & Tri Town Landing. There will be a Public Hearing concerning EPG Solar on
July 16" and she encouraged all BOS members to attend.
Mr. Matthews reported that the School Building Committee had met and finalized interview questions for the property
manager and that RFP's will be going out as soon as MSBA approves.
Mr. Matthews attended the Finance Committee to thank Barbara Reynolds for serving on the board. He mentioned
that the FC discussed looking at any buildings, assets, or land that they Town may want to sell to get them back on to
the tax rolls.
Mr. Sund reported that the Cable Committee met last evening and are looking at updating programming and perhaps
doing a partnership with the Drawbridge Theater.
Discussion among the Board members ensued about the number of properties in the town that are in tax title and if
they are being looked at. Ms. Speidel explained the process of what happens when a property owner does not pay their
taxes. If a property owner is delinquent at the end of the year and they don't have a signed payment plan with the
Treasurer, then a lien will be placed on that property. Once a lien is placed on a property the Town is 100% guaranteed
that they will be paid, in time, by the mortgage holder at an interest rate of 16%. In order to foreclose on a lien it must
be done through Land Court. It is at the discretion of the Treasurer/Collector on how aggressive they want to be in
pursuing the tax titles.
Ms. Bertram suggested that the liens be reviewed and categorized to see which properties are high priorities in order to
get them back on the tax role.
Ms. Speidel will generate a list of prioritized properties which will be circulated to various departments for review by
August 31% and will have the finalized list for the BOS to review at the first meeting in September.
A second list of properties that are in great disrepair, but are not in tax title, will be also generated for the BOS to
review.
Ms. Bertram asked what the status was of the gas station located at 925 Mass Ave. Ms. Speidel said that Town
Counsel and DEP originally indicated that the Town should not take ownership of this property because of the
potential for contamination. Although the tanks have been pumped, the Phase 1 Environmental report indicated that
clean up would be required. Ms. Speidel will clarify this with Town Counsel & DEP.
Ms. Bertram reported that she had attended the Regional Trails Coalition meeting and will be forwarding information
to Conservation concerning grant funding for technical assistance for trails & open space.
6. Department Reports - None
===PAGE 3===
7. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel reported that she attended the ground breaking ceremony for the
Regional 911 building at Devens which was well attended. Renovations have been done and the opening is on
target for less than a year from now. A grant award was received from the State for the amount of $1.8M.
Another grant from Homeland Security was also applied for and they are still waiting to hear from them. Ms.
Speidel believes that Lunenburg will be the first community to cut over because the Regional Dispatch Unit will
be using the same software that Lunenburg currently uses. The Executive Committee is currently working on
hiring an Executive Director.
The grant application which was put forth to M.R.P.C. by the Planning Board for assistance with the Master Plan
has been funded through the District Local Technical Assistance Program. This is not a "money" application but
rather gives access to M.R.P.C. staff hours.
The Legislature has approved and the Governor has signed the 2013 budget. In FY2013 Lunenburg will receive a
net increase of $123,673. but there are a number of increases in charges which will reduce that amount. Chapter
70 money received will be in the amount of $5,691,000. and General Government aide will be in the amount of
$6,718,000. The Assessments have increased significantly in terms of tuition assessments at $926,658. Tuition
assessments are an estimate based upon enrollment and are adjusted during the year based on actual enrollment. It
is expected that if the assessment is increased during the year, we should be able to accommodate the increase,
which has caused problems in the past.
The net increase of $123,673, is spread out across all categories and Ms. Speidel believes that different town
departments may be interested in looking for additional appropriations at town meeting. She would like to talk
further about that because she feels it is not in anyone's best interest to do that based on the fluctuation that has
been seen in the education assessments.
Mr. Matthews feels strongly that we stay with the budget that was voted at town meeting because any number of
things can happen during the year where the money needs to be spent.
Ms. Speidel stated that Monty Tech will receive additional funding in the amount of $87,697. They have two
options which would be to reduce the assessments for FY2013 or opt to include the money in their excess &
deficiency account.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS-
1. Ratify appointment of Police Chief- The Town Manager read the notice of Appointment of James P. Marino, as
Police Chief for the Lunenburg Police Dept. into the record. Ms. Speidel requested that the BOS ratify his
appointment at this meeting. Mr. Marino was the unanimous selection of the screening committee.
Mr. Alonzo moved to ratify the appointment of James P. Marino to the position of Police Chief as recommended
by the Town Manager. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Matthews congratulated Chief Marino and stated that we are lucky as a town to have Chief Marino ready to
stand up and take the next step to lead this department. It's the second time we have been able to promote from
within which speaks to the depth of the talent and quality of the people we have working in the town. He hopes
that people in the town get to know them and thank them for their service.
Chief Marino spoke and thanked the Town Manager, BOS, along with family, friends and co-workers. He stated
that they will be committed to improving the quality of life for the people in this community.
Mr Alonzo spoke and said that the show of support this evening proves that these are the days that show the
people out there what a great community we live in.
The BOS congratulated Chief Marino.
===PAGE 4===
Chief Marino took the oath of office which was given by the Town Clerk, Kathy Herrick.
2. FY2013 Annual Appointments - Mr. Matthews read the BOS appointment list for FY2013 into record. (See
attached). Mr. Alonzo moved to approve the list as read by the Chair. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, O opposed.
Mr. Alonzo moved that the board designate as special municipal employees members of the MART Advisory
Board & Montachusett Regional Planning Committee. Ms. Bertrand seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in
tavor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel read the Town Manager Appointments/Re-Appointments into record. (See attached)
Ms. Bertram questioned whether or not the Lake Shirley Dam Keepers have been submitting copies to the BOS of
the logs that they keep, which the BOS had requested they do in the past. Ms. Speidel replied that the DPW
Director has been receiving them.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the Band Concerts started yesterday and will run for another 4 weeks every Monday at
7PM.
Mi. Sund said that there is a website called "Go Local Worcester" that did rankings on all towns in the
Commonwealth. The Town of Lunenburg came in with a ranking of 100 out of 351 towns in Massachusetts.
Worcester County was ranked 20 out 78 in Massachusetts.
EXECUTIVE SESSION -
Mr. Matthews stated that the BOS was going into Executive Session, not to return and read into record M.G.L.
Chapter 39, Section 23B (3), to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position. Also, to conduct
strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective
bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel.
Being no further business the board voted unanimously to adjourn regular session at 8:20PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 17, 2012
July 24, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 27 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
