===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/4/12
1449 -
-
Saus
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews, Tor
lonzo, Steven M. deBettencourt, and Paula Bertram present.
Not present were Carl "Ernie" Sund, & Town Manager Kerry Speidel
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. EPG Solar, Review of Power Purchase Agreement & PILOT Agreement - Mr. Matthews stated that any
further discussions concerning PILOT Agreements need to be discussed in Executive Session.
2. Mass PV1, Review Power Purchase Agreement & PILOT Agreement - Scott Fenton, representing MASS
PV spoke and said that he was there this evening to answer any questions the BOS may have concerning his clients
proposed development. They would like to receive the same conditions/terms as EPG Solar is negotiating with the BOS.
He said that it is not imperative that they do a Net Metering Agreement or PPA with the town, they will be doing a
wholesale agreement, and will look to other towns to see if they would like to do a Net Metering Agreement. He said that
they understand the town's capacity issues and had asked the town for their electrical usage requirements about a month
ago but was not sure if they have been going back and forth between MASS PV & the town. Mr. Fenton said that the Net
Metering/PPA rates are pretty much set at anywhere from 9-10 cents per KWH and they would be willing to meet any
requirements that the town sets for that. They had a preliminary review with the Planning Board last week that went very
well and will be going back for a site plan review next Tuesday.
Mr. Matthews asked Mr. Fenton concerning the PPA agreement if they would be willing to scale that to whatever the
town's needs are and Mr. Fenton replied correct.
Mr. Matthews stated that their approach on this is to get the best opportunity/return for the town. He said that the board
needs to discuss in Executive Session how they want to approach this from a negotiation stand point and said that they are
not looking to lay out a number for Mass PV in either a PPA or a PILOT and that it was entirely up to Mr. Fenton to come
to the BOS with a proposal. EPG is in front of the BOS at the same time and the town is looking for some competition.
Mr. Fenton said that he has not seen where a PPA is part of a PILOT Agreement and said that the town can do it anyway
they would like to do it.
Mr. Matthews stated that he is not in favor of doing PILOT's unless they are attached to a PPA.
Ms. Bertram said that she agrees with the Chairman and if they do negotiate a PILOT it will be because there is a cost
savings to the town through a PPA. Ms. Bertram stated that she wants it to be clear that if they are able to negotiate a
PILOT it does not mean that it is a precedent moving forward for any type of alternative energy coming behind this
agreement. If they do negotiate a PILOT, it will be done on an individual basis.
Mr. Fenton spoke and said there are other ways for cost savings and gave an example of a cash sum payment to the school
district in lieu of the PPA, which they have done with the Town of Warren.
Mr. Matthews asked Mr. Fenton if they had met with the Assessor's to understand what they would value their project at.
Mr. Fenton replied that they had met back in December and there were some serious flaws in what the assessment was at
that time. He questioned where he got his numbers from and the validity of the Assessor's numbers. Mass PV's numbers
===PAGE 2===
were from the U.S. Dept. of Energy and the Assessors were based on conversations with other developers. Mr. Fenton
stated that he thinks the Assessors numbers had been revised significantly but did not know what those conversations
were. He said that they have had discussions with Christopher Reidy out of Shrewsbury who has negotiated a few of
these PILOT agreements and said that Mass PV would assist in paying for a review by that consultant.
Mr. Matthews suggested that Mass PV restart conversations with the Assessors and that the assessments have not changed
that much from what Mr. Fenton had heard initially.
3. Review Warrant, Special Town Meeting, 09/25/12 - Mr. Matthews stated that have not been able to put
together numbers for the taxpayers to see concerning the PILOT Articles for Special Town Meeting, although he believes
they will have them within the next week or two. The BOS will be making recommendations on the Articles at the
Special Town Meeting. Mr. Matthews reviewed the 5 Articles which will be brought to Special Town Meeting. (See
attached)
Ms. Bertram noted that ARTICLE 4 which was submitted by the Library Board of Trustees reads that the Board of
Selectmen and the Finance Committee recommends approval, but they have not discussed this yet and it should be edited.
Mr. Alonzo moved to approve the warrant with the caveat that the errant recommendation line be removed from
ARTICLE 4. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
None
Warrants:
9/4/12
W 13-13
Action File Issues: None
$312,527.82
5. Committee Reports - None
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports - None
OLD BUSINESS -
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Candidates for Reserve Police Officer- On hold till the list is finalized.
2. Brian LeBlanc, RACES Operator - Ms. Bertram moved to appoint Brian LeBlanc as the RACES Operator. Mr.
Alonzo seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. Representative to School Negotiating Sub-Committee - The BOS discussed recommending Mr. Matthews as
the Rep. to the School Negotiating Sub-Committee. Mr. Matthews stated that BOS has a voice when the School
Committee votes on the Teacher's Contract.
He said that as they get closer to it they will have a discussion again in
Executive Session as to what is involved so it will be the BOS vote as to how they see it and hopefully it will be in
relation to how contracts are negotiated on this side.
Ms. Bertram moved to appoint Dave Matthews as the Representative to the School Negotiating Sub-Committee.
Mr.
Alonzo seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
4. Extend appointment of Myleen Mallari, Acting Treasurer-Collector to 09/11/12 - Mr. Matthews reported
that the Town Manager has had a number of qualified applications for the position of Treasurer/Collector. An interview
Committee has been set up and the pool of applicants have been narrowed down to ten. He stated that the Town Manager
should have a recommendation to the BOS by the end of this week.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo moved to extend the appointment of Myleen Mallari, as acting Treasurer/Collector through 09/11/12. Ms.
Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
5. Resignation: Robert Ebersole, Sewer Commission - Mr. Matthews regretfully announce the resignation of
Robert Ebersole from the Sewer Commission. He stated that Mr. Ebersole has served the town extremely well by putting
in countless hours and helping to move the Sewer Commission in the right direction. Mr. Matthews appealed to any
Lunenburg residents who are interested to come forward to fill the gap.
Mr. Alonzo added that there have been several openings on different committees where many people have shown interest
but were not appointed. He stated the importance of the Sewer Commission and encouraged those people to come
forward again.
6. Resignation: Elaine Murphy, Capital Planning Commission - Mr. Matthews announced the resignation of
Elaine Murphy from the Capital Planning Commission and said that it is a very important committee and if anyone has an
interest in where we spend our capital dollars this would be a great opportunity for them.
Mr. Alonzo suggested issuing a letter of thanks to both people who have resigned. He stated that both of them have put in
a large number of years and a large amount of effort in furthering the benefits of the town and should be acknowledged
EXECUTIVE SESSION - Mr. Matthews moved to go into Executive Session, not to return, per MGL to negotiate or
strategize for negotiations. Ms. Bertram seconded. The board voted unanimously to adjourn regular session at 7:27PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 11, 2012
September 18, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
