===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 1 1 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
4/3/12
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo reminded eligible residents that they could register to vote up until April 13, 2012 until 8PM.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - Proclamation: April is Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg Month - Michelle Belleza,
Director of the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg, asked the Board to proclaim the month of April Boys & Girls Club of
Lunenburg month. Mr. Matthews read the proclamation into the record.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM Interview Candidate for School Building Committee - Brian Frank - Mr. Frank introduced himself and said
that he has lived in the town for 3 years and is currently employed by Auto Desk. He has experience in construction,
architecture and manufacturing. The board thanked Mr. Frank for coming forward.
Ms. Bertram made a motion to appoint Brian Frank to the School Building Committee. Mr. Alonzo seconded the motion.
On vote, motion carried 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. FY2013 Budget & Override; Preliminary Information on Impact of Future School Building
Project- School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes, along with School Committee member Mike Mackin and
Director of School Facilities John Londa were present to provide more detailed information on the $750,000
Feasibility & Schematic Design article for the proposed school building project. Slide packets which included
Statement of Interest, OPM Responsibilities, Projected Costs and Tentative Timeline were distributed to the board
and were reviewed with them. (See attached)
Discussion about the items attached to the $750,000 cost of the project and the reimbursement rate ensued. The Board
thanked the Ms. Calmes, Mr. Mackin and Mr. Londa for their presentation.
2. Review & Recommendations on Town Meeting Warrant Articles- The Town Manager stated that she
would be looking to send the warrant to the printer by April 11, 2012. All articles need to be numbered in the
order that the Board would like to have them presented in, on the warrant, by that time. Anything presented or
voted on after next Tuesday's meeting will not be printed in the warrant. Board members reviewed and discussed
the articles along with their numbering sequence. The final draft of the warrant will be available at the end of the
week.
Ms. Speidel also stated that she forwarded to the Town Clerk a note indicating the vote taken at the last BOS meeting to
forward the override question for inclusion on the ballot. She stated that while the Board voted on a total amount of
$2.2M, it did not vote on the specific distribution. This will need to be done as both the Ballot Question and Town
Meeting Vote will reference the document known as the "FY2013 Town Manager's Override Budget". She suggested
that next week will be a good time to take the final vote.
Ms. Speidel prepared an Organizational chart showing Town Hall and Ritter building employees positions and hours
which the Board had requested at a prior meeting..
Discussion among the board returned to the ballot question that references the town manager's override budget proposal.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that a reference be put into the town manager's override budget article, so that people are clear on
what we are talking about, and that it's open to discussion, so that they know that they are not only voting to approve the
allocations but also the budget items themselves.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram asked if information had been received yet from Conservation and BOH regarding the proposed changes to
their departments, which the Board had requested the Town Manager acquire. Ms. Speidel said that she requested
information from both boards and has received some preliminary information back from Conservation. She has not
received much information from the BOH due to a problem with their data base which has prevented them from
producing any reports. Ms. Bertram stated that she had spoken to the Chairperson of the BOH and that the problem was
not with the data base but simply that the information has not been entered into it yet. Ms. Speidel will speak to the BOH
Chairperson about this matter again.
3. Establishment of Memorial Day Committee - Ms. Speidel has researched the Towns by-laws and charter
to see if any process/requirement is required to form this committee and she could not find any. She has not had a
chance to put together a Charge for the committee but will do so by the next BOS meeting.
Mr. Sund spoke and said he would like to establish a permanent Memorial Day Committee for the purpose of celebrating
this holiday. He would like the people who serve on this committee to be from the School, Senior Center, Police,
American Legion or a veteran. School Superintendent, Loxi Jo Calmes, has already volunteered to be the schools
representative.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues - The following minutes and warrants were presented for approval.
1. Minutes:
1/10/12
2. Warrants - 3/29/12 - W# 20 P 12 $612,269.21
3/28/12 - W# 57 12 $145,595.51
4/3/12 - W# 58 12 $294,776.01
3. Action File Issues - none
5. Committee Report - Mr. Alonzo reminded everyone that the Finance Committee will have a public hearing on the
budget on Thursday evening at 7PM.
• Update on School Building Committee Activities - None
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports- None
OLD BUSINESS
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS -
1. Ratify appointment of Rob Guenard to position of Heavy Equipment Operator/Laborer, DPW -
Ms. Speidel gave a description of Mr. Guenard's resume and presented the appointment to the BOS for
ratification. Mr. Sund moved to ratify the appointment of Mr. Guenard to the DPW based upon the finalization of
his permits and licenses. Mr. deBettencourt seconded the motion. On vote, motion carried S in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Accept resignation of Todd Blake from School Building Committee - Mr. Matthews stated that an email
had been received from Todd Blake informing them of his resignation from the school building committee.
Before adjourning to go into Executive Session, Mr. Matthews asked for any public comment from the Board or the
public.
Clarence Floyd, 720 Goodrich St., had questions pertaining to articles on the warrant for town meeting. He would like a
copy of the articles amended this evening. Ms. Speidel said that he could get a finalized copy at the end of this week.
EXECUTIVE SESSION -
1. Under M.G. L. Chapter 39, Section 23B (3), to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation
if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position. Also to
conduct strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective
bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel.
Mr. Alonzo moved to go into executive session. Mr. Sund seconded the motion. On vote, motion carried 5 in favor, 0
opposed. Meeting adjourned at 8:20PM
===PAGE 3===
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 10, 2012
April 17, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
..-...--
