===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
171.10
APR 1: 2012
MEETING MINUTES
LUNENBURG TOWN
3/13/12
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
The meeting began with public comment from the board. Mr. Sund read a letter he had written to Ms. Speidel concerning
the disruptive behavior of people who attended the Planning Board meeting on 3/8/12. He felt that the board was not
given the proper time to clearly discuss the issue at hand and in his letter he suggested that the meeting be rescheduled and
any votes taken be disqualified until a properly conducted meeting can take place. Discussion among the board members
occurred with the consensus being that the meeting did not need to be rescheduled unless the Planning Board felt the need
to do so.
Ms. Bertram commented on the Girl Scouts celebrating 100 years saying that they celebrated on March 9' with
"World Thinking Day" and then on March 11" there were approximately 200 Girl Scouts, past and present, that gathered
at the Lunenburg High School track at 3PM to participate in a "World Wide Promise Circle".
Dave Prokowiew, 733 West Street, said that he was at the 3/8/12 Planning Board meeting which Mr. Sund attended and
he felt that the Planning Board members invited the interaction from the people who were in attendance. He said that if
they got a little out of hand it is because they are very passionate about their cause.
Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle, read a letter which he had emailed to the Lunenburg Finance Committee and to the
BOS which he had written in support of the proposed Proposition 2 ½ override for the Town of Lunenburg.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - None
APPOINTMENTS
7:10 PM Report from Engineer on Townsend Harbor Road/Mulpus Rd - DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz updated the
BUs on the progress of the Townsend Harbor Ra/Mulpus Ra situation. Mr. Jesse Johnson, Engineer from David Ross &
Associates, spoke and said that they sent out a survey crew to find documentation on property lines and deed research. He
presented composites sketches on possible solutions to realigning this intersection and explained each scenario to the
board.
There were many questions from the board members in reference to cost, aesthetics, traffic counts and "T" stop concerns.
Board members agreed that a "3" stop scenario would not be feasible. Mr. Johnson said that there was no cost to the
project yet, it all depends on the number of stops that are made at the intersection and that putting a cost to the project
would be the next step. Mr. Matthews commented that this was a good starting point for this project.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, asked about the possibility of having sensors put into the roadway along with a sign 200°
down the road reading "Stopped Traffic" instead of reconfiguring the whole intersection.
Bob Saiia, 32 Sandy Cove Road, expressed concerns with the proposed stop signs and said that there must be an easier
solution to the reconfigurations at this intersection.
Ms. Bertram will check with the Hickory Hills Landowners Association as to how much involvement they would like to
have in the project, in terms of regular mowing maintenance.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Matthews said that there was enough information now to put some costs together for designing a "1"or "2" stop
intersection. MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) will be asked to do a traffic count at this intersection
also.
7:30PM Earth Removal Permit Application, Powell Stone & Gravel - Mr. Matthews read into the record the Notice of
Hearing concerning the application submitted by Powell Stone & Gravel for an Earth Removal Permit for 151 Leominster
Shirley Rd. Lunenburg MA. Mr. Jesse Johnson, Engineer from David Ross & Associates, spoke on behalf of Powell
Stone & Gravel in asking for this permit. He said that the application is necessary for creating grades on the site plan that
are already approved by the Lunenburg Conservation Commission and the Lunenburg Planning Board. He estimated that
50,000 cubic yards of surplus would need to be removed from the site. All of the site plan approvals have been submitted
to the BOS.
Steve Powell from Powell Stone and Gravel spoke and said that the project would probably be completed this year. He
also stated that at this location there will be material coming in and out for the next several years. The material in
question is just surplus that needs to be removed to bring the grade down.
Perry Jewel, 20 Sunset Lane, congratulated Mr. Powell and his entire operation on the great business that they run. His
concern was with barriers being put in place to keep run off from entering Lake Shirley down stream.
Mr. Alonzo made a motion to approve the Earth Removal Application for 151 Leominster Shirley Rd. Ms. Bertram
seconded the motion. All board members were in favor, motion carried.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Summer Street Improvement Project - Ms. Speidel stated that there was an engineer/public information session
held in January for this project and that there are three different alternatives for improvements to Summer Street. She
believes that the board was leaning towards the alternative that had the center turning lane but that there was no vote taken
at by the board. The project cannot be advanced any further until the board decides on which alternative they would like
to pursue and also until there is additional funding received for the project. Ms. Speidel would like the board to consider
presenting a warrant article at Town Meeting to appropriate Lunenburg's share of the 20% design fee from the Zoning
Incentive Stabilization Fund. She stated that MRPC, through its TIP, will fund construction with grant funding, but they
have not been successful with getting grant funding for the design of the project. Ms. Speidel said that Senator Jennifer
Flanagan will work to amend the State Transportation Bond Bill to include 20% of the design funds for this project at the
appropriate time. This bond bill will not come up until FY14 and it is good for five years. The cities of Leominster and
Fitchburg are already covered for their share of the design.
Mr. Matthews stated that it is a significant amount of money but just paving the road again would cost considerably more
money. He feels that going ahead with this project is a step towards a long term solution. DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz
said that repaving was not an option. The problems with the substructure of the road and the antiquated drainage
problems are ongoing and he encourages the board to go with Ms. Speidel's suggestion.
This warrant article will be added to Town Meeting, no motion was needed.
2. FY2013 Budget & Override - Ms. Speidel had prepared a slide show presentation on the subject of the FY013
Budget & Override and she reviewed each section with the board. All inforr
Ms. Speidel stated that she wanted to be perfectly clear that the $2.2 M overr
the Finance Committees. This override is permanent and hopefully will suste
After the slide presentation Mr. Alonzo commented that this was an excelleni presemauon and very accurate.
Mr. Sund thanked the Town Manager for providing all the information and questioned if the override is passed, why was
funding for the IT Department and land use offices not being restored. Ms. Speidel answered by saying there is a
computerized work order system in place for IT requests. It is very accurate and the number of requests that come in do
not support the IT position. In regards to the BOH/Conservation position she has a gut feeling. She has surveyed
neighboring communities that are comparable in size, that have one full time person, in particular the Town of Littleton,
that serve both of those departments and it works quite well. She would also like to see uniformity to hours in those
offices.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Bertram thanked the Town Manager for the presentation and stated that she did a fantastic job. She is concerned with
the loss of the BOS Chief Administrative Assistant and she feels that with monies being restored to the BOS, a Human
Resource person should be reinstated or perhaps restore that position in a new role. She also said that she is happy to see
another position reinstated to the DPW department. Ms. Bertram asked that the Town Manager to retouch on the issue of
restoring funds to the Senior Center and Library.
Ms. Speidel responded that first of all the Chief Administrative Assistant position would be restored at a different
classification with a significantly lower salary. It would be converted with the primary duties being in Human Resources
and special projects. She said that the restoration to the Senior Center and Library would essentially be restoring the 10%
cut.
Mr. deBettencourt questioned the funding for a Recording Secretary in the land use offices and he was also concerned
with who would be left in the IT Department. Ms. Speidel responded that the IT Director is full time, there would be an
assıstant at 1/3 time, and the schools have additional IT personnel. In regards to the Recording Secretary, Ms. Speidel said
that she has had conversations with both Chairpersons of BOH and Conservation about the cuts in general but no specific
conversation with them about the Recording Secretary.
Dave Shea, Board of Health member spoke in saying that the BOH was shocked with the budget recommendations. He is
worried that they will not be able to provide a good level of service with the proposed cuts. His concern is that he doesn't
think the person they will have, will bring that kind of experience with them.
Perry Jewel, Vice Chairman Board of Health, voiced that he is troubled that even with the $2.2M override, there are no
funds being set aside to restore the reduction at the BOH and Conservation Board. He went on to plead his case that the
BOH needs a viable assistant. He said that there are many more things the BOH could be doing but they can't do it with
31% less in department resources.
Mr. Alonzo, Mr. Matthews and Ms. Bertram all made individual pleas to the Townspeople to support the Override.
Mr. Matthews stated that he did not think that they were ready to vote on the Override this week but he would like to get it
done by next week.
Bob Saiia, 32 Sandy Cove Road, made a request to get the word out elsewhere besides the website, and to simplify the
dollars and cents of what the Override will actually mean to each household.
Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle, gave a website address for the Lunenburg Citizens for Fiscal Responsibility for the
public to go to for more information on the Override.
3. BOS Policies & Procedures - None
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues -
Minutes: 1/3/12 BOS signed
Warrants - Accounts Payable w54 (2/13/12) $909,673.98, Payroll Deduction Warrant w55 (3/14/12) 326,026.02,
Payroll Warrant $660,245.95 w19p12 (3/12), License from BOS meeting 3/6/12 signed
Action File Issues - Mr. Alonzo was concerned that the Lunenburg Library's answering machine has the wrong hours
of operation on it. Also the Library website does not have the Library Board of Trustees listed and that it would be a
good thing to have listed.
5. Committee Report - Mr. Sund rented that the Cahle Committee met last evening and approved a change to its
Bylaws which were submitted
change
Mr. Matthews said the High Sc
ednesday and that the last meeting was
cancelled due to weather. Alsc .......
i vi
hugur poultation last week and will be meeting with
the Lunenburg Finance Committee on Thursday night.
===PAGE 4===
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports: None
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
Mr. Matthews asked if there was any more Public Comments from the Board or the Public
Dave Prokowiew 733 West St. asked the Town Manger about the section of the FY2013 budget presentation concerning
the increase in the Police/Fire IOD, (Injured on Duty) he didn't think she covered it. Ms. Speidel said it was similar to
Workman's Comp except it's for Police and Fire. There is a higher risk in these fields so it is a separate insurance.
EXECUTIVE SESSION -M.G. L. Chapter 39, Section 23B (3), to discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or
litigating position. Also to conduct strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to
actually conduct collective bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel.
Being no further business board voted unanimously to adjourn Regular Session at 9:25PM and opened Executive Session
by roll call vote; Mr. Alonzo aye, Mr. deBettencourt aye, Ms. Bertram aye, Mr. aye, and Mr. Matthews aye in accordance
with M.G.L. Chapter 39 Section 23 B (3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigation position. Also, to conduct strategy
sessions in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct collective bargaining and contract
negotiations with non-union personnel.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
March 20, 2012
April 3, 2012
April 10, 2012
April 17, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
