===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
3/20/12
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Tom Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews opened the meeting and thanked the people who attended the Town Caucus. He also congratulated
Ms. Bertram for running for a seat on the BOS again and said that he hoped everyone comes out to support her.
The meeting began with public comment from the Board. Mr. Alonzo reminded people that the deadline to register to vote
in the May elections is on Friday April 13, 2012 by SPM. He announced that the Boys and Girls Club will be conducting
a Recycling Funding Drive where you can turn in used ink cartridges, toners and small electronics. They will receive
money from the Funding Factory for what ever they turn in.
Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle, said that at the Town Caucus which was held on 3/19/12 there were no candidates
standing for the vacant School Committee seat. He urged the citizens of Lunenburg to participate and said that the
deadline for collecting the required forty-five signatures on a petition for candidacy is March 29, 2012.
ANNOUNCEMENTS - None
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM Update from Unitil on Vegetation Management Plan, John DiNapoli & Sarah Sankowich, System
Arborist - John DiNapoli, Muncipal & Community Services Manager for Unitil began the presentation of their 2012
Vegetation Management program. He introduced Sarah Sankowich, System Arborist for Unitil.
Ms. Sankowich presented Unitil's 2012 Vegetation Management program plans for Lunenburg. Ms. Sankowich informed
the Board that they have increased funding in Massachusetts to $1.2M and that the work that will be done includes
pruning, hazard tree removal, along with some reliability related pruning and removal work as well. They have changed
the clearing specifications for the pruning cycle to 10' side clearance. They are also inspecting all of the lines that are
being pruned for hazard or risk trees. She said that they have "just shy of" 35 miles of work scheduled within the Town of
Lunenburg. Unitil has hired contractors to do the work for them and they will be dropping off notification cards to
residents before they begin work in their area.
The Board asked questions regarding debris removal and liability. The Board thanked both Ms. Sankowich and Mr.
DiNapoli for the information.
7:30 PM DPW Building Committee, Close Out Report - Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director recognized and thanked all
who were involved in the building rehab project at the DPW.
Dave McDonald, DPW Building Committee Chair, also thanked all involved in the project. He then followed with a slide
program about the project. The presentation included before & after pictures of the inside of the building and garage.
Improvements to the building were many and they included items such as a new fire alarm system, heating system and
carbon monoxide detector along with new garage doors, and T-5 light fixtures. The office/reception area, bathrooms and
break area were all modernized and improvements to the stairway/mezzanine area were made. In the process they also
gained a larger garage area.
Cost effective measures were taken into consideration while this project was evolving. Savings in garage door purchase,
furniture rehab, Unitil rebates and acting as their own Clerk of the Works produced significant savings. This allowed for
$44,194., out of the $1.3 M which was allocated for this project, to be turned back to the Town of Lunenburg.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Matthews thanked the committee and everyone that worked on the project and stated that the Town will benefit from
this project for many years to come.
Mr. Alonzo also thanked everyone involved and said it was hearting to see such a team event and that they all deserved to
be praised and hopes that people can recognize that.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Remote Participation at Public Meetings Policy, continued to 04/17/12, pending input from the Public
Access Cable Committee.
2. T-Mobile Antenna Lease Renewal for Town Hall location - Ms. Speidel informed the Board that T-Mobile
has leased space on top of the Town Hall building for their antenna for close to ten years and it is now time to renew the
lease. Currently they pay rental fees to the Town of approximately $32,000 per year on a monthly basis which increases
3% each year.
T-Mobile is looking to extend the lease for five years with two, five year renewal terms, with an option for the Town to
terminate the lease if the Town so chooses. They would like some relief in the rent. Ms. Speidel proposed to the Board
that the first year be held at a flat rate of $2687.83 per month and in the second year it would increase again by 3% per
year, as it does under the current lease terms. She said that town counsel has reviewed the lease renewal and Ms. Speidel
recommends that the Board approve the renewal of the lease with T-Mobile. (See attached information)
Ms. Bertram made a motion that they renew the lease as presented by the Town Manager. Mr. deBettencourt seconded
the motion. On vote, motion carried 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. FY2013 Budget & Override - Ms. Speidel reminded the Board that tonight's meeting is the meeting that was
determined to be the appropriate time for the Board to take a vote to whether or not forward the override question to the
Town Clerk for inclusion on the ballot at Town Meeting. She also provided the board via email with a sample of the
language that would be appropriate to act upon.
Mr. Matthews said that he thought the Board was more than ready to vote on whether or not to include it in the warrant.
He feels the Board has a duty to bring this to the citizens and that it is their decision in the end as to whether or not it
moves forward. He opened it up to the Board for further discussion.
Ms. Speidel wanted to explain further the information which was presented at the last meeting concerning the FY2013
budget & override, specifically on how the $2.2M would be allocated through a five year period, and what the Town
would look like in the in the coming years if the override did not pass. She provided this information with a slide
presentation.
Ms. Speidel is hopeful that the approximate $485,000 in State aid, which had been cut from the Town, would be
reinstated and that this would help sustain the proposed override for six years or maybe longer. This override would
represent a little more than an 11% increase in tax burden which is still 10% lower than the state wide average. She also
explained to the Board all the cuts that could ultimately happen if the override does not pass, which would be cuts to
ambulance services, road work, Library, Senior Center, Police/Fire, schools and the reduction in the hours of operation for
Town offices.
After the slide presentation discussion and questions from the Board members concerning the override ensued.
A motion was made by Mr. Alonzo that the Board forward an Override Question to the Town Clerk for inclusion on the
Ballot for the Annual Town Election in the amount of $2.2M. Ms. Bertram seconded the motion.
Mr: deBettencourt confirmed that the vote was solely to establish a ballot question. On vote, Motion carried, 5 in favor, 0
opposed.
Mr. Matthews voiced his concern with the line items in the budget cuts. He would like Ms. Speidel to have another
discussion with the Land Use offices about the issue of consolidating the departments.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Bertram questioned if they had looked at consolidation in other departments. She would like to see some sort of
organization chart with hours of personnel to see if there are other opportunities to combine other departments as well.
Troy Daniels, 94 Main St, had questions on the property assessments and wanted to know if they were projected to
change. Ms. Speidel said that they are using the current assessment and they will be used throughout FY16 & FY17.
He also mentioned that he is a former member of the Lunenburg Board of Health and that he wanted to know how
combining the Conservation/BOH positions would directly affect the BOH. His thought was that the town needs a better
explanation as to what was going on there. He said that the decision on the combined positions should not directly effect
the decisions of the BOH. He stated that the public would be better served if they knew what went on at the BOH and
knew the difference between the Town/ Local BOH and the Nashoba Board of Health. He also said that according to the
town charter, going out into the field and signing permits was not the function of the position which is being spoken of.
Ms. Bertram was concerned with combining assessment of the Nashoba Board of Health with the local BOH. She said
that they have always been a separate assessment and should remain that way. Ms. Speidel said that the budget
recommendation is being presented in the same form as always and that the Nashoba Assessment is clearly distinguished
from the appropriation for the Board of Health.
Brent Benson, Flathill Rd, read a letter in support of the $2.2M Override. He spoke of how the failure to support this
override, will severely hurt the Town. He feels it is the fiscally responsible decision and asks the board to support the
override decision.
Dave Prokowiew, West St, asked about options to increase revenues if this is not done. Ms. Speidel replied that options
are limited. They would be local receipts, property tax, State aide, excise tax, & permits/licenses/fees/fines.
Mr. Alonzo made a motion to support the $2.2M override as presented tonight and various times by the Town Manager.
Ms. Bertram seconded the motion. On vote, motion carried, 3 in favor, 2 opposed [deBettencourt, Sund]
Discussion: Mr. Sund said that he feels that people can't afford the override and that they will move out of town. Mr.
Alonzo made a plea to the people that if they cannot afford it, then don't vote for it. Ms. Bertram feels the responsible
thing to do is for the board to vote for this and then bring it to the ballot for the voters to decide.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues - The following minutes and warrants were presented for approval.
1. Minutes: 1/10/12 BOS & 3/13/12 BOS
2. Warrants — Accounts Payable w56-12 (3/20/12) $117084.74
Action File Issues - none
5. Committee Report -
Mr. Alonzo stated that he was unable to attend the School Committee meeting of last Thursday.
• Update on School Building Committee Activities - Mr. Matthews said that the School Building
Committee had met, and with input from the MSBA after comparing surrounding towns, came up with a
number for the feasibility and schematic design study of $750,000. The reimbursement from MSBA still
needs to be determined. The timeline to bring the results of the study to Town Meeting could be in May
2013 and the forecast for construction to start could possibly be in 2015 or 2016. He stressed that this is a
very early timeline.
Mr. deBettencourt and Ms. Bertram expressed concern with the high cost of this project considering that
this is not the final design plan.
Loxi Jo Calmes, School Superintendent spoke and explained that this includes the price of a Project
Manager who would continue on through the duration of the project. She said the basis for coming up
with this number was a lot of research on existing projects and consultation with the MSBA. Mrs.
Calmes agreed to present a more detailed report at the next BOS meeting.
===PAGE 4===
6. Department Reports - None
7. Town Manager Reports-
• Recruitment Process for new Fire Chief & Police Chief-Ms. Speidel informed the Board that both the
Fire and Police Chief will be retiring this summer. She has put together a proposal for advertising of the
positions that would follow the same procedure that they would do for any of their other openings. This
would begin with an internal advertisement period followed by an external advertising period if needed.
She chose dealing with the issue of hiring for Fire Chief due to the fact that Chief Glenny will be retiring
first in July 2012. Ms. Speidel drafted a schedule for recruitment and job description for the board to
review. (See attached)
Mr. deBettencourt questioned why the internal and external advertisement was not done at the same time.
He feels that if they advertise together, you will get the best candidate out of them both.
Ms. Speidel replied that the Town has a history of how it advertises for positions and she was following
that process. Historically, positions are advertised in house first, and if they have a suitable candidate than
an appointment would be made. If there was no suitable candidate internal then they would advertise
external.
After discussion it was suggested that the positions be advertised internally and externally at the same
time. Ms. Speidel said she will amend the advertisement to include the salary range because it will have
an impact on the number of external applicants who will be applying.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
Mr. Matthews asked if there was any more public comments from the board or the public. Mr. Alonzo asked
Mr. deBettencourt what his reasons were for not supporting the override to which a spirited discussion arose between
board members concerning this matter and other comments that were alleged to have been said several years ago by
Mr. Alonzo.
Ms. Bertram said she was approached by a citizen with questions about the position that is opening up in the Assessor's
office and asked the Town Manager if it was full time. Ms. Speidel replied that the position was in the
Treasurer/Collector's office as part-time and it will be filled at a lower level position. Ms. Bertram would like to research
when looking at other part-time benefit positions, is there an opportunity to maximize one of our existing employees and
leverage our existing personnel. She hopes to have these conversations before town meeting.
Dave Prokowiew, 733 West St., questioned how volunteer and paid positions are advertised. Ms. Speidel said that it is
advertised on the web site and through the talent bank. Mr. Prokowiew suggested that a more centrally located way of
advertising should be put in place.
EXECUTIVE SESSION -Under M.G. L. Chapter 39, Section 23B (3), to discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating
position. Also to conduct strategy session in preparation for negotiations with non-union personnel; to actually conduct
collective bargaining and contract negotiations with non-union personnel.
Executive Session Continued to 4/3/12 BOS meeting
Ms. Bertram motioned to adjourn the meeting. Mr. deBettencourt seconded the motion. All board members were in
favor.
Meeting adjourned at 9:50PM
===PAGE 5===
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 3, 2012
April 10, 2012
April 17, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 6===
© Unitil
Vegetation Management Program- 2012 Lunenburg
Sara Sankowich - System Arborist
Sankowich@unitil.com Office: 603-379-3833
9W19
Zone 3
Zone 4
E30W34
F31W37
Zone 2
Zone 5
Zone 1
Zone 7
Zone 6
• What Pruning Entails
• Clearing around the conductors
Removing hazardous trees
Removing small trees and brush that have the ability to grow back into the
conductors
After pruning, branch debris will be chipped - larger branches and wood
will be cut into firewood size lengths and left for the property owner
(storm events - crews cut, clear, make area safe & leave all tree debris
