===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/11/12
nfa49.
-
SmD
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews, Tom
Alonzo, Carl "Ernie" Sund, Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram present, and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
Mr. Matthews called for a moment of silence in recognition of the victims of 9/11. The moment of silence was followed
by the pledge of allegiance.
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 4 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles - Mr. Matthews stated that any further discussions concerning
PILOT Agreements need to be discussed in Executive Session due to the fact that the Board is negotiating with two
separate developers on two separate plans. He expects that by next weeks' BOS meeting the Board should have a
recommendation on which one they would like to pursue and that it ultimately will be decided by the public at Special
Town Meeting (STM). Mr. Matthews quickly reviewed the five articles slated for STM to be held on 9/25/12.
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
8/7/12
8/14/12
8/28/12
9/4/12
Warrants:
9/12/12
9/11/12
9/13/12
W #15-13
W#14-13
W#6P13
$143,555.88
$169,602.54
$621,929.03
Action File Issues: Mr. Sund questioned how the DPW project list was moving forward. Ms. Speidel replied that
the report is on her desk but she has not yet reviewed it.
Mr. deBettencourt requested a status update on a corner bound that was either moved or destroyed on the corner
of Airport Rd on the Fitchburg/Lunenburg line which he had previously reported. He also requested an update on
the town line sign which was located on the Rt2A between Fitchburg and Lunenburg, which had been destroyed
by an automobile accident. He would like to know when it is going to be replaced and if the insurance company
will cover the cost.
3. Committee Reports - Mr. Alonzo reported that the Finance Committee will be meeting this Thursday. Ms.
Speidel added that Kevin Blanchette from the Worcester Regional Retirement Board will be at this meeting to make a
presentation on how the system works and how benefits are granted.
Mr. Sund reported that Jo McLaughlin from Public Access Cable Committee is doing a great job with the local
programming. The upcoming Homecoming Parade and Football game will be taped and shown on the channel. He was
happy to announce that 51% of all programming shown is local programming from Lunenburg.
Ms. Bertram reported that she will be attending the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) meeting tomorrow where
the topic of discussion will be the Oxbow Wildlife Refuge grant. She said that there are a few more meetings scheduled
with MPO and would like updates on planning timelines for the Summer Street project.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram had also attended the Planning Board Public meeting the previous evening where discussions were held
concerning Mass PV1, Arro Estate presentation of plans for a subdivision, Dippin' Donuts Development Plan & Review
status, and the possibility of having the School Building Committee meetings televised
4. Department Reports - None
5. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel presented Earth Removal Permits which were previously approved by the
BOS for signatures.
Ms. Speidel presented a Proclamation honoring Arnold Rill for his 31 years of volunteer services as a "Meals on Wheels"
Driver at the Council on Aging for the Chair to read to the BOS.
Mr. Matthews stated that 31 years is pretty amazing for volunteer service and apologized for not having presented this
Proclamation sooner.
OLD BUSINESS
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Extend appointment of Myleen Mallari, Acting Treasurer-Collector to 09/18/12 - Ms. Speidel stated that
the committee formed to interview potential candidates for the Treasurer/Collector position has narrowed down the field
to three candidates and they have chosen one.. This candidate needs to be CORI checked and Ms. Speidel expects to bring
a recommendation to the BOS at the next scheduled meeting.
Mr. Alonzo moved to extend the appointment of Myleen Mallari, as acting Treasurer/Collector through 09/18/12. Ms.
Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
PUBLIC COMMENT
John Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road, questioned whether or not there were negotiations going on with a proponent of
a project that had not been approved yet. Mi. Matthews replied that they are considering and talking about it and won't
bring it to STM if there is not an approved plan on file. He stated that as the Chair of this Board, it is his choice to not
have it on the agenda previously in either case until there was an approved plan which the Planning Board had put
through. In this case it's on the cusp and the opportunity is looking out for the better of the town as a whole. If we can
get an opportunity to have two different vendors perhaps there can be more revenue or energy savings for the town. With
that all said, if there is not an approved plan two weeks from Tuesday, we will pass over the appropriate articles.
Mr. Whalen stated that he is concerned because if you get a better deal from one, and they haven't been approved, they
might end up getting approved at Town Meeting because they already have a nice deal on the table.
Mr. Matthews stated that the Planning Board is making that decision based upon the special permit requirements which is
voted at Town Meeting with the direct input of everybody involved and that is a totally different conversation from right
now and that there is no pressure from us to them, and no pressure from them to us.
Mr. Whalen said that he just wanted to make sure because when he had asked questions early on in the process last fall, he
was told you could not have those discussions until one was already settled.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - Mr. Matthews moved to go into Executive Session, not to return citing, to consider the
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property, if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental
effect on the negotiating position of the governmental property.
Mr. Alonzo moved to adjourn regular session to go into Executive Session. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion carried,
5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 7:20PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
===PAGE 3===
September 18, 2012
espectfully submitter
usan Doherty, Recording Secretar
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 4 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
