===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 2 3 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/15/12
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Steven M. deBettencourt, Carl "Ernie" Sund, Tom Alonzo, and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Absent: Paula Bertram
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo congratulated the Lunenburg Pops Concert and everyone who was involved in the event this year.
Dave McDonald, said he received a letter in his mailbox entitled "Lunenburg Residents Beware". He said that he agreed
with the numbers that were printed in the letter regarding the override. He also thanked Mr. deBettencourt for having the
foresight for knowing what the community needed when they built the Police/Fire station, Library, and Primary school
several years ago. He stated that he is voting for the override because it is the right thing to do for the community.
Jane DeNike, 347 Highland Street, wanted clarification on what the override percentage actually was going to be. It was
determined to be a 14.2% increase in property tax for the years 2013 over 2012.
Mrs. DeNike said that she was dismayed that she had heard that the Lunenburg Pops Concert at the High School had
become some what politicized this year due to the fact that flyers were being handed out by proponents of the override
outside of the school and were available at the ticket table inside of the school. She also stated that the Music Aide parent
who was welcoming the people to the concert had eluded to the upcoming vote along with programs that will be cut if the
override is not voted in. She stated that sometimes in our passion for speaking our opinions we forget the wisdom of
being discreet depending on the event we are at.
Mrs. DeNike also spoke about realizing that there is a sizeable group of people in the town who cannot see their way
through a 14.2% increase in their property taxes, which could become close to a 25% increase by July 2016. She feels
they are saying no to the override because they have found themselves in a serious financial situation. She pointed out the
fact that there are over 90 homes for sale in Lunenburg and that since January, 30 of the 90 have had to lower the price of
their homes in order to sell them. She feels that the home sale numbers reflect the fact that people are not moving to
Lunenburg for what ever the town's asset's may be.
Mr. Matthews said that 90 homes for sale is a consistent number and that this is a national situation. He also said that
"saying no" for the last 30 years has led to years of buildings being in disrepair and that things do not get any cheaper
down the road.
Mr. Alonzo said that he has never taken other peoples situations lightly. He suggested that if you cannot afford the
override then vote against it.
The BOS thanked Mrs. DeNike for coming in this evening.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Abatement of Ambulance Bills, LB121739 & LBM11539 - Ms. Speidel presented two requests
for abatement of ambulance bills, LB121739 for $990.00 & LBM11539 for $1056.00. She stated that both applicants
meet the guidelines for abatement. Mr. Alonzo moved to approve both abatements, LB121739 & LBM11539. Mr. Sund
===PAGE 2===
2. Purchase & Sales Agreement, Jones House - Ms. Speidel presented the BOS with the request to sign the
Purchase and Sales agreement for the Jones House. Approval was given at Town Meeting to put the Jones House up for
sale. Request for proposals process was done twice and there was one bidder. The property will sell for $10,150.00 and
there are several requirements placed on the sale of the property. The property will be restored in accordance with its
historical significance, there will be a land development agreement, and a declaration of historical covenant. The
Historical Commission will be monitoring the restoration of this project.
Mr. Matthews stated that the low sale price was due to the limitations which were placed on the property with historical
restrictions that impinged on the value that it could be sold for, along with the condition of the building which was not
properly maintained. The intent of the sale is to get it back on the tax role.
Mr. Alonzo said that is the opinion of the Historical Commission that this is a relevant property and was the home of the
internationally known horticulturist Luther Burbank. He said that it was the BOS intention to save it so it could remain a
historic site.
Mr. Sund said it would be worthy of note that Luther Burbank developed the Russet potato on the grounds of this
property.
Mr. Alonzo motioned to approve the Purchase and Sale of the Jones House as listed before the BOS. Mr. deBettencourt
seconded. Discussion on the driveway easement agreement ensued. On vote, motion passed, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. License Agreement, Tri Town Landing - Bill Caselden, representing Great Bridges Properties, explained to the
BOS that this License Agreement addresses the remainder of the fire lane behind Tri Town Landing. He said that when
the development was originally approved by the Planning Board it depicted the fire lane being constructed and that this
Llicense Agreement would give them the ability to build it. This fire road will continue to behind where the "proposed"
building 3 will be built and when other buildings are built, the road will be extended to them also. It will be constructed
of gravel and will require occasional maintenance to make it reasonably passable.
Marion Benson, Planning Board Director, said that there has not been a problem with this plan by the DPW and the Fire
Department and that it has not changed since they had originally reviewed it. She stated that the best thing for the BOS is
to grant a license rather than an easement, which would require a vote at town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo moved to approve the License for Tri Town as provided on the plan and as discussed. Mr. Sund seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
4. Remote Participation Policy - Ms. Speidel stated that she had discussed the Remote Participation Policy with the
I.T. department and with the Cable Commission and they neither had concerns with this policy, if adopted, and that it
would not require a significant amount of money to be able to participate in this process.
After discussion among the BOS it was decided to review this matter further and to vote on it at the next BOS meeting.
5. Town Manager's Annual Evaluation - Mr. Matthews stated that a timeline needed to be set on how the BOS
will approach the Town Manager's evaluation. Goal sheets and the format will be distributed to the BOS within the next
week. Mr. Matthews said that he would like everyone to fill out their own evaluation and would like them to meet with
the Town Manager before submitting their evaluations. When the evaluations are turned in Mr. Matthews will compile a
composite review. He feels that this process can be completed within the next 3-4 weeks. Discussion on goals for the
new year can be begin after the evaluation in July.
6. BOS Policies & Procedures - Not discussed.
7. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues - The following minutes and warrants were presented for approval.
1. Minutes: 05/1/2012 & 04/24/2012
2. Warrants - 05/15/2012 #66-12 $42,600.72
05/10/2012 #23P12 $636,650.08
3. Action File Issues - Mr. Alonzo read a list of tax assistance programs for senior citizens which was provided by
the Lunenburg Citizens for Fiscal Responsibility. He thanked that group for compiling this information.
===PAGE 3===
8. Committee Report - Mr. Matthews said that the School Building Committee met last Wednesday and they have
been compiling questions for interviewing the project manager.
9. Department Reports - None
10. Town Manager Reports- Ms. Speidel said that there had been a typo on a license which had already been granted
for Robert C. and Michael R. Lovewell doing business as R.C. Motors, and requested the BOS to re-sign.
OLD BUSINESS
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
Mr. Matthews stated that he received an email from Barbara Reynolds informing him that she will be stepping down from
the Finance & Personnel Committees at the end of the fiscal year. He said that anyone that would like to guide us
forward, now would be the time to do so. Ms. Speidel told him that she has received three talent bank applications from
people who are interested in serving on the Finance Committee and she is in the process of scheduling a meeting with the
Finance Committee.
Mr. deBettencourt informed the BOS that the Fire Department will be holding a "Meat Raffle" on 05/19/2012.
Mr. Alonzo informed the public that absentee ballots for the upcoming election can be cast at the Town Clerks office up
until noon on Friday. He also spoke of the override and how there was not one board or committee that did not vote in
favor of the override except for the BOS. He spoke of the need for the override and said that he supports it because he
believes it represents everything that is middle class value in America. He said that they are not looking for anything
extravagant but rather the maintenance of the programs that are already in place and for the road program which has been
severely neglected for over a decade. He said that there were a lot of generations that had built this town and have gotten
it to where it is and that it is now our responsibility to support the future of our town.
Mr. Matthews spoke and said that the Lunenburg tax bill is 10% lower then the state average. He said that we are
working against national forces and its about things bigger then how much someone makes on some job in town and he
they wanted to raise their children. He reminded everyone that the election is Saturday and hopes everyone comes out to
let their voice be heard.
Mr. Sund said that no matter what side you support, please come out and vote.
Mr. deBettencourt motioned to adjourn. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 8:16 p.m.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
May 22, 2012
June 5, 2012
June 12, 2012
June 19, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 2 3 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
