===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
10/16/12
-
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town
ill as scheduled with David Matthews, Paula
Bertram, Steven M. deBettencourt, Tom Alonzo, and Carl "Ernie" Sund, and Town MEgGiN speeplestil
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
DEC 13 2012
PUBLIC COMMENT
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Michael Padula came before the BOS to offer the Town Right of First Refusal regarding the purchase of property he owns
on Leominster/Shirley Rd. After discussion among the BOS, members were in agreement that the Town would not be
interested in purchasing this property but rather have Mr. Padula sell it for commercial real estate which would generate
tax revenue for the Town. The BOS thanked Mr. Padula for coming forward, and advised him that it is the Board's
practice to seek input from the Planning Board, Conservation Commission, and any other interested department before it
acts on a Right of First Refusal. The Board will solicit input once a Purchase & Sale Agreement has been presented to the
Town.
Michelle Belleza, Director of the Teen Center came forward and thanked the BOS for painting the crosswalk on Main St
in front of the Teen Center which made it more visible and safer for pedestrians to use.
7:00 PM Joint Session with Sewer Commission
The Sewer Commission met for a joint session with the Board of Selectmen in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town
Hall with Carl Luck, Jay Simeone, Dave MacDonald, & Butch Bilotta present.
1. Interview Candidate for Vacancy - Mike Nault - Mike Nault, 56 Brookview Terrace, came before the joint
meeting of the BOS and the Sewer Commission to introduce himself and gave a brief synopsis of his work history and
personal life.
2. Appointment to fill vacancy on Sewer Commission - Mr. Alonzo moved to recommend approval, with the
Sewer Commission, the appointment of Mike Nault to the vacancy on the Sewer Commission to be held until the next
election in May 2013. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. MacDonald moved to recommend approval, with the Board of Selectmen, the appointment of Mike Nault to the
vacancy on the Sewer Commission to be held until the next election in May 2013. Mr. Simeone seconded. On vote,
motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Sewer Commission voted unanimously to adjourn their meeting at 7:15 PM.
WORK SESSION
1. Continue Review of BOS Policies & Procedures - The BOS continued their review and discussed the
following BOS Policies & Procedures changes as follows:
Section 4.08 Automatic Amusement - Directions were removed, Ms. Speidel will make inquiries with the Building
Dept. and Board of Health as to why it is necessary to have these departments make recommendations on this application.
Section 4.09 Base License - Keep base license definition and eliminate rest. Town Counsel will be contacted regarding
CORI requirement.
Section 4.10 Bazaars & Raffles - No changes made.
Section 4.11 Billiard License - Verbiage was updated.
===PAGE 2===
Section 4.12 Class 1 & 2 Licenses - Ms. Speidel will check with Selectmen's Administrative Assistant regarding abutter
notification procedure.
Section 4.13 Class 3 License - Change "Upon favorable decision by the Board of Selectmen" to "Upon favorable
decision by the Licensing Authority". Bond requirements for property cleanup will be researched.
Section 4.14 Common Victualler License - Worker's Compensation requirements were discussed.
Section 4.15 Sunday License - Blue Laws will be reviewed.
Section 4.16 Taxicab License -Change Board of Selectmen to Licensing Authority.
Section 4.17 Limousine - Remove $25 fee. Under Licensing of Limousine Drivers eliminate #'s 1, 2, & 3. : Under
Licensing of Limousine Drivers move #4 to General Rules of Operation to become #11 (research MIIA on insurance
requirements).
Section 4.18 Gasoline Storage - Storage of Inflammables - Spelling of "Inflammables" to remain. Check with Fire
Department in regards to bond issues.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Power Purchase Agreement and PILOT Agreement for EPG Solar and/or Mass PV1 - Michael
Borkowski, Representative from EPG Solar was present to answer previous questions the BOS had regarding the wording
of the solar facility size. After discussion the BOS were satisfied with the current language in the agreements.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the Power Purchase Agreement for EPG Solar. Mr. Sund seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Borkowski thanked the BOS along with the Planning Board for their support with this project.
No action taken regarding Mass PV1 until more information is available regarding changes in their proposals.
2. Town Manager Reports - Ms. Speidel informed the BOS that an adjustment had been made in the name on an
application for a Used Car Dealer License, which was applied for and approved by the BOS last week by Double Down
Inc. The BOS re-signed the previously approved application with the name change to Double Down Sales Inc.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
10/2/12
10/9/12
Warrants:
10/16/12
#22-13
$549,929.34
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Mr. deBettencourt moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded. The board voted unanimously to adjourn
regular session at 8:30PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
October 23, 2012
Respectfully submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
