===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/17/13
7441488 -
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at
Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that contrary to what was published in the Lunenburg Ledger, he was not the one
that said the Town Election was not done by the book, it was the Town Counsel who made that comment.
Mr. Ebersole said that the General Bylaws as posted by the Town Clerk on the Town Website are not accurate.
He believes that the Bylaws should be taken down due to the fact that it is dangerous to have information that
is inaccurate and that it is better to have no information than information that is not correct.
Mr. Ebersole said that in preparing for tonight's hearing he had asked the Town Accountant for any payments
made to the establishment. Four payments were made by the Clerks office for food for elections and he
believes that this is a violation of the Ethics Law made by the Town Clerk due to the familiar relationship
between the parties. He stated that there maybe a breakdown in the system that would allow this to happen,
just as it did with the prior Superintendent of Schools. He would like to have a meeting with the Town
Accountant to go over what systems may need to be instituted. Mr. Ebersole would like everyone to be open
to concerns and complaints to remain transparent so everyone knows what's going on.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
M. Alonzo announced the schedule and dumping requirements for the Lunenburg Fall Waste Days at the
landfill off of Youngs Road, which will be on Saturdays, beginning October 12" through November 23 d
, 8AM -
Mr. Alonzo announced that the Department of Public Utilities will be holding a Public Hearing concerning the
Unitil rate increase on 9/23/2013 at 7PM at the Fitchburg Memorial Middle School.
Mr. Alonzo announced that the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg is holding their Annual Charity Auction on
Thursday October 10th,
', at 6PM, at the Bull Run Restaurant in Shirley, MA.
Ms. Bertram asked to return to Public Comment to discuss the prior remarks made by Mr. Ebersole concerning
the Town Clerk. She said that she does not know what the circumstances were regarding the 4 payments for
food during the elections, but believes that it is a stretch to compare the similarities of the former School
Superintendent actions and the Town Clerks. She said that it is a different scenario then what happened with
the former Superintendent of Schools. She believes that these statements are inflammatory and would like to
find out the facts before we make any such statements. Ms. Bertram would like the BOS to contact the Ethics
Commission to see if there is any violation regarding this issue.
Mr. Alonzo commented to say that he agrees that equating someone who embezzled $450,000 for his own
purpose and someone who purchased $600 worth of food for Election workers is not on the same scale. He
urged and cautioned members of the board that those kinds of comparisons do not serve anybody well.
Although he welcomes transparency he said that we should keep things within scope and proportion.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say duly noted, he did not mean to intend that the scale was the same but wants to
make sure that we have an accounting system that will catch these things as they happen and not depending
===PAGE 2===
upon comments that were shared with him by other people or by investigating himself. He went on to say that
he agrees with the intensity of that comment is not the appropriate connection, but rather it's the systems that
need to be fixed.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Public Weighers (at Keatings) - Robert Croteau & Bruce Walker (taken out of order after item #2): Mr.
Croteau and Mr. Walker were not present this evening.
Ms. Speidel explained that these are Annual Appointments for Public Weighers and these appointments are
made under section 4-2 (d) which is a Town Manager Ratification. The BOS had made these appointments
back in June but two of the individuals who were appointed are no longer employed by P.J. Keating. She went
on to explain the duties of the Public Weighers
Mr. Alonzo asked for a motion from the board.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the appointments of Robert Croteau and Bruce Walker as Public Weighers (at
Keatings). Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Council on Aging - Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, & Judith Tarbell (taken out of order before item #1):
Mary Lynn Conrad, Chairman of the Council on Aging, spoke to the BOS of the merits of the candidates for
appointment to the Council on Aging. The Council on Aging voted unanimously at there 9/10/13 meeting to
recommend them to the BOS.
Ms. Tarbell introduced herself to the BOS and said that she had previously served a full term on the Council on
Aging (COA). COA Bylaws require members who maybe interested in continuing to serve, take at least a 1
year absence from the board before serving again.
Ms. Bertone introduced herself to the BOS and spoke of the length of time she has lived in Lunenburg and how
much she enjoys the town. She hopes to be here for many years and wants to serve the COA for as long as
she can.
Mr. Bertone introduced himself to the BOS and spoke of his volunteer time at the Eagle House Senior Center
and said that he would like to further his volunteerism with the COA.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the candidates for coming forward and seeing that there was no further discussion from
the board asked for a motion.
Mr. Toale moved to approve the nomination of Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, and Judith Tarbell to the Council
on Aging. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
APPOINTMENTS
7:15 PM Hearing_pursuant to MGL C. 138, Section 23 to discuss alcoholic beverages license
#063600039, 324 Electric Avenue - Manager of Record. License holder is B&H Corporation d/b/a
Mickey Shea's: Mr. Alonzo read into record the hearing notice regarding Alcoholic Beverage License for B&H
Corporation, d/b/a Mickey Shea's, 324 Electric Ave Lunenburg MA. (see attached hearing notices)
Robert Herrick, Representing B & H Corporation along with Lindsey Achilla, Current Manager of Record at
Mickey Shea's came before the BOS to speak to this license hearing.
Mr. Herrick stated that he had purchased the business in "2010" from his former partner and was represented
by Counsel at that time.
In March of 2010 his former partner came before the BOS to apply for another
alcoholic beverage license for a new establishment and at that time they found out that he was still listed as the
Manager at Mickey Shea's. Mr. Herrick stated that he thought the attorney had filed for a change of Manager,
and he did not.
Mr. Herrick met with the BOS Secretary to take care of this matter, was told by her that he needed a check for
$200 made payable to the ABCC, which he generated on 3/9/2010. He submitted this check to the BOS
secretary and it was returned to him by the BOS office 10 days later, and he was told that he needed to file
through the ABCC. Mr. Herrick wrote a letter to the ABCC requesting a change in manager from his former
partner, Kyle Blood, to his new Manager Lindsey Achilla, who has always been the manager's designee. Mr.
===PAGE 3===
Herrick had no response from the ABCC and 3 months later Mr. Blood applied for and received a new license
from the BOS and ABCC, so he assumed everything was fine.
Mr. Herrick stated that he never wrote Mr. Blood's name down as Manager of Record but that he did endorse
renewal applications with Mr. Blood's name on them. Mr. Herrick stated that everything was filed appropriately
with the State and with the BOS Secretary and he assumed this was just something that was lost track of, and
that they have never been without a manager or a manager designee.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Herrick when Mr. Blood was terminated as manager.
Mr. Herrick replied that everything indicates that he was taken off as manager on January 26, 2010, which was
the purchase date.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that there were numerous license renewals from this establishment dated 11/19/2012,
11/30/2011, 11/30/2010, all of which have Mr. Blood listed as the Manager with Mr. Herrick's signature on
them. He then asked Mr. Herrick why he would sign these applications with Mr. Blood listed as manager?
Mr. Herrick replied that he can't change the name, it can only be done by the BOS or the ABCC. Seeing that
he (Mr. Blood) had already received a new license, he thought it was a lag in paperwork.
Mr. Ebersole asked if this form is generated from the BOS office.
Mr. Herrick spoke to clarify that in over 30 years as a business owner he has never done a change of manager
form and that it was not a form but a letter which he sent to the ABCC requesting the name change.
Mr. Ebersole asked who the manager was during this time period.
Mr. Herrick replied Lindsey who has been manager's designee since "2006".
Town Counsel Attorney David Doneski was present and Mr. Alonzo asked him if the change of manager is
incumbent upon the licensee to provide by State law?
Attorney Doneski replied that each license holder under the statute must have a manager that is approved by
the local licensing authority, which is this board. It is also in the BOS regulations that no manager shall be
changed unless, and until, the board and the ABCC have approved. Yes it is incumbent upon the license
holder to request the approval for a change.
Mr. Alonzo told Mr. Herrick that it is his responsibility to apply through the proper channels for a change of
manager on this license. You yourself may not have the power to physically change the form, but by looking at
the form, before signing it, you saw that it needed to be changed, and you should have done that. We did not
approve this and by not doing that, not once but by 3 years in a row constitutes a false renewal application.
The fact that this has gone on for 3 years is a very serious oversight.
Mr. Herrick stated that someone gave Mr. Blood 2 licenses which can't be.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that what happened with Mr. Blood does not have anything to do with what's here.
That may have been a violation as well but right now we are talking about your establishment. The fact that
the ABCC gave him a license is a separate issue than not filing for a new manager and filing false renewals.
The BOS is who you go through to change the license, not the ABCC.
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Herrick if he had a copy of the letter which he sent to the ABCC to request the change of
manager to which Mr. Herrick replied no.
Mr. Matthews asked Mr. Herrick if he had a copy of the cancelled check which was sent to the ABCC and Mr.
Herrick replied that he only had the register which the check information was written in and had received
nothing back from them.
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Speidel if there was any record of Mr. Herrick coming to the BOS office to file for the
name change on the license back in "2010".
Mr. Herrick spoke to say that my former partner and I came here when he applied for a new license and he
could not get one because he was still listed on the license for my establishment, to which I said that evening
that I would handle, which I did by going to the BOS secretary, it came back to me 1 ½ weeks later and I was
told I had to apply to the ABCC, which I did. Two months later my former partner got a license so I assumed
all of the paperwork had been taken care of.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Ebersole questioned if he received a letter from the BOS secretary regarding the return of the check.
Mr. Herrick replied, no, she called me and I came and picked it up.
Ms. Speidel spoke to say that she just looked through the file from "2010" and she did not see anything in the
file on this matter. When there is a change of manager it happens here and I'm not sure why anyone would
direct Mr. Herrick to the State, I'm not saying that they didn't, but I don't know why that would have occurred.
The local licensing must approve any license before the ABCC will take it up and it would have been returned
here.
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Herrick who told you to file with the ABCC.
Mr. Herrick replied the secretary.
Ms. Speidel said that she remembered the discussion when Mr. Blood was here asking to be removed and Mr.
Herrick said that he would file the application, and it doesn't appear that it happened. There may have been
some confusion, the same person is handling the liquor license applications as has been for a number of
years, this is a little different where you have a manager coming off and opening his own establishment. In any
event if he was told to apply with the ABCC, the directive would have come back from the ABCC that it would
have to be handled here. We in the BOS office did not follow up with the licensee either.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Herrick if he sees the position that the BOS is in and the gravity of the situation of the 3
renewal applications to which Mr. Herrick replied that he did and that he takes responsibility for that.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he found there had been 4 violations with B & H Corporation.
1. Failure to notify the licensing authority of a change of manager of record at the establishment.
2.
Violation of supplying false information on the renewal of the application dated 11/2010.
Violation of supplying false information on the renewal of the application dated 11/2011.
4. Violation of supplying false information on the renewal of the application dated 11/2012.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the violation findings as presented by the Chair. Mr. Matthews seconded. On
vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Board members next discussed what type of penalty should be levied upon the establishment.
Ms. Bertram spoke to say that she felt that this was a serious offense and that a written warning should be
given along with a 1 day suspension of the liquor license due to the fact that there would be loss of wages for
the employees there.
Mr. Toale spoke and said that he echo's his colleagues statements but would like to see a 2 day suspension of
the liquor license.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he thought it was imperative to the process that people signing applications for
renewals, whether it is by neglect or disregard, is serious. He went on to say that this jeopardizes the whole
process, as well as failure to follow our own Bylaws that are required and are stated clearly on the license. Mr.
Alonzo said that he does not agree with his colleagues that a warning or 1 day suspension does anything to
prevent anyone from doing this again. Mr. Alonzo said that he would like to see at least 2 days per incident or
at least 6 business days for this incident. He said that he understands that the employees would be affected
by this violation that they had nothing to do with, but it is important that we keep the whole intent of the Bylaws
and Mass General Laws to begin with.
Ms. Bertram spoke to say that this is an establishment that has been in business for a long time, there is not a
string of violations, but also agrees that this is serious. She mentioned that the BOS has seen notices taken by
the ABCC for other establishments in town where suspensions were ordered then lifted subsequent. It's rare
that an establishment has been closed, and in all the years that we have been a licensing authority she is only
aware of one establishment which the BOS had actually closed. She went on to say that a 1 day suspension is
a financial burden on the business but if you go on to 2 days it would be too severe considering it would cost
===PAGE 5===
lost wages or perhaps unemployment for the employees. We need to weigh what our objective is and our
objective is to send a message that when you sign a license renewal you are certifying that the statement is
true, and moving forward this does send a message to other individuals who hold a license. I would be willing
to go to a 2 day suspension but would be opposed to anything longer.
Mr. Ebersole spoke and said that the object of the license regulation that this commission adopted is the
prevention of violations and violations will be prevented because regulations will require the license holder to
operate with a clearly defined higher standard. He went on to say that his concern with going with a higher
number is that if the last time this Licensing Commission adopted, was a 3 day revocation for failure to réport a
crime, which Mr. Ebersole considers to be a serious criminal action and this is more of a civil. He believes that
the penalty should be less than 3 and would recommend a 2 day suspension on this incident.
Mr. Matthews stated that he would agree with 2, but personally he thinks it's inadequate. He does not believe
that closing necessarily means that employees don't get paid, that would be entirely up to Mr. Herrick and how
he operates his business.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he is not insensitive to the employees but what would a business owner have to
do to constitute a higher penalty, where the employees would not outweigh that. He remains sensitive to the
fact this might result in lost wages to the employees and it that had nothing to do with them. He went on to say
that keeping the integrity of the whole system and the Bylaws in place is important, and to him providing false
information is serious. Mr. Alonzo stated that on the record, this warrants a more serious suspension because
of the number of violations, the length of time that they went on for, and that it wasn't even the licensee who
caught this to end it all.
Mr. Alonzo asked for a motion.
Ms. Speidel reminded the board that included in the motion you identify when the suspension should be
served.
Mr. Alonzo added that the suspension of the license does not mean the establishment must close but rather
that it cannot serve alcoholic beverages during the period of the suspension.
Mr. Matthews moved to suspend the license of B&H Corporation d/b/a Mickey Shea's to serve alcohol on
Friday October 18, 2013 and Saturday October 19, 2013. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in
favor, 1 opposed (Alonzo).
Ms. Speidel informed Mr. Herrick that a letter will be sent him stating that he will need to physically bring his
license to Town Hall to be held during the duration of the suspension, and that it will be able to be picked up
immediately after the suspension is served. If this should happen after hours it will be available to be picked
up at the Police station.
Mr. Alonzo reminded Mr. Herrick that there are other procedures in the Town Bylaws that need to be followed
during this suspension.
Mr. Herrick agreed to do so.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review & approval Earth Removal Permits, see attached list: Ms. Speidel spoke to say that these
permits are renewed every year and she read into record each permit (see attached list). Ms. Speidel also
mentioned that the Building Inspector/Zoning Officer goes out to review each site on an annual basis. He has
submitted his report and found that all gravel permits which he had inspected were found to be orderly and
kept in a safe condition.
Mr. Matthews spoke to say that the Building Inspector/Zoning Officer had two more listings which were not
included on Ms. Speidel's list which were #5 & #31
Ms. Speidel replied that those are inactive and have not applied for renewal.
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Bertram questioned the grading of Permit #32 Raymond A. Powell Jr.: "No activity since last year, Pit is
now 95% vegetated." She asked if that grading was to be required if the pit went inactive or is it because the
pit has not been exercised in a period of time.
Mr. Alonzo replied that he believes if it is being called a pit, it is not inactive, but simply not used in a while, and
that's why the vegetation is growing there. He went on to say that the applicant has asked for renewal, so he
is asking that it be kept open, even though they are not using it at this time, but perhaps will in the future.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that all permit holders listed are current on taxes and the Treasurer/Collector had sent
a memo confirming that.
Mr. Ebersole questioned if the board had discussed closure plans for any of the applicants who did not wish to
renew.
Ms. Speidel replied not to her recollection but will research the file to see how long #5 & #31 have been
inactive.
Ms. Bertram said that in regards to the grading on Permit #8 which said it was restored 100%, there has been
activity in that pit during the last year and that about 100 yards of material had been removed, which is minimal
compared to the other permits.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that he was not going to recommend any holds on any of the permits because of the
information provided but thinks that the board should conduct a workshop to revisit the Earth Removal Bylaw to
make sure that "at the end of the day" there are standards for a property to be closed properly so it would be
suitable for the environment.
Ms. Speidel spoke to say that she had just reviewed the file and permits #5 & #31 were not renewed last year.
Mr. Alonzo asked for a motion on the Earth Removal Permits.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve all of the Earth Removal Permits identified by the Town Manager
Matthews seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
9/10/2013
Mr.
Warrants:
#15-14
$675,441.45
Action File Issues: None
3.Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee;
Finance Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - Mr. Ebersole reported that the BOH met last night and most of their work has been around
the lakes in the community (Hickory Hills & Lake Shirley) dealing with installations of wells.
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they met last night where all of the task team brought in
their thoughts which included their preliminary plans. Their next meeting will be on 9/30/13.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will meet tomorrow at 10AM where they will begin
review of Capital Planning submissions.
Finance Committee - No Report
Library Board of Trustees- Mr. Ebersole reported that they will meet on Thursday and have sent out a notice
stating that the recession has pushed people to local libraries which has increased the use, which has affected
the Lunenburg Library.
===PAGE 7===
MPO- No Report
Planning Board- No Report
PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported that tonight's meeting was cancelled and that they are planning a Workshop with
the BOS on October 15t
'. There is an Open Meeting Law complaint that needs to be resolved as well as
meeting for several years without a quorum.
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that members have attended the open houses at the
schools to relay information/layouts of the proposed building project for viewing and to answer questions from
the parents. Right now they are trying to get as much information out to the public as they can between now
and January.
Sewer Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported that their major item is the IMA (Inter Municipal Agreement) review
with Fitchburg has been completed by both Fitchburg and Lunenburg. Next it will be sent to the BOS Chair &
Vice Chair for review and comment.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that they are in receipt of the review and feels it should be circulated to the rest of the
BOS for their comments.
MA Broadband- No Report
4. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel reported that this fall, with our Chapter 90
allocation, there will be work done on the following areas:
•
Northfield Rd from Route 13 to just beyond Settler's Crossing Golf Course
Route 13/Northfield Rd. to Gilchrest St.
White St. from Mass Ave. to the Fitchburg line (dependent on timing and funding)
• Crack sealing on Pratt St., Memorial Drive, Robbs Hill Rd., Graham St., Hillside Drive, and Sunset Lane
The cost of this work will be approximately $34,000.
Ms. Speidel spoke and encouraged people to get Flu Shots early. Currently Lunenburg does not have a Flu
Clinic scheduled but there are clinics elsewhere which are available to Lunenburg residents through the
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health. Information is available on their website and there will be clinics
scheduled within Lunenburg as well.
Ms. Speidel updated the board on the proposed Leominster Casino. She reported that she did some research
and met with the casino applicant, Cordish Company, last week to find out what if any impact the casino could
have on the Town of Lunenburg. The Town of Lunenburg has been notified by the Gaming Commission that it
is potentially considered a surrounding community that could be affected by a casino in Leominster. Of
particular interest is the Rt. 13 corridor from the New Hampshire border, through Lunenburg, to Leominster.
The developers research suggests that approximately 100,000 people will be coming from the New Hampshire
border down that corridor which their data shows would be approximately 20 cars per hour, which is fairly
insignificant.
She has asked the developer to forward any traffic information to her office and contacted Senator Flanagan to
inform her that the request was made.
Ms. Bertram asked if MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) could be utilized for compiling any
traffic data for this project.
Ms. Speide! replied that they are willing to help but at this point the review has been limited to identifying
particular roadways and intersections that the applicant should be looking at. They have identified Rt. 13, but
It's at the bottom of the list. There is a tight timetable to look at this, but it looks like the traffic impact would not
be significant to Lunenburg.
This project will provide approximately 600 full time jobs along with a projected 600 jobs for the construction
phase.
If the project is approved, the application is due the beginning of October 2013 and the Gaming
Commission will make their decision on which community will be issued the license at the end of this calendar
===PAGE 8===
year. Estimated permitting time is 6-7 months, the construction estimate is 12 months, and they are looking at
opening the facility in mid "2015".
Ms. Speidel added that the City of Fitchburg has hired special counsel to negotiate an agreement with this
developer for mitigation on impacts that this project may have on that city. Ms. Speidel believes that special
counsel is paid for by the developer. She has contacted Mayor Wong's office in Fitchburg to find out what
prompted the city to do that, but has not heard back from them as of this meeting.
Ms. Bertram spoke to say that 20 cars per hour seems like a low count to her and feels it is imperative to
involve MRC as soon as possible, due to the short timeline, to look at the data to see if they agree. If they do
not agree, we need to look into the possibility of hiring special counsel, we are in the 30 mile radius and there
is a potential for traffic involvement.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that during certain times of the day people avoid the Rt. 13 corridor due to traffic
backups. These people use Highland St. to Main St., into the center of Lunenburg and onto Leominster Rd. or
Lancaster Ave, along with Pioneer Drive for access to Rt. 2 and Rt. 190. This will affect the traffic in the center
of Lunenburg and also at the stop signs in these various locations where traffic backs up during certain times
of the day. He said that he agrees with Ms. Bertram and that this will move from one road to another to find
the path of least resistance.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Mr. Matthews noted that the Ritter Building has been roofed, the Library is in the
process of being painted and this is our tax dollars at work. We voted at Town Meeting last year to maintain
our buildings and this is important because it is an investment of people's tax dollars. He mentioned that the
Town Hall building is a mess and it is included in the Building Re-Use Committees research and will be
addressed. He thanked the Town Manager and the Facility staff for getting the projects done.
David Rogers, 82 Highland St. spoke to the BOS about his concerns with the traffic on Highland St. He
echoed Mr. Ebersole's concerns and invited the entire board along with the Chief of Police and Officers for
coffee at his home during peak traffic times on that street.
Mr. Rogers continued on to say that he had 3 administrative items to discuss with the BOS.
The tirst concern was with the individuals that are appointed as Sealers of Weights and Measures for the P.J.
Keating Company, although they are fine people, we have employees of P.J. Keating weighing the product that
the company is selling to an independent contractor that uses their scale, so they can be charged by P.J.
Keating for the goods that they receive. Mr. Rogers believes that there may be a conflict here.
He went on to say that he is using the name P.J. Keating, which is wrong. He is not sure if P.J. Keating Co.
has those licenses, it's the Old Castle Corp. that's running the P.J. Keating Co. He believes that administrative
details are important and are worthy for discussion.
Mr. Rogers then informed the BOS that Ray Powell had passed away years ago and a license was issued to
him tonight. He does not understand how this could be done.
Ms. Speidel responded that in regards to Powell Stone & Gravel, she was reading from a spread sheet, and
the license itself is listed to Powell Stone & Gravel.
She continued on to say that the Sealer of Weights & Measures for the Town is independent and he checks all
of the equipment that Keating's uses on an annual/semi-annual basis depending on what State Law says.
Public weigher's measure for accuracy on a day to day basis using equipment that has been certified by the
Sealer of Weights and Measures.
Mr. Ebersole requested that Policies & Procedures be put back onto the BOS agenda and also that a quarterly
review of the BOS goals be included.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote,
motion carried, 5 in favor, O opposed.
===PAGE 9===
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 8:40PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
October 1, 2013
October 8, 2013
October 15, 2013
October 22, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
