===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 2 4 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
4/16/13
6:00 PM EXECUTIVE SESSION
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Dave
Matthews, Tom Alonzo, Carl (Ernie) Sund, Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram and Town Manager
Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:02PM
Mr. Matthews opened the meeting with a moment of silence for the victims of the Boston Marathon
bombing.
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Sund began public comment from the board by talking about a program the Lion's Club participates
in called Boys State. Boys State program is to help develop citizens and leaders for a democratic society.
The two juniors chosen from Lunenburg High School to participate in Boys State are Samuel Arciprete
and Isaiah Rowlinson with an alternate being Kyle Lourens.
Mr. Alonzo reminded the public that there was a debate scheduled for selectman on Friday, April 19th at
7:00pm at the Town Hall. There will also be an opportunity for the School Committee candidates and the
Town Clerk candidates to speak before the debate.
Joanna Billotta-Simeone, 366 Sunset Lane, began public comment from the public by asking if the sign
board in front of the Ritter Building could be utilized to remind voters of when the town election was
scheduled.
Ms. Bertram suggested that a message also be placed in the Lunenburg Ledger to remind voters of the
election.
APPOINTMENTS-None.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Lion's Club Annual Spring Road Block, change date from 04/27/2013 to 05/18/2013:
Mr. Matthews stated that the Lion's Club had originally requested approval from the BOS to hold a Road
Block on April 27th but have now decided to change the date of the fundraiser to May 18th. He said that
the BOS needs to vote on this issue to approve the change of date.
Mr. Alonzo asked if all the information regarding the Road Block, including the location, times, and its
intentions, had changed.
Ms. Speidel responded by stating that all the information regarding the Road Block remained the same,
only the date of the event had changed.
Mr. Alonzo moved to approve the date change of the Lion's Club Road Block to May 18th. Mr. Sund
seconded. On vote motion carried, 4 in favor, O opposed, 1 abstained due to affiliation with the Lion's
Club (Bertram).
===PAGE 2===
2. 2013 Annual Town Meeting, Vote on Warrant Articles
Vir. Matthews stated that the order of the warrants for Town Meeting still needs to be finalized but tha
he specific warrants that needed to be approved required updated monetary amounts and those warrant
would be voted on at next week's BOS meeting.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
None
Warrants:
4/16/13
#56-13
$80,596.01
Action File Issues: None.
4. Committee Reports- Ms. Bertram stated that the planning board met on Saturday and the hearing
continued on the Aro Estates property. The hearing for the property has been extended to this coming
Mr. Matthews stated that the School Building Committee had met the previous Wednesday and voted to
support Option Five, which proposed building a new 6-12 High School building in Lunenburg.
5. Town Manager Report- Ms. Speidel noted that at least 400 residents of Lunenburg received a
letter from ConEdison, a company that the Town had purchased its electric supply from through the
Municipal Aggregation Program for the last six month period that ended in January. The letters stated that
there was a past due amount which the individuals owed. These letters were sent in error and are due to an
accounting issue between ConEdison and Unitil. Ms. Speidel stated that if any residents had received a
letter from ConEdison, they should disregard the letter because it is an issue that needs to be settled
between Unitil and ConEdison. If your bill with Unitil is passed due then your issues are with Unitil, but
if your bills are current the issue does not involve the residents.
Ms. Bertram stated that her concern is if this issue between the two companies continues it would reflect
poorly on the credit of the individuals receiving the letters and the situation should be monitored.
Ms. Speidel said that ConEdison did acknowledge that the issue is with Unitil and that Unitil has stated
the issue is with ConEdison, but that both have stated the issue is not with individual utility customers.
She continued by saying the only way the BOS could figure out who the 447 individuals in Lunenburg
are who received the faulty letters is by sending out a town wide mailer.
Mr. Sund asked how the individuals who received the letters were singled out by ConEdison.
Ms. Speidel stated the names came from those participating in the electric aggregation plan.
Mr. Sund stated that he feels Unitil made a mistake in allowing these names to go to ConEdison.
Ms. Speidel responded by saying ConEdison had a record of all participants in the Electric Aggregation
Program and measures the usage from each customer individually. Each customer pays Unitil, and then
Unitil pays ConEdison on behalf of the participant. She stated that she will try to apprehend an official
answer to Mr. Sund's question.
OLD BUSINESS - None
===PAGE 3===
PUBLIC COMMENT - Mr. Matthews mentioned that prior to this meeting the BOS had met in
Executive Session to discuss the development on the Hollis Hills development. The Housing Appeals
Court had a finding for the developer and against the town regarding a number of issues but most
important to the Town the sewer betterment and privilege fees and connection fees. The BOS met with
Town Counsel and have decided to support an appeal of the finding.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business Mr. deBettencourt moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded.
On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 7:20 pm.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 23, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
... ...
