===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
:
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
1/22/13
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hal
Tom Alonzo, Carl (Ernie) Sund, Paula Bertram, Steven M. deBettencourt and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Consider Exercising Right of First Refusal, Aro Property - Ms. Speidel informed the Board that the Conservation
Commission and Planning Board have both submitted their recommendations on the Aro property as follows:
The Planning Board recommends that the town acquire the property, due to the financial impact on the town for
developing in that part of town, and the impact on town services and infrastructure.
The Conservation Commission stated that this property is at the head waters of Mulpus Brook and any disturbance in the
flow of or pollution of this water would have a devastating affect on anything downstream. This would include but not
limited to vegetation, wild life, and areas that feed off of the brook that includes Hickory Hills Lake. Any disturbance in
the flow could result in stagnant waters in the lake and would also reflect in the condition of the area and the values of
homes that are there. Acquisition of this land would give the Conservation Commission access to a now land locked
parcel and would allow the land to stay in its natural state to be used by the residents of Lunenburg for passive recreation.
Mr. Matthews reminded everyone that this property had been before the BOS several years ago to exercise First Right of
Refusal and it was passed on due to the cost of the property. The developer has negotiated a new price with the property
owner which is $2.1m for 147 acres of land.
After due and diligent discussion among the BOS members they were in agreement that although there is much value in
acquiring this property the Town cannot afford to purchase this property at this time. They felt that this matter should be
brought to a Special Town Meeting to let the residents of Lunenburg decide whether or not the town should exercise right
of first refusal on the Ato property.
Ms. Speidel informed the board that the cost to hold both the Special Town Meeting and Special Town Election would be
between $4k and $5k.
Rennie Shattuck, 396 Howard St. spoke to the BOS and stated that he lives in the middle of the property which is being
discussed. He said that 5 years ago the debate was whether or not to buy 50 acres of conservation land and now the
debate is if the town can afford to buy over 100 acres. Mr. Shattuck asked if the town can afford not to purchase this
property. He believes that if this property is sold to a developer it would triple the number of properties in the area and
the current residents of Howard St. would be severely inconvenienced by the building of this development. He also
questioned how the town could afford the maintenance of roads, sewerage, etc.
Ms. Bertram made a motion to move forward with the Special Town Meeting to consider exercising the Towns Right of
First Refusal on the Aro property. Mr. Alonzo seconded. On vote motion carried, 3 in favor, 2 opposed (Sund &
deBettencourt).
Mr. Matthews reminded everyone that setting the date for the Special Town Meeting does not mean that the BOS agrees
to purchase this property but rather it opens it up for the Townspeople to make that decision.
===PAGE 2===
2. Consider setting a date for a Special Town Meeting & Special Town Election- Mr. Alonzo moved to set
the dates of March 12, 2013 for the Special Town Meeting and March 16, 2013 for the Special Town Election. Mr.
deBettencourt seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. deBettencourt moved to open the warrant for the Special Town Meeting this evening to be closed at the close of
business on Tuesday January 29, 2013. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. Discussion of Health Insurance issues with Advisor & MIIA Account Manager- Ms. Speidel introduced Sue
Shillue, Health Insurance Advisor from Cook & Co. and Larry Tereso, MIIA Account Manager who came before the BOS
to make a power point presentation concerning the Health Insurance Overview. Ms. Speidel began the presentation which
covered the following topics:
Basic Concepts
Section 19-Public Employee Committee (PEC)
Health Insurance ReformFY13 Estimated Costs
Maximum Possible Savings
Health Insurance Reform
Health Insurance Reform Available Options
Plans for Active Employees
Plans for Retirees
Next Steps
Projected Census
Mr. Tereso made available to this evenings meeting participants a spreadsheet handout depicting the MILA Smart Choice
Active Plans / Available Options and reviewed it with them.
At the end of the presentation Mr. Matthews spoke and said that we do not want to lose sight of the positive working
relationship that we have with the employees, PEC, and the Town but we also need to look ahead as to how to better serve
he residents of the town and manage costs and not at the expense of positions. He looks forward to having this discussior
and would like it to be an agenda item for the next BOS meeting.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
12/18/12
12/11/12
Executive Session 12/11/12
1/8/13
7/12/11
Warrants:
1/22/13
W#40-13
$502,439.64
Action File Issues: Mr. Sund mentioned that the flag at the Upper Common has been removed and that the flag at
Lower Common is still flying unlit. He also mentioned that the service flag at Veteran's Memorial Park is
missing and would like something done with the rest of the flags so that they are not damaged in the winter.
5. Committee Reports - Mr. Sund stated that the Capital Planning Committee will be meeting tomorrow at the DPW
bulding. They have reviewed the Departments requests but have not finalized anything yet. The viewing of the nev
police cruisers has been rescheduled to January 30"h at the Public Safety Building at 9:30AM
6. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports - Ms. Speidel presented the BOS with a previously approved
license that needed to be signed.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS -
1. Appoint Shelley McCaie, Treasurer-Collector, to Senior Tax Workoff Committee
2. Appoint Jean M. Larkin to Senior Tax Workoff Committee
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Speidel stated that Ms. McCaie, as the Treasurer-Collector, needs to be appointed to the Senior Tax Workoff
Committee and that the Committee has also approved the appointment of Jean Larkin.
Ms. Bertram moved to appoint Shelley McCaie and Jean M. Larkin to the Senior Tax Workoff Committee. Mr. Sund
seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
PUBLIC COMMENT -
EXECUTIVE SESSION - Mr. Matthews stated that the BOS will be going into Executive Session not to return citing
MGL Chapter 30A Section 21a Subsection 5 to investigate charges of criminal misconduct or to consider the filing of
criminal complaints.
Mr. Alonzo moved to go into Executive Session. Ms. Bertram seconded. The Chair called for a roll call vote, Ms.
Bertram, aye; Mr. deBettencourt, aye; Mr. Sund, aye; Mr. Alonzo, aye; and Mr. Matthews, aye.
Meeting ended at 8:15PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
February 5, 2013
ebruary 12, 201
ebruary 19, 201
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
