===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
11/19/2013
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Chair Person Tom
Alonzo, Vice Chairperson Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Not present was David Matthews.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo commented on the recent act of racial graffiti along with other questionable acts which were reported that
participated in the vigil which was held in support of the student and to stand up against racial intolerance. The
allegations from previous games is also under way. Mr. Alonzo said that he hopes that the person who committed this act
can be brought to justice hopes that we can recommit ourselves to the principles that he believes are the core values of
the school and the community at large, which are the principles of inclusion, of mutual respect, of tolerance and diversity.
He mentioned that the school has made a commitment to reassert themselves in programs such as anti bullying and
diversity and we as town's people should do this on our own. Hopefully we can begin the healing process with the student
and the family to who this was directed against. We ask that if anyone has any information they contact the Lunenburg
Police Dept.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that he supports the Chairs statement and he looks forward to a speedy resolution to this so
that the town can move ahead to heal and move forward
Ms. Bertram spoke to say that she echo's the Chairs sentiments and added that it was heartening to see everyone at the
vigil. We all need to come together as a community, which she thinks that we are. We are an inclusive community and
this is what we need to be. She also encouraged anyone with information on this crime to come forward.
Mr. Toale spoke to support the Chair's comments. He went on to say that he is very proud of the town and community,
continues to be so, and expects to be so in the future.
Les Szabady, 920 Mass Ave, spoke to the BOS and said that it was a terrible thing that happened last week. He feels
that the healing process for all would be to reconsider and let the team play the Thanksgiving Game. He feels that the
actions of one person can not be blamed on the entire team and you need to take into consideration the players, the
band, the cheerleaders and all of their families. This is a tradition in the town, we would like the support of the town and
would like for the BOS to reconsider to let them play.
Mr. Alonzo responded to clarify the separation of the powers and authorities within the town. The decision to cancel the
game lies with the School Committee and the School Administration. They have an elected board which determines that
He advised that this group present this case to them.
Mr. Alonzo went on to say that as a resident/official of this town who has no authority in that decision, he would like to
publicly say that he supports their decision.
He understands Mr. Szabady's point's, he believes that it's not an
assessment against the team or any of the other groups. This comes down to a safety issue and we do not want another
incident happening, when the ones that are before us are no where near a resolution. It is unfortunate that the people
who had nothing to do with this will pay a price, and he does not want this to be looked at as an assessment of blame and
suggested again that this be taken up with the School Committee and School Administration.
Mary Ulf, Autumn Rd. Spoke to the BOS to say that she understood what the Chair had just said and that she will speak
to the School Committee. She has a daughter who is a senior at Lunenburg High School and she herself is a substitute
teacher there. She does not believe that the seniors or anyone else on the Football team should be penalized for à crime
that we do not know has occurred. It's not fair to assume that it was a student or athlete of our High School.
Steve Powell, Winterhill Rd. spoke to the BOS to say that the media spins information. The team truly stands behind the
victim, they are friends with him, and everyone on the team want him back on the team. We hope that whoever did this
===PAGE 2===
comes forward to get help so you don't affect the rest of the kids. Lunenburg is a great town and to see this stuff written in
the paper and to watch the news you wouldn't think that. Contrary to what the media says they were all at the vigil. This
stuff goes on everywhere, no one is exempt from that, they fully support Isaac and we all want him back.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he's sorry that the broadcasting media is not here tonight because it was a glaring omission
on their part to report that the entire football team along with the coaching staff, were not present. A lot of what the media
is reporting are inaccuracies at best along with hear say and third party speculation.
Greg Berthiaume, Chair of the Lunenburg School Committee, read a statement from the School Committee which stated
their support of the victim and his family and that they will continue to work to show that hate has no place in our schools.
It reminded people that there are two ongoing investigations. The first is being investigated by the School Department
which concerns an incident at both the Lunenburg vs. Worcester South football varsity and junior varsity games that
alleged that racist statements were used against the Worcester South players by Lunenburg athletes.
The second is being investigated by the Lunenburg Police and it concerns a racial slur which was scrawled on the Phillips
home. This investigation is focused broadly and is not limited to just the football players. They expect a thorough and
swift investigation into both of these matters.
The letter stated support for the students, football team, faculty, coaches and administration for their efforts over the last
tew days along with their support for each other and for Mr. Phillips and his family. The recommendation of the coaches,
school administration, and Superintendent was to postpone and then cancel the Oakmont game. Although the coaches
were hopeful the Thanksgiving game could be played they support the decision of the administration and the
Superintendent to suspend that game. This recommendation was based on the safety and well being of our students,
players and fans in the emotionally charged environment that has been generated by these most recent acts. They also
believe it would be highly inappropriate to play the remaining games while there is an ongoing investigation.
They asked for the community to continue to support the students, athletes, coaches, faculty, administration and each
other through these challenging times
Mr. Berthiaume said that this was unanimously approved by the 5 members of the School Committee.
Lisa Connors, Lunenburg, spoke to say that she was confused because they are saying it might not be the football team
and then they are taking it out on them by not letting them play.
Tammy Reynolds, 101 Stonefence Rd. spoke to say that by this decision we have just empowered the person who
committed this crime.
We have gentlemen here who have worked very hard and we have seniors who will leave this
school tarnished because we make a decision to allow that person, likely an immature teenager, to dictate to us the
program that we as a town should be supporting. Ms. Reynolds is confused as well.
Ms. Bertram spoke and reiterated that this not a decision of the BOS and is a decision of the School Committee. She
encouraged the people in attendance to establish a dialog with them. This board does not have that authority.
Ms. Ulf spoke again to say that there is a poll going around via Facebook and the Sentinel & Enterprise on whether or not
you agree with this decision. She asked what would happen if there were enough votes, would this be reversible.
Mr. Alonzo replied that he does not want to speak for the School Committee, a poll is certainly popular opinion and does
not carry the weight of a Town election and is not binding. It may guide or influence their decision but he did not want to
speak for them.
Rick Hill, Oak Ave., stated that he believes that the School Committee made a hasty decision by canceling the
Thanksgiving game.
What is happening right now is not only effecting Lunenburg but St. Bernards as well. Mr. Hill
believes that this is not a safety issue. He said that the Worcester issue was not an issue that day. We understand how
bad this issue is but if the Worcester issue was such a major problem then why wasn't it an issue then.
Mr. Hill said that the Worcester team were the ones using the language and maybe one or two of our kids retaliated. It's
High School kids, kids cleats get thrown into the trash can and tires being flat happens across America.
You're going to punish all these kids because of hear say. The problem that happened at the Phillips house is very sad
but keep in mind if we find out it was any of our kids that did that, no matter if they play sports or not, we need to protect
those kids, let them come forward without the vigil, without the media and the lynch mob to say I'm sorry | screwed up. At
the end of the day they are teenage kids and all of these kids here deserve to be playing football on Thanksgiving.
Mr. Hill asked if the BOS could supercede the School Committee.
Mr. Alonzo replied no.
Dave Ulf, Autumn Rd. spoke to say that he thinks the BOS and the Town Manager are giving everyone lip service. All
these people here are looking for support and you say that it is up to the School Committee. You are elected officials of
this town and we expect you to run this town. He does not see this as being viable and the School Committee needs to
be up here to listen to this. He asked why are we here and why do we elect you people.
===PAGE 3===
Mir. Alonzo replied that it would be helpful for everyone if people understood who has what authority in town. To know that
the School Committee as a 5 member elected body has the authority over the School Department by State Law, not by
my decision, and not by anyone in this rooms decision, our State Law gives them that authority. You elect them to run the
school. I understand your anger and frustration but it should be directed at the places where you can say make that
change. I'm trying to be honest with you and I'm sorry I'm getting agitated. I don't want to be accused that I'm not doing
something I could do to help you when I don't have that authority, which I made clear at the beginning of this meeting.
don't have that authority not because I choose not to exercise it, but because the law does not give it to me. I you're
asking why you're here tonight I assume it's because you want to voice your opinions and they are important to me. I'm
sorry that we can't do all the things you want us to do, and we may not even agree with the things that you want to do, but
you need to respect the fact that we are hear to listen and | understand both sides. It's not something that I take lightly
and I'm sure that it's not something that the School Committee takes lightly. It is a very difficult decision but the decision
rests with them.
Robin Corbett Sunset Ave. spoke to say that she went to the School Committee meeting tonight and she feels that the
decision was made before she got into the room and she doesn't feel like she had a say. She has been the team mom for
the Juniors and Seniors for years, it breaks her heart, and she's not going to stop until Thanksgiving is over. They
deserve to play and she will remain behind them until she can't anymore.
Anne Nash, 1790 Mass Ave spoke and asked why the School Committee was here with a prepared statement, it this is a
town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo replied that this is a regularly scheduled Selectmen meeting.
Mr. Berthiaume spoke to say that this was a public opportunity on TV for us to explain our justification behind what we did
We do have a meeting tomorrow and I hope that people will come and we invite you to share your concerns at the public
speaking section of our meeting. Given the short time available we wanted to get the information out as early as we
possibly could.
Ms. Nash spoke to say that when you have children who have been on the team for all these years, it's heartbreaking and
it's unfortunate that this one incident can ruin it and it's unfair to these kids. My heart goes out to this boy and his family
but to blame all these kids, we don't know who did this. She went on to say that hopefully the School Committee will hear
the people out and change their minds because it means a lot to a lot of people.
Mr. Szabady spoke and asked the School Committee Chair if they went to the meeting tomorrow is there a chance that
they would change their minds
Mr. Berthiaume replied that the decision is made by a 5 member board and we cannot talk about that outside of a
meeting. We just held an emergency meeting that was duly posted and we will be able to talk about those things in an
open meeting tomorrow night. Due to the Open Meeting Law, we cannot talk about that tonight.
Laura McGrath, Cushing Lane, spoke to say that in addition to it not being fair to punish the whole team there is
something bigger here and that's that we live in America and we are innocent until proven guilty. She feels that the entire
team is being held in a cell until the investigation is completed and you don't even know if it was somebody from
Lunenburg. I'm not saying that the act wasn't disgraceful but we salute the flag every day, we have sons and daughters in
the military, and in America you are innocent until proven guilty, or at least I thought you were.
Stuart Leinson, 494 West Townsend Rd. spoke to say that he knew the vigil was supposed to be about peace but all it
was about was persecuting the coaches and asking for resignations. It was actually disgusting. Why make the decision
to cancel the game until all interviews are done. All the kids have been interviewed by FBI and State Police and they are
not cracking these kids down. Mr. Leinson went on to say that this should be reconsidered, they have worked too hard,
and if nobody in this town has done this act then they should absolutely be allowed to play.
Tom Johnson, 11 White Tail Crossing spoke and asked if someone on the School Committee does something wrong do
you blame the whole committee.
Ms. Ulf spoke to say that we owe an apology to all of the BOS. We are here to get answers, you can't provide them and
we need to understand that. You have to understand that all of us here are anxious and as a community we want to know
who did this. I'm a tutor at the High School and I have that student in class and I feel badly for the family. There is a lot of
tension and pain and kids don't know how to deal with this. The staff is busy trying to keep things as normal as possible
at the High School. Unfortunately tonight the BOS are the "skape goats" and we have to understand that you don't know
anything we don't know. I'm sorry that you're subjected to this, I think we are all just anxious and we want answers. As a
community we should thank you for your efforts and appreciate the fact that we have to wait until we know what went on
and who is responsible for this.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Ulf for her comments and said that the BOS does not need or ask for an apology. We knew
coming in here tonight that there would be a lot of heated things said. I will reverse it and apologize for myself getting
agitated at some of the things that were said about what authority we have or didn't have. It is a wound that causes lots of
turmoil between a lot of competing ideas and a lot of people who have different views on how things should be treated
and there is no need for anybody here to apologize for that.
He went on to say that there is a belief out there that somehow we know more than what we are letting you know. I am
here to unequivocally say that is not true. We have nothing to report because nothing has been presented to us to report
The Police are under strict guidelines as to what they can say with the investigation and we are not privy to any
information.
Ms. Bertram thanked Ms. Ulf for those comments and thanked all for coming tonight for this issue. This has affected our
community, families and children. I understand your passion and anger. I encourage you to go to the School Committee
and hope you all understand that this is not a decision that this board made or can influence. Talking about it as a
community, regardless on how we fall on the issue, we need to come together, this is the start of that, and there is no
need for an apology.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that we don't make the decision because we don't have the legal authority to do that. He
supports the School Administration for doing what it needs to do under statutory authority. He does not know what they
know and trusts that the elected officials in the School Administration are doing the right thing and would like to state that
he supports them in doing their statutory duties. Not to negate any of the comments that you all made, and I understand
the disappointment but the town's people elect people to do their job and he expects them to do so.
Mr. Toale spoke to say that while he agrees that we don't have the authority by State Law to make these decisions he
welcomes the fact that everyone took the time to come and express their feelings to the BOS. It helps him to understand
the town and his job in the town. He thinks it's important to understand that what ever decision is made by the people
who are making the decision, this is not a punishment to the team, regardless to what decision is made, that's the wrong
frame of mind, and he can't accept that as a citizen. It's a decision that will be made for safety reasons and he does not
want anyone on the team to feel that the decision was made as a punishment to the team or to members of the
community.
Ms. Corbett spoke again to say that 4 words were written on that house. The first word was Knights and to her that's the
first bad word that was used. If that name wasn't on there these kids would be playing. I take offense to what you just
said because it is a punishment. If that word wasn't on there, we wouldn't be here.
Carol Landers, Shirley MA, spoke to say that her son is a senior at the High School and asked the School Committee to
keep an open mind before we go in tomorrow. She is worried if this issue is a public relations issue and if the media
wasn't all over it would the same decision have been made. Her son has played his heart out for 4 years and he has read
all the comments that have been written in the paper about his friends and team mates and it saddens him and all of us.
She just wants the kids to be given a fair chance tomorrow and for the School Committee to keep an open mind
Kate Carigan, Leominster MA, spoke to say that although she is not a member of the football team, she is a member of
other sports at the school. She got to finish her season and she just can't imagine how the football team must be teeling
right now. She does not believe its fair for them to be punished because she is a Blue Knight, and she was not punished
Mr. Alonzo encouraged all to attend the School Committee meeting tomorrow evening to voice the opinions. They are
elected officials and he understands the position that they are in and he knows that they will be there to listen tomorrow.
Mr. Hill spoke and asked if the team could practice tomorrow.
Mr. Berthiaume replied that decision is not a School Committee decision and that it's up to the Administration and
coaches.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who came tonight and for sharing their views with the BOS.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Board & Committee Vacancies: Mr. Alonzo announced that there are still vacancies on the Personnel Committee
and on the Public Access Cable Committee (PACC).
APPOINTMENTS : None
CURRENT BUSINESS
===PAGE 5===
1. Request for Voluntary Toll from LHS Music Program, 12/7/13 and/or 12/21/14: Jenny Whitcomb, Houghton's Mill
Rd. came before the BOS representing the Lunenburg Music Aiders to request permission to hold a voluntary toll in the
center of Town and on the corner of Rt. 13 & Whalom Rd. on either 12/7/13 or 12/21/14. This toll will benefit the
Lunenburg High School music program's trip to New York City in the spring.
Ms. Whitcomb assured the board that if approved she would contact the Chief of Police and the DPW for proper
equipment/instructions on how to conduct the toll and said that it would be only adults collecting in the roadway.
Mr. Toale moved to approve the request for the Voluntary Toll for the LHS Music Program to be held on December 21,
2013 from 8AM-12 Noon in the center of Town and on the corner of Rt. 13 & Whalom Rd. subject to discussion with the
Chief of Police. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Request from DPW Director to establish Road Closure Date, 11/29/13: Tabled by request of the DPW Director.
3. Review transition to Regional Dispatch with Fire Chief & Police Chief: Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan and Police Chief
James Marino came before the BOS to give an update on the transition to the Regional Dispatch Center in Devens from
the Public Safety building in Lunenburg.
Chief Sullivan spoke to say that there had been some technology issues such as internet connections, difficulty sending
EMS reports to the hospitals, and the station alerting system. All issues, if they haven't been resolved already, are being
corrected as they move forward. The rapport between the staff at the Dispatch Center and the Fire Department is good
and when there are problems they are addressed by the Director at the Dispatch Center in a timely manner.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the transfer of the servers over to the Regional Dispatch had freed up anything in the Town's
Information Technology (IT) budget.
Ms. Speidel replied no because the Towns IT staff is still very involved with the IT at the Regional Dispatch. This may
lessen but this transition has required a lot of their time and when they are finished they will take on other tasks.
Mr. Alonzo clarified his question by asking who was responsible for maintenance to the equipment and if that frees up the
Towns IT time.
Ms. Speidel replied that we are still months away from that time.
Mr. Ebersole added that the Lunenburg Public Safety building is the back up in the event that Regional Dispatch should
happen to go down.
Chief Marino said that they still maintain 4-5 servers at the Public Safety building, which has nothing to do with Devens
and it was just the records management software that was transferred to the Regional Dispatch servers.
Mr. Alonzo asked about the incoming mandate for Emergency Medical Dispatch (EMD) and if it has been used yet
Chief Sullivan replied that Lunenburg was using this for 1 year prior to the when the Regional Dispatch was, which was
challenging due to the fact that they were using only 1 dispatcher. The advantage to having this software is that the
second dispatcher can get the call processed quicker which meets the mandate. Now that they are getting into their work
flow, they are seeing information coming in quicker to emergency personnel over the radio.
Mr. Ebersole asked if Lunenburg's Town building data shows up on the software also.
Chief Sullivan replied yes. The computer data base from Lunenburg Police & Fire formed the core of the new system
which was created at Devens. All of the other community's data was merged into that and nothing was lost.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that 70% of calls are now coming through mobile phones and asked if there was anything that
can be done as far as triangulating caller ID
Chief Sullivan replied that there is a system in place and the Director at Regional Dispatch is looking into getting set up to
receive those calls directly. Currently they go through the State Police then they are forwarded out to the local dispatch
center. It would be a function of time and money to be able to do that.
Chief Marino spoke to say that there have been a few bumps in the road, they are making a lot of progress, and most of it
is technology issues. Initially there was an issue with the phone system which was resolved. Lunenburg does not have a
Voiceover IP and Regional Dispatch does. It would work better if Lunenburg had this but it is very expensive and is not
being asked for in this year's Capital Plan.
There were issues with technology concerning a vendor who was slow in installing/moving equipment which was badly
needed and most of that has been resolved. They are still working on a few issues such as if an outside agency is trying
to communicate to someone inside the lock up after hours and there is no desk person, they do not have a transponder to
get into the building. The vendor is working on a system at Regional Dispatch to deal with opening some doors at the
Public Safety building by pushing a button from that location.
Another issue is that if there is a problem in the lock up there is a button that is pushed which enables a camera to swing
around in that area which will notify the dispatcher with a tone. None of this equipment has worked since June 28 and
Chief Marino was not aware of this problem until 2-3 weeks ago. The vendor is also currently working on that problem.
===PAGE 6===
The Citrix connection is still not 100% stable. There was a large issue with the booking camera which was that it wouldn't
work because the software resides in a different location.
The Town's IT along with Regional Dispatch and the
manufacturer have managed to make it work which only amounts to about 60% of the time but they continue to work on
that problem.
Chief Marino would like to have the dispatchers from Regional Dispatch ride along with the patrol people so they can
familiarize themselves with Lunenburg's procedures and policies. His hope is that this will accomplish a team concept.
Chief Marino went on to say that it this is a growing pains issue which they are starting to get over but this takes time, and
his staff understands that.
He remains concerned that there is still 12 hours per day along with weekends that the Public Safety Building is not
manned. He would like to see this changed and has discussed it with the Town Manager. The Desk Officer maintains a
phone log and there is a sign in log in the lobby also, but this cannot be done after hours. It's a very busy place from
7AM-7PM and he's not sure how they can maintain this without staff.
Chief Sullivan agreed with Chief Marino's staffing concerns and said that there was at least one episode where an
unknown person was walking around the building at night knocking on doors after hours. There was one member of the
Fire Dept. on duty but when he looked, he could not find the person and this is a concern.
Ms. Speidel reminded everyone that with the savings that were realized by going to the district were left in Public Safety.
This is being used to fill the position of Desk Officer who also is monitoring the lock up. As we work on the budget we will
have to justify the need for additional funding within Public Safety. We have a very small Police & Fire department for the
number of calls and activity that happens there and this issue is not going away.
There are a number of other communities who are interested in joining the Regional Dispatch District which would further
reduce Lunenburg's assessment which could be used to supplement our Police & Fire Dept. With the addition of more
communities comes other challenges and Ms. Speidel believes that more time is needed to become familiar with existing
issues before this can be done.
She believes that all the staff at the Regional Dispatch has handled the change very well, which has been challenging at
times, and complimented both the Police and Fire Chiefs for the work they have done.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the issue of the Public Safety building being unmanned should be a priority. He asked if there were
any other "red flags" that have not been addressed yet.
Chief Marino replied no, other than the issues that the vendor is still working on they are on the road to getting things
taken care of.
Mr. Alonzo asked about when a call comes in after hours and it rolls over to the dispatch is the call recorded separately on
their side of what comes in to the Lunenburg Police Dept. number as opposed to the 911 calls.
Chief Marino replied yes it is.
Mr. Alonzo said that this could be a good way to track the calls when the station is unmanned.
Chief Marino added that they are having a radio issue which is worsening. There is a 118' radio antenna in Devens and
there is a city north of Boston that is on the same frequency as us which interferes with us. They have been cooperative
with turning their power down. Chief Marino applied 1 year ago for a new frequency and they are difficult to get. He did
obtain one but there were a lot of restrictions on it and when they did go to program they were told it would cost
approximately $15,000 - $20,000 to do so. They continue to work to resolve this issue.
There is a repeater tower on Leominster Shirley Rd. and they installed an antenna on it for the Police & Fire Dept! Chief
Marino asked for Capital Plan funds to purchase a receiver for that which he believes should be a priority. He also asked
for a stand by generator for the Sunny Hill Rd. repeater site.
Ms. Bertram asked if they were requesting additional funding for the Voiceover IP.
Chief Marino replied that the phone system is antiquated but stable.
Chief Sullivan added that it works but it is a challenge for it to come into our station then go back down to dispatch then
back again to us.
The BOS thanked Chief Marino and Chief Sullivan for their updates this evening.
4. Review draft Ballot Question; Establish Snow Date for STM; Other STM Issues: Ms. Speidel stated that in terms of
both the warrant and ballot questions we are in the same place that we were at the last meeting. The only thing needed is
a description of the project which has been requested from the School Superintendent. Ms. Speidel will obtain the
necessary description at the School Building Committee meeting on Thursday evening then circulate it to the BOS. The
warrant article will be submitted by the School Building Committee and they will approve that at their meeting. The BOS
will have everything in hand at the next scheduled meeting on 12/3/2013.
Ms. Speidel added that they will need to move out the printing of the warrant until just after the 12/3 meeting.
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Alonzo stated that the BOS will have the description of the project at their 12/3 meeting and at that meeting we can
discuss if we want to make a recommendation before the printing.
Ms. Bertram expressed her concern that the requirement is that the BOS vote that we fund the entire amount and she had
asked that some additional language be put in concerning that. She would like to have this done before the next BOS
meeting
Ms. Speidel replied that she is still waiting for an answer on that.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that there is a concern of inclement weather seeing that the STM & STE are being held in
January. The Town Clerk and the Moderator suggested that 1/9/2014 would be the snow date for the STM. The High
School auditorium is being held open on this day if it is needed.
Mr. Ebersole moved to make the snow date for the Special Town Meeting for Thursday January 9, 2014. Ms. Bertram
seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel reminded the board that if the meeting needs to be called because of weather, both the Town Clerk and the
Moderator will go to the meeting at the posted time, the Moderator opens the meeting then adjourns it to 1/9/2014
Mr. Alonzo asked if the weather is so bad that they cannot do this, what then?
Mr. Ebersole replied that it would be a State of Emergency and either the Police or Fire Dept. would need to transport
them there to do this.
5. IMA with Town of Townsend for Sale of Net Metering Credits: Ms. Speidel explained that this is the same
document that the BOS had reviewed several months ago. The board had expressed a concern that Lunenburg is only
interested in selling excess credits and not a percentage of what is produced. This document has been modified to say
that only excess credits are sold at the same price that we are purchasing at.
Mr. Toale asked if there is any administrative burden or does it go directly from NuGen to Townsend.
Ms. Speidel replied that she thought the administrative burden is very minimal because our only administrative burden
would be if we modified Schedule Z so that the utility distributes the credits. We did not include any administrative fee that
the Town would have to do because we felt that it was very minimal.
Ms. Bertram stated that the billing is done directly through the utility and there will be no billing responsibility for the Town
of Lunenburg
Ms. Speidel agreed with Ms. Bertram's statement.
Mir. Alonzo spoke to say that the actual properties have been removed from this document so it will be the aggregate of
what we will have available.
Ms. Speidel replied that this is true but the only municipal credits are coming from the Chase Rd. project now. She went
on to say that the Townsend BOS will be taking this matter up at their 12/3/2013 meeting.
Mr. Alonzo asked if our Town Counsel along with the Town Manager is OK with this to which Ms. Speidel replied yes.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the board had any comments or questions.
Ms. Bertram spoke to say that she was comfortable with this but would like the feedback from Townsend before moving
forward.
Ms. Speidel added that there was no need to act on it this evening. The status of the project is that the builder is in the
process of pulling building permits. He has met with both the Planning Director and the Building Inspector several times ir
the last couple of weeks and is currently putting together the sureties that he needs to provide to the Town. We are
looking at the project up and running and producing credits by the end of the fiscal year.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
11/12/2013
Warrants:
11/20/2013
11/18/2013
11/19/2013
#27-14
#11P-14
#26-14
$263,561.15
$656,620.25
$132,887.80
Action File Issues: Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that at Sunday's vigil he was handed a request from a student who is
proposing that a youth summit called "No Bullies No Hate" be held on Wednesday November 15". He stated that this is in
the realm of the School Committee and Administration and asked the board for their comments about this request.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that the school does have an "Anti Bullying" program in place and his concern was that this
should be consistent with that.
He has no opinion of that because he does not know what the specific text of what the
education would be and would be fine with asking the School Administration to consider this but he is not ready to vote in
favor or against it.
Mr. Alonzo responded by saying that we are not looking for a vote but just what our opinions may be. He agreed with Mr.
Ebersole's comments and believes that this could be useful but it is intended to be student driven as opposed to adult
driven. It sends a good message and is encouraging that someone from our community would propose this. ! would
suggest that the School Committee take this seriously and consider this to see if it fits in and can be done.
Ms. Bertram agreed and said that this is a well written and ultimately it is the decision of the School Committee &
Administration. Ms. Bertram stated that she was supportive of this effort.
Mr. Toale stated that he was supportive as well.
Mr. Alonzo stated that with the boards OK he will contact the School Committee to say that the BOS is in support of this
and encourage them to take this up.
Ms. Bertram added to the Action File issues by saying that she had attended a meeting of the Open Space Committee
where they talked about guidelines that they had created for disposition of Chapter land. They indicated that they had
sent this to BOS some time ago and she would like it distributed to the board.
They voiced concern with other criteria such as planning, proximity for economic development along with other standards
that the Planning Board and Conservation Committee would look at. They looked at it strictly from an Open Space stand
point and they did a phenomenal job of determining what criteria to look at when evaluating land. They basically said that
if a piece of land meets 3 of their criteria the recommendation would be to bring it to the Town for a vote. They strongly
recommended that we seek input from the Planning Board and the Conservation Commission, have them go through that
same exercise, then take all of that information to create a robust criteria to evaluate land.
Ms. Bertram requested that this be placed on a future BOS agenda.
Mr. Ebersole stated that when the Open Space Committee had met with the BOS they had not recommended specific
guidelines because they did not want to "tip the hand" for a person to get more money in the future.
Ms. Alonzo clarified that we had asked them to identify properties and they said they felt it was not a good idea to
determine or pre-determine properties we were interested in but rather criteria that we were interested in.
8.Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance
Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee; School Building
Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - Mr. Ebersole stated that the BOH met last night where they continued their discussions of the difficulties
of Title 5 regarding any small properties around a lake. If you own one of these properties you end up having waivers
rather than tearing down the house. They are doing a good job of balancing these issues.
The BOH voted to allow Dippin Donuts on Mass Ave to now have a standing counter with 4 stools. It was not allowed
before because of their concern of the volume of water that may go into the septic system. They have tracked the water
usage since they've opened and determined that a lot of the water goes out of the building in coffee cups and it's not
going into the septic system. They will review this again in 1 year to make sure that the usage of the water hasn't gone
The BOH reviewed the DEP report on the Woodlands where they had issues with the sewerage treatment plant which is
being resolved.
Also discussed were "grandfathered" septic systems with multiple houses on one system. They were dealing with one that
had passed inspection and the property has been sold. They wanted to communicate with the people that are not on that
property that they need to be aware of their responsibility of having it pumped every 3 years and inspected. They have no
jurisdiction until it fails.
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee met last night, they are wrapping up their
deliberations and are ready to make recommendations. They are putting them together in a presentation form and would
like to be added to the BOS 12/3/2013 agenda.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will meet tomorrow morning, all of the Town Dept. requests are
in, and they will start prioritizing them tomorrow with the objective of presenting to the Town Manager by 12/18/2013.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale was unable to make this meeting but was informed that they continue to work on their
policy updates.
===PAGE 9===
Library Board of Trustees- No Report
MPO- Ms. Bertram reported that their 11/13/2013 meeting focused on a demonstration of the new and improved Mr.
Mapper program which MRPC has developed. There was a lot of good information and Ms. Bertram recommended that
the DPW Director get in touch with the GIS staff there. There is a lot of tools which have been incorporated that allow
drawing and calculations along with a lot of work that can be done on their site which can be saved locally and exported
easily to various formats.
Additionally they have updated the crash data on their site as well as identifying all of the Federal Aid eligible roads over
the last year and have identified all of the pavement conditions which are all available online. For a minimal fee MRPC
will update all of the pavement management for Lunenburg. They are unveiling some new mobile applications that will be
able to be used with this software and these are targeted specifically towards DPW's and they are willing to come up to do
some training.
Planning Board- No Report
PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported that their meeting needed to be rescheduled due to a quorum issue.
School Committee- Mr. Alonzo reminded all that this committee is meeting tomorrow at the Passios building at 7PM.
School Building Committee Ms. Speidel mentioned that this committee will be meeting on Thursday evening and
tomorrow the School Superintendent, Chair of the School Building Committee, Architect, OPM, and herself will be going to
the MSBA meeting where they will be finalizing the budget on the project.
. The results of this meeting will be reported at
the School Building Committee meeting on Thursday at 7PM at the Passios building.
Sewer Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported that the sewer line on Lancaster Ave, which was privately funded by the
Lancaster Ave residents group, was accepted by the DPW Director and the Sewer Commission so the project is
complete.
MA Broadband- Mr. Alonzo reported that there was a conference call with the member towns. As we near the close of the
initial project, which is scheduled for the end of 12/2013, they are still on track. At the end of that the backbone will be lit
and everything will be active. They will then meet with Mr. Alonzo, the IT Director and Town Manager about the anchor
institutions in town and what steps need to be done to connect those to the fiber connection. The Governor has proposed
the secondary funding of what's called the "Last Mile". Everyone's question now is once it's here and the community
anchor institutions are connected how will businesses and residents get connected. There is a bond bill before them to
cover not all but most of it. They will try to leverage this against Federal money to get the full amount which is estimated
to be around $100M to do the last mile.
Mr. Alonzo said that basically people want to know, now that its here, how do we get connected.
Mr. Toale asked if the last mile will be your standard ISP's such as Comcast and Verizon or will it be a different group of
providers.
Mr. Alonzo replied that the last mile designation means how you get from the backbone to your house. Who runs that is
open and there is criteria that has been employed to get people to apply it they are interested in providing that service.
They are also trying to keep open discussions with the larger ISP's on this matter.
9.Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: No Report
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS: None
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he wishes all a Happy Thanksgiving. Given the times and the situation that we are in, in
Lunenburg, he hopes we can redefine what we are thankful for in our community and there is plenty to be thankful for.
Those things that don't fit that, all of us together work to correct them and to the best of our ability make sure and insure
that everyone here is well respected and well protected.
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the BOS meeting. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote motion carried,
4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 9:06PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
December 3, 2013
===PAGE 10===
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
