===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/21/13
17118714
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hallas scheduled with
Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Robert Ebersole, Jaime Toale and Town Manager Kerry
Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews started Public Comment from the board by thanking the Fire Department for the EMS
Appreciation BBQ the previous night.
Mr. Toale congratulated the Boys and Girls Club on their successful 5K walk/run "Are We There Yet".
He noted that there was a large attendance and great participation.
Mir. Alonzo congratulated Lunenburg High School on their great performance of The Wizard of Oz put
on the previous week. He stated that it was just another one of the numerous great events put on at
the high school.
Mr. Alonzo reminded the public about the Town's Memorial Day Services that would start at 11:45am
this coming Saturday, May 26th at Veteran's Park in front of the Eagle House Senior Center. For
additional information he advised the public to contact Doreen Noble at the Eagle House Senior
Center.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Committee Vacancies: Agricultural Commission; Building Reuse Task Force; Finance
Committee - Mr. Alonzo announced a number of vacancies that need to be filled on various boards.
The Agricultural Committee has 5 vacancies, the Building Reuse Committee had numerous openings,
and the Finance Committee had 2 vacancies with a 3rd vacancy possible.
APPOINTMENTS- None.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Proclamation: National Emergency Medical Services Week, May 19-25, 2013- Mr.
Alonzo read a proclamation that made the week of May 19th-25th National Emergency Medical
Services Week. See attached Proclamation.
2. Achievement of Fire Chief Credentialing Status, Patrick A. Sullivan- Ms. Speidel read
a letter from the Massachusetts Executive Office of Public Safety and Security, Fire Service
Commission, that highlighted Fire Chief Patrick A. Sullivan's voluntary participation in a Fire Chief
Credentialing process that, when finished, awarded Chief Sullivan the level of Fire Chief. Please see
attached letter.
Chief Sullivan spoke and explained that the credentialing process involved extensive training,
advanced education and professional development, plus years of service. He stated that the ultimate
goal was to get every Chief certified.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Chief Sullivan for his service, dedication, and leadership on behalf of the BOS.
3. Request for Voluntary Toll by Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg, 6/1/2013- Mr. Alonzo
explained that the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg holds an annual voluntary toll at the intersections
===PAGE 2===
of Mass Ave. & Main St. and the intersection of Route 13 and Whalom Road. He stated that the BOS
needed to approve a toil to be held on Saturday, June 1, 2013.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the request by the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg to hold a
Voluntary Toll on June 1st. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion carried 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
4. One Day Wine & Malt Beverages License, St. Boniface Church 6/14/13- Ms. Speidel
explained that this request is sent in annually to support the Italian Festival the church holds. There
has never been any issues in the past, all of the correct paperwork has been submitted, and the
Police Chief has reviewed and approved the request. The particular license at hand is only to be
approved for non-profits and must be renewed for every event it is needed at.
Mr. Ebersole asked if any proof of insurance had been submitted by the church.
Ms. Speidel stated that no proof of insurance had been submitted and it is not part of the
requirements when applying for the license.
Mr. Ebersole said that this issue might be something the BOS wants to review when they review liquor
licenses in the future.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the One Day Wine & Malt Beverages License for St. Boniface Church
on June 14th. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
5. BOS Goals & Objectives- The members of the BOS exchanged their individual lists of goals
and objectives for the BOS.
Mr. Ebersole explained his goals as starting with finalizing the BOS's policies such as how hearings
are held, the process by which appointments and re-appointments are made, performance review
process, a process explaining how to except gifts and grants, and a process to review and sign off on
policies each year. He also stated that he was interested in building maintenance review for all Town
buildings, open space committee, a review of Chapter Property not owned yet by the Town, reviewing
the Town Charter and Bylaws, reviewing license fees, performance based reviews for all Town
employees, the Town website should include a strategic plan for what's needed from each department
and what services they can provide, and identification and review of the Town boundaries by the BOS
and the Town Manager.
Ms. Bertram stated that her goals and objectives were very similar to Mr. Ebersole's, specifically
policies and procedures practiced by the BOS. She also listed increased focus and discussion on
policy that would expand the Town's economic development and vitality with the Town Manager,
Finance Committee, and the Capital Planning Committee to help increase tax revenue, creating an
inventory of the chapter land, improve communications with Town boards and committees,
implementation of annual identification and adoption of Department Goals and Objectives for various
Town departments/committees, engage professional assistance to codify the General Bylaws, and
ensuring seminars held by Town Counsel annually in accordance with the contract so that employees
are aware of changes in law and staff has a regular opportunity to interface with counsel free of
Mr. Toale stated that his goals could be defined in the acronym S.M.A.R.T.; Specific, Measurable,
Attainable, Relevant, and Time bound. He noted that the acronym could be expanded to
S.M.A.R.T.E.R., with the addition of Evaluate and Re-evaluate.
Mr. Matthews stated that his goals are similar to other members of the BOS but that the most
important one to him is the policy manual, the building maintenance review, and the evaluation forms
for the Town Manager.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo also stated that many of his goals had already been stated, but he stressed the Town
Manager evaluation redesign, and reviewing all other boards, committees, and meetings so that every
group was on TV for a regular broadcast so that the public could see what they do.
Mr. Alonzo opened up for discussion all the goals that the BOS suggested and recommended that
they try to narrow down what was suggested to 10 specific goals and objectives.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the top priority really should be to complete the Policies and Procedures
manual and that it is required by Mass. General Law.
Ms. Bertram recommended the seconded goal should be the identification and recommendation on all
Charter Land located in Town.
Mr. Ebersole agreed and stated it should be fairly easy to accomplish if we recruit the appropriate
committees to help.
Mr. Alonzo agrees but stated that this issue really comes under the the Planning Board, Conservation
Committee, and Open Space Committee.
Ms. Bertram agreed, but stated the reality is it is up to the BOS to make any recommendation on
chapter land, so therefore it is relevant for the BOS to make it a goal.
Ms. Speidel asked Ms. Bertram to clarify that her goal is to create a matrix of all available Chapter
Land in Town so that the BOS could quickly reference it if a recommendation ever came before the
BOS.
Ms. Bertram said that was her goal.
Ms. Speidel stated that the Board of Assessors actually maintains that designation, so they can easily
provide this information to all relevant boards and BOS meetings.
Mr. Matthews requested that the Open Space Committee appear before the BOS for an update.
Mr. Alonzo stated that every member listed the Charter and Town Bylaw review as the third goal for
the BOS to set out to accomplish. He stated that these laws should be reviewed every 10 years, and
the Town had approached that 10 year review time again.
Mr. Ebersole stated that the Bylaw review timeline coincides with Ms. Bertram's codifying General
Bylaws.
Mr. Alonzo stated that they needed to be careful with changing Bylaws because Bylaws have to go
before Town Meeting to be changed
Ms. Speidel stated that it was extremely important for the Bylaws to be codified and could cost as
much as $10,000.00. Codifying the Byaws should be programmed into the budget but currently is not,
but might be something she can scrape together $10,000.00 before the end of this fiscal year to do. In
codifying you can put up all laws and minutes online and make everything much more accessible.
hesitates to take on this goal since the Town Clerk is an elected position. She would be happy to work
with the Town Clerk to take on this goal together though.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Bertram stated that the performance based review for all Town Employees should be a Town
Manger's goal as well, with assistance from the BOS.
Mr. Ebersole suggested that a Town Sub-committee might be able to assist Ms. Speidel in this goal.
Ms. Bertram stated that Mr. Toale would be helpful to Ms. Speidel with this goal as well since he has a
background in human resources.
Mr. Toale stated that he would be happy to help.
Ms. Speidel stated that an Economic Development Task force would be an excellent thing to look into
for the town. Members of the community would be very interested in this Task Force. She stated that
Fitchburg State University has an Economic Development group that might be able to provide an
intern to help out with this task force.
Ms. Ebersole stated that the Building Maintenance Reuse plan needs to include who is maintaining
Town buildings.
Mr. Alonzo stated that there are already people to go to in this situation, John Londa for all school
buildings, and the BOS and Town Manager for all other municipal buildings.
Ms. Bertram stated that there was a need for clarification about who to go to, the BOS or the Town
Manager.
Mr. Matthews stated that per the Town Charter it was clearly a Town Manger responsibility.
Ms. Speidel stated that facilities looks at all issues and prioritizes them when it comes to maintenance
on Town buildings.
Ms. Bertram stated that it should be a Town Manger goal to develop a Facility Maintenance Plan with
clear departmental goals and objectives.
Mr. Alonzo stated that another goal that stands out is the Town Website. He stated that at a minimum
the BOS has to establish what absolutely has to be on the website so that departments and
committees know what has to be on the website.
Mr. Ebersole agreed but he stated that part of it is establishing who exactly is in charge of the website
so that updates could be made.
Ms. Speidel stated that the maintenance of the website is done by IT Director and herself and that
they are the Administrators of the website. She stated that since the IT Director does most of the
maintenance on the website it should be up to the IT department to develop a policy about how
updates to the website are requested by individual Town departments, committees, and boards.
Ms. Bertram agreed that this was a Department opposed to a BOS goal, although the BOS could
dictate what has to be listed on the website by each department. She stated that the recommendation
for the Town Manger was to review the IT policies to conform to current laws and regulations because
the Town has an IT policy that is outdated.
Mr. Alonzo agreed but stated that IT and website maintenance are two different issues. He has no
problem pushing down policies but he doesn't want the IT director to decide what goes on the
website.
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Bertram stated that she's fine with a framework, but when it gets deeper into issues on Open
Space Plans and Capital Planning, there might need to be a Computer Advisory Committee created to
establish what needs to be on the website.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he was all for taking this issue out of the BOS hands, and a committee can
recommend specific things to place on the website to the BOS.
Mr. Ebersole said that the website also flows into Economic Development since a Town's website is
the window into how a Town operates.
Mr. Matthews stated that who implements content on the website by departments needs to be
established
Mr. Ebersole stated that it makes sense, but some committees and boards don't want to put things on
the website because they are not ready for a website yet since they are just designs or ideas.
Mr. Alonzo agreed but stated that guidelines about what absolutely needs to be on the website still
needs to be specified by the BOS but that the implementation of content stays with the department.
Ms. Bertram stated that it was also important for departments, boards, and committees to provide
their own goals and objectives for the year.
Ms. Speidel stated that she would like the goals and objectives of departments to fall under her Town
Manger goals list.
Ms. Bertram stated another goal of the BOS should be to require recurring updates from departments
and committees.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he has five goals for the BOS which are:
1. Finish BOS Goals and Policies Manual
2. Creating a list of Town Own Land and Charter properties
3. Economic Development Plan
4. Reinstating Communication between Committees and Departments
5. Town Website
6. Town Manager Goals and Objectives- Ms. Bertram stated that she would like to see quarterly
budget updates with an executive summary, conduct a budget retrospective, departmental operations,
review IT policies and make necessary changes to conform to current laws/regulations, Provide
quarterly status of all ongoing legal issues, and provide quarterly updates on goal progress.
Ms. Speidel stated that the Town Accountant is an employee of the BOS, and that she should also be
someone who has a responsibility to update the BOS periodically on Town financial business.
Ms. Bertram stated that the BOS should ask for quarterly updates from both Town Counsel and the
Town Accountant because it is one of their tasks.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that the task shouldn't necessarily fall on just the BOS or just the Town
Manager, but that the BOS should have the Town Manager send out an e-mail quarterly requesting
an update from Town Counsel or the Town Accountant with the BOS CC'd on the e-mail. He stated
that he doesn't want to receive financial or legal updates just from the Town Manager and that having
Town Counsel and the Town Accountant come in to provide updates themselves allows for a check
and balance system.
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Speidel suggested that Town Counsel report semi-annually because there just isn't enough to
report on to make a quarterly report worthwhile.
Ms. Bertram stated it would also be good for the Town Manager to continue exploring training and
education seminars for the BOS and Town departments.
Mr. Toale stated that he would like to see creative ways to look at and plan for future positions,
additions, consolidations, or eliminations.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the IT policies in the codified Bylaws is something else that was brought up by
Ms. Bertram in relation to the Town Manger's goals.
Mr. Toale asked if the IT policies wasn't a department head goal instead of a Town Manager goal.
Ms. Bertram stated that she would be fine with it being a department goal, but all department goals fall
under the purview of the Town Manager so she would also like to make it a specific Town Manager
goal.
Mr. Matthews asked how the IT director was going to advise on new and current laws.
Ms. Speidel said that the Towns insurance company regularly puts up law and policy reviews
including IT policies.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that it would be the responsibility of the IT Director to research new laws and
policies and suggest them as changes the Town Manger should adopt.
Mr. Matthews asked if the IT policies were currently BOS policies or Town Manger policies.
Ms. Speidel stated that the only IT policies the Town has are BOS policies. She suggested that this
was because the IT policies are so old that they would have been originally proposed and overseen
by the BOS.
Ms. Bertram stated that she believes IT policy is still a Town Manger goal because she oversees the
departments and it is up to her to delegate the goals to individual departments.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he would include IT goals as a sub goal for the Town Manger since there was
overlap between the goals of the Town Manger and the IT Director.
7. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues-
Minutes: 5/14/2013
• Warrants:
5/21/13
5/20/13
5/22/13
62-13
24-P13
63-13
$513,220.63
$613,048.49
$248,760.60
Action File Issues: None
8. Committee Report:
Board of Health- Mr. Ebersole reported that the BOH is having a number of lots coming to them that
are fine under zoning law but are coming under Title 5 septic review by the state.
===PAGE 7===
Capital Planning Committee- Mr. Toale reported that the committee began the process of reviewing
their goals and performance and setting up their calendar.
Finance Committee- Mr. Toale reported that he had a conversation with the Chair about his ability to
participate and the Chair was fine with partial attendance but he did want Mr. Toale to be in constant
contact with the committee.
Library- Mr. Ebersole reported that the Library Board of Trustees met and started reviewing their
goals for the year along with updating their website.
MRPC/MPO- Ms. Bertram reported that MPO is not meeting this week so she has no report. She did
say that she is not a liaison with MRPC and she doesn't believe the BOS has a liaison with the
MRPC.
Ms. Speidel stated that she included the MRC due to the Open Meeting Law but that it does not
need to be included and no report is needed on the MRPC.
PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported that PACC is meeting in June.
School Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that the School Committee met the previous week and
has not had an opportunity to assign someone to the Building Reuse Committee.
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that the committee hasn't met recently and
won't be meeting until June.
Sewer Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported that the Sewer Commission will be meeting on the last
Tuesday of May.
9. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports- Ms. Speidel stated that she sent out
information on the Municipal Electrical Aggregation plan to the BOS and was able to secure a bid just
below the basic service rate and she did accept that bid. A press release will be sent out announcing
that people can enroll in this program. The rate provided in the bid will be provided for at least 6 or 12
months. There is some time for the BOS to decide whether or not to keep with the program for all 12
months.
Ms. Toale asked if it was possible that anyone else will bid during the 12 month period.
Ms. Speidel replied it would be unlikely anyone would be, if the Town accepted that 12 month bid.
Mr. Ebersole asked if Ms. Speidel could provide more information about individuals in Town opting out
of the program.
Ms. Speidel replied the information Mr. Ebersole asked for was on the company's website.
OLD BUSINESS - None
PUBLIC COMMENT -
Mr. Alonzo stated that the Finance Committee review committee will be meeting the following
Tuesday at 6pm to review applicant submissions to the Finance Committee.
Mr. Matthews asked if an update could be provided on the Tax Title Liens
Ms. Speidel stated that that would be a good thing for the Town Account to provide, but that she could
include it on a future meeting agenda.
Mr. Toale questioned why the PACC donation was not included on the agenda.
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Speidel stated she received the donation letter, but that she did not receive it in enough time to
include it on the meeting agenda.
Ms. Bertram asked for an update on the property of 950 Mass. Ave.
Ms. Speidel stated she was going to meet with an LSP who has offered his services to the Town, he
will look at the property, and put together a report combined with a few other issues the Town is
facing.
Ms. Bertram stated she would like to see an environmental impact report as well on the property.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded.
On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 9:04PM
Respectfully Submitted
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Lunenburg Board of Selectmen
