===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
6/18/13
12ATAN
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Half as scheduled with Paula
Bertram, David Matthews, Robert Ebersole, Jamie Toale and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
Absent was Tom Alonzo.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street, commented on the passing of Dick Bishop, the longtime Moderator of
Lunenburg Town Meeting and a former teacher in the Lunenburg Public Schools. Mr. Bishop served the
community well for years and was the quintessential "Lunenburger".
Ms. Bertram extended condolences from the BOS to the family of Mr. Bishop and spoke to his strong
commitment to the community over the years.
Mr. Rogers continued his public comment with an official update as the Chairman of the Board of Water
Commissioners by providing the BOS with an update on the #1 Well in town. After an initial test of the well, the
results were that traces of E-Coli were found. Five additional tests were conducted and all confirmed that the
well was fine and the community should have no fear of drinking from it. Mr. Rogers speculated that the first
test that showed traces of E-Coli might have been due to a rodent that found its way into the well and expired,
but ultimately the well is fine and operational.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 p.m. Public Hearing- Recreational Dimensions Inc., d/b/a Central Mass Power Sports for a Class I
License for the sale of Motor Vehicles as provided for under MGL Chapter 140- Ms. Bertram read the
Public Hearing Notice into record regarding Recreational Dimensions Inc., d/b/a Central Mass Power Sports.
Ms. Speidel stated that the application is complete and all fees have been paid for the license.
Ralph Roberts, Central Mass Power Sports owner, stated that he was a part of a group that acquired the
business and currently owns 4 other similar businesses in the Boston/Southern New Hampshire area. He
stated that no changes would be made to the business including the sign on the street or employees, and the
business would run identical to how it runs currently.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the conditions requested by the Zoning Board needed to be included in the license.
Ms. Speidel replied they did not need to include the recommendations in the license.
Ms. Bertram asked if the Board of Health recommendations needed to be considered and if the taxes were up
to date.
Ms. Speidel replied that the previous owner had kept all the taxes up to date and that the BOH
recommendations did not need to be included in the license.
Mir. Ebersole moved to approve the Class I License for the sale of Motor Vehicles as provided for under MGL
Chapter 140 for Recreational Dimensions, Inc., d/b/a Central Mass Power Sports. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote
motion carried, 4 in favor, O opposed.
7:15 p.m. Renewal of $115,000.00 Revenue Anticipation Note: Shelley McCaie, Treasurer-Collector, stated
that on December 4, 2012, the BOS voted to approve emergency appropriations borrowing relative to the
October 31, 2011 storm. The note for that short term borrowing of $115,000.00 matures on June 28, 2013 and
===PAGE 2===
no reimbursement has yet been received from the Massachusetts Emergency Management Association. Until
the Town receives the reimbursement from MEMA, the Town needs to re-borrow the money. On June 5, 2013
the bid process began in which the Town of Lunenburg received 4 bids and on June 12, 2013 she accepted a
bid which was rewarded to People's United Bank with a rate of .55%. She stated that she was asking the BOS
to sign off on the three documents that are needed for this bid to go through, and they are the Certificate of
Note 530-1, Certificate and Covenant as to Tax Exempt Status of Note, and the Certificate of Town Clerk.
Ms. Bertram asked if there was any available information as to the status of reimbursement.
Ms. Speidel replied that she did not and that she might have to work with Representative Benson to get the
process moving.
Ms. McCaie stated that she received notice that the contract was received by MEMA and the reimbursement
funds should be arriving soon.
Ms. Speidel stated that no vote was needed since the BOS voted to approve the original short term borrowing.
At this time, Ms. Bertram asked Ms. McCaie to provide an update on her department
Ms. McCaie provided and update on the tax titles she had been dealing with presently. In April, she committed
to Town Counsel 36 properties that were in tax title for an extended period of time. A letter was mailed to the
property owners and she has received 15 responses based off of these communications. Of the 36 properties
she has been dealing with she has collected $45,000.00 in taxes from those properties. She has also been
able to collaborate with 3 additional property owners who will be paying off their tax debt in full within the month
which will result in an additional $51,000.00 and a total collection of just under $100,000.00.
Ms. Bertram asked what is the next step in dealing with the properties where no response we received.
Ms. McCaie replied that they will contact Attorney Jim Cappola in regards to those properties, and at that point
they would start the foreclosure process in Land Court. The cost per case in Land Court and the Town needs
to be careful as to how many cases are brought forward in order to stay within the Town's budget.
Mr. Ebersole asked what the current interest rate that property owners are charged before and after tax title.
Ms. McCaie replied that once they are in tax title the rate is 16% and 14% prior to tax title.
Ms. McCaie stated that for FY12, 19 new tax titles were recorded for approximately $54,000.00 at the Registry
of Deeds. Additionally 70 new titles were added to prior titles. She went on to say that for FY13 Real Estate
Taxes, 415 demand letters were sent out, so she is up to date with getting the demand notices out.
Mr. Toale asked if the budget allows for Ms. McCaie to add additional funds if she is successful in her pursuits.
Ms. Speidel replied that it would be a budgetary appropriation issue for the end of the fiscal year.
Ms. Speidel noted that the property on Lancaster Street which is listed at the top of the tax title sheet is being
dealt with separately. This property has major tax issues with the IRS as well as with the Town.
The BOS thanked Ms. McCaie for her report this evening.
7:30 p.m. Review of Solar Projects- EPG Solar, NuGen (formerly Mass PV1 project) - Attorney Rick
Holland updated the BOS on the progress of the solar projects in town. He noted a few things specifically
including that today he received from EPG Solar an amendment to the contract which he has not had a chance
to review yet. He does not believe the property on Chase Road, that NuGen is looking, at has sufficient
enough space for their facility, but the NuGen representative present may be able to prove otherwise.
Additionally, he noted that the Town currently has more energy credits purchased than is necessary and the
Town should look into selling the excess credits to surrounding communities.
Ms. Bertram expressed concern in regards to the additional credits which the Town purchased and is not using
efficiently. She stated that she is specifically concerned about over buying. She asked Attorney Holland if he
===PAGE 3===
was suggesting that the Town should have an agreement in place to sell the additional credits before signing
into a contract with NuGen.
Mr. Holland replied that he is recommending that the Town look into having an Inter-Municipal Agreement with
another community to sell additional credits before signing a contract with NuGen.
Ms. Bertram stated that her understanding was that NuGen would be operational within one and a half years,
but she wasn't sure where to find that in the contract.
Mr. Holland replied that the language Ms. Bertram is looking for is in section 3.11F of the contract with NuGen.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the Town could only transfer credits to a municipality or if they could also transfer credits
to a non-profit.
Mr. Holland replied that it needed to be a governmental organization, and this would most likely disqualify a
non-profit.
Mr. Ebersole questioned if the Water Department might count.
Mr. Holland replied that the Water Department might county since it is a government entity, although this
particular circumstance should be looked into further.
Robert Babcock, EPG Solar Representative, updated the BOS on their project. He stated that their project on
Pleasant and West Street was still on track. He said there had been peaks and valleys as to the progression
on the project and noted that there was an issue with the 1s1 amendment of the PPA, with the property itself,
wetlands, and so on. The interconnection was executed 6 months ago and is ready to proceed. They brought
in an investor who proposed some amendments to the PPA, the Town pushed back and as a result the Town
walked away. He does not believe either part was wrong on this issue, but rather the parties had conflicting
interests. Three new investors have been attracted to the project with one of the three being further along in
joining the project. Solar is very popular in the state of Massachusetts and there is a lot of competition when it
comes to qualifying for specific programs and meeting strict deadlines. In addition to this the State has
changed many rules and regulations when it comes to solar power which forces the solar industry and those
constructing solar fields to double check what they are doing. Ultimately the West Street/Pleasant Street
project is on track to be finished by the required date of December 31, 2013, and he is here to gain approval
from the BOS on a few language and date changes in the PPA agreement including the finishing date, which
is the responsibility of the utility.
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Babcock to expound on the land issue they are facing.
Mr. Babcock explained that currently one of the pieces of property that the project is being built on, a non-profit
organization is going through a bankruptcy procedure. To quicken the pace of the land acquisition EPG Solar
had asked the judicial powers dealing with the bankruptcy process to approve the land transfer, which they
have verbally approved the language on the new lease but are still waiting for an official approval. EPG has
placed a significant amount of money into an escrow account in regards to this property but won't release the
money until all the documents are signed. No timeline has yet been established but Mr. Babcock stated that
EPG attorneys have stated that the Judicial Court dealing with the issue has already begun looking at it and
moves quickly.
Mr. Matthews asked if EPG was recognized in the Queue for the State.
Mr. Babcock replied there are three Queue's that EPG is qualified for. Net Meter Queue, interconnection
Queue, and Esrek Queue.
Mr. Matthews asked if there were any financial implications with the changes in the contract.
Mir. Babcock replied there were no financial implications in regards to the changes.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Bertram stated that the BOS won't be meeting again until July 9 and they have not been able to review the
changes in the agreement. If the board approves the changes in the agreement on July 9, will that cause any
delay in the project.
Mr. Babcock stated that it would not cause any delay in the project.
The BOS thanked Mr. Babcock for meeting with them.
Dan Poyjonus, NuGen Capital Representative, gave an update on the 651 Chase Road project to the BOS. He
stated that the project is on the right track but some things have been changed in the PPA agreement which
the BOS needs to sign off on. NuGen has an agreement with Mass PV1 to step in as an investor for the project
and all conditions have been met for this to happen except for signing the PPA and the PILOT agreement. The
agreement has no financial contingencies, but they cannot move on them until the agreement is signed off on.
He stated that the agreement the Town has with NuGen does allow them to sell off unused credits to other
municipalities. Ultimately NuGen is ready to proceed with the project on Chase Road and are awaiting the
Town of Lunenburg to meet some deadlines at this point.
Mr. Matthews stated that the agreement is for NuGen to have the project done in 1.5 years. He asked what
NuGen's actual timeline for the project was.
Mr. Poyjonus noted there was an early termination provision for the Town that stated if NuGen hasn't started
with construction within 9 months they can terminate the contract. He stated that this was a worst case
scenario disaster provision to help keep the Town from investing millions of dollars into a project that was
faltering or failing.
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Poyjnous to highlight the 9 month provision in the contract.
Mr. Poyjonus stated it was in section 3.11C at the bottom of page 6.
Mr. Matthews asked if NuGen had experience dealing with interconnection when it came to Unitil and would
they be ready to go with them.
Mr. Poyjonus replied they did have experience and would be ready.
Ms. Speidel asked Mr. Poyjonus to clarify what was needed to get into the Net Metering Queue.
Mr. Poyjonus stated that the PPA needs to be completed but other than that everything is prepared to meet the
Net Metering Queue.
Attorney Holland spoke to the BOS stating that he was going to finalize changes in the contracts and also look
into the construction commencement date. He would continue to work things out with NuGen and EPG Solar.
He expects to have final documents for the BOS to sign off on at the next BOS meeting.
Ms. Bertram asked if Mr. Holland had worked with any other communities that have worked out inter-municipal
transfer credit agreements.
Mr. Holland stated he had but that he wasn't aware of any transfer credits actually being used.
8:00 p.m. Review of Eagle Heights Housing Project - Ms. Speidel explained that there has been a long
process that the Town has collaborated with a private investor to convert the old Primary School into a senior
living facility. The process has met many setbacks, but the investors from JNJUHL & Associates and RCAP
Solutions are still working to push it through the project through.
Mr. Paul Teixeira, RCAP Solutions, thanked the BOS for their continued support of the Eagle Heights Housing
Project. He stated that they have faced numerous setbacks including the loss of funds due to sequestration at
the federal level. He is extremely thankful for the concessions that the BOS have made to help move the
project further, and he has come with the full backing of his organization to proceed further with the project
despite the setbacks. He would ask that the BOS make the concessions they have verbally agreed to in the
past more official so that they had a better chance of receiving funding from the State.
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Speidel stated that the BOS hasn't officially accepted any of the concessions that were suggested by Mr.
Teixeira and Mr. Juhl. Ms. Speidel referenced a number of concessions that the Town could make or have
made. (See attached)
Ms. Bertram stated that she wanted the BOS to discuss the concessions and clarified with Mr. Teixeira and Mr.
Juhl that no concessions had yet been guaranteed by the BOS.
Mr. Teixeira and Mr. Juhl stated they understood that nothing was official yet.
Mr. Juhl stated to the BOS that despite the difficulties at the Federal level, the State level still has strong
financial backing for senior housing projects. Since the Eagle Heights Housing Project would be 100% senior
housing, RCAP Solutions and JNJUHL & Associates are still very interested in continuing but they would still
need strong and official support from the Town of Lunenburg to prove to the State that this is a viable project
worth funding. There are two rounds of State funding in the next year for which they would like to qualify for.
Mr. Teixeira stated that previously when the Department of Housing and Urban Development 202 Program
was assisting, it was a very safe program. HUD had a strategy that assisted with a pre-development loan
program for non-profits and that was very helpful for senior housing projects. Now that Federal funding has
been cut, there are still State programs to help but the risk in investing in such a project is higher. Since the
Governor of Massachusetts wants to increase the number of low income senior housing complexes in the
State, he believes that with concessions made by the Town of Lunenburg can help the project move forward
and gain State funding.
Ms. Bertram noted that one of the concessions which Eagle Heights is looking for is a waiver on the sewer
connection and asked if this fee will be waived or just the extension cost of the sewer connection.
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, stated that the Sewer Commission did not discuss a waiver of fees at their
last meeting, but they did agree that a reasonable concession would be for an extension to connection at the
project be paid for by the sewer commission at $100.00 per foot.
Mr. Juhl stated that they would appreciate a waiver or a reduced cost, but that it wasn't one of their main
concession requests.
Ms. Bertram asked if the Town helping with the funding for a 3 party consultant was still being considered.
Mr. Juhl replied that this was really an issue for the Zoning Board of Appeals to look into.
Ms. Bertram questioned if the tax issue was still applicable to this project or if they were eligible for a PILOT.
Ms. Speidel replied that she did not believe that the building was eligible for a PILOT.
Ms. Bertram asked if the Town had an idea of what the plumbing and electrical fees were and how much it
would cost to waive the fees.
Ms. Speidel stated the developer would still need to pay at least 85% for the plumbing and 87.5% of the
electrical.
Mr. Matthews asked if the Town donated the building, would ownership need to transfer or could the Town do
a long term lease for $1.00.
Mr. Teixeira replied that the ownership would have to be with LLC so that the investors are protected.
Mr. Matthews asked what the Town should do for a long term deed restriction.
Mr. Juhl stated that MassDocs have an affordable housing restriction ensuring that there is a long term
affordability program in place. This protects the Town for long term affordability.
Nir. Matthews asked if the property had to be subdivided.
Ms. Speidel replied that the property was on its own lot but they could double check.
Mr. Ebersole asked how many units there would be in the building.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Juhl replied that it's not finalized but they are looking to have 50 units if possible. 5% of the units would be
handicapped and 100% of the building would be handicapped accessible.
Mr. Ebersole asked who would be managing the property.
Mr. Teixeira replied RCAP would be managing the property.
Mr. Matthews said that this project has already been in the works for many years and asked for a timeframe for
the project.
Mr. Juhl replied that they are hoping for funding in 2015, construction in 2016, and operational in 2017. This
increases the timeframe but it is realistic and based on current economic realities.
Mr. Matthews stated he is still very supportive of the project and he is willing to ride it out.
Mr. Toale stated that he agrees with what Mr. Matthews, but we all have to look at the project in terms of
dollars and cents and we have to make sure that the concessions make sense for the Town.
Ms. Bertram stated she also wants to get a better idea of finances. She asked Ms. Speidel if she was looking
for a vote from the BOS tonight.
Ms. Speidel replied she was not looking for a vote but she is looking for something from the BOS, specifically
with the issue of donating the building.
Mr. Ebersole asked what the developers paid in taxes in other towns.
Mr. Teixeira said the he believes in Groton the pay $5,000.00 per year, in Townsend they pay between $5,000-
$10,000.00. He does not believe the pay taxes in Worcester.
Ms. Bertram stated that she would like to hear from the Assessor's office but she thinks that $5,000.00 is too
low for Lunenburg and that the Town needs to receive some reasonable tax revenue from a 40 unit building.
Mir. Ebersole stated that there needs to be a clearer cost assessment of the building before it is donated.
Ms. Speidel stated that she can double check with the appraiser but she does not believe the building is worth
any more than $140,000.00.
Mr. Juhl stated that the donation of the building would be the most important thing the State would look at
when looking to fund the project.
Ms. Bertram stated that the BOS would put this on their agenda for July and start moving the project forward.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Town Manager Goals and Objectives: Mr. Matthews motioned to approve the Town Manager
Goals and Objectives. Mr. Toale seconded the motion. On vote motion carried, 4 in favor, O opposed.
2. Approve PPA and or PILOT Agreement with NuGen (formerly Mass PV1 Project): Tabled
3. Approve revised PPA and/or PILOT Agreement with EPG Solar: Tabled
4. Approve Annual Appointments to Boards, Committees and/or Offices: Ms. Speidel read her
recommendations for Town Manager appointments. (See attached)
Mr. Matthews moved to ratify the appointments of the Town Manager. Mr. Ebersole seconded the motion. On
vote motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel read the BOS appointees. (See attached)
Mr. Ebersole placed a hold on Registrar of Voters Shirley McBride. He went on to explain that this was not a
personal matter but rather that the Election Officers in Town need to go through a process where Election
===PAGE 7===
Officers Officials need to be appointed yearly, after recommendation from the Democratic and Republican
Town Committees and that the correct process has not been followed in many years.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve all BOS recommendations with the exception of the Registrar of Voters. Mr.
Matthews seconded. On vote motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues:
Minutes: June 11, 2013
Mr. Ebersole thanked the BOS Recording Secretary for having the minutes completed on a timely
basis.
Warrants:
6/17
6/18
6/19
26P-13
67-13
68-13
$647,782.49
$32,427.74
$545,201.35
Action File Issues: None.
6. Committee Reports:
Board of Health: Mr. Ebersole stated that the BOH met yesterday and they covered landlord tenant disputes
where they work not to take sides but enforce the safety regulations. They reviewed building permits. They
postponed the proposal for Wildwood Road.
Capital Planning: Mr. Toale stated that Capital Planning meets tomorrow morning.
Finance Committee: Mr. Toale noted that he was unable to be at the meeting but he noted John Londa made
a presentation about the energy saving measures put in at the school.
Library Board of Trustees: Mr. Ebersole noted that the Library Board of Trustees meets on Thursday.
MPO: Ms. Bertram stated that the MPO voted to endorse the TIP on the Summer Street project and it is
included in the 2017 TIP. The MPO also voted to endorse another unified work project plan. They also want to
update crash date and traffic accounts.
Planning Board: Ms. Bertram noted there was no update.
PACC: Mr. Ebersole stated that the meeting was cancelled for tomorrow but is rescheduled for Monday.
School Committee: Mr. Matthews stated that the School Committee meets later in the week.
School Building Committee: Mr. Matthews stated that they a plan for a 6-12 building and that there is an
open seat on the School Building Committee. He noted that the T.C. Passio building is totally available for
whatever the Town wants to use it for.
Sewer Commission: Mr. Ebersole stated there has been a lot of discussion on the Sewer Commission
regarding a connection coming in from Fitchburg.
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: None
• Shelley McCaie, Treasurer-Collector- Discussed under 7:15 appointment
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None.
PUBLIC COMMENT -
Ms. Bertram informed everyone that Mr. Alonzo cancelled the BOS meeting for July 21° and the next meeting
will be on July gü
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Ebersole stated that the Agricultural Commission will have their first meeting next Thursday & also
reminded the public about the Special Election for the Massachusetts Senate seat next Tuesday.
Being no further business Mr. Matthews moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Toal second. On vote motion
carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 9:27PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 9, 2013
July 16, 2013
July 23. 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
===PAGE 9===
BOARD OF APPEALS-5 YRS
018 Raymond E. Bea
2018 Hans Wentrup
Associate Member-3 yrs
2016 Paul Doherty
2016 David Blatt
CONSERVATION COMMISSION 3 YRS
2016 Robert Verge
2016 David Blatt
2017 late Member 1 4r.
CONSTABLE-1 YR
Contingent upon up-to-date bond
2014 Richard O. Allen
• 2014 Michael A. Bottalico
2014 Albert Poladian
2014 Kevin Rice
LES
COUNCIL ON AGING-3 YRS
2016 Debbie Seeley
DAM KEEPER - YR
2014 Ronald Wilson
ssistant Dam Keepe
014 Richard Patr
HISTORICAL COMMISSION 3 yrs.
2016 Patrick J. Slattery
HOUSING PARTNERSHIP 3 YRS.
15 vacancies
MART ADVISORY BOARD-1 YR.
vacancy
MONTACHUSETT REGIONAL PLANNING COMM.-1 yE.
Vacancy
BOARD OF SELECTMEN / REAPPOINTMENT LIST
Lunenburg Charter Section 3-2 (d)
FY'14
MONTY TECH REPRESENTATIVE- YRS.
2016 Barbara Reynolds
PUBLIC ACCESS CABLE COMM. (PACC) 3 yrs. 2 term
limit
2015 Rhonda Lisio
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE-3 YRS-w/moderator
2016 Deborah Christen
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS-3 YRS
2016
Shirley McBride
COWN COUNSEL-1 YI
2014 Kopelman & Paige PC
TOWN HALL CLOCK WINDERS-1 YR
2014 Jay Schwartz
2014 Tom Alonzo
2014 John P. Lynch
2014 Thomas H. Mrowka
2014
BOCk Al Dettenrieder
2014 Brian L. LeBlanc
2014 A. Dexter White
WELLNESS COORDINATOR- 1 YR
2014 Lisa Normandin
******************
****************
****** SPECIAL MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEE
===PAGE 10===
ANIMAL, CONTROL OFFICER-1 YR.
2014 Kathleen M. Comeau
COMPUTER ADVISORY COMMITTEE 1 YR
9 members
(9) Vacancies
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR
hanged from CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR-IXI
Chief Patrick Sullivar
"Races "CONTROL OPERATOR 1 YE
Ralph Swicl
MEMBERS
2014 Jeanine E. Swick
FENCE VIEWER-1 YR.
2014
Robert H. Bowen
FIELD DRIVER-1 YR
2014 Kathleen M. Comeau
FOREST WARDEN-1 YR
2014
Chief Patrick Sullivan
HAZARDOUS WASTE COORDINATOR-1 YR
2014 Kerry Speidel
HEARINGS OFFICER - 1 YR.
2014 Kerry Speidel
INSPECTOR OF ANIMALS-1 YR
2014
• Kathleen M. Comeau.
INSPECTOR OF WIRES-1 YR
2014
James Sharkey
Assistant Inspector of Wires-1 yI
2014
John Biery
INSPECTOR OF WEIGHTS & MEASURES-1 YR.L
2014
Stephen E. Cullinane
INSPECTOR OF PLUMBING & GAS FITTINGS
appointed by the Building Inspector
2014 Gary R. Williams
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing & Gas Fittings
2014 Richard Kapenas
PUBLIC WEIGHERS FY'2013
Faye Silva
Eric Morin
Eric Ward
Jay Valier
Brian Contois
Gary Savoie
Richard Reynolds
Robert Pierce
SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY TAX WORK-OFF PROGRAM
& TAXATION AID COMMITTEE
2014 Kathryn Herrick, c/o Clerk's Office
2014
David Manzello, c/o Assessors Office
2014
Doreen Noble, c/o Council on Aging
2014
Shelley McCaie, c/o Treasurer's Office
2014
Vacancy - Member-at-large
TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE- 1 YR
2014
Marion Benson
2014
Jack Rodriquenz
TOWN MANAGER APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS
FY'14 Section 4-2 (d)
TOWN FOREST COMMITTEE - 3 YRS
Richard Bursch
TREE WARDEN-1 YR
2014 Jack Rodriquenz
VETERANS' SERVICE OFFICER-1 YR
2014
"TJ" Blauser
************************************************************
LOCAL CENSUS LIASON
*#....
SMART GROWTH REPORTING OFFICER
M.G.L. Chapter 40S
Marion Benson, c/o Planning Board
POLICE DEPARTMENTS
SEE ATTACHED APPOINTMENT LISTS FOR
TOWNSEND / SHIRLEY/LUNENBURG
****Denotes Chairperson
file: linda/ my documents/appointments/
