===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 4 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
11/5/2013
CLERK OFFICE
TURBAR
-
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room
at Town Hall as scheduled With Chair Person Tom
Alonzo, Vice Chairperson Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toate, and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Absent was Robert Ebersole
Regular Meeting opened at 7:02 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews acknowledged a group of Lunenburg citizens who donated labor and material costs for the construction on
a Bocce court at the Eagle House Senior Center. Those thanked were Paul Anderson, Mike Nault, Dave MacDonald, Joe
Progin, Jamie Toale, Tom Alonzo, Carl Luck, Fred Malcolm, Peter Charpentier, Tom Nowd, Pete Lincoln, and the DPW.
Mr. Alonzo congratulated all who organized and participated in the Annual Miles for Myles 5K fundraiser.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
APPOINTMENTS
1. Request for Boot Drive, Salvation Army: Dave MacDonald, Lunenburg MA., came before the BOS representing the
Salvation Army, to request permission for a Boot Drive to be held on 12/14/ 2013 in the center of Town and by CVS
intersection in Whalom, from 9AM-3PM. Mr. MacDonald spoke of the charity work which this organization does and
challenged the BOS to come and a "ring a bell" for their Kettle Drives. Both the Chief of Police and Fire Chief have given
approval for this event. Participants will be wearing reflective vests while soliciting funds at this event
Mr. MacDonald also mentioned that he is in favor of the BOS developing a policy concerning "Boot Drives" in the Town.
Mr. Toale moved to approve the request for the Salvation Army Boot Drive to be held on 12/14/2013, from 9AM-3PM, in
the Lunenburg Town center and at the CVS intersection in the Whalom district. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. MacDonald mentioned that he along with other volunteers would like to decorate the Upper Town Common with
Christmas lights again this year. The lighting ceremony will coincide with the School's holiday celebrations as well.
Mr. Alonzo replied that he had no objection with this and that a vote from the board was not necessary.
Mr. MacDonald thanked Mr. Matthews for his recognition of the volunteers who built a bocce court at the Eagle House
Senior Center. He said that the Eagle House really appreciated the work that was done and that he appreciated being
able to do it for them.
2. Police Chief Marino, Lt. Luth- K-9 Grant Opportunity & Development: Police Lt. Mike Luth spoke to the board and
explained that a generous grant from the Stanton Foundation has been received to start a K-9 Program with the
Lunenburg Police Force (LPD). This grant is in the amount of $25,000 which will be used for purchasing the dog, training
of the dog & handler, cost of conversion of a cruiser for the K-9 team, Kennel at handler's home, training equipment, K-9
Bulletproof vest, Dog food, Vet care allowance, a 10% reserve for contingencies, and reserve for future K-9 skills training
This grant will run over a 3 year period and Lt. Luth is looking for a 5 year commitment from the Town of Lunenburg.
Lt. Luth mentioned that Officer Tocci of the LPD. has solicited residents and business owners in Lunenburg to see if they
would be interested in partnering with the LPD in making this program successful, and has received a very positive
response for this program. With local support for this program it will keep the costs low for the Town and will enable the
program to continue past the life of the grant.
Mr. Alonzo asked what the use of the K-9 would be.
Lt. Luth replied that it would be used to track people, follow suspects involved in crimes, be trained in protection of the
handler, and would be trained in narcotics detection (dual purpose).
Mr. Alonzo asked what the estimated costs would be after the 3 year life of the grant was completed.
Lt. Luth responded that other jurisdictions costs were estimated as follows:
Food - $800
===PAGE 2===
Veterinary - $5-600
In-service Training - $500
This program will be deployed similar to the traffic program in a sense that when the handler and dog have to be in
service during their training, it would not deplete the patrol force causing overtime.
There will be a policy/mutual aide agreement developed on how the K-9 is deployed in regards to requests from other
communities, but for the use of the Town of Lunenburg they will be on call 24 hours.
Ms. Speidel asked Lt. Luth to describe some instances where the LPD have needed to use a K-9.
Lt. Luth replied that mostly for tracking of lost persons, including children, along with narcotic situations where they would
need to rely on outside agencies for this assistance.
Completion/approval time for the grant needs to be submitted by 11/25/2013. A handler from the LPD will need to be
chosen with assistance from the Stanton Foundation along with the Boston Police K-9 Training Academy, who will make
the recommendation of the handler. This process to receive the K-9 will take several months to get up and running which
could run out to next Spring or Fall. This will be followed by a full-time, 40 hour per week training schedule, for the
handler and the K-9 that will run for 14 weeks at the Boston Police K-9 Training Academy.
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Speidel if the BOS needed to vote on this item.
Ms. Speidel stated that the BOS did not need to vote on or officially accept this grant.
Mr. Toale spoke to say that after reviewing the grant, he believes that the Stanton Foundation would like to see some sort
of support/approval from the Town.
Mr. Alonzo spoke in favor of this program stating that it is a well-proven program not only across the country but also
around the world.
Ms. Bertram also spoke in favor to the program and said that they have done a phenomenal job in approaching vendors in
the town and then thanked the vendors for their support.
Officer Jason Berthelette, of the Woonsocket R.I. Police Force gave a short demonstration with the K-9 "Tango" which he
brought with him this evening and then introduced himself to the board. Officer Berthelette described the training history
of "Tango" and his own involvement with the K-9 programs. He explained that depending on how the dog is bred, trained
and taken care of, a "duel purpose" dog can have an 8-9 "functional working years" expectancy. The dog is then retired,
but will still retain its working habits.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Stanton Foundation for offering the grant and stated that he could not be more supportive of this
group.
Ms. Bertram thanked Lt. Luth for putting together this program.
Lt. Luth also spoke and recognized Officer Tocci for doing most of the leg work for this program.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Status Update: Town Manager Goals: Ms. Speidel reviewed the status of the Town Manager goals with the BOS as
follows:
Personnel
Institute annual performance evaluations with departments.
This has been started and Ms. Speidel is in the process of scheduling meetings with department heads. She expects to
have all of the performance reviews done with the metrics established by the end of the month.
Implement periodic department head/staff meetings to facilitate communication and teamwork
These are occurring on an "as needed" basis and at some point in the future Ms. Speidel would like to get back to having
these on a quarterly basis.
Formulate a system to document performance issues and specific corrective actions.
Each of the collective bargaining agreements and the salary administration plan identifies what the process steps are for
disciplinary action which we follow.
Explore training and educational seminars.
The Massachusetts Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA) provides training on a regular basis either on site or through
webinars. MillA training is free, easy to access online, and the Town receives credits back from MIlA when the Town
participates. Last year we received approximately $11,000 in participation credits and Ms. Speidel would like to set up an
===PAGE 3===
"in house" grant program with these funds where they could be redistributed to departments for activities that might not
get funded within in the annual operating budget.
There are some board members and staff who are participating in the Citizen Planner Program which offers different
workshops and seminars across the State on a variety of land use topics.
The Personnel Committee has taken this up a number of times but has not made much progress in this area. Ms. Speidel
na spoken with this committee about potentially hiring someone to do this work, which is very time intensive. There is ar
opportunity for a grant from MilA which would cover the cost of hiring for this project. Ms. Speidel has talked with a
consultant who is interested in doing this work but cannot begin this until January 2014.
Ms. Speidel believes that a Human Resource Director is needed. Without a Human Resource person, this is something
that either the Town Manager or the Personnel Committee takes up or someone is hired on a project basis. Ms. Speide
would like to include monies in the FY2015 budget for a part-time Human Resource person. Keeping items such as job
descriptions and policies current is difficult due to lack of staff time.
Establishment of departmental goals and objectives.
This is something that will occur through the Annual Performance Evaluations with the department heads.
Finance
Implement Performance Base Budgeting.
Ms. Speidel is hoping to include some performance measurements within the FY2015 budget recommendations.
Providing quarterly budget updates with an Executive Summary to be co-presented with the Town Accountant.
The first quarter report was provided to the BOS and to the Finance Committee and the Town Manager was pleased that
this was done in a timely fashion.
Construct a Budget Retrospective by department of historical funding and staffing tasks performed or eliminated
with outsourcing impact note.
Ms. Speidel expects to have more detail on this for the FY2015 budget.
Ms. Speidel stated that she met with the Finance Committee and they agreed on 12/12/2013 as the date to have the 5
Year Financial Forecast presentation as a joint meeting with the Finance Committee.
Operations
Operational review and analysis with efficiency improvement plan or affirmation of existing operations.
This is done on an informal basis as the budget recommendation is put together.
Ms. Speidel noted that the Police Chief has suggested that the Town of Lunenburg explore the possibility of a Regional
Animal Control Operation. There is a sizeable Community Challenge grant available from the State which some
communities in Western Mass have received for regional animal control. We are not in a position to apply for it this year
due to time constraints but will be applying next year.
However we will be applying for a District Local Technical Assistance (DLTA) grant through the Montachusett Regional
Planning Commission (MRPC) to do a feasibility and initial planning study for regional animal control. The Towns of
Lancaster, Pepperell, and Townsend have all shown interest in partnering with Lunenburg for this operation.
Develop Project Planning & reporting for annual tasks or special reports.
No comments at this time.
Plan for future positions, additions, consolidations and/or elimination.
This will occur throughout the budget development process for FY2015
Develop, document and implement of 5 year facilities/maintenance plan for both operating & capital.
The Department of Public Works (DPW) is currently drafting a plan. The Building Re-Use Committee is gathering and
analyzing a lot of data that we would like to incorporate into this plan as well.
Develop a plan to codify current Bylaws.
The Town had secured funding in FY2013 for this project, a contract has been signed for this project, and it is moving
forward although there is no time table for when it will be completed.
Work with the IT (Information Technology) Director to develop, document and implement town wide IT policies.
These are the IT Director's goals for the current fiscal year.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Matthews commented to say that before we get into the budget process we need to lay some ground work to look
further ahead and flush it out. We have talked about consolidating facilities management operations across all Town
functions along with consolidating personnel chart functions. He believes that the Regional Animal Control is a good idea
and hopes they can get one that deals with wild animals also. The Regional Lock Up is another item that he would like to
discuss further. He added that the Town Manager's goals update was good and that we seem to be going in the right
Ms. Speidel stated that the way she has approached efficiencies and regionalization etc...is when opportunities arise. We
have tried to create some opportunities such as consolidating Human Resources although there is currently a void there.
We've seen opportunities through the retirement of a staff member or through someone taking a position some where
else. We've been successful with that but it's been quite a while before we've tried to create an opportunity.
Ms. Bertram echoed Mr. Matthews comments and said that looking at it in the budget is part of the budget. She believes
that rather than be reactive we need to look at opportunities and she is happy with the progress. She feels that with
reinitiating the quarterly department head meetings, maybe opportunities will present themselves. We need to start
looking at streamlining operations and she would like to start looking at this earlier in the process rather than during the
budget process.
Ms. Speidel stated that we are always going to be reactionary, we don't have the staff that we need to have. When she
started with the Town the BOS and Town Manager's office functioned with 4 full-time equivalents and we now have 1.75.
Although she is the one who brought forward those changes, cuts needed to be done. She believes that the problem is
creating the time to be addressing these issues outside of the budget. She would challenge anyone to go to any other
community and find anyone doing more regional activity or doing things smarter or better than we are. There is always
room for improvement but we are pretty impressive for a community of this size.
Mir. Matthews spoke to say that Ms. Speidel is always looking ahead at changes in the workforce and people retiring. He
added that he realizes that this is an ongoing thing with the Town Manager and he appreciates that.
Ms. Betram spoke and said that she had concerns with the BOS budget last fiscal cycle and she continues to have those
concerns. She thinks that if the budget does not support the staff that is needed we need to address that and put in the
funding that is needed for a Human Resources person and for whatever staff is needed. She added that the Town
Manager is doing a phenomenal job with the staff that she has. A lot of responsibility has fallen upon the Town Manager
due to the lack of staffing and we need to look hard at the funding within our own office.
Ms. Speidel spoke and said that we need to put together a budget that's responsible and that the community will support.
When they are talking about making more cuts in the school, DPW, and Police & Fire in order to have a Human Resource
person, it is a hard sell. None of the administrative cuts were done because it was something she wanted to do and it's
tough to "beef up" the back office when people are hurting in the other services.
Mr. Alonzo spoke and said that we have to recognize what drives the budget. We are not even breaking even, we are
going in the other direction. He agrees that taking advantage of every opportunity that may arise is what we need to do,
but still the driving force is taking the money and doing the things we need to do is where we always get caught.
Mr. Toale commented and said that if the work of Human Resources is viewed as a back office function it will get put into
the budget cycle as "do we or don't we" need it. The real work of Human Resources is being done every day because it
needs to by our Manager's and the Town Manager. Clear job descriptions, clear goal setting, motivation, and recognition
are all parts of what we do when we work for the Town. He added that he would support thinking of it as a much more
holistic discussion, dealing with it in each of our jobs, and supporting it in anyway we need to as opposed to a "back
office" function.
Mr. Matthews mentioned that the Planning Board Director will be retiring next year and he thanked Marion Benson for
planning ahead with notifying the BOS. He also thanked her for all of the years that she had donated as a Planning Board
member while doing the work of a Planning Director for free. He also recognized the years she has served us since she
joined the Towns work force. He mentioned that some of the work she has done has not been popular but you cannot
deny that she has "worked her tail off' for this Town.
2. Status Update Board of Selectmen Goals: Mr. Alonzo reported on the status of the BOS goals as follows:
Finish Review of the BOS Policies & Procedures Manual.
The board has been working on this and are waiting on the final revisions. All policies have been reviewed that we
currently have and they have defined some of the hearing procedures. Also being looked at are appointment, re-
appointment, and performance review procedures.
===PAGE 5===
Creating a list of Town owned land and chapter properties.
There is some work that was done by previous study committees and we said we would make this a more formal
document. We will be checking with the Assessors office on those properties for their valuations and then the BOS will
decide what to do with them.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that in regards to the Chapter land the board was looking for feedback from the Open Space
Committee on developing a criteria and she would like an update from them.
Economic Development Plan- Discuss and explore how best to attract business and other development to the
Town. Discuss further the creation of an economic development team.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that we have information from MRPC which was distributed to the Building Re-use Committee
and thinks that the board may want to re-visit that and discuss about an economic development team. MRPC is doing
work under the Department of Labor and Training (DLT) grant for the Planning Board that she believes will tie into this and
would like this put on a future BOS meeting.
Approve communications between committees and departments.
There was the reinstatement of the regular Chairpersons meeting. Although there have not been regular Chairs meetings,
when topics have arisen meetings have been arranged with municipal departments and other elected and appointed
boards.
Town web site, 3 sub-goals.
Establish basic policies for what documents must be on the web site and in what format.
Discuss and propose basic framework for those document formats while staying up to date.
Explore the possibility of establishing a web site policy committee.
We have not approached this yet and it should be done in conjunction with the IT Director.
Mr. Alonzo stated that we need to address two of the BOS goals which are the Economic Development Plan and the
Town web site. All others are in progress.
3. Set date for Special Town Meeting and Special Election: Ms. Bertram moved to set the dates of January 7, 2014
for the Special Town Meeting and January 11, 2014 for the Special Election. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo reminded the public that while there maybe other articles on the Special Town Meeting, the driving force
behind this Special Town Meeting is the proposed school building project, which is not a "done deal" yet. He stated that 2
votes will be needed to make this happen which will be a 2/3rds vote at Special Town Meeting and then it will need to
pass at the Special Town Election. He will be speaking at each BOS meeting about this project.
Ms. Speidel reminded the BOS that the warrant will be placed on next weeks agenda which will make the warrant open on
11/12/2013 and close on 11/19/2013. She will also have a draft of the question for the Special Election and this will need
to be approved by the BOS and the MSBA.
4. Consider reduction in membership Green Communities Task Force: Ms. Speidel explained that this Task Force
has problems with meetings because all of the appointed members are having trouble attending meetings and therefore
they cannot reach a quorum. Since the last BOS meeting, no one has come forward to serve on this Task Force.
Currently this is a Task Force of 7 members, 4 of which are appointed and 3 of which are staff serving as ex officio. The
options for the BOS to take this evening include either appointing the staff or reducing the membership. Ms. Speidel
recommended reduction of the Task Force saying that she does not believe that staff should become appointed members,
their role should be for giving assistance or advice.
Ms. Bertram recommended that the membership be reduced to 5 in order to insure that are able to have meetings. She
would have preferred that people had come forward to volunteer and in the event that people do come forward at a later
date, this can be revisited again.
Ms. Bertram moved to reduce the membership of the Green Communities Task Force to 5 to insure a quorum. Mr. Toale
Discussion: Mr. Matthews stated that he is bothered by the fact that no one came forward to join this committee. He
mentioned how people were upset with the Task Force during the solar discussions and that these people need to get
involved with their town. Increasingly the burden is on the same group of people over and over again.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he agrees with Mr. Matthews saying that he had hoped someone would come forward and
that it was disappointing and disheartening that nobody did. He stated that he agrees with the Town Managers belief that
staff members should not be appointed as voting members.
Mr. Toale spoke to say that he agrees that this could be revisited again if people came forward who were willing to serve.
On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that the Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) is also in need of 3 more members. He
mentioned that you can be a High School student and be on this committee. He thinks that this opportunity should appeal
to people who want to be involved in television on all different levels. People interested can pick up talent bank forms
either at Town Hall or they can access them online.
5. Accept BOS Policies & Procedures: Tabled to the next BOS meeting.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
10/15/2013
10/22/2013
Warrants:
Lunenburg Water Dept. Quarterly Bill $5336.31
10/28/2013
#10P-14M
$424.63
11/9/2013
#10P-14
$650,217.73
11/5/2013
#23-14
$444,790.62
*11/5/2013
#10P-14V
-$2123.15
*Ms. Speidel noted that the payroll reduction is the final approval of disability retirement of one of the Police Officers which
went into effect as of 10/30/2013
$314,542.91
Action File Issues: Mr. Toale reported that he had received a phone call from a citizen requesting that in light of any vote
to significantly increase taxes that the BOS look into any assistance that might be available for senior citizens.
Mr. Alonzo recommended contacting the Council on Aging Director for information.
Ms. Speidel recommended contacting the Assessor's office for a any information they may have and she will ask the
Assessor to make a presentation on any programs they have available at the next BOS meeting.
8.Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance
Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee; School Building
Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they met last evening and said that all of the preliminary input from
the two task groups are in.
The next meeting will be on 11/18/2013 and they hope to draft their conclusions along with
any recommendations at the 12/2/2013 meeting so they can present them to the BOS at a future meeting.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee continues to meet weekly and will be reviewing the
School Dept. capital requests this Thursday.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committees last meeting was spent reviewing the School Building
project. They plan to return to their review and update of their finance policies at their 11/14/2013 meeting.
Library Board of Trustees- No Report
MPO- Ms. Bertram reported that the Town is on track with meeting the requirements for the Summer St. "2017"
Transportation Improvement Project (TIP). The project is unusual because we were not at the 25% design at the time that
they were placed on the TIP, which was with the understanding that they would get there within a certain time frame,
which they will meet, and they should be at 25% design in November.
There will be a hearing in March.
Massachusetts Dept. of Transportation (MassDOT) will have a hearing and the Town of Lunenburg will also need to have
a public hearing
Ms. Bertram stated that the amount of "Green Space" has been reduced. There will be approximately 10' of Green Space
on the side, opposite the tracks, rather than the larger swath. This is due to configurations of the layout as well as
property lines etc. They plan to meet with some of the business owners between November and March to make sure they
understand how the project is going to move forward and to address any concerns that they may have. There will be
sidewalks on both sides of the road along with granite curbing.
===PAGE 7===
Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported that this board's first meeting in November will not be held due to the fact that they
will be attending a meeting at MRC concerning site plan reviews. Their next meeting will be on 11/25/2013.
PACC- No Report
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that this committee held its first Public Forum last Wednesday and it
was fairly well attended.
They have been trying to "fine tune" the design to bring some costs back in line. They are
the Middle School and High School more clearly defined in their separation.
As they looked at this design they
would reduce the cost by over $1M, which will significantly lower the cost to the tax payer.
The Mass School Building Association (MSBA) will meet on 11/20/2013 to review the plans and hopefully they will
approve them then. The committee's belief is not to get too aggressive with design changes because it could upset the
progress with the MSBA. Every month the project is delayed costs approximately $150,000. Public Forums are
scheduled for 11/16/2013 at the Library from 10AM-2PM, and on 12/5/2013 at the High School at 3PM and 7PM.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that she had attended a meeting with the MSBA this afternoon where they went through the status
of submittals and what the next steps are. The Town will be receiving a project scope and budget agreement from the
legal staff of the MSBA within the next several days. They indicated that ideally, they would like to have the BOS execute
that document before the 11/20/2013 meeting. She reminded the board that there are only 2 meetings before that date
and is unsure if this can be done.
Mr. Matthews voiced his frustration with this process but pointed out that this partnership with the MSBA will save the
Town $35M-$36M.
Ms. Bertram questioned the changes in the design and asked how this works in with the budget, if we do execute this
agreement which sets the budget prior to the 11/20/2013 meeting.
Mr. Matthews replied that the budget is being submitted with the changes and reduction in costs already taken out of the
contingency lines as opposed to the construction lines. As we get past 11/20 it will be shifted around appropriately. It's
still the same size building and capacity but the changes will make better use of space within the building
Ms. Bertram commented and said that she was happy to attend the presentation, a lot of good information was received,
and she was happy with the number of people in attendance. She had paid particular attention to the number of people
who asked what advantages would this new building project bring to the curriculum and moving forward she would like
emphasis put on that type of information and how this project will provide more advantages to future students.
Sewer Commission- No Report
MA Broadband- Mr. Alonzo reported that Ma Broadband is at 100% of the poles surveyed and installed. They are 99%
done with the project in its entirety for lines run, and the networking is at about 97%. Lunenburg is set to go online in
December of this year. After the community anchor institutions are online, the work can begin on how to address
business and resident attachments, which is not yet fully in place. The main focus is to get the Town buildings set before
they go on to 3rd
party access.
Ms. Bertram asked if they will assist with the 3d party access.
Mr. Alonzo replied they will act as a liaison. There is a bidding process and an entity will take over from the State.
Ms. Bertram asked what is our involvement? Is this going to be 3 parties doing this individually with homeowners or is
this going to be something the Town will orchestrate.
Mr. Alonzo answered that he is looking to get involved from a Town perspective. He is hoping to have companies that are
approved that Ma Broadband has worked with. Once it's available, because it's a public project, 3º parties can bid on
getting access, that's why it's not fully defined as of yet.
9.Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel reported that the online survey asking what the Towns
people preferred for financing of the Middle/High School Building project currently shows that 21 people have responded,
62% prefer a 30 year term, and 38% prefer a 20 year term. She was hoping to get a better response from the Town.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that the final decision on how to finance this project lies with the BOS in conjunction with the
Town Manager and other financial committees in the Town. The more people who respond to this survey, the more their
influence will be considered.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Matthews added that when you look at an average property tax bill the net effect would be $2640 more with a 30 year
financing as opposed to a 20 year financing. The most fiscally conservative way to approach this is to go for the shortest
term possible however the affordability issue is a big deal and going with the 30 year term would be less of a burden on
the taxpayer.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS: None
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the BOS meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion
carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 8:46PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
November 12, 2013
November 19, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
