===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
6/4/13
6:00PM Meet with Town Counsel to review status
Agreements, EPG Solar and/ or Mass PV1
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 1 3 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
gall
of solar farm projects,
PPA abd/or PILOT
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Tom
Alonzo, Paula Bertram, David Matthews, Robert Ebersole, Jamie Toale and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo began the meeting by explaining the BOS was already in session because the meeting began at
6PM so that an update could be given to the BOS by Town Counsel on the Solar Panel Project in Town.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the American Legion and Doreen Noble for the Memorial Day Services held on Memorial
Day.
Mr. Matthews noted that an agreement was come to with the Public Employee Union that helps contain health
insurance costs. The agreement will last until June 30, 2016.
Ms. Speidel stated that the agreement is essentially an extension of the current contract but includes a tiered
system. She noted that the Town will be saving significant money in the coming years, possibly up to
$600,000.00, and prescription drug care will go through Medicare as opposed to the own.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 p.m. Bangkok Hill Restaurant, Request for Approval of BYOB - Mr. Robert Bowen,
representing the Bangkok Hill Restaurant, had read through the terms issued by the Town to qualify for a
BYOB restaurant and agreed with those terms. He stated that this would be a temporary thing, since the
restaurant was seeking a full time liquor license.
Ms. Speidel stated that permit would expire Dec. 31, 2013 or at the issuance of a liquor license. She stated this
language was listed on the application for the BYOB Permit.
Ms. Bertram stated that if this language was not listed on the permit and only listed on the application, there
would be a problem. She requested that the language regarding the liquor license be included on the permit.
Mr. Toale asked if, under provision 3C, it was OK to approve the expiration of the Permit at the issuance of the
Common Victualler License.
Mr. Bowen stated that he would be OK to waive this provision.
Ms. Bertram stated that she thinks it is an add provision and would be willing to waive the provision. She also
noted that in reviewing the policy manual this issue should be reviewed and updated.
Mr. Alonzo stated he was happy with the provisions so long as Bangkok Hill returns the BYOB permit as soon
as they are approved for a liquor license.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the request for a BYOB permit at the Bangkok Hill Restaurant with a waiver of
section 3A, and subject to the requirements stated in their application that the license will expire on Dec. 315 or
===PAGE 2===
at the issuance of a liquor license. Ms. Bertram seconded the motion. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0
opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Accept Donation, Carpet for PACC Studio-Ms. Speidel explained that a donation of approximately
$500.00 worth of carpet was made to the PACC Studio by Mr. Dave McDonald. The BOS must accept the
donation on behalf of the town and PACC. She stated that a letter was sent by Lance D. May, Chairman of the
PACC, explaining the donation.
Mr. Matthews stated that he was thankful and welcoming of the donation, but in the future he believes the
process of donating anything to the Town should be made much easier.
Mr. Ebersole moved to accept the donation of carpet for the PACC Studio. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote
motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. 12-month Contract with Dominion for Municipal Aggregation Plan- Brian Murphy, Colonial Power
Group, reviewed the history of the Town's relationship with Municipal Aggregation Plan. He stated that on May
16" Ms. Speidel agreed to a contract with Dominion Energy Services which is valid for one year but that the
price is only known for the next 6 months. If Dominion can beat the next Unitil service rate, they can continue
on with the contract. If Dominion can't beat the service rate, they can place the customer back on regular
service. If a consumer wished to leave the agreement, they are free to do so.
Mr. Alonzo asked if someone had opted out of the initial aggregation plan, did they also opt out of the current
aggregation plan.
Mr. Murphy stated that those who opted out of the plan in 2011 were not invited into or informed of the the new
aggregation plan. If a member of the town who had initially opted out wanted to join the plan again, they could
do so but would have to rejoin the aggregation plan.
Mr. Murphy noted that the role of Colonial Power Group was to be a liaison to those who are using the service.
They are there to answer questions and address concerns from those enrolled in the aggregation plan. Up to
this point, only 4 people had contacted the group from the town about the plan, and only 4 people had opted
out of the plan in its second phase. The Town can look to set a long term rate or ladder in purchases, all to
make sure that the Town is receiving the best deal it can.
Ms. Speidel asked if the Town still has the opportunity to buy energy for 7.75 cents for the second half of the
agreement
Mr. Murphy replied that the Town did not agree to that rate in the contract.
Mr. Toale asked how the laddering strategy works for individual consumers.
Mr. Murphy replied that the laddering strategy is open to the consumer and a consumer can stay with the
program or opt out of it. The Town could put some limitations around a laddering program.
Mr. Matthews asked if the communication issues had been solved from the previous agreement with Conn
Edison.
Mr. Murphy stated that those communications issues had been solved and that those issues were the fault of
Conn Edison. New provisions had been placed in the agreement with the Town that prohibited the energy
supplier from contacting any individual consumer without the approval of Colonial Power Group first.
3. Approve BOS Goals and Objectives- Mr. Matthews stated that he noticed that reinstating the Chair
meetings from each board was part of the goals and objectives. He stated that his personal experience when
he was Chairman of the BOS, he did not find those meetings to be necessary. His personal opinion was that
so long as there was good communication between the BOS and other boards and departments in Town, a
Chair meeting is not necessary.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo stated that when the Chair meetings were instituted, there was no decision making happening, but
that they were more of a regular occurrence to discuss issues. That being said he takes Mr. Matthews point
and does not feel one way or another about it.
Ms. Bertram stated that when she was Chairman of the BOS, these meetings were very productive and full of
great information. She did state that it may not be necessary to make it a BOS Goal and Objective:
Ms. Bertram stressed that Department Updates were very important for her and she would like to see it on the
BOS Goals and Objectives because it improves communications. Monthly updates from departments would be
preterred. This issue was not currently on the BOS Goals and Objectives list.
Mr. Toale agreed and stated that the only time the BOS hears from the departments is around budget time,
and there was value in hearing from them when they weren't defending their budget and it is very likely the
BOS could assist the individual departments.
Mr. Ebersole state that he would like to see a condensed hearing process to improve communications with
individual boards and departments.
Ms. Bertram stated that this would be very difficult and would dictate and limit the type of communication that
could be had between the BOS and the boards and departments.
Mr. Alonzo stated that regular meetings between the BOS and department/board heads would be added onto
the goals and objectives list.
Ms. Speidel said that an alternative to the Chairs Meeting might be to have a periodic "all boards" meeting,
where every member of every board meets with the BOS at the same time a couple of times a year.
Mr. Alonzo said that he will make changes to the goals and objectives of the BOS as discussed, which include
striking "regular" from the language of Chair meetings and adding in the periodic meetings with department
heads under the improved communication section.
4. Approve Town Manager Goals and Objectives- Tabled until 6/11/13 BOS meeting
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
05/21/2013
Warrants:
State Special Election: June 25, 2013
6/4/13
25P13
$738,924.17
6/4/13
64-13
$625,591.03
6/5/13
65-13
$164,688.11
Action File Issues:
Mr. Alonzo stated that in the past two members of the BOS negotiated a contract for the Town
Manager, and he would like to get an early start on this issue since the Town Manager's contract is up
in December. He stated he would like to be one of the two members negotiating the contract.
Mr. Matthews volunteered to be the other member of the BOS to negotiate the contract.
There were no objections to this from the BOS.
6. Committee Reports-
Mr. Toale stated that the Finance Committee met with Nathan Kenney who provided the committee with a brief
on his work at the dispatch in Devens. He also noted that Finance Committee appointed Steve Raboin to the
Building Reuse Committee.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Matthews confirmed that School Building Committee checked with the MSBC that they were on track to
confirm a school for Lunenburg for 2016/2017.
Mr. Ebersole stated that the Sewer Commission has been in touch with the citizens who live on Sunset Ave
about extending the Sewer there and the reception by the constituents was positive. Also, the Fitchburg inter-
municipal agreement is still sitting on approval from Fitchburg.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the Finance Committee Appointment Committee met with 4 excellent candidates for the
board and met with one re-appointment. Jason Smith was re-appointed. The two new committee members are
Karin Menard and John Henshaw.
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports - Ms. Speidel stated that the Town is only expected to
receive $316,598.00 of Chapter 90 funding from the State, which is about 50% of what was requested and is
less than the Town had been receiving the past few years. Unless more funding comes in soon, the Town's
spring paving project will be significantly smaller than originally planned.
Ms. Speidel stated that a letter was received from MIlA advising that additional Participation Credits will be
available starting on July 1st. The additional credit is in the amount of $7,294.00. An additional credit for
workers compensation will be received in the amount of $273.00.
Ms. Speidel stated that she met with an LSP license site professional to look at the property at 925 Mass. Ave.
and the Parks Garage on West Street. The professional was doing pro-bono work. She expects to have a
game plan on what to do with those two properties in the next couple of weeks.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS -
1. Building Reuse Task Force: Ms. Speidel stated that she had 3 applications for the Building Reuse Task
Force. Currently the Task Force had representatives from the BOS (Jaime Toale), Historical Commission (Pat
Slattery), Finance Commission (Steve Raboin), and the commission was waiting for representatives from the
Planning Board, School Committee, and the Council on Aging. Advertising for the three open spots from public
has been ongoing on the Public Access Channel and on the Town's website.
Mr. Toale asked the public to continue to volunteer for the Building Reuse Task Force and fill out a talent form
at the Town Clerk's Office. He also stated that interviews for the positions should be scheduled for the next
meeting.
2. Agricultural Commission: Mr. Alonzo noted that the Agricultural Commission was created at town meeting
and will include 5 members with members serving either one 1 year term, one 2 year term, or one 3 year term.
Doug MacMillan, 471 Leominster Road, noted that he grew up on a farm, raised some beef, and wanted to be
a strong liaison between the farming community and the Town of Lunenburg. He stated that he wanted the
commission to be a good face for the farming community.
james Lattanzi, 123 Hollis Road, noted that he has come before the BOS as an advocate for the Agricultural
Commission. He is the owner of Hollis Hill Farms, and believes that the Agricultural Committee is a great group
to help promote agriculture in the Town. He noted that he works closely with the Farm Services Agency and
the Federal Government as well as the Massachusetts Maple Committee.
Jeffery L. Mendoza, 162 Lancaster Avenue, owns 14 acres of land that are farmed in Lunenburg by Lunenburg
farmers. He believes there needs to be a strong connection between the Town and its farmers. He is not a
farmer and he believes this is a good thing since he can be a voice for the non-farming public.
Andrea Schnepf, 74 Highland Street, owns a farm on Highland Street which mostly farms fruits and vegetables
and she is also the Farmers Market Manager in town. She works for the Board of Health. She wants to help
bring resources to the farmers in Town through State and Federal programs.
===PAGE 5===
Garrett Stillman, 991 Lancaster Ave, noted he was a 4" generation dairy farmer. He is the current Vice
President of the New England Dairy Producers/Handlers Assoc. He believes that the Agricultural Commission
is a necessity in the Town because of how much farming and agricultural there is in the Town and that time
must be made to make the Agricultural Commission work.
Renee T. Trakimas, 520 Page Street, owns Sunrise Stables, which is an equine boarding stable. She believes
the Agricultural Commission has a responsibility to preserve the land and the farming and agricultural
community. She noted that she belongs to a few State and Federal Horse Regulation committees.
Greg Barnett, 74 Highland Street, stated his hope to be an alternate on the board. He grew up with agricultural
but never owned a farm. He has worked for a number of farms in town. He's been applying pesticides on the
crops, worked with committees to explain pesticides to the community, and wants the commission to function
as an educational group in town. He also noted that he would like to see a Town Field Day or fair to help
promote the farms in town.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who volunteered to represent the Town and farms on the Agricultural
Commission. He stated the commission was long overdue.
Mr. Ebersole noted that the members were recommended to the BOS by the Town Manager, not a straight
vote by the BOS.
Ms. Speidel recommended the one year position to Renee Trakimas, for two year terms Jeffery Mendoza and
Douglas MacMillan, and for three year terms Jim Lattanzi and Garrett Stillman.
BOS all commented in favor of the Town Managers recommendations.
Mr. Matthews moved to approve the recommendations of the Town Manager for the Agricultural Commission.
Mir. Toale seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the new members of the Agricultural Commission should see the Town Clerk to be
sworn in and the Town Clerk will organize the first meeting.
3. MART Advisory Board- Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Robert Bowen if he was able to continue serving on the
MART Advisory Board.
Mr. Robert Bowen replied that he had missed several meetings of the board and that he did not believe it was
a good idea for him to continue serving unless there was no one else able to serve.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Mr. Toale congratulated Lunenburg High School's class of 2013 for graduating.
Being no further business Mr. Alonzo moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded the motion. On
vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
June 11, 2013
June 18, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
