===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 1 6 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/7/13
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews
Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Robert Ebersole, Jamie Toale and Town Manager Kerry Speidel
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews opened up the meeting by thanking everyone who came to Town Meeting and also by welcoming the
newest members of the BOS, Jamie Toale and Robert Ebersole.
Mr. Alonzo reiterated what Mr. Matthews stated and also noted that there was no negativity during the campaigns which
was refreshing and he wanted to congratulate the candidates for that. He did note that there was a conflict of interest on
Election Day when candidates didn't stay 150 feet or further from the doors to the polling locations. He hopes that this
will be stopped in the future.
Ms. Bertram noted that she was very welcoming of the clean campaigns that were run within the town.
Mir. Matthews continued the Public Comment from the BOS by reading a proclamation that recognized Tuesday, May 7,
2013 National Teacher's Day in Lunenburg. He continued by acknowledging that Wednesday, May 8, 2013 was National
School Nurse's Recognition Day.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
APPOINTMENTS
7:30 p.m. - Trish Domigan, VHB Engineering, Update on Summer Street Project; Select Design Option -
Ms. Speidel stated that invitations were sent to all of the abutting properties to the project explaining what was happening
with the project and that it would be discussed at the BOS meeting.
Ms. Domigan presented the BOS and the public with a brief history of the Summer Street Project and explained the
relationship between the project and the communities of Leominster, Fitchburg and Lunenburg. She stated that she was at
the meeting tonight asking for consensus on one of the concepts. Ms. Domigan continued by explain that there were 3
Concepts which the communities could choose from for the project.
Concept A involved reducing the size of the intersection on Summer Street in Lunenburg for better geometry, introduce a
turn lane, and potentially remove pavement to replace with a grass strip down the center of the road.
Concept B would include a center turn lane which would start in Fitchburg on John Fitch Highway and would change the
roadway section to 47 feet.
Concept C would be just for Fitchburg and it would look at putting in a center median, but just in the city of Fitchburg.
This concept would not really work due to the surrounding neighborhood. The city acknowledges this and will not move
ahead with Concept C.
Ms. Domigan stated that Concept B, with the center turn lane, was the best idea and she was seeking consensus from the
BOS in support of Concept B.
Ms. Bertram questioned how large the shoulders of the road would be.
Ms. Domigan responded that the shoulders would be five feet, as per MassDOT regulations.
Ms. Bertram asked is there would be green ways along the residential sections of the road.
Ms. Domigan said that there was ample room for greenways along the entire project from city line to city line.
Mr. Ebersole asked if there was any median or hard surface between the lanes.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Domigan stated there would not be any median.
Mr. Ebersole asked if property owners would still have good access to their driveways.
Ms. Domigan stated they would still have good access to the driveways.
Ray Morin, 48 Youngs Road, stated that he was co-owner of the property on Youngs Road and his property has egress to
the Summer Street plan which does not show the changes to accommodate his business. He would like to know how the
plan would accommodate his trucking business. The plan would also block the advertising that he has on his property for
the business. He would also like to know who will be taking care of the greenways. Additionally, the changes would make
it very difficult for his trucks in his business that currently leave on Youngs Road would be accommodated as the new
plans limits space for movement of the trucks.
Mr. Matthews said to Ms. Domigan that the greenways and turning lanes would have to be adjusted to accommodate the
trucking businesses in the area and that there would also have to be discussion on who would take care of the greenways,
the municipalities or the abutting property owners.
Ms. Bertram said that any discussion of the green space will ultimately hinge on the drainage issue in the area. This is
important because the BOS wants to accommodate the residents and the businesses but the green space is central to the
economic revitalization of the area.
Joe Smalley, Daewoo North, asked if the plan is set in stone or are the entrances and exits negotiable. Also, how will the
green spaces affect his display of the cars that his business sells? Does he have any input on the layout of the green space?
Mr. Alonzo state that nothing is set in stone and that everything is just a concept at the moment. He continued by saying
the BOS wants the input of all the property owners in the area and that he believes his concerns in regards to his business
and property will be taken into consideration.
Dave Pacillo, co- owner of a Hair Salon located at 91 Summer St., stated that he prefers Concept B. He continued by
stating that his concerns are with the power lines being above ground and asked the BOS if the train yard would be
moved.
Mr. Matthews stated the power lines would remain above ground.
Mr. Alonzo said that he has not heard what the plan is for the train yard.
Mr. Dion, 236 Summer Street, asked the BOS how the project would be financed and he notices that there are trees being
placed in driveways in many of these plans and he's concerned he is going to lose part of his property to trees he does not
want.
Mr. Alonzo stated that it is the intention of the BOS to work with property owners to design a space that is
accommodating and preferable to the property owners. In concerns to financing the project, it is part of a MassDot grant
and the towns would maintain the roads as they do now. Without the MassDot grant, the area would fall into further
disrepair and none of the three municipalities in the area would be able to repair the roads.
After due and diligent discussion among the board members, they were in agreement that Concept B would be the best
design for this area.
Ms. Bertram made a motion to endorse concept B as the main concept plan for the Summer Street project moving
forward. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel asked for Ms. Domigan to review the process going forward.
Ms. Domigan stated that there would be a review process going forward that would include a configuration of the
roadway and an approval from MassDot. Another meeting would be set up in the fall between the engineers and the BOS.
Plans would be submitted to the MassDot in November, and a public hearing for the project run by MassDot in January.
Mr. Ebersole stated that there needs to be input and a meeting with the Sewer and Water Departments in regards to the
project.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Domigan stated that these meetings will happen and that MassDot offers to pay for 50% of any relocation costs in
concerns to utilities to help expedite work on projects, but that MassDot will not pay for underground utilities.
Mr. Alonzo reiterated how important it is to work with all the property owners, and especially to allow the businesses
abutting the project to remain open and thriving.
Ms. Domigan stated that there was plenty of room in the roads for businesses to remain open and that all of the turn lanes
would be large enough for trucks to turn in.
Ms. Bertram said that she met with MassDOT and MRPC and they strongly support this project. She stated that hopefully
by tomorrow they will receive approval to proceed with a 2014-2017 TIP project. This is important because it will lay out
funding for a specific target year.
Sharon Leblanc, 171 Summer Street, asked if what Ms. Bertram was referring to was a date to end the project or simply a
date to receive funding.
Ms. Bertram stated she was specifically referring to the receiving funding for the project.
Ms. Domigan stated that if the project has an add date of Jan. 1, 2017, MassDOT has a turnaround of about 4 months.
Construction of the project would take two construction seasons and be completed by 2019.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Domigan for coming to the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Board Reorganization; Liaison Assignments - Mr. Matthews explained that after every Town Election there was
a reorganization of the BOS where new roles and committees were assigned to each member of the BOS. Mr. Matthews
stated that although he had been the BOS Chair for the past two years it was his belief that the Chairmanship of the BOS
should be a rotating position. With that said Mr. Matthew opened nominations to the BOS.
Mr. Matthews nominated Mr. Alonzo to be the Chairman of the BOS. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in
tavor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the BOS for electing him to be the Chair and commended Mr. Matthews for his time as Chair of the
BOS over the past two years. He then opened up the floor for nominations for Vice Chair for the BOS.
Mr. Toale nominated Ms. Bertram for the position of Vice Chair. Mi. Ebersole seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in
favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Bertram nominated Mr. Matthews for the position of Clerk of the BOS. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote motion carried,
5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo stated that there now needed to be a reorganization on the BOS of the liaisons between the BOS and the
various committees that exists in the Town.
Liaisons for the year will be as follows:
Mr. Matthews - School Building Committee
Ms. Bertram - Planning Board
Mr. Alonzo -MassBroadband Committee & Finance Committee Appointments
Mr. Toale - Finance Committee & Capital Planning Commission
Mr. Ebersole - Sewer Commission & PACC
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Alonzo noted that the Memorial Day Committee was looking for a speaker for the Memorial Day services held on
May 26"
". If one or more members of the BOS wished to speak at the Memorial Day services, the committee would
welcome their participation.
2. Building Reuse Committee- Mr. Matthews explained that there was a need for an Ad Hoc Committee regarding
the Passios Building to see if the building should be renovated and kept for future use or if it should be torn down. He
stated that if the building was kept it could be used as a future Town Hall, Senior Center, School Services building, or
serve a number of other purposes. The committee would be setup with members of existing committees and people from
the Town with backgrounds in architecture, carpentry, real estate, etc. and would determine if the building should be kept
or demolished. He continued by saying there were many problems with the building that needed to be looked at if the
Town wished to keep it.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Matthews if the committee would be Ad Hoc from the School Building Committee or the BOS.
Mr. Matthews answered that it would be an Ad Hoc Committee from the BOS.
Mr. Toale stated that he would be interested in serving on such a committee and that his professional background would
qualify him to serve.
Ms. Bertram noted that the committee would also have to see how any decision with the Passios building would work
within the context of the Town's Master Plan for a more "walkable" community.
Mr. Ebersole state he would also like to hear if there was any use for the building as a commercial property or, if
demolished, if the area could be used as athletic fields.
Mr. Matthews stated he would come back the following week with a plan and encouraged people from the town to join
the committee.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes: April 23, 2013
Warrants: 5/09
5/08
5/07
#23-P131
#60-13
#59-13
$621,072.38
$146,703.88
$458,032.35
Action File Issues: Ms. Bertram asked if Town Counsel had set up a seminar regarding the open meeting law.
Ms. Speidel stated the meeting was set up for the following week.
4. Committee Reports - Mr. Ebersole updated the BOS and the public that at Town Meeting the Sewer Commission
changed the sewer map to eliminate the developments in the Tri-Town lot because they were going to be served by the
city of Fitchburg and added 3-4 lots on Leominster Road that were being serviced by the sewer but were never listed on
Ms. Bertram said that she was unable to attend the last Planning Board meeting which was the continuation on the issue of
35 Leominster Rd. and asked Mr. Alonzo if he could update the public on the last meeting.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he had attended the meeting and the board heard the final thoughts from the public regarding the
property, closed the meeting, and voted 2-1, with one recusal, to allow the sawmill on 35 Leominster Road.
Mr. Alonzo stated the last Finance Committee meeting was at Town Meeting and the next meeting was scheduled for
Thursday, May 9' at Town Hall. The meeting would not be televised.
5. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports -
Ms. Speidel reported that Unitil had sent a sale price to the consultant and it was about double what the city of Fitchburg
had paid per street lamp. The city of Fitchburg had purchased at a higher price than other communities due to budget
reasons. Fitchburg had about half of their street lights turned off and the town simply wanted to get all the lights back on
as quickly as possible. Ms. Speidel said she was encouraged that Town Meeting approved the Stretch Code because it was
the final prong to the State approving the Town as a Green Community and receiving grant money that could be used to
purchase LED lights for the street lights that would further reduce the cost of operating the street lights.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Speidel if the Town had to go through Unitil to purchase the lights or if they could put up their own
lights since the poles were owned by Verizon.
Ms. Speidel stated she would have to look into that question further and bring back an answer.
Ms. Speidel continued by saying the Town would be going back out to bid on the Municipal Electric Aggregation
Program in the next week since the new 6* month period beings June 1". She talked to Colonial Power Group who is the
Consultant for the Town on this project, and they expected to bring a bid back that was slightly better than Unitil's rate.
They believed they could bring back a better bid if the Town was agreeable to signing onto a rate period longer than 6
months and there are only about 2-3 companies bidding on this program.
Ms. Speidel noted that she met with the Developer of the Eagle Heights project and they would like to meet with the BOS
as soon as the following week. Since the HUD 202 funds had been cut back significantly, the funding available through
State programs is more likely to be received for the project. The difference is that there would have to be a set design
ready to propose to the State. RCAP Solutions, one of the partners on the projects, has signaled they are prepared to
finance a design to present to the State so long as the Town confirms partial financing of the project. The design for the
i present to step tina one i d
project would be in the $400,000.00-500,000.00 price range for a senior housing project.
Ms. Bertram stated that they needed feedback from the Sewer Commission on fees to be waived to get the project moving,
and the Town would need Sewer Commission approval.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
PUBLIC COMMENT-
Mr. Ebersole asked if there would be a session to set goals to complete projects and that he would like to see a time set
during a meeting to discuss goals.
Mr. Alonzo agreed and said the BOS should take a couple weeks to think about goals before they move forward with
goals and evaluations.
EXECUTIVE SESSION - Being no further business, Mr. Alonzo moved to enter into Executive session citing
M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21A (9), to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair so declares.
Roll Call vote: Matthews - Aye, Bertram - Aye, Toale - Aye, Ebersole - Aye, & Alonzo - Aye
Regular scheduled meeting ended at 8:13PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
May 14, 2013 - Workshop on Open Meeting Law
May 21, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
