===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
:
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
2/5/13
Ai751l Sad
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting roon at Town Hall as scheduled with David Matthews,
Tom Alonzo, Cari (Ernie) Sund, Paula Bertram, Steven M. deBettereourt and Town Manager Kerry Speide
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Tom Alonzo announced that the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg will be holding a fundraiser at Lunenburg High School
on March 7* at 7PM called "Are You Smarter Than a 6 Grader" and encouraged the public to attend
APPOINTMENTS
1. 7:00 p.m. - Request for Gasoline Storage Permit, 134 Leominster/Shirley Road/SMD Development
LLC - Mr. Matthews read into record the Public Hearing Notice to Abutters on the application of SMD Development,
LLC for keeping, storing and selling 35,000 gallons of gasoline and diesel fuel underground on the property located at 134
Leominster/Shirley Road.
Carolynn Parker, representing SMD Development, LLC came before the BOS to make the request for a gasoline storage
permit for 134 Leominster/Shirley Road. She stated that they have already been approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals, the Planning Board, and the Conservation Commission. A Fire Suppression plan has been submitted to the Fire
Department which has been signed off on by the Fire Department but in order to gain approval by the State Fire Marshall
a permit for underground storage must be approved by the BOS. She went on to explain the construction of the tanks and
commented on the good reputation of the developer
Ms. Parker made a request from the developer asking for 40,000 gallons rather than the 35,000 which was previously
applied for.
Ms. Speidel stated that if there were to be a change in the application then the abutters would need to be notified and the
process would need to be done again for applying. Ms. Parker responded that the 35,000 application would be sufficient.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that she thought the Planning Board had made a requirement as part of this permit that the
applicant would be required to acquire a bond which would protect the Town financially in the event that the business
should go under and the tanks needed to be removed.
Ms. Parker stated that it was a State Law that if a gas station goes out of business the tanks must be removed within six
months and if there was a bond discussed as part of this permit it would be taken care of by the owner.
Mr. Alonzo moved that with the added stipulation of a bond requirement the application for in ground gasoline storage be
approved. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review and/or Execute Power Purchase Agreement and PILOT Agreement for Solar for Mass PV1 and/or
PILOT for EPG Solar - Ms. Speidel explained that since the last discussion with the BOS the States Net Metering
Queue has gone into effect. As of January 24#* any of these projects that would be producing solar credits are now
required to submit their applications to the DPU queue for review.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Speidel updated the BOS on the state of the current solar projects which the Town is currently involved with as
follows:
EPG Solar - EPG has submitted their project to DPU and it is in the queue. EPG and the land owner have come to an
agreement on the land lease, which has been approved by the Bankruptcy Court. The written agreement is being prepared
and both parties will be able to sign the PILOT this month. EPG anticipates beginning construction in March and
concluding by May 31, 2013. Because the project is just under 1 MW, it will be classified as a Class 2 rather than a Class
3 facility and therefore Unitil does not have the ability to issue a check, and can only issue credits. The Town would need
to file a Schedule Z and Unitil will decide whether they will be issuing a check or credits.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that MART is now a Net Metering facility. They received a grant and have installed a small solar
array on top of their building which only produces 7k KW. She said that they were having problems with the snow load
on the panels and that they were also approved by Unitil to be Net Metering.
Borrego Solar - Borrego Solar has been tied up with studies and have been waiting on results of an Anti-Islanding Study
from Unitil, which they have not received yet. Ms. Speidel contacted Borrego on their status, explained the Town's
dilemma and asked if they wished to continue with the project. The Project Manager from Borrego emailed Ms. Speidel
saying that they are committed to the project and would like to wait to see what Unitil tells them. They also understand
that the Town has other projects going and may miss out on other opportunities if they continue with the Borrego project.
Although Borrego did not agree to end this project with the Town, they do understand if the Town wishes to do so as to
not miss out on other opportunities.
Mass PV1- The Attorney's have agreed to conclude the negotiations on the PPA by the end of this week. This project will
be a Class 3 facility and as such, Unitil will have the ability to issue credits or a check at their discretion. They will not
make this determination until the Town files a Schedule Z, which cannot be done until it is sure that project will be
moving forward. Mass PV1 has yet to file an application to get into the DPU Queue, which Ms. Speidel has asked them
to do.
Ms. Speidel has contacted other communities, Ashby, Fitchburg, and Townsend, about purchasing credits from the Town.
To date, she has received a response from Townsend indicating interest. Ms. Speidel has also been contacted by an agent
for an eligible buyer, but does not know who this buyer is. The Lunenburg Water District is not interested because they
already have a better deal. It does not appear that the Town will have any difficulty in selling any excess credits.
2. Vote to include Debt Exclusion Question on Special Election Ballot, 03/16/13- Ms. Speidel explained to
the board that at the last BOS meeting the board voted to have the Special Town meeting and Special Town Election.
The Board must now vote the specific question for the ballot. Because the question is a Debt Exclusion, MGL requires
that the board must vote by a 2/3rds majority to include the question on the ballot (MGL Chapter 59, Section 21C, 1 ½, J
and K). This would mean that at least 4 members must vote in favor of placing the question on the ballot. The Board
must also vote the question exactly as it will appear on the ballot as follows:
Question No. 1. Shall the Town of Lunenburg be allowed to exempt from provisions of Proposition Two and One-Half,
so-called, the amounts required to pay for the bond issued in order to purchase a 147 acre property, known as the Aro
Farm, located at 400 Howard Street, Lunenburg, MA, Map 6, Lot 21, for conservation purposes?
Ms. Speidel also noted that the Town Clerk has also asked that the BOS vote to authorize the use of paper ballots, as
opposed to the printed/programmed ballots, in order to save time and money.
Mr. Matthews spoke and said that at last weeks BOS meeting, the vote to hold a Special Town Meeting was a 3-2 vote
and opened it up this evening for discussion to the board. Although the board agreed that the Town could not afford to
make this purchase, they remained at a standstill.
Mr. Alonzo said that he was in favor of bringing this question forward because it is a decision that should be made by the
whole Town. Ms. Bertram spoke and said that it is a decision for the Town to make and not by us as five individuals.
Mr. Sund said that although he agrees with the fact that the other board members would like to have the entire Town vote
on this, he voted against this because he does not think it is a good use of our funds, the Town can't afford it, and he has
not changed his mind on that.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Matthews said that's really not the question, and he would probably agree with him if it was. The question is if it is
up to us to make this decision for the 10,000 people who live in this community. It's a question of do the people who pay
the taxes have a voice to what happens to this town or do they hand that over to five people to make that decision for
them.
Ms. Bertram spoke and said that she does not know how she will vote on this issue and struggles with how it will be paid
for. The question that is before us is whether or not we allow the people to decide. It is not whether or not the board
recommends it but whether or not we bring it to the people.
Mr. Sund responded that he understands those questions however he does not know if they will get an approval on this.
He went on to say that after the last meeting he has heard from a number of people who asked him why the BOS doing
this, and those people are are not for this purchase. He understands that it is not the entire Town but these people he
spoke with said that he would be foolish for putting this article on Town Meeting.
Mr. Matthews stated that he understands the mind set and outlook but he does not appreciate or respect it. He believes
that for a few people to get together and decide what a Town is going to do is counter to what Town Meeting, Elections
and Democracy is all about. The most basic right for the citizens of this Town and Country have is to vote and to take
that away because some people have the forgone conclusion that it's not going to pass is not an open way to run the
Town. If people are concerned about the cost of running this election, then can we afford to have Town Meetings and
Elections every year? What value do you put on Democracy?
Ms. Bertram stated that she shares concerns about the budget but also shares concerns about the Watershed and
infrastructure. She has also spoken to people who are in favor of having the election. She feels that before they make a
recommendation they have to look at the numbers. She feels that to take away the opportunity for a vote by a Democratic
system is wrong. We are not elected to make the entire decisions for the town but to make recommendations. At the last
Town Meeting where we recommended an Override, which was not unanimous by the board, the people as a whole voted
no. We are just looking to bring this to the people.
Mr. Alonzo spoke and said that to not put this question to the Town would be a complete break down of what the whole
concept of Open Meeting represents. The outcome of the votes is secondary to the fact that people will be able to voice
their opinion on it. The last time a property in this area came up for Right of First Refusal it lost by 7 votes on a sparsely
attended Town Meeting and that angered people. This is an issue that the Town in looking at Conservation properties has
taken seriously in the past so it's not a foregone conclusion that it's going to go one way or the other. In my criteria of
judging whether to put this to the Town at Town Meeting or Ballot, is the recommendations that we ask for of the two
other Boards. It has been our practice in the past that in the times that they say no we have bypassed it as a board and
When they say that it is important for what ever reasons, we have taken those boards opinions with serious considerations
and followed their requests. By not bringing this forward, when the Planning Board and Conservation Committee
recommend that we do is a break down of the whole procedure and how this should work.
Mr. deBettencourt spoke in saying that as a Selectmen for the past 23 years he has had to make decisions on a variety of
things that some people liked and some didn't. He said that this one here does not work for him, the property is too far
out, the value is way off, and it just doesn't serve the purpose. We are just trying to buy up developable land for what?
Because we are afraid of a developer? He threw a blanket square out there and said we are going to put houses
everywhere on that. We have Zoning and Conservation controls on restrictions for development. Lunenburg is pretty
restrictive to all concerns. We are elected as Selectmen and the people expect us to make tough decisions. They don't
know all the ins and outs about all the stuff we deal with and they expect us to make tough decisions. I did not last 23
years for no reason and this is one of those decisions I'm going to make. People are looking to you for leadership and we
have to start leading.
Ms. Bertram stated that there is a difference between leadership and dictatorship. To make these decisions and to bring
forward recommendations is the role of the BOS. It is not to unilaterally decide on behalf of the people what is right.
You are talking about taking away their rights. The Planning Board and Conservation Commission feel strongly that this
piece of property should be protected. The Nashua River Watershed said this property should be protected when it
originally came forward. The reality is that you are completely discounting the opinions of those people who are trained
===PAGE 4===
and are responsible for putting the restrictions on the properties that you spoke about and these entities are telling us we
should bring this to the people. This is a Right of First Refusal by the people of this Town not by five individuals.
Mr. deBettencourt felt that a Debt Exclusion is a raise in property taxes which, is comparable to a 2 ½ Override. He said
that the BOS has the first shot at whether or not to bring it to the people. If it passes in front of the BOS it moves onto the
people. He stated that he did not want to bring a 2½ Override in front of the people.
Ms. Bertram explained that a 2 ½ Override and a Debt Exclusion are two different things. A 2 ½ Override is permanent
and a Debt Exclusion only lasts for a period of time for the note. She went on to say that once this land is gone we cannot
get it back.
At this time Mr. deBettencourt asked the Chair to move the question.
Ms. Bertram made the motion to move forward with putting this ballot question before the people of Lunenburg to make
the decision as to whether or not to purchase this property. Mr. Alonzo seconded.
Mr. Alonzo spoke and said that this is not a difficult decision to be making and that the BOS is not asked to make
unilateral decisions that strip people of their ability to engage in Town Government. He felt that the equivalent to not
letting the people vote on this, is comparable to not letting them vote on the budget at Town Meeting where their money
also goes. He stated that there have been a lot of embarrassing votes on this board but this may top a lot of them. He
stated that he is embarrassed to be on a board that will not let people make choices for themselves.
Ms. Bertram spoke and said that if the two board members who are against this attended the Planning Board meeting
where this was discussed and saw the individuals who would be impacted by this development and heard their concerns
along with the Planning Board and Conservation Commissions, then you would understand. She feels that they need to let
the people exercise their right to vote and for the BOS to take that away, when it is a hot issue in this community which
will significantly impact this community, is unconscionable. She will be absolutely ashamed if this is not brought before
the people.
On vote motion failed, 3 in favor, 2 opposed (Sund & deBettencourt) (A minimum of 4 votes was needed to pass the
question due to the 2/3rds majority requirement).
Mr. Alonzo moved to rescind holding the Special Town Meeting. Ms. Bertram seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Matthews said that this is not about whether or not the money is worth spending but rather whether or not the people
in this Town should have control over their own town or whether or not they are conceding their control to five people
with varying levels of knowledge, background and experience to make this decision. This is supposed to be a Democratic
system and we're supposed to have a Democratic structure in this Town. To take that away from the people, everyone
should be horrified, up in arms and disgusted that you as voters and adults are being told that you are not worthy of
making this decision and that it needs to be made here by five people.
Ms. Bertram added that she echoed the Chairpersons statement and said that everybody out there should be outraged that
two individuals have made this decision rather than the community as a whole.
Ms. Speidel noted that they thought there may have been two additional warrant items with the APR concerning Lanni
Orchards and the Pierce Tree Farm but the State is still reviewing the appraisal. She spoke to Michelle Padula, Area
Kepresentative to the state Department of Agriculture, and she said that the May Annual Town Meeting time schedule
looks to be more reasonable in order to meet their process so those two projects will not be in jeopardy at this point in
time.
3. Review Revenue & Expenditure Assumptions for 5 Year Forecast, FY14-18 - Ms. Speidel reviewed her
Revenue & Expenditure Assumptions for 5 Year Forecast, FY14-18 which included the following:
FY2014
Revenue Assumptions:
Property Tax increases 2.5% per year
$466,543
FY2015
5484,457
FY2016
$502,818
FY2017
FY2018
$521,639
] $540,930
===PAGE 5===
5.
6.
7.
New Growth, assume steady increase
crease or decrease to account for Exempt Borrowing
Assume no growth in State Aid in FY14, Ch. 70 held harmless; 2.5% increase each
year thereafter
Assume a 2.5% increase in all Local Receipts
Available Funds are budgeted as needed (Free Cash; Borrowing) & as required
No draw on Stabilization Fund
Net:
Note in Needs Forecast Summary, Revenue has been increased by an additional $31,790 to
reflect increased draw on Free Cash to bring Stabilization Fund up to required Policy Minimum
Expenditure Assumptions:
Current Conditions Expenditure Assumptions
Maintain FY13 Service Levels, including 4 day schedule for Administrative & Land Use
Maintain Council on Aging on 4 day schedule, but offer either increased Outreach
3.
Worker hours or Friday Transportation
Assume mandatory 2.5% increase in Library Budget in order to maintain certification
Assume an increase in LPS Budget of 3.8% to account for loss of Shirley Tuition,
Increased SPED Costs & Insurance
5.
Assume 3.5% increase in Monty Tech Assessment to account for additional costs paid
including Insurances & Transportation
6.
Fully fund Rubbish Removal costs
for Town
Buildings in Central Purchasing,
previously spilt & accidently eliminated from FY13 Budget
Lower overall cost in Police Department due to retirements in FY13
8.
Assume savings from joining NVRDD will be used to enhance Public Safety, including
DPW- Include funding for Crack Seal Program to prolong road life, $50k
Solid Waste - General Fund to cover Municipal Buildings & Recycling Program
increased to reflect actual costs. Needs more investigation
11.
BOH - increased appropriation to match adjustment after last ATM. FY13 Budget
Adjustment will need to made as well
Increase Veteran's Benefits from $5k to $10k to reflect benefits granted
Debt Service - fund existing debt service schedules.
Unclassified- reduce Unemployment to $25k, which has been historic funding level.
15.
Insurance, premium increase at 3%, offset by reduced
enrollment & reduces Medicare Part B Premium Penalties, - 2%
16.
Unclassified - Salary Reserve Fund, maintain funding for Retirement Sick Leave
Buyback Benefit, first funding in FY13, consider early buyback
17.
Unclassified - General Reserve Fund, increase from $50k to $75k, represents 0.25%
19.
20.
Other - Fund Stabilization Fund at 5% minimum as required by policy. Transfer from
Free Cash.
Other - Fund CIP at $500k, will be impossible to maintain that reduced level going
forward as Fire Trucks are coming up for replacement.
All Utilities, except telephone, to increase at 5%. Telephone to increase at 2.5%, less
All other expenses, except where noted, are projected to increase 2%.
All Personnel
Expenses, except where noted, will increase in accordance with
approved contracts.
Retirement Assessment to increase at 9% per year in accordance with information
provided by WRRS.
State Assessments: Assume 2.5% increase; doesn't take into account any major
fluctuations
Projected Deficit:
Forecast Needs Expenditure Assumptions:
The following assumptions are in addition to everything listed above.
General Government: Add Human Resource Coordinator, plus health insurance,
3.
4.
5.
6.
Nico
9.
Fire: Add funding for Per Diem Coverage in $50k increments
DPW: Add Laborer position in order to maintain two 3-person work crews, health
DPW: Increase Snow & Ice Account closer to historic spending levels
S: Use Superintendent's FY14 Recommended Budget & Forecast Recommendatic
classified: Increase Health Insurance to Account for new positions. 3 in FY14: 2
FY15; 0 inFY16: 1 in FY17; 0 in FY18
Other Capital: Increase CIP to account for large equipment purchases
Comprehensive Road Management Plan Funding
Increase Stabilization Fund to account for 5% of new total expenditures.
Projected Additional Deficit:
Add: Contribution from Free Cash to fund Stabilization Fund Deposit
Total: Projected Deficit from Needs Forecast
$250,000
$(42,320)
$60,816
S(631,834)
$-
$103,206
$250,000
$ (15.487)
$167,969
$62,337
$(282,495)
$-
$666,781
$250,000
$ (14,298)
$172,168
$63,895
$(5083)
$-
$969,500
$250,000
$(20,583)
$176,472
$65,492
$1,792
$-
$994,813
$250,000
$(85,516)
180,884
$67,130
$6,523
$-
$959,951
$226,912
FY2014
$40,000
$68,000
$50,000
$38,000
$49,364
$368,001
$34,000
$395,000
$800,000
$31,790
51,874,155
$(31,790)
S2,069,277
FY2015
$54,500
$50,000
$39,000
$752,983
$550,000
$800,000
FY2016
$50,000
$1,182,137
$800,000
FY2017
$57,270
$50,000
52,185,871
$650,000
$800,000
FY2018
$50,000
$850,000
$800.000
===PAGE 6===
Discussion ensued among the Board members after review of the Town Managers Assumptions.
Mr. Alonzo said that going through these Assumptions can't be just an academic exercise and would like to know the
thoughts of all on what we are going to do with these Assumptions.
Mr. Matthews asked the Board if there was agreement with these Assumptions.
Mr. deBettencourt said that reality shows up when you realize what you really have to spend and that we should live
within our means. If we can find ways of saving money then maybe we can include some of the Assumptions in the
budget and until that happens, it's just there.
Ms. Bertram stated that it is easy to say live within your means, we all understand that we have limited revenues and
expenditures, but as someone who has thwarted the process at the very end, we are giving you the opportunity at the early
stages and even if you take the future needs off we are still looking at a deficit. We need to have this discussion now
because we are already looking at a deficit and if you have some creative ways of saving money please bring them to the
table because we need that kind of thinking. We have a huge financial dilemma ahead and what are we as a Board going
to recommend and bring forth to the people now, and not two weeks before the Town Meeting.
Mr. Matthews said that if we look at the Assumptions and we agree that it's what we should be achieving, and that those
should be our goals then you're saying they are valid. If you don't think there is a goal that we should be achieving then
you're saying that the Assumptions aren't valid. As far as the money it's easy to say live within your means and find
ways not to spend money, you just don't budget it. But what's difficult is the realty that it then brings. People all of a
sudden say what do you mean the Library is not going to be certified or there will be no Meals on Wheels on Fridays for
the seniors, how can you do that it's not right or fair.
Mr. deBettencourt suggested looking at other Towns in the area to see what they are doing, we are all in the same boat and
it seems like every year they solve their problems.
Mr. Matthews said that we should look at other Towns but argued the fact that other Towns are different considering size
and available funding.
Mr. Alonzo said that if you make no action plan to decide on how to get some of the things that you need, then what is the
don't have these needs, or make a plan to get them. Without any additional revenues nothing on these needs will happen
complete waste of time.
Mr. Sund commented that a couple of years ago our DPW Director did a fantastic job in addressing a Road Management
Program which came up with a figure of $880k per year. He said that we are never going to get to that $800k to start with
and suggested that they start adding in increments to get to that. He thinks that $800k is a lot to take in and it will not get
approved in a lump sum. If we start with $50k this year, $100k next year and increment it up till we can get to the point
we're doing something it would make more sense.
Ms. Bertram commented that while looking at a reduced number makes sense, she would have to take issue with $50k
because it completely throws out the whole Pavement Management Plan. If you start picking and choosing apart the plan,
what's the sense of having the plan.
Mr. Sund said to get the $800k per year you will be looking at an Override and he will not propose an Override.
Mr. Matthews stated that we proposed a solution last year. to the problem which was a lot of money and not popular and
was resoundingly rejected. He understands that but does not agree with it. Do we break it down and say we want to talk
to you this year about the roads, and the reality is that we are never going to have the money in the budget to pay for them
to get them up to snuff. If you put a number in front of people for example it's going to cost you another $50 per year to
fix your roads, is it worth it to you? Identifying the problem of the shortfall is an important exercise, refusing to address it
is incredibly frustrating. Just saying no and we should live within our means is not a solution to all our funding needs.
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Bertram suggested that this be an ongoing item on the agenda. If people have creative thoughts on how to live within
our means we need discuss it and revisit it on a consistent basis. If board members want to look at other communities
they should be doing that and bringing the information back for discussion now.
Mis. Speidel stated that she does not get out to Association meetings as much as she would like to but when she does they
are asking what the Town of Lunenburg is doing. To pat everyone up here on the back, we are doing a lot of things that
other communities are looking at what we are doing. There are other things in other communities that we can learn from,
but we are always looking and it's an exchange of information. A lot of communities immolate what we are doing.
Ms. Speidel stated that we made a lot of change in FY13 and endured a lot of pain. We can't even sustain, we need to cut
more. What are we going to cut just to maintain? Every year we put together a balanced budget and we live within our
means.
After due and diligent discussion Mr. Matthews stated that we would talk about this item at next weeks meeting.
4. Open Warrant for Annual Town Meeting, 05/04/13 - Mr. Alonzo moved to open the Warrant for the Annual
Town Meeting to be held on 05/04/13. Ms. Bertram seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel stated that the Warrant for ATM will remain open until 3/25/13.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
1/15/13
1/22/13
Warrants:
1/30
1/28
2/5
W41-13
W16 P13
W42-13
$557,942.99
$612,164.05
$511,253.35
Action File Issues: Mr. Matthews mentioned that the light on the flag pole on the Upper Common has been
replaced. The bulletin board in front of Town Hall was damaged due to a usage accident and is in the process of
being replaced.
5. Committee Reports - Ms. Bertram attended the Planning Board Public Hearing last Thursday for Aro Estates and
reported that it has been continued to 2/13/13. A number of concerns were raised at this meeting mainly about drainage
calculations which are in the process of being reviewed. There is also a concern with when the proponent's timeline
began which is associated with this project. The proponent's attorney will only discuss this matter offline.
Ms. Bertram reported that the MPO will meet on 2/13/13 where they will begin reviewing the next TIP process. Ms.
Bertram and Jack Rodriquenz have identified some intersections in Lunenburg (Mulpus/Townsend Harbor &
Goodrich/Lancaster) and are working with MRPC along with the Police Dept. to accumulate crash data from those sites.
Ms. Bertram feels that this will be a 1-2 year process, if the projects are deemed worthy to be included, but she does not
feel that they will be included in the next TIP process, although she has seen it happen before. Ms. Bertram will also be
meeting with MassDOT about this issue. She feels that lobbying is key to getting these projects funded.
Ms. Speidel thanked Ms. Bertram for ali the work she is doing. Ms. Speidel reviewed the TIP and was amazed at some of
the smaller communities and number of projects that are in the TIP. She believes that having applications ready to go on
some of these smaller projects are to our benefit because there has been available State money ready in the past for
completed applications.
Mr. Sund also thanked Ms. Bertram for all the work she has been doing. He reported that the Capital Planning Committee
will be meeting this Thursday. They had met last week and have prioritized down to a little bit more than what the Town
Manager had been looking for.
Mr. Sund reported that the Cable Committee is still trying to complete their new studio at the Passios School Building but
are having problems with internet connections which are supposed to be resolved this week. Hopefully they will be able
to begin use of the studio in March. He also stated that the local cable programming is up to 69% local programming.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Matthews requested that scheduling of interviews for candidates for the Planning Board begin and should be on the
BOS agenda for next week. Ms. Speidel will check with the Planning Board Director on where the scheduling of
interviews stands.
Ms. Bertram updated the board that the Montachusett Regional Trails Coalition. They have funding from MassDOT for a
developing a Regional Trails Map, are currently working on updating a trail inventory for the region, and are seeking
input from the community. They would like to build on these Trails Maps Eco-Tourism to stimulate the economy in these
communities. MRPC communities can meet with them on March 7" at the Fitchburg Public Library and Ms. Bertram
hopes that someone from Lunenburg can attend to learn more about what they can offer.
Mr. Alonzo recommended that whatever information gathers from them be forwarded to the Conservation Commission.
Ms. Bertram will forward all information to the Planning Board, Conservation Commission and Open Space Committee.
Mr. deBettencourt reported that the Sewer Commission has changed their meeting schedule to Tuesday evenings so as the
Director will be able to attend more meetings. They are still working through some protocols for illegal "tap ins",
coverage for their pump stations, and are also still working on their budget.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that both she and Mr. Alonzo were given a draft of the IMA back in December and she requested
that it be circulated to the entire BOS.
6. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports -
Eagle Heights Project - Ms. Speidel has been in communication with Jon Juhl and they are still unclear about the
availability of funding through the HUD 202 program given the state of the Federal Budget. Paul Texiara from RCAP
Solutions is going to Washington D.C. next week to meet with the Massachusetts Congressional Delegation to inquire
about the availability of that funding through HUD. They have met with Senator Flanagan and are feeling pretty good
about the availability of some State money. Ms. Speidel will be meeting with them the week after next to figure out how
to proceed.
There is a Bond Bill that is currently in place for housing and DHCD recently received an additional $10m in funding
from the Legislature this past summer, the Governor has set a new goal of 10,000 units of housing a year vs. 5000 which
was the previous goal. Federal funding limited the size of the units and State funding allows the units to be a little larger
which would make them more appealing to people.
Another new Bill was filed in the House recently which would replenish $1.4b in the State Housing Program and Ms.
Speidel has contacted Representative Benson and Representative DiNatalie and asked them to consider supporting it.
Mr. Matthews requested that it be mentioned that this State funding be restricted to only Senior Housing.
Ms. Bertram questioned the previous discussion of Mr. Juhls request of fee waivers. Ms. Speidel replied that she is
firming that up with him and then will revisit the idea of perhaps donating the building to him for this project because it
would save them $100k and they would be able to count the full value of the building when applying for funds. Ms.
Speidel mentioned that they are still looking for a PILOT but the Lunenburg Assessor is adamant that this project does not
qualify for one.
Ms. Bertram cautioned the Town Manager about the fees, given the state of the Sewer Enterprise fund. She did not think
it would be fair for the tax payers to have to foot this bill and she would not support it.
Summer Street Project - Ms. Speidel mentioned that there is some forward movement on Summer St and our Engineer
will be at the 2/19/13 BOS meeting to give more detailed information on this project. Leominster has made their
appropriation and they have signed the contract. Yesterday they considered the notice to proceed date to move forward
with the project. From yesterday, Field Reconnaissance will begin which will take 8 weeks, Preliminary Engineering on
the project will be completed around October 5, 2013, Preliminary Right of Way Plans will be completed around
November 5, 2013, and the project to be submitted to DOT sometime in December of 2013. They still need to finalize
which option they are going to and the Engineer suggested that the BOS may want to take this to Town Meeting for a non-
binding vote.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that she still receives phone calls concerning the Municipal Aggregation Plan. Unitil's basic
service rate as a whole increased. She spoke with their consultant today and as soon as the market rates get better he will
bring this back to the Town. Currently Unitil's rates are 7.23 cents per kw and currently the market is at 7.5 cents per kw.
===PAGE 9===
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - None
PUBLIC COMMENT - None
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram motioned to end the meeting. Mr. deBettencourt seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 9:50PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
February 12, 2013
February 19, 2013
Thursday February 28, 2013 - Presentation of Town Manager's FY14 Recommended Budget
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
