===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 19 2013
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
12/3/2013
4-8p2
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Chair Person Tom
Alonzo, Vice Chairperson Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole and Town Manager Kerry
Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo began the meeting by thanking all who attended the Tree Lighting Ceremony the previous evening along with
all who were involved in bringing this to fruition.
Mr. Ebersole thanked the Town Clerks Office for using the Town Calendar to list the dates to register to vote for the
Special Town Meeting and Election.
Mr. Ebersole also thanked the Town Manager for her work with various Town Boards regarding compliance with Town
ByLaws on the posting of minutes and agendas. He said that several boards have brought them up to date specifically
mentioning the Conservation Commission & Housing Authority.
Mr. Toale thanked Dave MacDonald for his involvement with the Tree Lighting Ceremony.
Mr. Matthews added thanks to Mark Flagg for providing a "bucket truck" for light placement on the taller trees.
Mr. Alonzo read two press releases (Police Dept. & Lunenburg Public School) regarding the racial spray painting incident
Police Dept. Press Release: Based upon our investigation to date, we have not found any conclusive evidence linking any
present member o the Lunenburg High School Football team to the hate crime incident reported on 11/15/2013. This
statement relates only to the graffiti painted on a resident's home and has nothing whatsoever to do with any football
game related issues that have been investigated by the School District. We take matters such as this type of hate crime
very serious. Consequently this investigation is ongoing and we are very confident that a conclusion will be forthcoming.
Lunenburg Public School Press Release: At 3:00 this afternoon we received a statement from the Lunenburg Police
Department stating that based upon their investigation to date, they have not found any conclusive evidence linking any
present member of the Lunenburg High School football team to the hate crime incident report on 11/15/2013.
We hope
for a speedy resolution to the police investigation. The educators and coaches of Lunenburg value diversity, tolerance,
and acceptance. We are a community of educators who care deeply about all of our students. Our concern for the
safety, well-being, and education of our students and players continues to be our top priority.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Board & Committee Vacancies: Mr. Alonzo announced that there are still vacancies on the Personnel Committee
and on the Public Access Cable Committee (PACC).
Mr. Matthews announced that there are two upcoming Public Forums regarding the Middle/High School Building project to
be held at the Lunenburg Public Library this coming Thursday at 3PM and at 7PM.
APPOINTMENTS:
7:00 PM Sewer IMA w/City of Fitchburg; Carl Luck, Chair, Sewer Commission: Carl Luck, Chair of the Sewer
Commission came before the BOS to present a Power Point review of the IMA (Intermunicipal Agreement) with the City of
Fitchburg. He stated that tonight's goal was to achieve approval from the BOS on this agreement. Mr. Luck began his
presentation by thanking all who have contributed to getting them to this point over the last two years. He explained that
the key objectives of the new IMA were to:
•
Increase capacity to support current commitments and future growth
• Correct inequity of capital costs born by Lunenburg in the current IMA
• Secure a rate agreement that has Lunenburg paying it's fair share but no more
===PAGE 2===
The Status of this document is that the Fitchburg Sewer Commission, Legislative Affairs Committee and City Council have
given tentative approval of the document; Lunenburg Sewer Commission has voted to accept the proposed IMA; and
once the Lunenburg BOS approves and signs the agreement, Fitchburg is prepared to also sign off.
Mir. Luck stated that 80,000 gallons is the capacity in the current IMA. The projection is that we need 161,000 gallons per
day of sewerage to go to Fitchburg. Currently we use 36,000 gallons of the 80,000 and one big project will put us over
Part of the IMA includes Lunenburg sharing the cost of upgrading the John Fitch Highway line. The new capacity of that
line after upgrading will be 1,126,000 gallons per day (gpd) for a total cost of $2,110,461. Lunenburg's share will be
13.41% or $283,013.
This capacity will be available to us for as long as we need it as opposed to the other one which
went away if we didn't use it.
Lunenburg will pay the same rate as Fitchburg residents, which is currently $7.30. There are no extra capital fees other
than the John Fitch upgrade for capacity reserve and any Fitchburg rate increase will require a 90 day notification.
Unfortunately Fitchburg's connection fees have increased to $2000. Billing will be based on the meters at town lines
(Summer St. & 2A).
Mr. Luck reminded Lunenburg residents that if they are using a sump pump, and are putting that into the sewer, this is not
the correct thing to be doing and we will be paying for that. This is considered Inflow Infiltration and we need to keep the
unintended water out of the system.
The total projected project costs will be $2,110.461 and the period of the loan will be 20 years. The projected annual cost
of the loan is $138,682 per year on the Fitchburg side and $18,597 per year from Lunenburg. The first full payment is
expected in FY2015.
The term of the agreement with Fitchburg will be for 25 years. Either party can terminate for convenience, with a 3 year
notice, and the terminating party will be responsible for the remaining loan cost of the John Fitch Highway construction.
Mr. Luck also touched on the "Direct Connections to Fitchburg" which would require notification by Fitchburg if a lot is
partially in Fitchburg, requires Lunenburg approval if a lot is 100% in Lunenburg and defines Fitchburg's responsibilities
for direct connections.
Mr. Luck concluded this presentation by saying that with the cooperation of Fitchburg, we have established a fair and
equitable agreement for the next 25 years. Capacity requirements and projections will be satisfied through at least "2026"
and the Sewer Commission respectfully requests the BOS approval of this IMA
The BOS thanked Mr. Luck along with the Sewer Commission and the City of Fitchburg for their efforts in developing the
new IMA.
Mr. Ebersole moved that the Board of Selectmen approve and execute the Intermunicipal Agreement for sewer with the
City of Fitchburg. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
7:15 PM Review Land Donation Policy & Pleasant Street Property Proposal w/Conservation Commission:
Continued to a future BOS meeting.
7:30 PM Status Update from Building Reuse Committee: Jamie Toale, Chairperson Building Reuse Committee, came
before the BOS to present a Power Point presentation concerning their findings on buildings which they had reviewed in
the Town which included the Eagle House Senior Center, Brooks House, Ritter Building, T.C. Passios, and Town Hall.
Mr. Toale introduced members of this committee and thanked all who were involved in this endeavor.
Reuse Taskforce Charter:
1. Identify space requirements for potential combined municipal operations
2. Identify Costs to convert municipal space
3.
Identify 5 and 10 year capital costs to retain existing buildings, including Town Hall, Ritter Memorial, and Eagle
House
4. Identify appropriate options for sale or lease of facilities
5. Identify potential reuse or market for any buildings deemed surplus as a result of consolidation
Mr. Toale began the review of the buildings as follows:
Eagle House Senior Center. Cost to run the Eagle House is approximately $21,000 per year and it requires average
maintenance costs. The Eagle House has been determined to be suitable for current and future needs per the Director
and the COA.
Brooks House: The current tenant at the Brooks House covers the annual operating cost and no maintenance or repair is
planned at this time. The building is currently underutilized and would require significant investment to be retrofitted for
public access as a municipal office
Ritter Building: Operation costs at the Ritter building are approximately $20,000 per year. This building is scheduled for
between $20,000 - $65,000 in repairs over the next 3-5 years. This cost has been included in their Capital Plan which has
not been approved yet. There are 6 employees from the various Land Use Depts. housed in this building.
I.C.Passios Building: It costs $120,000 per year to run this building and it's currently generating $36,000 in income from
short term tenants. Estimated costs for long term repair to this building are $2.5M and total demolition of the building
===PAGE 3===
would be approximately $933,550 due to asbestos. Any partial abatement or construction could cost approximately $875
per square foot or up to approximately $500,000. All costs are estimated in "2013" dollars.
Town Hall: Town Hall costs approximately $30,000 per year to operate and derives approximately $32,000 per year in
revenue for a cell transmitter rental in the clock tower. Plans which were drawn up in the past for repairs and renovations
come in at a cost of $2M - $10M depending on how extensive a renovation is planned. With renovation all Town
Municipal offices could be housed at Town Hall.
Recommendations for each property are as follows:
• Eagle House requires no action at this time. It meets the needs of the senior center now and will continue to do
so in the future.
• Brooks House is underutilized and the cost to bring it up to code as a Municipal building would be prohibitive to
repurpose. The Brooks House sits on a prime location and if it were to be marketed, it should be attractive as a
commercial property.
• Ritter Building is underutilized and the 6 employees could be moved into a renovated Town Hall. The parcel of
land which includes the Ritter Building and the former Police & Fire property could be marketed as approximately
1.1 acres which could be of interest to a restaurant or other town center entity. A full Request for Proposal (RFP)
would be used to determine the use of all of these parcels.
• T.C. Passios Building is the property with the highest cost to the Town. The estimated costs of repair for reuse or
for demolition are not justified.
Currently the municipal activities that are being handled in Town Hall, Brooks
House and the Ritter Building use only 6400 sq. ft. today. It's projected that the 21 non-school Town employees
that are in these buildings could be housed in a renovated Town Hall.
T.C. Passios could be marketed for sale through a detailed RFP process and the developer proposals could be
appropriate for one or several parcels which could be in conjunction with the Brooks House property or as a
"stand alone".
Possible buyer's use of building could be a Day Care Facility, FLLAC, Senior Care/Assisted Living
or other appropriate development.
The Building Reuse Committee recommends to make a long term commitment to retrofit and repair Town Hall to
house Municipal offices that are now housed in other re-use buildings. Although the repair and retrofit costs
would be significant the committee recommends that the Town could partially offset these costs with any savings
on operating costs, ongoing maintenance, and reduced future capital expenditures on the building which are
being called surplus. If the surplus buildings were marketed they would re-enter the revenue stream as taxable
properties. Any proceeds from surplus sales could also go towards Town Hall renovation.
The next steps of this committee are as follows:
• Communicate findings and recommendations so they can be considered during the Town School Building
discussions and decisions. This presentation will be available to view on You Tube.
• Develop a "go to market plan" for the marketable properties.
• Create RFP template for discussion with current stakeholders.
• Develop consolidation plans for municipal functions and Town Hall renovation
Make bottom line cost and investment decisions and review sale revenue projections, in order to set reasonable
short and medium term goals.
Specific Open Items:
Need for cross-department record Management plan and process
• Insure that location for Open Meetings, Voting, PACC television coverage, Superintendent's offices are covered in
School building plan
• Work with School, Zoning and Planning Committees to "package" marketable properties for sale by the Town
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Building Reuse Committee for all of their work and opened up the floor for questions from the
board.
Mr. Matthews thanked Mr. Toale for taking charge of this committee and commended all on their efforts. His thoughts
were that this is a good start for a plan going forward.
Ms. Bertram thanked the committee and questioned the locations for open meetings. Her thoughts were that combining
the Ritter and Town Hall offices together would eliminate the current meeting space used at Town Hall in order to make
more office space. She was concerned that the Land Use Depts. who have well attended public meetings would no
longer have sufficient meeting areas. The Planning Board uses their large conference table for Peer Review Meetings on
a regular basis and we need to make sure that we maintain a significant amount of conference rooms to facilitate those
type of meetings and when you looked at redesigning this space was there a conference room included?
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Toale replied that the existing space that's used for the non-school Town employees adds up to approximately 16,000
sq. ft. We have made an assessment that needs further review that to house all of the Town employees, including the
Land Use Dept. ideally would require approximately 10,000 - 11,000 sq. ft. The renovation plans which were developed
back in "1990" talked of making 3 floors in Town Hall useable plus adding a 13' extension on all 3 floors at the back of the
building. The estimated price for that renovation would be $5M plus. We believe that we could "shoe horn" people into
Town Hall for $1:5M - $2.5M, but this is not our proposal. Our proposal is to look at the potential revenue sources of
developing surplus buildings, look at the partial offset of reduced operating costs, and make some long term decisions on
doing some renovations at Town Hall that would accommodate conference rooms, office space, etc..
Mr. Toale mentioned that the Town of Ashland had reconfigured their Town Hall about 9 years ago to a 3 floor building
and they have all of the necessary open meeting space along with conference and meeting space. Their cost was
approximately $5M.
We believe that if the concept is approved we could go forward and put together a plan that would address those needs.
Ms. Speidel commented to say that 20 Municipal employees in 16,000 sq. ft sounds ridiculous and she would not want
anyone to think that these 20 employees are using 16,000 sq. ft. of office space. Much of that space measured in those
buildings contain hallways and meeting spaces.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that the Ritter Building was gifted to the Town and believes that came with a number of
restrictions and asked if they had looked into what the ability to sell that building was.
Mr. Toale replied that it would require further discussion and would require all of the various land use committees along
with the Historical Commission to do their due diligence on each aspect of it. He believes that one of the restrictions was
that the Ritter be used as a Library which puts them in a grey area.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that if there are restrictions we need to work with our Legislative Delegation because we may
need to go to court to ease those restrictions. He went on to say that he is excited about the fact of having 1 building
instead of 4 because there are a lot of benefits beyond saving space. He also welcomed the opportunity that we may
have the ability to create additional television spaces where public committees can be televised on a regular basis.
Mr. Ebersole went on to give kudos to this committee and said that he appreciates the fact that we have this before the
discussion on the schools, he feels this is a realistic plan, and it's good that we have a plan that we can go and talk about
at Town Meeting before the buildings are fully empty.
Mr. Alonzo agreed with Mr. Ebersole but said that we had separated people out from this building into the Ritter Building
because of space issues and these issues are created because there is a lot of meeting space which is not everyday
working space and you can't double use the space either. We need to be very careful with that. This plan is very
workable but he would like to see what the final plans of Town Hall would be and this would be the next step.
Ms. Bertram asked if it was the committee's recommendation to maintain the Ritter Building and would the RFP specify
that the building needs to stay or was it the intent to be left up to the individual who responded to the RFP.
Dave MacDonald, Building Reuse Committee replied that when we send out the RFP hopefully they will keep the original
part of the building. The RFP will be sent out nation wide and you can't put that into the RFP.
He mentioned that they had spoken about the meeting space and they believed they could make everything fit.
Ms. Bertram referenced the Jones House saying that when the RFP was put out for that, there was a restriction on it
saying that the integrity of the building had to be maintained on the exterior and it was up to the individuals to deal with the
interior. She went on to say that she would hate to see the Ritter Building demolished and hopes it could be renovated
and perhaps become a restaurant. Going forward we have to understand that there will be changes but also need to
balance our historical significant buildings at the same time.
Pat Slattery, Chairman, Historical Commission, spoke to say that yes there were specific requirements for the Jones
House and he would like to see the same criteria applied to the Ritter Building. We did not get into the specifics of that,
but it if the proposal was to tear down the building the Historical Commission would take the opposite stance.
Mr. Alonzo stated that this is a discussion we need to have. If we put it out there, it will have a historic prospective as well
as an economic prospective.
Mr. Ebersole noted that the addition to the Ritter Building was put on the "1960's" and it may not be at that "50" year point,
you may be able to take part of that building down to have more land. There are other ways to make that building viable.
Ms. Bertram asked if there was a way of identifying the boundaries and what the cost is to survey the land associated with
the properties.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Toale replied that as he understands the process, for instance, any property that's currently school property, the
School Committee would have to declare that as surplus from their point of view, Town Meeting would have to agree to
move it to the general control of the Selectmen and then we would have the ability to market it. Just that discussion alone
would require us to get a line drawn that we knew which property we were talking about when we had that discussion. In
addition to that, once we had the big boundaries drawn, an RFP could in fact put the whole property up for an RFP to see
what potential developers would want to do with the whole property which would require less individual surveying.
Ron Albert, Building Reuse Committee, explained to the BOS that you can put an RFP out and ask the developer to
provide the survey as part of the submittal to the Town. There is still some opportunity for Municipal use.
Ms. Bertram mentioned that the Planning Board is looking at Zoning for the Master Plan and the Brooks House and
Passios Building are not Zoned for business use. What does this committee look at as making sense for that area from a
Zoning perspective moving forward?
Damon McQuaid, Building Reuse Committee/Planning Board, we have talked at our meetings about trying to develop a
Village District/Zoning area in town to better stimulate commercial activity in the down town area relying primarily on
mixed use facilities similar to the Towns of Concord or Groton. We are confident that whatever is done for the town center
should be relevant for that area as well.
Mr. Albert added that several of the Building Reuse committee members met with different Town boards along with the
Building Inspector where they talked about the Zoning perspective and what is current. You can't take a piece of property
and make it non-conforming but there may be some proposals out there that would be so dynamic that as a community, if
we are able to better understand through the Land Use Depts. what that may mean, we may be clearer in our forward
thinking as to how to react to that. Overlay Districts or Spot zoning may be a factor, we will just have to wait and see.
Mr. Matthews stated that this building has been seen as Town Hall use and he assumes that is because of historical
value, town sentiment or lack of marketability.
Mr. Toale said that he thought that was fair to say.
Mr. Matthews said that this is connected to the school building plan and if the Middle/High School is built, Passios building
becomes obsolete, if it does not pass then Passios building quickly becomes a school building again and will come off of
any discussion for any other use. This could cost $8M plus to bring back for school usage. Beyond that there are still
opportunities and we should do anything we can do as a community to down size our operations, to help develop
commercial growth in the town center, and to minimize costs. If that requires to reduce meeting space, digitize records,
use common spaces in other Town buildings etc... we need to work together to get the best result for the tax payer.
Mr. Toale stated that he would like to thank the Building Reuse Committee appropriately and then disband them if that's
what the BOS desired
Mr. Alonzo replied that they would like to keep them until after Town Meeting.
Mr. Matthews stated that it would be helpful if valuations of the buildings be gathered either by the Building Reuse
Committee or by the Town Manager.
Mr. Toale replied that there are so many variables that it's hard to do that and suggested that they wait to see what the
result of the Town Meeting/Election was before doing that.
The board thanked the Building Reuse Committee for coming forward this evening.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review & Approve Ballot Question - Ms. Speidel read the ballot question as follows:
Shall the Town of Lunenburg be allowed to exempt from the provisions of Proposition two-and-one-half, so called, the
amounts required to pay for the bonds issued in order to construct a 169,018 square foot school designed for 820
students in Grade 6-12, Lunenburg Middle/High School, on Parcel ID: 162/060.0-0055-0000.0, 1079 Massachusetts
Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462?
She went on to explain that this language comes directly to us from the Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA)
and there is not a whole lot of wiggle room there. It has been reviewed and approved by MSBA and is in front of Bond
Council at this time. This is what is legally required by State Law and the MSBA for this type of ballot question for this
purpose. It does not include the dollar amount or project financing time but it doesn't mean that you cannot have
information on other things, but this is what will go on the ballot.
Discussion:
Mr. Matthews asked can we add the number or not.
Ms. Speidel replied that she can ask that question but she does not believe so.
Mr. Alonzo added that he recommends that they stay completely in the confines of what the MSBA is recommending.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Matthews stated that people at home are going to look at this and ask how much? He believes that this should be an
inclusive document.
Mr. Ebersole stated that it was his understanding that in any capital override you do not have the dollar amount included.
Mr. Alonzo replied that they have always been included but they have been Town initiated.
Ms. Speidel also mentioned that next week will be the next opportunity to address the warrant and that it will need to go to
the printer next Wednesday.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that he believed that on some of the State ballots they have the question and then they have
"non-partisan" discussion about what it is and that may be the opportunity for us to have the warrant, meet the State Law,
and also have the language to explain it a little further.
Mr. Matthews stated that his fear, as a voter, was that if he got this without a number he would be angry that it was not in
front of him.
Mr. Toale added that his fear as a voter is that I'm approving for whatever square feet and you could change the number
on me and I don't want to approve or disapprove that.
Ms. Bertram agreed with their sentiments.
Mr. Ebersole said that clearly some of the language could be "as the amount voted at Town Meeting" or add that language
in the explanatory and not include the amounts that the MSBA is reimbursing because we are only going to borrow the
Towns share. We want to be clear in the ballot that when somebody walks in we have all of the information.
Mr. Alonzo said that he understands what fellow members are saying but to try to summarize it by putting the whole
number in, then explaining to people you're only voting for half of that confuses something that is already complex. If the
question is as large as the Town Meeting warrant you will just scare people away and they won't read it at all. They do
this because there are other mechanisms in place to get this information before you even get to the ballot.
Mr. Matthews replied that you can get all of that information but people don't necessarily read all the papers or watch us
and it could be as simple as "project cost MSBA" and "portion local Town cost". The more information you give to people
coming in at Town Meeting the less angry they are.
Mr. Matthews requested that the Town Manager check to see what can be done.
Mr. Alonzo stated that they will be bypassing this until next week's meeting.
2. Review & Order Warrant Articles; Make Recommendations on Warrant Articles: Ms. Speidel began by saying
there were 3 articles which were submitted which probably will end up being 2. There is the 1 school project article and 2
articles that were submitted by the Planning Board to amend the Zoning Bylaw to create a new sub-section entitled
Medical Marijuana Treatment Center and also to impose a moratorium on this for a period of 1 year. She believes that it
should really be 1 article that came over as 2 and she is still working on that.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he thinks it needs to be 2 articles because of what they are doing
Ms: Speidel believes that the entirety of the second article is repeated in the 3 and she will get this taken care of.
Mr. Alonzo stated that he is fine with the order of the articles right now. If #'s 2 & 3 get combined that's fine as long as
Article #1 remains at #1.
Board members were in agreement with Mr. Alonzo.
Ms. Speidel read Article 1 as follows: To see if the Town will vote to appropriate, borrow or transfer from available funds,
a sum of money to be expended under the direction of the School Building Committee for construction of a 169,018
square foot school designed for 820 students in Grade 6-12, Lunenburg Middle/High School, on Parcel ID: 162/060.0-
0055-0000.0, 1079 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462, which school facility shall have an anticipated useful
life as an educational facility for the instruction of school children of at least 50 years, and for which the Town may be
eligible for a school construction grant from the Massachusetts School Building Authority ("MSBA"). The MSBA's grant
program is a non-entitlement, discretionary program based on need, as determined by the MSBA, and any project costs
that the Town incurs in excess of any grant approved by and received from the MSBA shall be the sole responsibility of
the Town. Any grant that the Town of Lunenburg may receive from the MSBA for the Project shall not exceed the lesser
of (1) fifty-nine point eleven percent (59.11%) of eligible, approved project costs, as determined by the MSBA, or (2) the
total maximum grant amount determined by the MSBA.
Mr. Ebersole moved that the Board of Selectmen recommend approval of this article. Mr. Matthews seconded.
Discussion: Mr. Matthews asked if there would be more information for clarification or addition to the dollar amounts or
will this be separate from the article.
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Speidel replied for this she assumed that they would have additional information in the warrant and she had included
the flyer the School Building Committee had put together.
She was not sure if this document will go in or if it is
appropriate and we would have to have Counsel agree with it. She does not believe it's inappropriate because it was not
put together by a Political Action Committee and it just states facts on the project. She does assume there would be
some sort of report included in the warrant.
Mr. Alonzo recommended that they put the total amount of the project in the warrant article itself. Any other report should
be forthcoming and available either in the warrant itself as a separate item or as a handout at Special Town Meeting.
Ms. Speidel said that she would ask and reminded the board that the MSBA approves the language in the warrant article
as well as the motion as does Bond Counsel.
Mr. Ebersole said so this means that part of the discussion is that it would be $72M, because technically we have to
appropriate the entire amount, even though we won't be borrowing the entire amount.
Mr. Alonzo replied correct, but the article as it is written talks about the split.
Mr. Matthews added that we have to be careful because it's not an exact 59.1% split.
Ms. Bertram stated that this will be flushed out during the discussion and it's unfortunate that we can't make it clear what it
is that we are looking at borrowing.
Mr. Alonzo said that the wording as it is written here is exactly correct. In the motion, as it stands right now, they are
talking about coverage of splitting expenses in the grant program. This means nothing to someone who does not know
what the cost of the project is.
Ms. Speidel added that in the language that they give you, you identify what the project is. I asked for the School
Administration to provide the project and we will go back to the MSBA to make sure that the scope of the project can
include the cost of the project.
Mr. Matthews stated that he is going to vote yes to recommend approval on this and ultimately we will finalize verbiage of
this in the end.
Mr. Alonzo said that we had a motion to recommend approval of the article which was seconded. We can hold off on the
actual warrant wording itself but the recommendation is on the table already. He then asked for a vote.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo requested to the public to please find out all the information they can because this is a very important project
to the Town.
Mr. Alonzo stated that regarding Articles 2 & 3 which are Zoning articles, the board generally does not take a position until
they have heard a presentation.
Discussion: Ms. Bertram stated that in this particular case they are asking for 1 year to do more research on exactly
where it would be appropriate and what the restrictions would be. You cannot say that they are not allowed, you have to
identify a place. She went on to say that she had no problem making a recommendation to approve at this time.
Mr. Ebersole stated that he is struggling with this because he is trying to support business. Lunenburg and the State
voted for this, the world is changing on many things. I will be voting against this, I think we should be voting on moving
quickly to try to get this. He went on to say that he would prefer to make a recommendation at Special Town Meeting.
Mr. Alonzo said that he would like to hear what the presentation is. He understands that the law went into effect January
of this year so that means they will ask for an additional moratorium. He tends to agree with Mr. Ebersole and said that if
things are allowed, he wants to know why we are not allowing them, even temporarily.
Mr. Alonzo said if there is no objection they will wait to make a recommendation at Special Town Meeting. This will
pertain to both Articles 2 & 3.
Mir. Ebersole requested that the last dates to be able to register to vote be added to the warrant for mailing.
Ms. Speidel asked if they could talk about what information they would like to see at the next BOS meeting and if they
intend to make a recommendation on financing for the school project at that meeting. She also mentioned that she did
not have an update on the survey question for them tonight.
Mr. Alonzo: replied the financing recommendation should be put on next weeks meeting when we have the final results of
the survey although he is not against talking about this tonight.
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Bertram stated that she didn't know if it needed to be in the warrant, she feels it should be part of the discussion, and
ultimately it will be up to this board to determine that.
Mr. Ebersole recommended that the BOS take a stance before the Finance Committee meeting. He went on to say that
we have already had the discussion on the financial impact of the 20 or 30 year term financing. The previous option
which he had recommended will not give the relief that he would have liked to have seen and he will be supporting the 30
year term. His reasoning for this is by looking at what the average tax payer will be doing and hearing what's being said
out there as far as the impact. He believes that the cost of the school should be spread over the years of the people
having use of it. There is no disrespect to the Finance Committee; it's where I believe that I would be no matter what
additional information there is because I know it is going to cost more.
Ms. Bertram agreed with Mr. Ebersole's comments and will also be supporting the 30 year term. She would like to go with
the 20 year because it makes more sense for the Town, but does no believe that the tax payer nor herself can afford it.
Mr. Matthews stated that he lives his life with 15 or 20 year mortgages but if we can spread it out a little bit it makes
sense.
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that he is also leaning towards the 30 year term because he likes the idea of spreading the cost
over the years of the people who will be using it. The flip side is that the 20 year term would free up money for things that
may come along. He normally would go for the shorter pay back term but agrees that the 30 years makes the most
Ms. Speidel asked if the board could now eliminate one of the variables which would be the 20 year term.
Mr. Alonzo declared that they will support the 30 year bond.
Ms. Speidel took this opportunity to make an announcement that the Town was notified yesterday afternoon that the other
Bond Rating Agency, Standard & Poors has upgraded the Town's bond rating from a AA- rating to a AAt. The reason
being is that Standard & Poors has changed their rating criteria. This is very significant. Standard & Poors has been the
Rating Agency that we have used for the last 10 years and the way they have rated credits has made more sense for
municipalities in the way that we do business and we are very fortunate that we will have this significant increase.
She went on to say that she asked the Towns Financial Advisor what this could potentially mean and he said that it could
mean as much as a savings of a tenth of 1% on an interest rate.
3. IMA with Town of Townsend for Sale of Net Metering Credits: Ms. Speidel stated that the Townsend BOS is taking
this matter up at their meeting this evening and we should wait on this issue.
Ms. Bertram voiced concern about page 2 of the draft concerning the Purchase and Sale of Net Metering Credits. Her
understanding was that the Schedule Z is done twice a year so Townsend would be listed on the Schedule Z and in the
event that we had credits that would then be passed to Townsend. As she sees it, the way this is written, it looks like it we
do have credits we would then amend the Schedule Z and she is not sure why it is put this way, you cannot just amend
the Schedule Z. She would like to understand why Townsend is just not listed on Schedule Z and in the event that we do
have credits it would then be passed through to Townsend.
Her other concern was that we were not going to have Administrative costs, but on page 4 Section 5.1 (a) it states that
Lunenburg will provide Townsend a monthly invoice which will make us responsible for invoicing Townsend. She believed
that this was going to be done by the utility company and it does not read that way.
In addition on page 4 Section 5.1 (c) it states that in the event that the Local Utility elects to make payments to Lunenburg
in lieu of providing Net Metering Credits we will have to pay Townsend that credit. Ms. Bertram thought we were doing
this because we could not get a check and would like some clarification from the Town Manager.
Ms. Speidel responded saying that in regards to Ms. Bertram's last concern, it is still up in the air with Unitil. She went on
to say that she cannot answer these questions tonight because she thinks that the BOS received the wrong draft in their
packet this evening. She will look into this tomorrow and if this is the correct draft she will get clarification on those
questions.
4. BOS Appointment to (School Committee's) Advisory Committee for Tolerance & Diversity: Mr. Ebersole spoke to
say that he was interested in serving on this committee.
Mr. Matthews moved to appoint Bob Ebersole to the School Committee's Advisory Committee for Tolerance & Diversity.
Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in tavor, 0 opposed
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
11/12/2013
11/19/2013 (to be amended)
===PAGE 9===
RECEIVED & FILED
Warrants:
12/15/2013
12/3/2013
12/4/2013
#W12-P14
#W28-14
#W29-14
$627,412.20
$546,049.33
$148,043.21
DEC 19 2013
Action File Issues: None
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance
Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee; School Building
Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
Building Reuse Committee - No Report
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will be meeting tomorrow on schedule.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will be meeting on 12/12/2013
Library Board of Trustees- Mr. Ebersole reported that they met on 11/21/2013 and they were given a tour of the building.
They praised the DPW along for all of the support that they give to them. The Friends of the Library on a regular basis
give money for various projects which included paying for window cleaning. They continue to work on updating their
computers and look forward to the Massbroadband connection.
Some of their programs are affected by other Town
events and the concept for updating our Website for the Town Calendar goes for meetings and other non-meeting items.
MPO- No Report
Planning Board- No Report
PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported that PACC met last night, with a quorum. Part of the meeting was normal business but they
also reviewed the continuation of the workshop which was held with the BOS, the Open Meeting Law and the implications
of that. He has realized that people have been in government for a long time and the Open Meeting Law has changed
from what these people have originally learned. Mr. Ebersole believed that one of the good things about the session was
that there was a lot of discussion at the board level similar to when we had Town Counsel here amongst the members
such as "can we do it this way" or "no that's not enough the agenda item is not specific" or "in the minutes you need to
have this". Mr. Ebersole recommended a more individualize Open Meeting Training session for various boards and
commissions or for individual members.
He thought that the PACC meeting was very successful for instance they had to schedule a meeting for next Monday
night because they couldn't do what they wanted to do because it wasn't on that agenda
PACC is looking for volunteer students and adults to do filming and work with PACC. They will also schedule regular
training sessions for filming.
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that the Public Forum is scheduled for this Thursday at 3PM and 7PM.
The Greenhouse which was originally in the design for the proposed Middle/High School was proposed to be a glass &
steel structure. The Agricultural Commission had concerns about spending a lot of money on that kind of structure vs. the
plastic and wire hoop that most of them use. That commission will give insights on some lower cost more practical
applications.
North Middlesex is looking to build a new High School which will house 870 students, 180,000-190,000 sq. ft, at a cost of
approximately $88.6M. Ayer/Shirley is in the process of renovating their High School which will house 495 students, and
the cost of that is $56M. If you were to compare the costs we have a pretty good project.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Matthews for those great comparison numbers.
Sewer Commission- Meeting postponed until next week.
MA Broadband- No Report
9.Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel stated that the Finance Committee is meeting on
12/12/2013 for the purpose of receiving the 5 Year Financial Forecast and there will be a formal invitation to the School
Committee and the BOS.
Ms. Speidel reminded the board that they have a site visit at 300 Holman St. scheduled for 12/8/2013 at 9AM.
===PAGE 10===
Ms. Speidel also had for signature the Consultant Agreement for the Municipal Aggregation Program which was approved
at a prior BOS meeting
Ms. Speidel reported that at either the 12/10 or 12/17 BOS meeting the board will be presented with the Annual License
Mr. Alonzo stated that if people are not caught up on their taxes for any of these licenses he will not in any way vote for
anything contingent upon them bringing in payment before the end of the year. He asked the Town Manager to please
make sure that this is clear to all of the establishments.
Ms. Speidel said that this was made very clear last year and everything was paid before the BOS meeting.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS: None
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
Mr. Ebersole commented on the Standard & Poors upgrade giving credit to the Town Manager, the Finance Committee
and the Town for doing the things that are financially responsible, having a balanced budget and not trying to draw down
our reserves inappropriately. All of those actions go to this and the day to day operation of our financials with the Town
Manager overseeing it, along with the budgeting process, goes a long way in giving the financial entities comfort to say
that Lunenburg is going to do the right thing. He gave kudos to all involved.
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the BOS meeting. Mr. Matthew seconded. On vote motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 9:12PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
December 10, 2013
December 17, 2013
espectfully Submitte
isan Doherty, Recording Secreta
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 19 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERS OFFICE
