===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
1/8/13
179673
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Lown Hall as scheduled with David Matthews.
Tom Alonzo, Steven M. deBettencourt, Paula Bertram, Carl (Ernie) Sund, and Town ManageRceVE & FILED
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
JAN 2 4 2013
ANNOUNCEMENTS
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
APPOINTMENTS
Stanley R. Young, applicant for Constable - Mr. Young came before the BOS and explained his background and
reasons for wanting to be appointed as Constable for the Town of Lunenburg
Mr. Alonzo moved to approve the appointment of Stanley R. Young to the position of Constable in Lunenburg.
Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Borrego Solar Landfill Project - Ms. Speidel stated that she would like to update the board on the three solar
projects together.
Ms. Speidel said that the Borrego Project has been going on close to two years and that it is a Town initiated project at the
landfill. In the beginning, the landfill was identified as being a good location to put a solar farm but they have found that
although this location is good for aesthetic purposes it is not a good location for economic purposes. Borrego has worked
diligently with Unitil and at this point in time they are awaiting the results of an Anti Islanding study, which was due on
December 7, 2012, and Unitil has not delivered it to them as of this meeting.
Lunenburg's Town Attorney, Rick Holland, has been in contact with Borrego and has reported that Borrego has lost
interest in this project. They have put out a tremendous amount of time and money with this project and do not want to
walk away from the project but would not object if the Town decided they did not want to move forward with this project
The original project was hoped to be approximately 2MW and has been changed to . 75MW which is not economically
feasible for anybody.
The problem is that the Borrrego project needs to be cleared up before the Town can move forward with the Mass PV1
project.
Ms. Speidel reported that back in October the Town had signed a PPA with EPG Solar to purchase credits from this
project which is approximately IMW. The credits would be purchased at approximately 11.32 cents per KW which is a
savings of about 33% over what is currently paid. The PILOT document has been drafted and the attorney's are in
agreement with the document. The PILOT is currently with EPG and the property owner. This property is currently part
of a bankruptcy filing and the bankruptcy court has to approve any land lease or purchase of this property which has
slowed down this project. Back in December EPG informed Ms. Seidel that they had just completed an appraisal on the
property which was required by the bankruptcy court, and the appraisal came back significantly less than what the
property owner had expected. Due to the holidays, there has not been much progress made on this project. EPG cannot
move forward until the property owner signs off on the PILOT but they believe that they can still meet the May 31, 2013
build out deadline.
Ms. Speidel reported on the Mass PV1 project which would be a 2MW facility. On November 13" the BOS met with
representatives from Mass PV1 and at that time agreed to purchase the credits from .5MW with the option to purchase up
to the full 2MW's. The board has 90 days to act on that action which will expire on February 13, 2013. Ms. Speidel feels
that from an economic point of view it would be more advantageous to purchase credits from this project because they are
looking to sell at a better rate of .9 cents per KW hour which would save approximately 47%.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Speidel has had conversations with the Town of Townsend about purchasing credits from this project and they seem
to be interested. She also met with the Water District about purchasing credits but they are not interested because they
currently have a better rate. Mass PV1 has also been out talking to other communities about the purchase of credits from
this project which could be to our benefit as well. Lunenburg has agreed to purchase SMW's but Mass PV1 would like to
sell all of the credits to Lunenburg. If Lunenburg does not purchase the remaining 1.5MW's then Mass PV1 will be
responsible for selling them elsewhere.
Attorney's for the Town and for Mass PV1 have been reviewing the language in both the PPA and the PILOT and are in
agreement that it is satisfactory.
Board members were in agreement that the Town needs to walk away from the Borrego Project although Mr. Sund felt
that he would like Borrego to initiate the conclusion of the project. He would also like to investigate further the cost
savings for purchasing more credits from Mass PV1.
After lengthy discussion among the Board members Mr. Matthews asked Ms. Speidel to contact Borrego concerning the
termination of that project. In regards to the EPG Solar Project, for the time being nothing will be done at this point in
time but EPG will be reminded that the PPA is dependent on the PILOT. As for Mass PV1 they still have a month to act
on this project and will continue to investigate the purchase and sales of net metering credits.
2. Review and/ or Execute Power Purchase Agreement and PILOT Agreement for Solar and Mass PV1
and/ or PILOT Agreement for EPG Solar - Discussed under Borrego Solar Landfill Project.
3. CORI Administrative Procedures - Ms. Speidel stated Attorney Terry is still in the process of drafting the
Administrative Procedures and hopefully she will be in receipt of these sometime next month.
Attorney Terry is also in the process of drafting the Health Insurance Regulations which should be received sometime this
month. There will be a meeting regarding Health Insurance on January 22° at the regularly scheduled BOS meeting.
4. FY14-18 Financial Forecast - Tabled until 1/15/13 meeting.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
None
Warrants:
Payroll
Payroll Deduction
Accounts Payable
W#14P13
W# 36-13
W# 37-13
$648,380.05
$158,822.04
$512,307.20
Action File Issues: None
6. Committee Reports - Mr. Sund reported that the Capital Planning Committee will be meeting tomorrow and they
will be discussing the Capital Requests.
Mr. Sund reported that the Cable Committee met last evening. They are still working on the new studio at the T. C.
Passios School Building and are now filming the High School basketball games along with pod casts from the Middle
School.
Mr. Alonzo reported that the Finance Committees first meeting of the new year will be this Thursday at the Town Hall at
7PM.
Mr. Matthews reported that the Superintendent presented her recommended budget at the School Committee meeting last
Wednesday and he reviewed the figures with the BOS.
Mr. deBettencourt reported that although he has not been to a Sewer Commission meeting he has watched them on the
T.V. Some of the recent discussions have been regarding illegal tie-ins and they are working on the contract with the
City of Fitchburg.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Bertram reported that she along with the DPW Director had met with George Snow from MRPC and reviewed the list
of roads in Lunenburg that are eligible for Federal funding. She said that it was a very encouraging meeting.
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports - Ms. Speidel reported that she along with Mike Mackin, Loxi
Calmes and John Londa had attended a meeting in Boston today as the local representatives to the School Building
Committee Designer Selection Panel through the MSBA. They solicited proposals from architects for the feasibility and
schematic design phase portion of the school building project. They received ten proposals, reviewed them, and identified
the top three proposals as, Ai3 Architects LL.C from Wayland, Symmes Maini & Mckee Associates Inc. of Cambridge and
Tappe Assoicates Inc. of Boston. All three will be interviewed at a Designer Selection Panel meeting on February 5 in
Boston where they will be ranked.
Ms. Speidel presented the BOS with two licenses to be signed which were approved at the last meeting, but were not
signed at that time.
Town Manager Reports- a. Services Available at Townsend Transfer Station - Ms. Speidel reported that the
Townsend transfer station, located at 33 Greenville Rd is accepting Christmas trees for disposal. The Townsend Station is
open every other Saturday, is open to surrounding communities, and for a fee will take a variety of items. AKS
Management Transfer Station in Fitchburg will also accept the trees for a $10 fee.
Ms. Speidel reviewed the Executive Summary from the Regional Dispatch District with the BOS. A Director had been
hired and began work last week. They are still awaiting decisions on a couple of grants and construction of the building is
moving along as planned. Posting of a Dispatch Supervisor and Dispatchers will begin over the next couple of months.
Ms. Speidel along with the Lunenburg Fire & Police Chiefs will be meeting to discuss what they will be doing to staff the
Lunenburg Public Safety Building when the Dispatch building is complete. Any savings from joining the Regional
Dispatch District will be going back into the Public Safety Building.
Ms. Speidel updated the BOS on the progress of Eagle Heights. RCAP Solutions has expressed concern that they feel less
certain that there will be funding available to them. They would like to pursue some State programs and have set a
meeting with Senator Flanagan. Ms. Speidel will review the results of the meeting and report on it at a later date.
Ms. Speidel stated that the Town has been presented with an opportunity to take another look at the Right of First Refusal
on the Arrows property. Town Counsel had sent a letter to the BOS advising them of this right and the new purchase
price is $2.1M. The property is in Chapter and the BOS has a certain time period to act on its First Right of Refusal.
Based on when Counsel was notified of this opportunity it was determined that the Town has until March 29, 2013 to act
on this matter. Ms. Speidel had prepared a draft of events that would need to happen, assuming the BOS is interested in
holding a Special Town Meeting to ask the Town to consider acting on this Right of First Refusal which would need to be
scheduled on March 12, 2013.
Ms. Speidel reminded the BOS of the two current APR applications which will be going through this process and if this
board was interested in participating in the APR they would also need to go to Town Meeting. Ms. Speidel hopes that the
appraisals from the State on these two applications will be received this month and when she prepared this schedule to
accommodate a Special Town Meeting, she tried to push it as close to this deadline to give as much time possible to
prepare for the APR applications as well.
After discussion it was determined that the APR applications can wait until Annual Town Meeting in May and the BOS
will set a meeting with the Planning Board, and Conservation Commission to see if they feel the Arrow property should
be protected, before they bring this item to Special Town Meeting for a vote.
OLD BUSINESS - None
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS - Mr. Matthews reminded everyone that there is an
opening on the Planning Board and the posting of this opening will run through the 31% of January.
PUBLIC COMMENT - None
===PAGE 4===
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business, Mr. deBettencourt moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Alonzo seconded.
On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting ended at 8:35PM.
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
January 15, 2013
January 22, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
