===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
6/11/13
4-9-44
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Tom
Alonzo, Paula Bertram, David Matthews, Robert Ebersole, Jamie Toale and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Ebersole stated that June Beacon from the Sentinel and Enterprise Newspaper was asking for residents to
send in pictures of Double Electric Poles and to inform the Town Manager if any are seen.
Mr. Matthews congratulated Lunenburg High School's graduating class of 2013.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 p.m. Candidates for Personnel Committee:
Mr. John Haddad, 94 White Street, stated that he worked for the IRS and interviewed with the Finance
Committee Appointment Committee. He stated that he was very interested in public service and becoming
active within the Town.
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Haddad if he has any experience in Human Resources of Personnel Management.
Mr. Hadad replied that he did not but he would like to learn.
Mr. Alonzo called forth Heather Soroka to interview but she was not present. Mr. Alonzo asked that an
invitation to Ms. Soroka be extended for another interview.
Ms. Bertram moved to appoint Mir. Haddad to the Personnel Committee, pending the approval of the Town
Moderator. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, O opposed.
7:00 p.m. Candidates for Building Re-Use Committee:
Ronald Albert, 69 Island Road spoke to the BOS on why he would like to become a member on the Building
Re-Use Committee. He is a licensed architect and works in an architectural office. He likes to work with people
and wants to give back to the community.
Mr. Matthews and Ms. Bertram spoke positively of Mr. Albert from personal and professional experience.
Joseph Levine, 163 Island Road, has lived in Lunenburg for the past three years. Mr. Levine owns a
construction business and has been in that field for the past 10 years. He also has experience in cost
projections and audits within the construction field.
Ms. Speidel stated that Dave McDonald, who was going to interview, was not available to attend due to his
attendance at the sewer commission meeting.
Mr. Matthews motioned to appoint Mr. Albert, Mr. Levine, and Mr. McDonald to the Building Re-Use
Committee. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
7:00 p.m. Peddler's License Applicant - Jesse A. Peterson- Mr. Peterson, 35 Etsel Street in Littleton MA,
will be selling educational school books and software door to door in Lunenburg. He will be doing it for 3 weeks
between 8AM-9PM except for Sundays. He stated that he has worked in Shirley and Dunstable over the past
few weeks. The organization he works for is Southwestern Advantage and he is a college intern with this
company.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram asked how he was identifying potential clients.
Mr. Peterson replied that he identifies potential clients through reference process.
Ms. Alonzo asked Ms. Speidel if the applicant would need to identify himself to authorities in the Town.
Ms. Speidel replied that the applicant would need to identify himself to the chief of police.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Peterson if he would be going door to door with anyone else.
Mr. Peterson replied that he would be alone.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve a Peddler's License for Mr. Jesse A. Peterson. Mr. Matthews seconded.
On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
7:15 p.m. Joint Meeting with Open Space Committee- The Open Space Committee, called to session the
joint meeting between the BOS and the Open Space Committee at 7:23 p.m.
Marion Benson, Planning Board Director, introduced the Open Space Committee members and provided a
brief history of the committee and how it operates.
Mr. Alonzo stated that a previous Open Space Committee member, Mr. Hyde, had compiled excellent maps,
descriptions and outlines of all the trails in town and requested that they be made more accessible to the
public.
Mr. Verge, Conservation Commission and Open Space Plan, talked about having a program a few: years
earlier called "Walks in the Woods", which brought town residents out into the conservation land around town
for hikes as well as having a Snow Shoe group to use the trails during the winter. He hopes to start these
programs again. As far as maps of the towns, he is attempting to acquire maps of the trails and conservation
but does not currently have them.
Ms. Bertram stated the MRTC is looking to create a regional trail map, including the trails in Lunenburg,
however June 19" is the last day the MRTC is accepting submissions of trails.
Ms. Bertram stated that she would like recommendations on how to identify & prioritize chapter land the Town
might be interested in.
Mr. Brandon Kibbe, Open Space Committee Member at Large, stated that the Open Space Committee has an
action plan that identifies important undertakings that the Town should look into that would have little or no
impact to municipal budget. The plan also includes managing existing properties in Town and what any
identified properties could be used for if the Town were to acquire the property. He stated that he would create
a priority criteria list opposed to identifying individual properties to recommend to the Town to purchase.
Mr. Ebersole asked why Mr. Kibbe stated that creating a list of priority criteria for properties was better than a
list of individual properties.
Nir. Kibbe replied that it would be better because it would be respectful of the current property owner and
because it might give people the wrong idea about the worth of their property.
Mr. Ebersole congratulated the Open Space Committee on their Open Space plan and asked that it be
updated often.
Sharon Jordan, Open Space Committee Member at Large, brought to the attention of the BOS that the Open
Space Committee would be looking towards the BOS on policies for the Town concerning Chapter 61
properties and the process to deal with them.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the sewer sections and the well water system on Reservoir Road were affected by the
Open Space Committee plan.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Benson replied that she was not sure but those questions would be added onto the agenda of the next
meeting and will be answered for the BOS.
Ms. Bertram stated that the property projection numbers on the plan might be out of date and needs to be
reviewed. She also requested updated information regarding the stress levels of Mulpus Brook and the
Katacutamag basins.
Mr. Matthews asked if the Town owned properties were identified.
Ms. Speidel replied that they were.
Mr. Matthews asked if those properties where the owners were listed as unknown had anyone paying taxes on
them.
Ms. replied stated that the Town has a process to go through to purchase these properties, and also a process
to sell properties if the Town deems it worthwhile.
Ms. Bertram asked for an overview of the process and cost associated with selling land that the Town already
owns.
Ms. Speidel stated that anything listed on the Town own land as tax title are properties the Town owns after
acquisition through a tax title. Anything listed under tax title accounts are properties the Town has a tax title
lien on. The Town bills these properties quarterly and at the end of the 4™ quarter, if the taxes are not paid, the
Town goes through a process that includes sending out a demand bill where the property owner has 14 days
to pay the bill and then the Town can go through a process to acquire the property through a lien.
She stated that typically the Town doesn't move that quickly, but within 6 months after the fiscal year is over,
the Town has gone through all the proper venues to inform the owner of the tax delinquencies, advertises the
property publicly informing the property owner, and then a lien is issued which is recorded with the Registry of
Deeds. Next it is up to the Town on how to move forward with the property. If the Town decides to purchase
the property, the property goes to Land Court. The process for selling the property stays with the BOS which
can put it to auction by taking sealed bids from the "highest" responsible bidder.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the map currently provided was the most recent map.
Ms. Benson confirmed that the map was the most recent and listed all of the newest protected conservation
areas.
Mr. Toale asked if the O's listed next to Goals in the 5-Year Action Plan (Section 9 of Open Space and
Recreation Plan Update 2011) were placeholders or the actual cost associated with the proposed tasks. Ms.
Jordan stated that the O's were reflective of actual projected costs.
Mr. Ebersole asked if there was any State funding to acquire lands.
Mr. Kibbe replied that there was State funding, including the "Self Help Program". He also stated that there
were a number of tax incentives built into the Tax Law that encourages landowners to donate lands for
conservation purposes or for the betterment of the Town. The Town should promote the tax incentives to the
public.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the grants outlined were property specific and if there were rounds in which the grants
were distributed
Mr. Kibbe replied that the grants were property specific and there were rounds in which the Town had to apply
for the grant at specific times.
Ms. Benson stated that the Planning Board was working with the MRPC on an "Economic Element" on
properties. The Planning Board was working on a second grant for the Town as well. She stressed that the
committee was working hard and making sure that no plans or studies are placed on the shelf and forgotten
and they were actively working on informing the BOS and the Town about all their activities.
The BOS thanked the Open Space Committee for coming forward this evening.
The joint meeting session between the BOS and the Open Space Committee closed at 8:14PM.
===PAGE 4===
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Town Manager Goals and Objectives- Mr. Alonzo passed out a copy of the agreed upon
Board of Selectmen goals for FY2014. He asked that the members of the BOS note that he added under goal
4, section C which specifies periodic department updates at televised BOS meetings that was requested, and
also the removal of the word "regular" from goal 4 section A. He asked if everyone was comfortable with the
BOS goals after the revisions were made.
Ms. Speidel stated that BOS goals did not need to be approved by a vote of the BOS.
Mr. Alonzo outlined what the Town Manager Goals and Objectives suggestion list from the BOS entailed.
Mr. Ebersole asked that under Goal 3: Operations, Codification of Bylaws, Facilities Maintenance Plan, and IT
Policies be made into a sentence because it doesn't specifically list what is being asked of the Town Manager
and when it should be completed by.
Mr. Alonzo agreed and started with Facilities Maintenance Plan. He suggested it should be re-written as
Development, Document, and Implement a 5 year plan for Facilities Maintenance (Capital and Operating).
The BOS agreed to that language.
Ms. Speidel stated that the Codifying of Bylaws was difficult because there was no funding for this project
currently.
Mr. Ebersole suggest that language be changed to "Develop Plan to Codify the Bylaws (Budget and Funding
Allowing)
The BOS agreed to this language.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that IT Policies be changed to Develop, Document, and Implement Town Wide IT
Policies.
The BOS agreed to this language.
Ms. Bertram asked if under Goal 2: Financial, the first section regarding performance measures wasn't
eliminated from the Town Manager Goals and Objectives previously.
Mr. Ebersole stated that it should be eliminated considering it's a performance based on budgeting.
Ms. Speidel stated that there is a grant offered through UMass Boston which would fund an intern to set up a
performance based budgeting system to help take off performance based on zero based budgeting. She
suggests keeping that language attached to the performance base.
Mr. Ebersole stated that it should be changed to Implement Performance Based Budget.
Ms. Bertram asked if the semantics of "In Progress" should be changed. She stated that a "No Progress"
column be kept.
Mr. Ebersole stated that a column could be added for percentage of goal completed.
Mir. Alonzo suggested the columns be left stating "No Progress, Progress, Substantive, and Notes" and that
one be added that stated what percent was finished for quarterly updates.
Mr. Alonzo stated he will not be at the BOS meeting the next week so Ms. Bertram will present the adjusted
Goals and Objectives for the Town Manager.
===PAGE 5===
2. Approve License Agreement, Haying, 200 Pleasant Street - Ms. Speidel stated that the BOS has
issued two licenses for Haying in the past and the Conservation Commission has a few other properties that
they have issued licenses to. She would like to put out all the properties between the BOS and the
Conservation Committee to a common bid to see if a more substantial bid came in that benefits the Town. She
stated that the property at 200 Pleasant Street was put out to bid for Haying and SMD Construction had the
highest bid at $750.00. Two other bids were received for $600.00 and $500.00. These bids are less than
amounts previously received for the property, which for the past three years had been $1,000.00. She stated
that she did not know the market for haying and the market may be moving poorly, but she does think the BOS
should start looking at properties for Haying in January or February to get ahead of the game.
Ms. Speidel stated that she would like to issue a license to Hay 200 Pleasant Street for one year and all other
properties in a 3 year bid.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the license to Hay on the property of 200 Pleasant Street for $750.00 for one
year. Ms. Bertram second. On vote motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues:
Minutes: None.
Warrants: 6/11 #66-13 $353,996.00
Action File Issues: Ms. Bertram asked that the Action File be cleaned out.
4. Committee Reports:
Board of Health - Mr. Ebersole stated that the applicant to waive regulations on a property in Hickory
Hills has not shown up to represent themselves in front of the Board of Health.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale stated the committee is working on streamlining the process
and setting the calendar for the upcoming fiscal year.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that the Finance Committee is meeting this coming Thursday.
Library Board of Trustees - Mr. Ebersole stated that the board will be meeting later in the month.
MPO - Ms. Bertram stated the MPO meets tomorrow.
PACC - Mr. Toale stated that PAC meets next Monday.
School Committee - Mr. Matthews stated that he was unable to attend last weeks meeting.
School Building Committee - Mr. Matthews stated that the committee meets on the 17".
Sewer Commission - Mr. Ebersole reported that the commission was meeting tonight. He talked to the
committee about the issue of extensions into border municipalities and plans on updating their rules
and regulations.
MA Broadband - Mr. Alonzo stated that MA Broadband continues expanding their grid and in 6-8
weeks they will arrive in Lunenburg.
5. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports - Ms. Speidel reported that the Pay-Per-Throw program
is receiving a lot of complaints. Most of the complaints received revolve around the hauler picking up trash that
is not in the yellow bags issued by the Town. People are putting recyclable material into plastic bags which
after checking the contents, the hauler removes.
The Town's program is too small to offer large toters but residents can use any type of bin to put out
recyclables. People should not be mixing recyclables into the yellow bags. A flyer has been created that asks
the citizens to change their habits with trash and instructing them when it goes in a recyclable container and
when it should be put into the yellow trash bags.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Alonzo asked that it be highlighted on the flyer that recyclables must be placed in an open container.
Ms. Speidel stated that the hauler is able to mark bags that have been rejected. The hauler has reported about
a dozen or so rejections of garbage per day.
Another complaint concerns the driver mixing the recyclables with the trash in the truck. Ms. Speidel explained
that everything goes into the same opening but there are two slots that separate the trash from the recyclables
which people cannot see.
Ms. Speidel stated that the holiday pick up schedule will be changed to include regular pick up on the lesser
holidays which include, Martin Luther King Day, Presidents Day, Patriots Day, Columbus Day etc. Delayed
pickup will remain in effect on New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Labor Day, Veteran's Day, and Christmas Day..
The hauler, Cassella, is in agreement with this change.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Resignation: James A. Hays, Council on Aging- Mr. Alonzo read a letter of resignation from Jim Hays
trom the Council on Aging. He stated that the BOS has accepted Mr. Hays letter of resignation and asked that
a letter be send to Mr. Hays thanking him for his service.
Mr. Alonzo stated that there are positions opened for the Council on Aging and talent bank forms should be
filled out if interested.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 8:59PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
June 18, 2013
July 2, 2013
July 9, 2013
July 16, 2013
July 23. 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 19 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
