===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 14 2013
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
10/22/13
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
+-
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as
scheduled with Chair
Person Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairperson Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, and
Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that the Planning Board would like to announce that they have a public survey which
concerns the updating of the Master Plan. It is being serviced by the site SurveyMonkey.com and there are
paper copies available at Town Hall, Ritter Building, Library, and the Eagle House.
Mr. Alonzo announced that there will be a Public Forum concerning the proposed Middle/High School on
10/30/213, 7PM, at the High School. The public was encouraged to attend.
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Frank Hartnett, Development Director of the Catalano Companies, Local
Dunkin Donuts Franchisees, came before the BOS to request a Common Victuallers license. He stated that all
of the paperwork required is in order and that the Operations Manager mistakenly did not submit the
application in the proper amount of time. Mr. Hartnett would like the BOS to approve this license before their
grand opening on Thursday.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that the BOS did receive notification of this today, and in order to do this they would
need to call an Emergency Meeting, which he was unsure if this situation qualified. He explained that licenses
require that the board review the application and they have a specific time frame in which they like to review
them.
Mr. Matthews stated that there were emails today concerning this matter to see if the board could take this in a
meeting in public session, but in accordance with the Open Meeting Laws this would require a 48 hour posting
of the meeting. The board felt that there was still some information outstanding and there are limitations in the
Open Meeting Laws to what can be done.
Mr. Alonzo spoke and said that procedurally and by State Law they could not accommodate this request before
the Thursday Grand Opening.
This request will be added to the 10/29/2013 BOS agenda.
Proclamation: Lunenburg Womens Club- 100 Year Anniversary: Christine Lattanzi, representing the
Lunenburg Womens Club, came before the BOS to accept the proclamation.
Mr. Alonzo read into record the Proclamation regarding the Lunenburg Womens Club 100 Year Anniversary
and thanked the Womens Club for all of the work that they do. (See Attached)
Ms. Lattanzi thanked the board for this recognition.
Commendations: Police & Fire Dept.: Police Chief James Marino and Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan came
before the BOS to present Commendations of Bravery to members of their respective departments for an
incident which had occurred on the Whalom Lakefront. Chief Marino described the events of that day: which
involved a pickup truck crashing through a fence into the lake which ultimately became completely submerged.
===PAGE 2===
If not for the heroic actions of the Police and Fire personnel in helping the victim to escape from the vehicle this
would have become a fatality.
Chief Marino and Chief Sullivan recognized Officer Charles Deming Jr., Officer Deven Z. O'Brien, Lieutenant
Scott Dillon, Office Peter W. Lekaditis and Firefighter Matthew Glenny for their courage and for putting their
own lives at risk to save the victim.
Officer Deming, Officer O'Brien, Officer Lekaditis, Firefighter Glenny, and Lieutenant Dillion stepped forward
and were introduced to the board and public.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that all involved did a brilliant job and that nobody knows that more than the victim. He
congratulated them all on a job well done. He added that this is a testament to the kind of people that wẹ have
on the force and you could not ask for more from the people who serve in those departments.
All board members expressed their thanks and appreciation to both the Police and Fire Departments, not just
for their actions on that day but for their teamwork and exemplary work that they do every day.
Halloween Trick-or-Treat House, Thursday, 10/31/2013, 6:00 - 8:00 p.m.: Mr. Alonzo announced the
official Trick or Treat hours in Lunenburg as Thursday 10/31/2013 from 6-8PM.
Board & Committee Vacancies: Mr. Alonzo announced that there are 3 vacancies on the Public Access
Cable Committee (PACC) and described the qualifications for the applicants. Interested parties should
complete a Talent Bank form and return it to Town Hall.
APPOINTMENTS
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Surrounding Community Agreement with the Cordish Company, Mass Live! Casino Project:
Attorney Jonathan Silverstein from Kopelman and Paige came before the BOS to discuss the recently
negotiated proposed Surrounding Community Agreement between the Cordish Company and the Town of
Lunenburg. He explained that this provides surrounding community status which hopefully will give the Town a
"leg up" when the Community Mitigation Fund has begun to be administrated by the Massachusetts Gaming
Commission. This fund will be populated by both license fees and gaming taxes from the various gaming
licensees as the facilities begin to operate.
If the Cordish Company receives the Category 2 license (Slots Only) to operate in Leominster, they will
immediately need to pay a $25M license fee and from then on will pay 49% of their gaming revenues to the
State. Of this license fee, 10% will go into the Community Mitigation Fund which will be specifically set aside
for communities that may feel impact from the gaming facility.
As the Category 1 facilities (Larger Casino) open up they will pay a 25% gaming tax per year on all of their
gaming revenues and 6.5% of that will also go into the Community Mitigation Fund. Category 1 facilities also
will be paying 10% of their $85M license fee into that fund.
Mr. Silverstein continued by saying that the developer felt very strongly, after studies were done by them, that
the actual impacts to the surrounding communities other than Lancaster, MA, would be minimal. In order for
the Town to try to disprove that, they would have to expend a significant amount of money to show differently.
Mr. Silverstein described the major benefits of the agreement as follows:
1. The actual impact fee that the developer would agree to was $5000 per year.
2. Anytime the Town is required to provide a mutual aid response to the facility or if there is a public safety
call in the Town of Lunenburg that requires the resources of the Public Safety entities, the developer
will pay the cost of that response. The Town will have 60 days to submit the itemization of those costs.
3. A pool of funds will be created from a percentage of their gaming revenues above a certain threshold
which will increase after certain thresholds are met. This pool will be divided equally among each
surrounding community that voluntarily enters into this agreement.
===PAGE 3===
4. The Developer has agreed to cooperate with the Town in seeking reimbursements from the Community
Mitigation fund along with any other fund which may develop such as a Public Health Fund,
Transportation Fund, or any other fund that is established that could provide benefits to the Town as a
surrounding community.
5. There will be job preferences for the communities that sign on to this agreement, secondary to
Leominster as their Host Community, intended for construction and permanent jobs at the facility.
6. There will be a kiosk placed in a prominent location within the facility to promote local and regional
tourism and businesses.
7. There is a Responsible Gaming provision that requires the developer to exercise "best practices" with
respect to problem gaming.
8. If the Developer enters into an agreement with any other community that's more beneficial, other than
Lancaster, then what ever those benefits are with the other community, Lunenburg will receive also.
Ms. Bertram spoke of her concerns regarding the traffic impact studies done by the developer. She anticipates
increased traffic traveling from New Hampshire on Rt. 13 to this facility. If we enter into this agreement does
that negate our ability to negotiate or reopen the agreement to receive additional revenues, specifically for
roads, if we find their studies wrong?
Mr. Silverstein replied that by entering into this agreement, the Town would be giving up its ability to challenge
these studies now and go through an adversarial process in front of the Gaming Commission.
To obtain the Surrounding Community status, because it would not be now be a part of a negotiated
designation you would need to petition the Gaming Commission by 10/31/2013 in order for them to designate
Lunenburg as a surrounding community. If the commission agreed that Lunenburg would have substantial
negative impacts, and Lunenburg was able to demonstrate that to them through the petition, then the parties
would have 30 days to negotiate an agreement. The process then will go through arbitration where the last
and best offers from each side would be solicited, and the arbitrator will have to choose one of them. This
process could bring us into February or March.
If we sign this agreement and find that a year from now that we really are experiencing the traffic problems that
we were concerned with, under this agreement we will not have the chance to go to the developer and ask for
payment in excess of what we agreed to. We would however have the opportunity to go to the Gaming
Commission to request additional funds and the applicant under this agreement, would be required to
cooperate.
Mr. Silverstein went on to say that he is quite certain that we could not negotiate a better agreement then this
one.
Mr. Matthews spoke to say that he was skeptical with the actuality of State funds being recouped out of the
Mitigation Fund.
Mr. Silverstein replied that this is not a formula developed by the Governor or by a State agency. This is in the
Legislation that took many years to pass. The funds are not administered by an Administrative Agency that's
dependent on funding from the Legislature; it will be administered by the Gaming Commission, which is
funding from the gaming receipts. This has been methodically set up to be independent from State pressures
and there has been a "fire wall" put up around these funds to make sure they go to the intended source. It
would not be impossible for the State to get to these funds, but it would be difficult for them to do so.
Ms. Bertram asked the Town Manager if there was any information from the Planning Board or from MRPC
(Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) regarding what the road impact might be.
Ms. Speidel replied that MRPC was required to review the application which included the traffic analysis along
with the peer review from the engineer. They identified several different intersections/road ways that were of
concern, prioritized them into two different categories, A & B, and Route 13 was in the second category. MS.
Speidel asked World Tech Engineering along with the Traffic Engineer representing the City of Everett, where
a Category 1 casino is proposed, to review the reports to see if the traffic assumptions seemed reasonable.
Based on what they saw, they thought that the assumptions seemed reasonable. Considering the short time
===PAGE 4===
table it seemed to make more sense to focus on what to do if we had impacts once the project was up and
running rather than trying to create data at this point.
MRPC going forward, has committed to reviewing traffic data on a quarterly basis and reporting back to the
surrounding communities that are in the MRPC region. Ms. Speidel mentioned that Lunenburg receives 5 free
traffic studies a year and MRPC agreed to monitor some communities on a more regular basis which would not
count against Lunenburg
Mr. Toale asked for clarification on a previous point made by Mir. Silverstein regarding if another community
decides not to go with the agreement, goes to arbitration and wins, does Lunenburg adequately get what they
get?
Mr. Silverstein replied no. The idea was that if the developer voluntarily provides or negotiates something in
access of what the Town was getting, the Town would automatically get that match. They were unwilling to do
that knowing that there were a number of surrounding communities that they were negotiating with that would
all have that similar matching program. The process is that each side gives its last and best offer and it's
designed that way specifically to give each side in arbitration a strong incentive to give the best offer they're
willing to give. The last and best offer will have to be matched by the developer, whether it's accepted or not.
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that getting the Surrounding Community status and access to the pool of money is a
better avenue than going the arbitration route. Once we have that status it's a lot easier to prove existing traffic
patterns then it is proposed traffic patterns.
Mr. Alonzo went on to say that he is comfortable with this, he
commended Mr. Silverstein for getting the provisions in the agreement and said that he would like to move
forward with this tonight.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned the clause for reimbursement for negotiating costs and said that the cost for the
Town's Attorney would be paid for by the developer. He went on to say that the Gaming Commission has not
adopted regulations on how to apply for the Mitigation Fund and believes that the State will not favor one
community over the other because there will be pressure from everybody to make everyone happy. Mr.
Ebersole also agreed with the Town Manager's comments on the traffic study and feels it is important that we
use some of the money that will come in to benchmark the different intersections coming down route 13 from
Townsend to Highland St., Main St., Lancaster Ave and Leominster Rd.
Mr. Ebersole believes that this is as good a contract that the Town will receive from the developer. He went on
to say that this is a slots parlor and is not a huge complex. He is comfortable where the Town stands now with
the understanding that they can go against the Mitigation Fund for documented changes.
Ms. Bertram agrees with Mr. Ebersole's comments but in addition she feels it is important to document existing
traffic patterns so it will show the increases and would like to utilize the funds to show if there are impacts. We
will have to document existing traffic patterns and take another look when the facility opens. She went on to
say that gaining Surrounding Community status is important but is disappointed in the small amount of $5000
because it will not go very far. Ms. Bertram said that she will vote to enter into this agreement tonight but it is
with a strong caution that we utilize these funds and do the homework now. She would like to see the Planning
Board and DPW Directors engaged early in this process to start documenting information on what we have.
The intersection of Routes 2A & 13 is already a high crash site, which is documented by MRPC, and it is
important to look at that data also as this progresses.
Mr. Matthews moved to approve the Surrounding Community Agreement with Mass Live! Casino Project. Mr.
Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Approve Criteria 3, Energy Reduction Plan Green Communities Task Force: David Blatt, Chairperson
of the Green Communities Task Force and John Londa, Advisor came before the BOS for approval Criteria 3
of the Energy Reduction Plan which needs to be filed by 10/31/2013. BOS members received copies of the
Energy Reduction Action plan and Mr. Blatt reviewed it with them. (see attached)
Mr. Blatt explained that FY2013 served as the baseline year to base all information on. The data thạt was
accumulated for this plan was done using a software program which was provided by the Dept. of Energy
Resources/Mass Energy Insight.
===PAGE 5===
The Task Force concentrated on the biggest energy users within the Town which are Town Buildings, Town
Vehicles, Street/Traffic Lights, Water/Sewer/Pumping and Open Space.
The projected planned energy
savings (MMBtu) on each entity are as follows:
BASELINE YEAR 2013
MMBtu Used in
Baseline Year
Buildings
Vehicles
Street/Traffic Lights
Water/Sewer/Pumping
Open Space
Total
22415
4461
436
45
27364
% of Total MMBtu
Consumption y
16.3
.03
1.61
•17
100%
Projected Planned
MMBtu Savings
3614.3
447.8
4,129.1
10.04
15.37
15.16
The State has asked the Task force to come up with at least 15% of savings outlined in individual projects with
dollar figures on the projects. The remaining 5% can be done in other projects as they move forward with the
grant money.
Also discussed was how to achieve a 20% energy use reduction within the 5 year period following the baseline
year along with actions the Town may take to save money in Town buildings such as switching the Public
Safety Building to gas instead of oil, and window replacements in schools and Town buildings.
Mr. Alonzo asked what would happen 5 years from now if we don't hit the 15% required by the State, would the
grant money need to be returned?
Mr. Blatt replied that there is no mention of what would happen, they ask that you hit the goal of 20% savings.
You can apply for grants each year after your initial grant just by showing the projects that you've
accomplished and the projects that you'd like to accomplish.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Blatt if they were asking for the BOS approval on this for submittal, and if this would be
the final criteria we would be submitting.
Mr. Blatt replied yes and that they already have approval on the other 4 and this is the final criteria. If this is
approved we will be able to apply for Green Community Status by the October 31% deadline and have grant
status by December.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Londa if his 5 year savings projections were achievable.
Mr. Londa replied that there was one item on there that is overwhelming on whether this plan is successful or
not. The biggest energy savings in this plan is the replacement of the High School. Heating of Town buildings
is where all the savings are. If the High School project moves forward, we are seeing almost all of the energy
savings coming in out of the heating of that building.
Mr. Alonzo asked if this plan, the way it is written now, is predicated on a new Middle/High School project
Mr. Londa replied correct, which makes this a doable plan because we are not looking for 20% from every
building. He said that there are 2 aspects of this plan which are wise things to do which requires that we
develop energy conservations plans that are building specific. One of which involves Department Heads
getting involved in how they use their buildings and the other is new technology in lighting such as LED. If the
Middle/High School project does not go through, we still have 5 years to achieve the 20% by doing a major
revision on this plan.
Mr. Blatt spoke to say that he feels that 20% savings is very achievable with this plan
Ms. Bertram questioned where in the plan does it talk about the measures to implement the 10% savings
concerning the vehicle stand point and she suggested that it be added to the plan.
Mr. Blatt replied that it is all incorporated under the whole entity, specifically with the anti-idling/fuel efficient
plan which was adopted a few weeks ago.
Mr. Matthews spoke to say he was glad that energy audits were going to be added as part of the energy policy.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Ebersole commended the Green Communities Task Force for this report particularly on bringing
awareness on how to do things differently in Town Buildings such as lighting conservation.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the Green Communities Task Force Criteria 3, of the Energy Reduction Plan.
Mir. Matthews seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Ms. Speidel said that before we discuss Existing Debt Service & Estimates for the School Building Project she
would like to share some good news that was received last week relative to one of the Town's bond ratings.
She explained that the Town carries 2 bond ratings from two different agencies, Standard & Poor's and
Moody's.
Most recently the negative Moody's bond rating which the Town had been carrying has been
eliminated.
Ms. Speidel stated that she does not think that this will affect the Town's interest rate and explained that back
in 2009 the Towns credit rating was increased from both agencies. The Town had an A2 with Moody's and a
single A with Standard & Poor's and these ratings were increased based on a review of the Town's financial
performance to a AA3 from Moody's and a AA- from Standard & Poor's. Both ratings have moved up and are
equivalent now. This was a significant improvement for the Town because we went from an upper medium
grade rating to a high grade rating. There are four ratings that are within that high grade rating category with
Moody's there is a AA1, AA2, AA3, & a single A1. With Standard & Poor's there is an AA+, AA-, and an At.
When we go out on any particular bond issue we are in the high grade category, and where we stand within
the high grade category, there doesn't tend to be a difference in the interest rate that you would receive from a
particular bond issue. You may see a fluctuation in interest rate based on what else you're competing with that
day and the size of your issue. If the Town has a large issue, the Town will receive a very good rating because
we are a high grade bond. While the change in the rating is good news, it will not have a significant positive
impact on the interest rate. When we go out to market for the High School project or any bond issue we will
get a very competitive rate because of that credit rating.
Ms. Speidel does not want people to think that we should have a higher rating. All we can do is speculate on
how to move up to the next level. According to the Town's Financial Advisor we would need to be looking to
have our financial reserves north of 10% upwards to 12 or 15% and currently we struggle to stay at 5%. Ms.
Speidel does not feel it makes sense to set this as a goal for this community because she does not believe that
it would have a significant impact on an interest rating that we would achieve. She thinks that we need to be
realistic about who we are, what we are, and what is achievable. We are doing an excellent job with what we
have and she is very pleased to have that negative outlook removed.
Mr. Matthews spoke to say that to get an improved rating in 2009 as the economy was at it's bottom and to still
improve based on the financial decisions that the Town and the community was making speaks volumes. We
are looking at a significant project for the Middle/High School and we're going to market soon for significant
borrowing and its good that the negative is off of our rating. We have made a lot of difficult decisions over the
forwar many of them unpopular, but it's served a purpose and has given us a good solid base line to move
3. Review Existing Debt Service & Estimates for School Building Project: Ms. Speidel worked along with
the Town's Financial Advisor to come up with funding scenarios for the school building project, assuming that
the local share for the project would be approximately $37M. Twenty and thirty year scenarios were looked at
along with level payment and level principal scenarios. (See attached reports)
Level principal scenarios are shown for illustration only. It's typical for public infrastructure projects, except for
school projects to finance on a level principal model. This means that the payments are highest in the
beginning where the principal is the highest and it is reduced over time as the principle is paid off. There is
special Legislation in the State that allows school projects be financed as level payment level debt service
projects so that there is predictability in what the cost will be for the tax payer.
The level payments are similar to a mortgage where you end up paying more in interest because you are
reducing your principal at a lower rate.
The projected impact of a 30 year project on an estimated $37M would be approximately $538 annually for a
home of average assessed valuation of $248,000. On a 20 year term it would be approximately $625 for a
home of the same assessed valuation.
For a 30 year term the interest rate would be approximately $25.7M and with a 20 year term it would be
approximately $18.1M.
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Speidel reminded the board that by State Law the actual financing of the project is left to the BOS and the
Town Treasurer. She recommended that over the next several months the board familiarize themselves with
the project in order to make the best decision for the community in terms of how to finance this project.
We have some very small non-excluded debt that is falling off our debt service schedule around the years
2017 & 2018. Then we have a significant portion of our exempt debt falling off around the years 2012 & 2015.
Ms. Speidel was asked by members of the BOS and Finance Committee to look at some scenarios that would
allow some temporary financing to get us to one of those two junctures to potentially lessen the burden of this
project to the tax payers.
While we have some flexibility to do some short term financing for the project that would carry us out several
years. We have an authorization for $750,000 for the feasibility study & schematic design portion of the project
We need to do a borrowing before the end of the fiscal year to cover the Towns share. The clock will start
ticking on the project at what ever point this fiscal year that we do that borrowing. We have the opportunity to
go 2 years out and just pay interest costs associated with that short term borrowing. Once we go past the 2
years we have to start making principle pay down payments even if we continue to just do the short term
financing of the project. What happens when you are required to make that principle pay down payment,
you're making a payment on interest and principal and you don't have the benefit of having the project
permanently financed so the level of payment you're making between principal and interest is essentially the
same.
Based on what Ms. Speidel has looked at she is not seeing a way through short term financing that will
significantly lessen the burden on the taxpayer and we are basically looking at the 20 or 30 year borrowing
scenarios.
Mr. Ebersole spoke to say that one of the things he would like to look at is if we borrowed at 30 years for 10
years then at that point convert to a 10 year loan which would still get us at a 20 year period, but the first 10
years would be when its layered on the exempt debt and the second would take the place of some of that. He
likes the idea of a shorter term with shorter interest and thinks that the borrowing should be some what close to
the life of the building.
He is aware of the amount of interest between the 20 & 30 years but is also aware of the $95 difference for the
people involved. Mr. Ebersole is in full support of the school building project and the only way that this Town
can pay for it would be an exempt debt and that's what he would support
Mr. Alonzo spoke and agreed that all avenues have to be looked at. The illustration that Mr. Ebersole
presented could bring short term satisfaction, we can't predict what the interest rates will be, and we need to
hear from the public their thoughts on this matter.
Mr. Matthews spoke to say that whether you have kids in school or not, who paid for these schools. His kids
went through these schools and the schools were here when he got here and he will pay tor them going
forward. He asked if the Financial Advisor knows concerning 20 years out or 30, what is the impact of the
value of money, 20 years from now is there a projection we can put on that? If we want to go longer term,
could it possibly make sense financially? My initial instinct is no but in this day and age people tend to look at
things differently.
Ms. Bertram feels it's critical to get public involvement. It makes sense to go for the shorter amount of time to
save the Town $10M but we also need to understand that a lot of our citizens live on a fixed income and it
could make a difference whether or not they vote to support the project based on that small amount of money.
Mr. Alonzo made a plea to the people listening tonight to communicate their thoughts to the BOS either in a
letter, email, or in person about this issue.
Ms. Bertram suggested putting the Town Manager's spread sheets on the website or perhaps do a simple
survey online using Survey Monkey.
Mir. Ebersole requested that the 35 option of 30 years down to 10 be added to the survey.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Alonzo asked that Mr. Ebersole bring the question to the board before it is added to the survey as it
appears so that he can make sure it is all predicated, these are hypothetical numbers and it has not been
determined that these are in the range that we are looking at.
Mr. Toale thinks that it is the board's legal responsibility to make a fiduciary decision. He agrees that it is
important to hear the opinions of the Towns people and it is important to take risk out of it as much as we can.
He agrees that nobody knows what the interest rates will be 10 years from now but whether you are on a fixed
income or not, you plan better if you have a fixed idea of what an expense looks like. The Towns people will
decide if they want to make a significant expenditure and those decisions may or may not be impacted on
whether or not they have people in school. He believes its part of an obligation when you live in a town to
understand your tax burden for all the different things that it pays for.
Ms. Bertram agrees that is our fiduciary responsibility but the biggest question is whether or not they are going
to be able to afford it. Soliciting public input is going to be critical. Ultimately it is the BOS that will be making
the decision but the biggest question is going to be "What is it going to cost me ?" on an annual basis.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Town Manager for her report.
4. Review First Quarter Revenue & Expense Reports with Town Accountant: Karen Brochu, Town
Accountant and Shelley McCaie, Treasurer/Tax Collector were both in attendance for this agenda item.
Ms. Speidel reported that they have looked at the first quarter results for the current fiscal year and things are
looking well. (See attached report
Revenues through 9/30/2013 are running at 24.46% of budget. We received 100% of the existing MSBA
reimbursement in the first quarter, which represents 6.6% of total revenues received. If this were backed down
to represent only 25% of the year, total revenues collected would be 23.5% of budget rather than 24.46%, still
higher than what is typically seen at this time of year. Of particular interest is the Meals Tax, which is running
at 30.64% of budget. At this rate, it is possible that we will significantly exceed the budgeted estimate. Based
upon what Ms. Speidel sees, she has no significant concerns regarding the Towns ability to meet the revenue
estimate for FY2014.
Some things to look forward to in the second quarter will be building permit issuances for the solar projects
which will be approximately $100,000+ for both projects. New growth data from the Assessors office shows an
estimate of $250,000 and we are potentially looking at approximately $280,000 in new growth.
Expenditures through 9/30/2013 are running at 37.5% of budget, which is typical of the first quarter, as this
percentage includes both actual expenditures and encumbrances. There are a number of expenses for which
the Town encumbers the full amount of the anticipated expenditure up front, including: Audit, Utilities, and
Service Contracts. Additionally, the Town has significant debt services payments due in the first quarter and
also pay the full Worcester Regional Retirement Assessment on 7/1/2013 in order to gain an additional
savings.
Particular items being paid attention to are Legal Expenses; Injury Leave, Veteran's Benefits, Band Concerts,
and Health Insurance.
Mr. Ebersole referenced the Library budget operation and said that if something is encumbered, this system
presumes that it is going to be spent and is 100% used. Is there another report that's there for budget vs.
actual without the encumbered? If you take the encumbered part out you are seeing what we are actually
obligated to pay at that point.
Ms. Speidel deferred that question to the Town Account but commented that if you look at the reports you can
see that different departments do things differently. We encumber when a purchase requisition is submitted.
Typically the way that I would do that is if I entered into a contract to expend something, I would encumber
those funds. Sometimes smaller departments will encumber 100% of their supplies budget, perhaps believing
that if they don't encumber, it will be taken away.
Karen Brochu, Town Accountant, spoke to say that she doesn't think there is a different report but thinks that
the thought process is that if those funds are encumbered the monies will be expended. To the best of her
knowledge in the accounting system that we have that's the report that will be generated.
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Ebersole asked as you expend it, is the encumbrance released?
Ms. Brochu replied yes.
Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. Brochu to describe the staffing in her office and what the status of the MUNIS system
was as other departments use it.
Ms. Brochu replied that the staffing is herself as full-time and a clerical person that works 24 hrs. per week
who's primary function is the account payable warrants. We are looking to roll out the actual requisition portion
of the MUNIS module to all departments so they have the ability to enter the pay requisitions in electronically
rather than passing papers along. Currently we are in the process of training and setting up the proper
securities so we have the ability to do that. As far as freeing up time in her office, this will not do that.
Originally the Selectmen's office was in charge of that system and the thought process is that it will free up
time in that office so that the person in the Selectmen's office can do the functions that she was originally hired
to do and not purchase orders.
Ms. Speidel added that in FY2011 we had a full time person that half time did purchase orders/requisitions and
the other half would do benefits. This person was laid off and at that point the requisitions were brought to the
Selectmen's office which became a good 60% of the BOS secretarial person's function. We are trying to get to
the point where we can do this electronically.
Ms. Brochu mentioned that the people who are using the system now are very happy with it and once it is up
and running will be great. People using it will be able to go in and look at their budgets, run their on reports
and check the status on a purchase order etc.
Ms. Bertram stated that years ago one of the objectives of the Computer Advisory Committee was to obtain the
ability to for individuals to beyond the purchase order requisition and to do their payables online, are some of
the departments doing that now?
Ms. Brochu replied that the School Dept. and the DPW both have remote access and are entering their own
accounts payable. The Accountants Dept. only needs to go through these and verify that what has been
entered is correct and is a proper expense.
Ms. Bertram asked if there were plans to deploy this to other departments.
Ms. Brochu replied that she thinks its something that can be done at the same time that the requisition
decentralization is happening.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the audit will be coming back to the BOS and will we have another discussion at that
point?
Ms. Brochu replied that they are coming in to do the actual audit work in the first week in November then drafts
should be available within a couple of weeks after that, then hopefully a final audit sometime in January.
Mr. Ebersole questioned if the BOS or the Town Manger signs off on that.
Ms. Speidel replied that what we have done with the audit is switch off with the Finance Committee. There is
no official document that is signed. We have the auditor make a presentation to the BOS one year and to the
Finance Committee the next year. This year the presentation will be made to the BOS, hopefully before the
review of the FY2015 budget.
Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. McCaie when the next status report on the Tax Title will be.
Ms. McCaie replied that she received information from Copolla & Copolla on the 6 properties that she had
selected for the Land Court and they have been filed with the Land Court. Seventy-five letters were mailed
yesterday from her office to residents who still owe money on "2013" taxes, prior to her sending out the letter
for advertising to try and cut down the number of people she has to advertise for to save on expense. She is
receiving responses from residents that received the mailing asking for assistance. Due to budget restraints
she could only do 6 properties for the Land Court filing.
Ms. Bertram stated that it is important to look at the Treasurer/ Tax Collector budget because as we go forward
with this project, if we put more money into it, it will pay off in the long run.
===PAGE 10===
5. Status Update: Town Manager Goals: Rescheduled to the 11/5/2013 BOS meeting.
6. Status Update: Board of Selectmen Goals: Rescheduled to the 11/5/2013 BOS meeting.
7. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
10/15/2013 Ms. Speidel noted that two board members requested some minor changes and
these are not reflected in the minutes before the board tonight.
10/8/2013 Ms. Speidel noted that these were corrected minutes regarding the misidentification
of the Vice Chair.
Warrants:
#9P-14
10/13/2013
#21-14
10/22/2013
#22-14
10/23/2013
Manual Check 10/21/2013
$629,684.40
$458,403.23
$258,536.74
.01
The BOS signed corrected paperwork regarding the Town Managers Contract Renewal.
Action File Issues: Mr. Matthews commented on the "Jones House" which was sold to the Marshall Family at
low cost. He said that the work that they are doing to it is bringing it back to life, it is returned to the tax role,
and it will prove to be an asset to the center of town when it is finished.
Mr. Alonzo suggested that the BOS receive status reports on the progress of the renovations to the Jones
House.
He agrees with Mr. Matthews statements and thinks that the sale of this house was a win for
everyone. He also mentioned that the "Right of Way" which was granted for that property has proven not to be
an impediment on the Chester Mossman Teen Center.
Ms. Bertram requested that a status update meeting be scheduled with RCAP Solutions soon.
Ms. Speidel replied that we are not ready to do this yet due to fact that the Assessors and the developers are
still trying to put together information to bring to the BOS. The next round for funding has not been announced
yet and they may be looking at a different combination of funding sources. The BOS is not the cause for any
delays with this project.
8.Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee;
Finance Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they met last evening and are making progress in
narrowing some of the variables down and they feel good about meeting their timeline.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that their next meeting will be on 10/30/2013
Finance Committee - No Report
Library Board of Trustees-Mr. Ebersole read a letter addressed to the BOS from the Library Board of Trustees
thanking them for their active support of the library. It included an update on the completed painting of the
library which came in under budget. Thank you letters were also sent to all other Town Departments that were
involved in the painting project.
MPO- No Report
Planning Board- No Report
PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported that the Workshop meeting held last week between the BOS and PACC started
communication between the two boards. There are no new PACC meetings scheduled at this time.
School Committee- No Report
===PAGE 11===
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that they will be meeting tomorrow at the Passios building
to prepare for the upcoming Public Forums.
Sewer Commission- No Report
MA Broadband- No Report
9. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: No Report
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Resignation: Rob Taylor, Reserve Police Officer: Mr. Alonzo announced that a resignation letter was
received from Reserve Officer Rob Taylor. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Taylor for his service to the Town.
Resignation: Robert Rand, Personnel Committee: Mr. Alonzo announced the resignation of Robert Rand
from the Personnel Committee. Mr. Alonzo commended and thanked him for his work on the committee.
Mr. Alonzo requested that this opening be put on the list of vacancies that are being announced every week for
different committees/boards specifically mentioning vacancies in the Green Community Task Force & the
PACC.
Ms. Bertram pointed out that Mr. Rand's vacancy became effective on 9/16/2013.
Dave Blatt, Chairperson Green Communities Task force spoke to the board concerning the membership on
that committee. He would like the BOS to make the membership a committee of 3 with 1 or 2 alternates. They
are finding it difficult to have a quorum at meetings and that the last 2 sets of meeting minutes have not been
approved due to that problem.
Mr. Alonzo replied that the BOS has taken that under advisement and he hopes that people will get involved
before going through the effort of reducing the number of members.
Ms. Bertram cautioned Mr. Blatt about meeting without a quorum and that a quorum is based on the total
membership.
Mr. Blatt replied that they cannot meet now because of the quorum issue. The original membership is 7 and
they now have 4 active members, 3 of which show up on a regular basis and 1 that makes it to the meetings
when he can.
Mr. Alonzo stated that the Green Communities Task Force was created by the BOS and not by a Bylaw so
they do have the ability to change the membership. He then made another plea for any interested people to
please fill out and return a talent bank form.
This item will be put on the 11/5/2013 BOS agenda for further discussion.
Mr. Blatt also mentioned to the board that Town website incorrectly lists the BOS officer's names and should
be corrected.
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the BOS meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote
motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 9:45PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
Workshop October 29, 2013
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
