===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 1 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/3/13
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta
meeting room at Town Hall as
724810
Alonzo, Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, and Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that according to the Town Bylaws, boards are supposed to submit minutes to the
Town Clerk for posting on the Town Web Site. He mentioned that the Board of Health, Cemetery,
Conservation, Housing Authority, Parks and Sewer Commission all have limited recent minutes. He stated that
it is not the duty of the Town Clerk to police these people and would like to have a letter sent to these various
boards about this matter. He also thanked the boards who are current with their minutes.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Alonzo announced that the Department of Public Utilities will be holding a Public Hearing concerning the
Unitil rate increase on 9/23/2013 at 7PM at the Fitchburg Memorial Middle School.
APPOINTMENTS
1. Candidates for School Building Committee: Maryellen McKenna; Greg Roy:
Maryellen McKenna came before the BOS to be interviewed for the open position on the School Building
Committee. She gave a history of her involvement with Town activities which included membership in the
PTO, Fundraising for the Joseph F. Bilotta portrait, Building Feasibility Study Committee, and advocating for a
youth skate board park.
Greg Roy came before the BOS to be interviewed for the open position on the School Building Committee. Mr.
Roy spoke of his family status and work history as a Civil Engineer. Mr. Roy stated that he would be happy to
serve the Town but if the board feels that someone else would be better suited for this position, he would like
to see what ever is in the best interest of the Town.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Roy if there would be any conflict of interest with his outside employment if he were to be
appointed to this committee.
Mr. Roy replied that he had served on the Conservation Commission and at that time he had a conflict of
interest because his firm was doing some work directly in front of the board that he was in. He had contacted
the Ethics Committee at that time after which he resigned from that board. He does not believe he has a
conflict of interest in this regard because there would not be any cause for him to represent a third party at this
table.
Mr. Alonzo thanked both candidates for coming forward and opened up discussion to the board
Mr. Matthews spoke and said that the member who has left this committee had construction experience and
although he has served with Ms. McKenna on a previous board, he believes that the next member should have
the skills that Mr. Roy could bring to the table. He complimented Ms. McKenna on her previous organizational
skills and said that he hopes she will stay engaged with other Town opportunities.
Mr. Ebersole questioned if this was a "standing" committee or will it end when the project is finished.
Mr. Alonzo replied that this is just for this project.
Mr. Matthews moved to appoint Gregory Roy to the open position on the School Building Committee.
Toale seconded.
===PAGE 2===
Discussion began again among the BOS complimenting Ms. McKenna's extensive public service record, but all
were in agreement with Mr. Matthew's reasons for choosing Mr. Roy for this position.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Alonzo reminded Mr. Roy to visit the Town Clerks office as soon as possible to be sworn in.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote to Certify School Enrollment, MSBA Requirement: Mr. Matthews updated the board on a
conference call which was held with the MSBA concerning the enrollment numbers for the proposed new High
School. He explained that the way the MSBA looks at the projected enrollment number of 820 is with 85% of
the building being utilized, which means that the building could actually hold 940-960 students.
Ms. Bertram reviewed what the MSBA uses in their formula for projecting enrollment numbers which is
extensive. She said that the phone call enlightened her on the additional student capacity of the school, which
was not clear before, and also the fact that it is possible that they can go back to the MSBA for funding, after
construction, if there is a need to increase the size of the building. She said that although she would like to see
a larger project, the reality is that this is the foot print that we have, and she feels comfort knowing that if they
need to they can expand the project.
School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes spoke and thanked the MSBA for the phone conference information
which was given and said that it shed some light on an area which is not always totally illuminated. She feels
that these enrollment numbers are the right size for this project and as Superintendent she has certified that
this is the correct design enrollment.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mike Mackin, School Building Committee Chairperson, if the School Department and the
School Building Committee were comfortable with the 820 enrollment number.
Mr. Mackin replied that he was completely confident with that number. He commented in saying that if they
build the building too large it is done so at the tax payer's expense.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the MSBA for the informational phone conference and said that it eased the minds of those
who were concerned with the enrollment number.
Mr. Alonzo read the MSBA Design Enrollment Certification document and asked for a motion from the board.
Mr. Matthews moved to accept and endorse the MSBA Design Enrollment Certification for the Town of
Lunenburg, Lunenburg High School. Mr. Ebersole seconded for discussion.
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole stated that he appreciates the efforts of all those involved in the conference call but
reiterated his disappointment that the MSBA did not want to meet with the BOS at a public meeting. He
believes that the enrollment process should be open and transparent. He has a greater comfort with the 85%
utilization factor and for that reason he will be willing to vote for this.
Ms. Bertram echoed Mr. Ebersole's statement and said that she tried to access the MSBA's website for the
enrollment information and it was not available. Although she appreciates the time, effort and information
which was received with the conference call, she wished that it could have been shared in an open forum.
Being no further discussion, Mr. Alonzo called for a vote. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, O opposed.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Mackin and Ms. Calmes what the next steps in this process will be.
Mr. Mackin replied that they have a submission to the MSBA coming up of the schematic designs along with
the cost estimate on the last week of this month. The MSBA will then do a review and at their meeting in
November they will vote on accepting the project which will approve the next step of bringing this to Town
Meeting to request funding. Assuming a positive response from the MSBA we will be looking for a Town
Meeting vote in either late December of early January.
RECEIVED & FILED
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
SEP 1 1 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
RECEIVED & FILED
Minutes:
8/20/2013
SEP 1 1 2013
Warrants:
Water Billing Warrant
9/3/2013
#11-14
8/2/2013
#12-14
8/27/2013
#5P14
$5520.03
$230,147.15
$277,764.68
$569,723.08
Action File Issues: Ms. Bertram mentioned that at a previous Planning Board meeting a property on Holman St.
was discussed where it was determined that no action was needed by the Planning Board and that it was
being looked at by the Land Use Departments. She questioned if this was the Open Space Committee and
would like to know where we are with that process. She believes it has not been taken out of Chapter and
would like feedback from the Open Space Committee so they can act quickly.
Mr. Alonzo replied that he was at the Open Space Committee meeting where respective members of the
Conservation and Planning Boards were going to take this back to their commissions. They also would like to
have a joint workshop meeting with the BOS to discuss that property. The property is openly up for sale right
now, the Right of First Refusal has not been triggered, and we are working on being prepared for when that
does happen.
Ms. Bertram believes that Planning Board she be looking more closely at this project, from a planning
perspective.
Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. Speidel if the Annual Town Audit had begun.
Ms. Speidel replied that we are audited on an annual basis, the Auditors were in to do preliminary work in late
spring, and it is typical that the audit is finalized in print by November. She will investigate further with the
Town Accountant as to where they stand now.
3.Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee;
Finance Committee; Library Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will be meeting on 9/16/2013 at 6:30PM at Town
Hall.
Mr. Matthews asked Mr. Toale about one of the options of reusing the Passios building as a Municipal building
and if they were looking at this as a low cost minimal renovation or a major renovation.
Mr. Toale replied both. This is two of the four options they are looking at and the others are total demolition or
to find an alternative use up to and including a use other than Town owned.
Capital Planning Committee - Mr. Toale reported that the Capital Planning packages went out today to all
Department Heads along with a schedule for their return.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee is working on their fiscal policies and the next
meeting will be on 9/12/2013.
Library Board of Trustees- Mr. Ebersole reported that this committee will meet later this month.
MPO- Ms. Bertram reported that MPO will be meeting next week. She mentioned that herself along with the
Town Manager and the DPW Director met with the Massachusetts Department of Transportation (MassDot)
last week to review the Summer St. proposal. They received good feedback and the project is moving forward
on its projected timeline.
Planning Board-Ms. Bertram stated that she was not at the meeting, although she did view it on YouTube,
and the majority of the meeting was spent on the School Building presentation
PACC- Mr. Ebersole stated that PACC will be meeting on 9/17/2013 and stated that in the BOS action folder is
their July/August update along with a budget report. They are currently working on programming and are
focusing on showing public meetings on YouTube.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Bertram asked how long the information will be available for viewing on YouTube.
Mir. Alonzo stated that they will ask that question to PACC. He also reminded the BOS that he would like to
have a Workshop meeting with PACC in the fall to discuss what their coverage policies/processes are for
public meetings and also to inquire what the procedure would be for someone from the public to post a
program on that channel.
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee- Mr. Matthews reported that the Architect/Designer firm will do a cost analysis of
the school building project.
The Construction Manager at Risk independently does the same and they will
meet to work through it all as to what the best way to proceed will be.
Sewer Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported that this commission met last Tuesday and that the Fitchburg IMA
has been reviewed by their legal counsel and should be coming back to them fairly quickly with no additional
surprises from that review.
The commission participated in the Zoning Board of Appeals hearing on Lunenburg Village modification and
what the impact of connection fees would be. Also discussed was the elimination of the privilege fee for the
low income units in consideration of the sewer line and re-grading of Pleasantview Ave. Discussions continue
with the Zoning Board of Appeals as to what will be economically feasible.
The commission continues to work on their Policies & Procedures and will have legal counsel review them so
that they can adopt them.
More that 2/3 of the vote has been received from the residents of Sunset Ave to extend sewer to that street.
There are 11 positive votes out of 16 that were returned for the Pratt St. extension.
MA Broadband- No Report
4. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel mentioned that the Leominster Casino
project appears to be moving forward and that the BOS needs to discuss what if any impact this may have on
the Town of Lunenburg. She has spoken with Glean Eaton from MRPC and asked it they will be determining
what the impacts may be on surrounding communities. MRPC has done an impact analysis for the State and
are willing to do one for individual communities. Ms. Speidel made a request to MRPC that they set up a
meeting with interested communities as to what the process will be for determining impact on individual
communities and they agreed to do so. Ms. Speidel will also discuss this with the Lunenburg Planning Director
and it will be placed as an agenda item at a future BOS meeting.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
1. Candidate to School Building Committee: Discussed under Appointments.
PUBLIC COMMENT - None
EXECUTIVE SESSION - None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote,
motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 8:05PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 10, 2013
September 17, 2013
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
SEP 1 1 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
