===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
::
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 09 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
3/18/2014
157-A
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Chairperson Tom Alonzo, Vice
Chairperson Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Matthews thanked all who attended the Town Caucus the previous evening and mentioned that there were approximately 102
people in attendance
Vir. Alonzo added that there will be 5 contested races this election season and congratulated all who were running, specifically Phylli
Luck and Joanna Bilotta Simeone, who will be running for Selectman.
Mr. Alonzo read a Proclamation designating March 23° through March 29" Boys & Girls Club Week in the Town of Lunenburg and the
board then signed it.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Committee Vacancies: No Discussion
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM - Public Hearing, Vasta Inc. d/b/a Lunenburg Liquors, for New Officer/Director & Transfer of Stock: Mr. Alonzo read
into record the notice of Public Hearing concerning the application submitted by Vasta Inc. d/b/a Lunenburg Liquors for New
Officer/Director and Transfer of Stock.
Anastasia Halkiadakis representing Lunenburg Liquors came before the board and explained that her husband is no longer part of the
business and that he needed to be removed from the Liquor License.
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the change of officer and transfer of stock as requested for Vasta Inc. d/b/a Lunenburg Liquors, 433
Electric Avenue. Mr. Matthews seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor 0 opposed
7:15 PM - Public Hearing, Tarrnum Williams d/b/a Kabob-E-Licious, Application for Wine & Malt Beverages License: Mr. Alonzo
read into the record the Public Hearing notice concerning the application submitted by Tarrnum Williams, d/b/a Kabob-E-Licious for a
Wine & Malt Beverage with Cordials/Liqueurs Permit.
Ms. Speidel spoke to inform the board that the applicant had applied for Wine & Malt Beverage with Cordials/Liqueurs Permit but after
investigation Ms. Speidel has determined that it is a Local Acceptance for the Town to offer Wine, Malt & Cordials, and the Town has
not accepted that provision.
This application has been changed to a Wine & Malt Beverage License and if the Town is interested in
pursuing Wine, Malt & Cordials it must go to Town Meeting vote. The board can submit a warrant article or the applicant can submit a
petition for that particular license.
Tarrum Williams, owner of Kabob-E-Licous spoke to the board to say that she understands the change in her license application and
she will be pursuing the Wine, Malt, & Cordial License as soon as the Town corrects that Bylaw. Ms. Tarrnum asked that the BYOB
License which was approved for her at the 3/11/2014 BOS meeting be forfeited and that this new application be approved.
Hours of operation for Kabob-E-Licious are 10:30AM - 11:00PM, Sunday through Saturday and Holidays.
Mr. Matthews moved to approve the Wine & Malt Beverage License for Tarrum Williams d/b/a Kabob-E-Licious located at 165 Mass
Avenue. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
The board reminded Ms. Williams that the Warrant for articles to be submitted for Annual Town Meeting must be submitted by Monday
March 24, 2014 by 4PM, and if she wished to submit a petition she can get the application at the Town Clerks office.
7:30PM - Interview Candidates for Committee Appointments:
Jeffrey Bajko, 14 Charlton St., came before the BOS to ask for appointment to the Public Access Cable Commission (PACC). He gave
a brief history of himself and his family and although he has no experience in PACC or television he is willing to learn and would like to
volunteer for this committee.
Mr. Alonzo informed Mr. Bajko that there is a Bylaw revision on the Annual Town Meeting Warrant and the BOS does not intend to
appoint anyone to that committee until after the Annual Town Meeting.
Maureen Dupuis, 173 Highland St., came before the BOS to ask for appointment to the Agricultural Committee. She gave a brief
history of her background, family life, organizations she belongs to and her farm experience.
Although there is currently not an opening on this committee, board members spoke highly of Ms. Dupuis, and informed her that when
an opening is available it will be announced to the public.
Deborah Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Dr., came before the BOS and expressed her interest to being appointed to the Council on Aging (COA).
She gave a brief history of her background and stated her reasons for her interest in this board. Ms. Lincoln also made a suggestion to
the BOS regarding potential volunteers who do not come forward due to the fact that they are not good at public speaking or do not
===PAGE 2===
want to be on "live" television. Her thoughts were that perhaps once per year all boards and committees could hold an informal Meet &
Greet" with potential volunteers so as they would not be so intimidated to step forward.
Mr. Ebersole moved to appoint Debby Lincoln to the Council on Aging. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, O
opposed.
Ms. Bertram commented to say that she liked the idea of a "Meet & Greet" with the volunteers.
Pete Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Dr., came before the board and stated that he was here to reapply for a slot on the COA. He explained that
he has served on the board before and due to term limits will not be eligible to be appointed again until July1, 2014 and explained that
the typical procedure with appointments to the COA is that the COA board searches out the candidates and then recommends them to
the BOS for appointment.
Discussion ensued concerning the following:
•
The COA Bylaw which states that they make recommendations to the BOS for appointments
•
The possibility that the BOS technically may not be correct with the prior appointment
Possible rescinding of this evenings appointment to the COA
•
The rational behind term limits and if they are a good option
Mr. Alonzo said that this appointment will be tabled for the time being. The BOS will review further the COA Bylaws regarding
appointments & term limits.
Rene' M. Lafayette, 48 Williams Dr., came before the board seeking appointment to a Town Committee. Mr. Lafayette has shown
interest in serving on the following committees; Personnel Committee, Montachusett Joint Transportation Commission, & Fence Viewer.
Mr. Lafayette gave an overview of his work/committee history and stated that if residents can see their way to help out, it's a great thing.
Discussion ensued concerning the following:
•
Re-evaluating the Personnel Committee and the need for it
The possibility of Mr. Lafayette serving on the Montachusett Joint Transportation Commission
A Steering Committee being formed to look at transportation in the region with Lunenburg participating in it
.
Having Mr. Lafayette serve on more than 1 committee
The BOS will reconnect with Mr. Lafayette after further review of committee openings.
Steve Walker, 227 Pleasant St., came before the board seeking appointment to the PACC. Mr. Walker reviewed his extensive
work/technology experience involving videography & telephone systems which would be a great asset to the PACC.
The BOS were in agreement that Mr. Walkers experience would be welcomed on the PACC and thanked him for coming forward this
evening.
Mr. Alonzo thanked all for coming forward this evening and told those who were not appointed this evening that they will be notified
before they are appointed to a committee.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review & Approve Purchase & Sale Agreement; Lane Property (Taken out of order before the 7:15 Public Hearing): Brandon Kibbe
representing the Open Space Acquisition Advisory Committee came before the board and informed them that they are not yet in
possession of a completed Purchase & Sale agreement and are negotiating the creation of a physical water line which crosses the
property that the Town will be acquiring. This is the last item to be negotiated in the Purchase & Sale contract. He mentioned that
Town Counsel had suggested that the BOS could vote to approve as presented this evening, then after Town Counsel has approved
the final form the BOS could approve or they could wait until the Purchase & Sale agreement is completed.
After due and diligent discussion among the board concerning the Purchase & Sale agreement and appraisal process it was decided to
table the approval of the purchase & sale agreement until the April 1, 2014 BOS meeting to allow the contract to be completed. The
BOS is in support of this agreement and if for any reason the contract needs to be approved before that meeting, then the BOS will
entertain posting a meeting for the purpose of approval.
valks on this property on April 19 & April 26"
2. Review/Discussion FY2015 Town Manager's Recommended Budget: No discussion
3. Review/Discussion of Warrant Articles for Annual Town Meeting: Ms. Speidel presented the board with an updated list of
Warrant Articles for Annual Town Meeting.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
3/11/2014 *Mr. Ebersole asked for a minor change to the comment about the PACC Bylaw amendment. It states that it
needs to be on the Warrant and he feels it should say that it needs to be at Town Meeting.
Warrants:
3/18/2014
W#48-14
Signature page signed
$124,517.51
$253,975.48
Action File Issues: None
5. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
===PAGE 3===
Building Reuse Committee - No Report
Capital Planning Committee- No Report
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that they will be meeting this Thursday evening.
Library Board of Trustees- No Report
they have lost the opportunity for that project to be funded this year. She would like to see the Town become more involved in the
process and said that we are missing a number of opportunities for funding. Ms. Bertram said that she is happy to sit at this table to
advocate but only if she has the data and information to so.
Ms. Bertram added that in regards to the Summer St. project, funding for this was not included on the Governor's Capital Improvement
plan. Senator Flanagan and Representative Benson are advocating for this funding and without it, it will be impossible to move this
project forward. She requested that all who want to see this project move forward contact their representatives regarding this matter.
Planning Board- No Report
PACC- No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity- No Report
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee: Mr. Matthews reported that they met last week and discussed the following:
•
Renderings of the interior of the building
• Community Outreach
• Building System designs
•
Green House sizes and costs
Reduction of spending wherever possible
Sewer Commission - No Report
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that there is 1 position open on the Sewer Commission which is an elected position.
MA Broadband- No Report
6.Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel reported that she had received a response from Town Counsel
regarding a Peer Review concerning the Middle/High School Building project. Town Counsel advised that under the Dover Amendment
of the Zoning Act, public and non-profit educational and religious uses are exempt from local use regulation. They are permitted
anywhere in the community and are subject only to reasonable dimensional regulations. The project would not be subject to aný kind of
special permit review but could be subject to a limited site plan review under the Zoning Bylaw.
According to staff in the Land Use Departments the review which was conducted on the Primary School project was done "Pro bono" by
David Ross & Assoc., which included:
Drainage
•
Easement Plan
Environmental Impact Statement
Project Specs & Site Plan
David Ross & Assoc. also did approximately 10 other reviews on this project between 5/2002 and 8/2005.
After due and diligent discussion, board members decided that a full site plan review of the project was not necessary but that it would
be helpful to have other Land Use Boards, particularly the Planning Board, review the project.
Ms. Speidel commented to say that she thought it important for the boards and committees to decide whether or not a review is needed
regardless of whether or not the work is going to be done "Pro bono".
Ms. Bilotta Simeone, Chairperson of the Planning Board spoke to say that the Planning Board had discussed this and decided that they
would do a modified site plan review, they support the school and will work whole heartedly to get this project done.
Ms. Bertram requested that the Planning Board decide how they would like to proceed with this whether it be at the local level or hire a
Peer Reviewer.
Ms. Bilotta Simeone said that she envisions a modified site plan review with a Peer Engineer.
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS: None
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Ebersole requested an update on the Bylaws codification from the Town Manager and also questioned
what the status was with the Traffic Rules and Regulations.
Ms. Speidel replied that the DPW Director had circulated a draft of the Traffic Rules and Regulations to the Police Department for
review. She would like to schedule a workshop in April with DPW, Police and the Engineer on that subject.
Ms. Bertram added that MRPC announced a program which looks specifically at signage in relationship to curbs. There is a chance
here for professional expertise as well as some grant writing opportunities and she has forwarded this information to the DPW Director.
regarding their Warrant Articles for Annual Town Meeting
due to the fact the CMR is 53 pages long
Ms. Bertram suggested having another workshop with the Planning Board and with the DPW Director regarding Storm Water
Improvements associated with developments.
===PAGE 4===
ADJOURNMENT:
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
April 1, 2014
April 8, 2014
April 15, 2014
April 22, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
