===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Jail fa
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
October 14, 2014
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 1 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Thomas
Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Member; Phyllis Luck,
Member and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
6:00 PM The Board visited the site of the former Jones House at 42 Main Street.
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck attended a Massachusetts Municipal Association meeting on September 18". She noted discussion on
Question #1 on the November election ballot. Mr. Ebersole reported talking to people about the Passios School
and wanted to have further discussion on whether to sell the property or not.
7:00 PM Victory Distributors, Inc. d/b/a Hannaford Food and Drug request to transfer alcohol license
#063600016 and a Change of Manager to Victory Distributors, LLC d/b/a Hannaford Food and Drug
Attorney Hawkins introduced herself and the proposed manager Marc Bonneau. This is a two part request of a
multi-store filing that has been pre-approved by the ABCC. The first part is the transfer request from Victory
Distributors, Inc. to Victory Distributors, LLC. This is strictly administrative and will not affect any operations.
It is just to bring to the license in line with corporate reorganization. The second is to appoint Mr. Bonneau as
manager of record for the Lunenburg store. He has been with Hannaford's for 26 years and has spent the last six
years at this location. There have been no liquor violations at the location.
Motion: P. Bertram
2º: J. Toale
To approve the transfer of license request by Victory Distributors, Inc. d/b/a Hannaford Food and Drug
to Victory Distributors, LLC and approve the change of manager to Marc Bonneau
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to approve a Peddler's License for Daniel E. Patton, Solar City Corporation
Dan Patton introduced himself stating he recently moved to Lunenburg and lives on Lancaster Avenue.
The company sells solar energy systems for homes; leasing, power purchase agreements and sales. He would be
going door to door and soliciting during daylight hours and on weekend days into the early evening hours.
Mr. Alonzo recommended contacting the Police on his daily locations.
Motion: P. Bertram
To approve a peddler's license for Daniel E. Patton for Solar City Corporation
2"°: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
2. Request to approve a one day wine and malt license for North Leominster Rod & Gun Club, 1501
Lancaster Avenue for their Annual Holiday Meat Raffle on November 14, 2014; 6:00 - 11:00 p.m.
No one was present to represent the Rod and Gun Club's request. Ms. Speidel noted this is an annual request.
There have not been any issues in the past. The estimated attendance is around 80 people and the application is
complete. The Police Department has no issues with the license application. Mr. Ebersole stated he was not
opposed to approving it but in the future a representative should be present to answer any questions, if needed.
Mr. Alonzo concurred and asked that they be informed of this for the future.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d. J. Toale
===PAGE 2===
To approve the one day wine and malt license to the North Leominster Rod and Gun Club at 1501
Lancaster Avenue for November 14" from 6:00 to 11:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
3. Request to Change Hours on Sundays to 10:00 AM; JK Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a On the Rocks
Owner Ken Ricker explained he wanted to open early on Sundays to offer brunches (at Embers Pizzeria as well)
and for charity fundraisers. Discussion ensued about opening early, the effect on abutters and if other licensees
were opening at 10:00 a.m. Mr. Alonzo expressed his personal opinion that he was not in favor of any
businesses with liquor licenses opening on Sundays regularly at 10:00 a.m. Mr. Toale pointed out the Board
does allow businesses to open early on every day but Sunday and wasn't sure it made sense for the Board to
establish Sunday as a special day in terms of licensing. Mr. Ricker stated they have done a lot of work to
improve the lakefront and there are a lot of people on the lake in the morning.
Motion: P. Bertram
2": J. Toale
To approve the request to change the hours to 10:00 a.m. on Sundays for JK Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a On
the Rocks
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Alonzo)
4. Request to Change Hours on Sundays to 10:00 a.m.; KJ Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a Embers Pizzeria
Motion: P. Bertram
2"*: J. Toale
To approve the request to change the hours to 10:00 a.m, on Sundays for KJ Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a
Embers Pizzeria
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Alonzo)
5. Request to Approve Fundraiser Roadblock for Turkey Hill Lions Club on November 14" from 8:00
a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Town Center
Jan Carrier presented for the Lion's Club and stated they will be wearing reflective vests and all in the road will
be over eighteen years of age. Funds raised will go towards the Community Council. She confirmed this had
been run by the Police Chief.
Motion: J. Toale
2"d:R. Ebersole
To approve the Turkey Hill Lions Club road block request for November 15" from 8:00 am to 2 pm
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Carrier thanked the Board.
6. Request to Approve the Resolution Authorizing the Town Manager to Sign SRF Grant Application
Ms. Speidel reported the Sewer Commission is in the process of filing a grant application with the State
Revolving Fund for a sewer installation project approved at Town Meeting. There is a resolution in the packet
but does not need to be signed by the Board. She read it aloud for the record. Ms. Bertram stated for the record
that the sewer extensions are in two separate areas in town; construction of approximately 2400 feet of small
diameter forced main on Pratt Street and Rennie Street and construction of approximately 5000 feet of small
diameter forced main on Cross Road, Pine Grove Road, Lakeview Avenue, Harris Avenue and Sunset Avenue
and roadway restoration.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°:J. Toale
To adopt a resolution to authorize Town Manager to sign the SRF application for the work as read
Vote: All in Favor
7. PY 2015 Board of Selectmen Goals and Town Manager Goals
Mr. Alonzo opened the discussion by stating there should be a complete revamp of the appointment and
reappointment process so that they get the most communication and information in order to make the best
decisions. Mr. Toale and Ms. Bertram believed it did not need a total overhaul but certainly deserved attention.
Mr. Ebersole stated he would like to see a review of and update their policies and procedures. This includes
their liquor license regulations. Stormwater regulation fees were also suggested. Mr. Ebersole added supporting
the DPW with new technology for this should be considered. Ms. Bertram added to that suggestion by
appointing a Stormwater Commission. Another item was to update the Town Manager performance review
document.
===PAGE 3===
Another suggestion was a website committee under either the Town Manager or the Board to oversee the
content. Ms. Speidel reminded it was a policy decision to be made by the Board. Mr. Alonzo added an
Economic Development policy (covers BOS and Town Manager). Further discussion about meeting with
Committee Chairs, Department heads and liaisons ensued
The Board moved on to Town Manager goals. Ms. Bertram stated personnel policies (formal annual
performance evaluations) and department metrics should be one goal.
Ms. Bertram suggested working towards achieving a 5% stabilization fund without using Tri-Town funds.
Discussion of the financial policy ensued.
Another suggestion was to appoint a cable advisory committee for the license franchise renewal and to work
with MART to see if there was a possibility of increasing public transportation in Lunenburg.
Ms. Bertram asked for a vehicle rotation inventory/system to be created and continuing to work with the
Treasurer/Collector on tax title properties.
8. Review/discussion of Board of Selectmen Appointments & Reappointment Policy
Discussion occurred on attracting committee members and the number of vacancies on existing committees.
Also discussed was the need to communicate with committees for feedback in relation to appointments and
reappointments and marketing the vacancies and committees as well as what each committee involvement
entails. Ms. Speidel noted there are also vacancies in elected offices as well. She reported the Registrars of
Voters and Election Officers carry different terms than the others.
It was suggested to have a cutoff date for applying to vacancies on committees as they can come in at all times.
A suggestion was made to approach the Personnel Committee about the appointment process, orientation, the
review process, etc.
Celeste McCain-Stober, 275 Pleasant Street, who had applied for a Planning Board appointment expressed her
impressions of the appointment process. She had not gotten appointed and did not feel like she would put
herself in that position again due to the atmosphere feeling like it was a "good old boys club." She added until
that air is eliminated they will have a problem getting candidates for some of these vacancies.
Amendment for 75% Design of Summer Street Project; $230,351.57 from Chapter 90 Funds
Ms. Speidel reported it is time to execute a contract amendment to the Summer Street project (for design) if
they want to move forward. The amendment is in the amount of $287,550; Lunenburg's amount is $230,251.57.
She proposed using Chapter 90 money to fund this since the governor had not signed the transportation bill yet..
Another amount will need to be allocated going forward. She wanted to ensure the Board wants to move
forward. The Board concurred.
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The November Election warrant was signed. An accounts payable warrant in the amount of $82,564.21 and an
accounts payable warrant for the new school in the amount of $2,094,459.52 was signed
There were no action file issues.
Committee Reports: Board of Health- no report; Building Reuse Committee- no report; Capital Planning - no
report; Finance Committee meets Thursday evening; Library Board of Trustees meets Thursday evening; MPO
met on October 8"; there was discussion about the Fitchburg commuter rail line weekend service being
suspended until November 23rd due to track improvements; they reviewed a letter from MRTC urging the
MBTA to reconsider that or provide bus service during those weekends. The action item is that Clinton Bench
will take that MRTA letter back to MBTA to look at and try to gather usage data. There was a presentation on
the Wachusett Corridor Smart Growth Plan which is available on the MRPC website. There was a math error in
the Unified Planning Work Program Plan so it needs to be modified. There is a regional transportation update
and it is expected to be endorsed next year. Planning Board is meeting tonight. PACC- there is still one
vacancy; School Committee meets tomorrow night; School Building Committee- the front fields were leveled
and loam was applied, the concrete footings and foundation is being poured and steel delivery is scheduled for
December. The groundbreaking is this Saturday after the homecoming parade. The next abutters' meeting is
November 6.
. Sewer Commission is meeting tonight.
===PAGE 4===
Resignations from Conservation Commission - John Byrne, JJ Cote, Sharon Jordan, John Latanzi and
Robert Verge.
Mr. Alonzo reported this Board received these resignations last week. He has spoken to every one of them and
he also spoke to Mr. Murphy asking if they would reconsider their resignations. He has not heard back from any
one. As Chair, Mr. Alonzo accepted their resignations with regret.
There is also a resignation from Jennifer Peters- Ayers from the Council on Aging who has a conflict with the
COA meeting times and her work. Mr. Alonzo accepted the resignation and thanked her for applying.
There is currently one vacancy on the Council on Aging, PACC and Historical Commission. There are now five
vacancies on the Conservation Commission. Anyone interested in serving on those boards should fill out a
talent bank form and submit it to Town Hall. Mr. Alonzo announced hours being held by Representative
Benson during November in other communities.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:54 p.m.
2°°: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine in Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
