===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
7/8/2014
I fell lau
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Vice Chair Paula Bertram, Jamie
Toale, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Not present Chairperson Tom Alonzo
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Luck commented on the previous day's storm and complimented the 1"" responders for their
quick actions. She also mentioned that the storm drains were full of debris and asked for the public's help with clearing them if they
could.
Ms. Bertram also commented on the storm saying that if you are doing any type of tree cutting near the wetland to please contact the
Conservation Commission so that they can be placed under Order of Conditions.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that the Sewer Commission has retained the firm of Wright Pierce to design the Lakefront/Pierce Ave sewer
extension and they will begin with a topographical survey of these areas which will take place between 7/9/2014 - 7/31/2014. Any
questions can be directed to the DPW (Department of Public Works).
ANNOUNCEMENTS: None
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to Ratify Town Manager's Appointments under Section 4-2(d) of Town Charter, per Attached List:
Ms. Speidel began by clarifying some of the appointment functions as follows:
"RACES" Control Officer (Radio Amateur Civilian Emergency Service): Conducts one radio check each month with MEMA
Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency) on the shortwave radio at the Public Safety Building and is a non-paying
position. This person is part of the Town's Emergency Management Team who can get/receive information via the shortwave
radio during a State of Emergency.
Fence Viewer: The Fence Viewer mediates disputes between property owners over fences.
• Field Driver: Responsible to respond to calls regarding livestock on public ways/public lands. The Animal Control Officer fills
this roll.
• Forest Warden: Responsible to respond to and manage forest fires. The Fire Chief fills this role.
• Municipal Hearings: Responsible for hearing appeals of violation notices within the municipality.
Board members were in agreement that it would not be necessary to read the list of Police Officer Appointments again because it had
previously been read into the record at the 7/1/2014 BOS meeting.
Mr. Ebersole moved to affirm the appointment of the Police Officers as read last week into the record and as listed in the print out
provided to us by the Town of Lunenburg, the Town of Shirley, and the Town of Townsend. Mr. Toale seconded.
Ms. Speidel spoke to say that the next list of appointments is the same as was read into record at the 7/1/2014 BOS meeting. She
noted that the Inspector of Animals (Board of Health appointment) and Technical Advisory Committee were removed and read into
record the following:
Animal Control Officer
Emergency Management Director
"RACES" Control Officer
Fence Viewer
1 year
1 Year
1 Year
Field Driver
1 Year
Forest Warden
1 Year
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Hearings Officer
1 Year
1 Year
Kathleen M. Comeau
Chief Patrick Sullivan
Ralph Swick
Robert H. Bowen
Kathleen M. Comeau
Chief Patrick Sullivan
Kerry Speidel
Kerry Speidel
Jeanne Swick
1 Year
===PAGE 2===
Inspector of Wires
Asst. Inspector of Wires
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
James Sharkey
John Biery
Inspector of Weights & Measures
Inspector of Plumbing & Gas Fittings
1 Year
Asst. Inspector of Plumbing & Gas Fittings
1 Year
Public Weighers
1 Year
Stephen Cullinane
Gary R. Williams
Richard Kapenas
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off
Program & Taxation Aid Committee
Tree Warden
1 Year
Faye Silva
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
Gary Savoie
Eric Ward
Robert Pierce
Richard Reynolds
Kathryn Herrick David Manzello Doreen Noble
1 Vacancy for a citizen at large
Jay Valier
Shelly McCaie
1 Year
Veterans' Service Officer
1 Year
Jack Rodriquenz
T.J. Blauser
Local Census Liaison
1 Year
Kathryn Herrick
Mr. Ebersole moved to reject the appointment of the Animal Control Officer as presented. There was no second to the motion.
Ms. Bertram called for another motion.
Mr. Toale moved to approve the Town Manager's appointments as listed and read. Ms. Luck seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 3 in favor, 1 opposed (Ebersole).
2. Further discussion of FY2015 Town Manager Goals: Ms. Bertram noted that the Town Manager had put together a packet of
board members recommendations, which are not for public discussion, and that the only evaluation that is public is the consolidated
evaluation. She asked the board to review each other's recommendation and then bring back comments to either a workshop session
or to a meeting when there is a full board present for discussion
Board members were in agreement and this item has been tabled to a future meeting that will be determined later.
3. Further Discussion of FY2015 BOS Goals: Tabled to a future meeting that will be determined later.
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes: None
Warrants:
6/30/2014
6/30/2014
Action File Issues: None
W# 1P-14
W# 71-14
$171,195.08
$118,502.00
5. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health: No Report
Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale reported that this committee met last evening where they discussed the following:
The joint meeting with the Planning Board
• Attending future Planning Board meetings concerning the village zoning efforts and lending support to their efforts
• Continuing ongoing discussions/updates/communications with the public and other entities concerning the Building Reuse
Committee's activities
Ms. Bertram asked it this committee was working building by building or if they are looking at it as a whole. She also asked when they
expect to come back with recommendations.
Mr. Toale replied that there are so many pieces to the puzzle which makes that difficult to answer. The buildings are being dealt with
individually and our plan is to bring "bite size" decisions to future Town meetings and we will lay out a timeline for each building as time
goes on.
Ms. Bertram would like a more comprehensive report of the status of the buildings before Fall Town Meeting.
Mr. Toale noted that any report that would come to Fall Town Meeting would most likely focus on the zoning aspects.
Capital Planning Committee: No Report
Finance Committee: No Report
Library Board of Trustees: No Report
MPO: No Report
Planning Board: No Report
PACC: No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity: Mr. Ebersole noted that this is completed and should be removed from the
agenda.
School Building Committee: No Report
School Committee: No Report
Sewer Commission: No Report
===PAGE 3===
MA Broadband: No Report
6. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel spoke about the Katkin property which has gone into Chapter 61A
and is being sold. The Town has Right of First Refusal and she had sent all information to the Planning Board, Conservation Board,
Open Space Committee and Town Counsel for review.
The Planning Board replied saying that they would endorse anything that the Conservation and Open Space Committees would
recommend.
Town Counsel had replied saying that there were several deficiencies in the notice which was sent to the Town.
Ms. Speidel asked the board to sign the document from Town Counsel noting the deficiencies and explained that this will be returned to
the attorney representing the owner/seller to inform them of the deficiencies. The Town will then have 120 days from when the new
purchase and sale agreement has been received to make their decision regarding the Right of first refusal.
Conservation had indicated that they may have some interest in this property and Ms. Bertram recommended that the BOS sign the
document. Document was signed.
Ms. Speidel provided a power point presentation showing the damage that had been done in the Lake Shirley area due to the previous
evening's storms.
At one point there were 650 residents without power, several homes had received some sort of damage ranging
from minor to moderate, and roads were blocked by fallen trees and wires
Although the power has been restored there are still storm drains to be cleared and fallen trees to be removed. She expects several
more days of work to be done by the DPW before this can be completely cleared. Extra personnel and vendors have been called in to
aid in the clean up. It was also suspected that a micro burst may have developed due to this storm.
Ms. Luck asked if the State would provide money for a situation like this
Ms. Speidel replied that if we were to declare a State of Emergency there is a process to go through for reimbursement that is Federal
aid that comes through the State. There is a threshold formula that needs to be met in order to receive reimbursement. Although this is
very severe to the people who were affected, this would not qualify for Federal/State funding reimbursement.
Individuals who did suffer damage should report it to the Town/DPW.
Ms. Bertram requested that opening the Town Land Fill should be investigated, specifically for those affected by the damage to dispose
of their storm debris.
Ms. Bertram thanked all who responded to this emergency for their efforts.
Ms. Speidel updated the board on the Planning Board current appointment item. There are two applicants for this seat and interviews
with them have been scheduled with the Planning Board for 7/14/2014. The BOS will attend the 7/14/2014 interview meeting to be
followed on 7/15/2014 with a joint session, at the BOS meeting, between the BOS and the Planning Board to appoint a person to the
vacant seat. This appointment will be in effect until the next annual election in May of 2015.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Ebersole reminded the public again about the sewer extension work which will begin on 7/9/2014 and will
continue through 7/31/2014.
Ms. Bertram reminded all again to contact Conservation about damage they may have incurred during the storm.
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS: Discussed under Item (1) of Current Business
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Mr. Toale moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Ebersole seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
Meeting adjourned at 7:49PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 15, 2014
July 22, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
... -
