===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 2 1 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/6/2014
-
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled wi
Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, & Town Manager Kerry Speidel
Absent was Chairperson, Tom Alonzo
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Bertram thanked all who attended Annual Town Meeting and urge all those who did not to please
do so in the future.
Mr. Matthews thanked all who participated in the candidate's debate night.
Dave Rogers and Lisa Normandin representing the Turkey Hill Family Lions Club announced the upcoming Lion's Club activities which
included a Postal Food Drive, Voluntary Tolls, Booth at the Bon Fire, Bake Sale, Pancake Breakfast and Meat Bingo. They thanked all
who have donated and encouraged people to join their organization.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Lunenburg Yard Waste Days began on 4/26/2014 and will run every Saturday until 5/31/2014 from 8AM-4PM at the Town
• Construction on the Townsend Harbor & Mulpus Rd intersection will begin on 5/19/2014 & estimated time to complete will be
2-3 weeks with traffic delays expected
Representative Benson will be holding office hours at Lunenburg Town Hall on 5/13/2014 from 5:30PM-6:30PM & on
5/27/2014 in the Boxborough Town Hall from 6-7PM
APPOINTMENTS:
7:00 PM - Town Treasurer-Collector, Approve BAN NoteSale, $309,000, for School Building Construction Project: Shelley
McCaie, Town Treasurer/Collector came before the BOS to request approval for the $309,000 BAN Note sale for the School Building
Project.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the Bond Anticipation Note in the amount of $309,000 as proposed by the Treasurer/Collector. Mr.
Matthews seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
7:15 PM - Joint Session with Library Board of Trustees to Consider Appointment of Gare Thompson to Unexpired Term, Town
Charter 3-1 (f)2: Joint session was rescheduled to 5/20/2014 BOS meeting due to lack of quorum for the Library Board of Trustees.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Follow Up/Wrap Up Discussion of Town Meeting:
BOS were pleased with the passing of the Lane Property purchase approval at Annual Town Meeting and thanked all for their
efforts with this endeavor
that process
• Citizens were pleased with the Annual Town Meeting process
• Acknowledgement and thanks were given to the Town Manager and her staff for the success of the Annual Town Meeting
2. Q3 Progress; Board of Selectmen Goals; Town Manager Goals: Ms. Speidel reviewed the Town Manager's Goals with the BOS
as follows:
Personnel
• Institute annual performance evaluations with department specific metrics for each level in the organization
Substantive Progress - In process, still spending more time on disciplinary matters & grievances
• Implement periodic dept. head and staff meetings to facilitate communication and team work
Completed - Quarterly Dept head meetings with next meeting scheduled for 5/15/2014
• Formulate system to document performance issues and specific corrective actions
Completed-Each CBA & Salary Admin Plan identifies process steps to address performance issues
• Explore training & educational seminars
Completed-60% complete with drafting updated job descriptions. Anticipate completion by 6/30/2014
• Establish departmental goals and objectives
Substantive Progress-In process, to be formalized through annual performance review
===PAGE 2===
Financial
• Implement zero-based and performance based budgeting
Substantive Progress-Some performance measures in FY14 & FY15 budget
• Provide quarterly budget updates with executive summary. (to be co-presented with Town Accountant)
Completed-Quarterly budget updates with Executive Summary have been completed
• Construct budget retrospective by department of historical funding and staffing, tasks performed or eliminated with outsourcing
impact note
Substantive Progress- In process. Historical data not so easily found. Have reviewed annual reports
Operations
•
Operational review and analysis with efficiency improvement plan or affirmation of existing operation
Substantive Progress-Ongoing & continuous Land Use Director
• Develop project planning and reporting for annual tasks or special reports
Substantive Progress-DPW work logs, Police & Fire Statistical reports. No "one size fits all report"
• Plan for future position additions, consolidations and/or eliminations
Substantive Progress-Ongoing & continuous formally through budget process
• Facilities Maintenance Plan
Substantive Progress-Draft plan needs to be finalized. Incorporate Building Reuse Committee data
• Codification of Bylaws
Substantive Progress-Contract with General Code. Codification review in process. Anticipated completion in 9-12
months
• IT Policies
Substantive Progress-In process. Substantive progress by end of summer.
Ms. Bertram reviewed Board of Selectmen Goals for FY14 as follows:
1. Finish Review of BOS Policies Manual
a. defined hearing procedures (dog hearing, liquor license, etc)
b. appointments, reappointments and performance review procedures
Substantive Progress, partially completed, a number of policies still need review.
2. Creating a list of Town-Owned Land and Chapter Properties
a. gather available documents from previous study committees
b. check with Board of Assessors
Complete, moving towards the prioritization to become proactive.
Economic Development Plan
a. discuss and explore how best to attract business and/or other development to Town
b. discuss the composition and creation of an Economic Development Team
3OS may want to discuss this with the Planning Board. To be placed on future BOS agenda
4. Improve Communication between Committees and Departments
i. reinstate "Chairs" meeting with other boards, committees and commissions
. as relevant topics arise, arrange meetings with involved municipal departments and elected/appointed bodie
c. periodic department updates @ televised BOS meetings
Making progress, although Chair meetings have not been reinitiated there have been periodic department updates given.
5. Town Website
a. establish basic policies for what documents MUST be on the website (agendas, minutes, public hearings, etc) and
in what format
Sonine reason anong not n
b. discuss and propose a basic framework for document formats, staying up-to-date, etc
c. explore the possibility and/or need for establishing a WebSite Policy Committee
Continue discussion on forming a Website Policy Committee with input from the IT Director and continuing involvement from the
Ms. Bertram reminded the board to make appointments with Town Manager to discuss evaluation before Town Election.
the boards input on this matter and perhaps ask the Planning Board to incorporate into their Findings & Directives anything relative to
this subdivision approval.
BOS discussed the following
Request that the Planning Board incorporate basic stipulations such as hours of operation, earth removal route, etc
Joanna Bilotta Simeone, Planning Board Chairperson, spoke to say that Town Counsel had confirmed that some of the components
could be added to the findings and if the BOS would like to add anything they would be able to do so.
Planning Board added:
The applicant shall obtain approval from the Planning Board prior to removal of any earth
• The applicant shall utilize Route 2A for truck removal of over burden
• The applicant shall fill out the form on removal of over burden on a weekly basis while the project is ongoing and submit to the
Planning Office
Ms. Bertram remains concerned with hours of operation and dust mitigation and asked if an Earth Removal Permit could be required.
Ms. Bilotta Simeone confirmed that they cannot require that an Earth Removal Permit be applied for due to the Bylaw.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Ebersole referenced part of the Bylaw that mentions methods of removal, location use of structures, hours of operation, routes of
transportation, control of dust, and disposition of waste material.
He suggested referring to this when adding to the Findings &
Directives for this project.
4. Discuss/ Approve Requiring DOR Certificate of Good Standing for any business collecting Meals Tax: Mr. Ebersole explained
that for a $25 fee, businesses can go online to the Massachusetts Dept. of Revenue and request a Certificate of Good Standing which
shows that they have paid all of their outstanding taxes. Mr. Ebersole would like this added to the process (for businesses who collect
meals tax).
Ms. Speidel suggested that this be added to the BOS Policy regarding licensing and that notice should be given to each of he
businesses that would be required to follow the policy.
BOS will schedule a workshop for further discussion/incorporation of this policy along with discussion of other policies that also need to
be addressed.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
4/29/2014
Warrants:
5/6/2014
5/7/2014
5/5/2014
Action File Issues: None
W#58-14
W#59-14
W#23-P-14
$253,228.73
$139,013.72
$607,380.55
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - Mr. Ebersole reported that the BOH met last night and discussed Nitrogen Aggregation, routine approval of septic
systems, and other reports. Nitrogen aggregation would allow a non-contiguous partial to be used in calculating the nitrogen load of
septic system. This used to be authorized by DEP but the decision was turned over to local boards of health. The Lunenburg BOH will
not allow such aggregation.
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee met last night where they elected Ron Albert as Vice Chair,
discussed the roles of various Town commissions and boards that this committee will need to work with in the future, and discussed
visualizing what the center of Town may look like with the aid of stake holders and constituents. They hope to have a plan ready in time
for the Fall Town Meeting if not then, by the 2015 Annual Town Meeting. Currently they are bringing data together regarding projected
expenses for renovations to various buildings they have looked at within the Town.
Ms. Bertram added that it is imperative to look at the zoning within the village district and move it forward quickly. She would also like
to add the Primary School to the lists of buildings that the Building Reuse committee is in charge of looking at, if Eagle Heights falls
through.
Capital Planning Committee- Mr. Toale reported that this committee is on hiatus until the budget cycle begins again.
Finance Committee - No Report
Library Board of Trustees-No Report
MPO- Ms. Bertram reported the on the following:
Funding for the TIP is tight due to the Sterling project & the Summer St. project has been moved out to "2018" due to funding
concerns for the design.
Ms. Bertram requested to MRPC that it be put back into the 2017 TIP because it is further ahead than the Sterling Project
• Chase Rd. project will be incorporated into the appendix of the TIP
• Every road project is required to provide bicycle & pedestrian access and if the Town chooses not to accommodate this they
will need to apply for a waiver
• MRC will try to provide more information in the future regarding projects that are to be voted on as part of the MPO process
Road reconstruction/repaving projects are eligible for federal funding
• Unified Planning Growth Program
• MRPC traffic studies and the possibility of the Town submitting a request on areas they would like looked at
Locally Technical Assistance grants
The Town is eligible for 8 hours of GIS Assistance
Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported that the Planning Board discussed the following at their prior meeting:
305 Leominster/Shirley Rd speed/traffic issues and conducting a speed analysis which may result in higher speed limits
• 265 Pleasant St Solar issue regarding pole placements. All agreed poles will be allowed temporarily until 12/29/2014, but
residents would like to move services underground
• Regarding the Chase Rd solar project there are no restrictions to not have poles
• 115 Fairview & 317 Sunnyhill Rd both have had A & R's signed
• The Town's Planned Production Plan expired in 2012
PACC- No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity- No Report
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee- No report although Ms. Bilotta Simeone informed the board that Peer Plan review is moving forward and
should be completed by the end of May
Sewer Commission - No Report
MA Broadband- No Report
===PAGE 4===
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Ebersole reported that he has reviewed the Traffic Rules & Regulations and will relay his findings to the
Town Manager. Of interest in the existing regulations was the "overnight parking" ban in the Town and the proposed regulations will
change that to "snow emergency" only along with private property STOP sign placements.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Mr. Matthews moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Toale seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed
Meeting adjourned at 7:20PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
May 13, 2014
Mary 20, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
