===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
7/15/2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled Chairperson Tom Alonzo, Vice Chair
Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, & Phyllis Luck.
Not present Town Manager, Kerry Speidel
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Luck thanked and congratulated Dave Berthiaume & the Lion's Club for the monthly pancake
breakfast that they hold at the senior center. They served over 100 people at the last breakfast.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that the Sewer Commission has retained the firm of Wright Pierce to design the Lakefront/Pierce Ave sewer
extension and they will begin with a topographical survey of these areas which will take place between 7/9/2014 - 7/31/2014. Any
questions can be directed to the DPW (Department of Public Works).
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Toale announced that the Planning Board is planning a Charrette to gather input on the Town Village and
zoning bylaw on 7/30/2014, 6PM, at Town Hall.
Mr. Alonzo announced that there are 3 more band concerts remaining for this season.
APPOINTMENTS
7:00pm - Joint Session with Planning Board to appoint candidate to current vacancy: Due to a quorum issue with the
Planning Board, this has been postponed to the 7/22/2014 BOS meeting
7:15pm - Eric Holt, Proposal to Construct Community Solar Farm on Landfill Site: Eric Holt, owner of Sunnyside Solar
came before the board to propose construction of a community solar farm on the Town landfill off of Youngs Road. Sunnyside Solar is
affiliated with Clean Energy Collective (CEC) which is based out of Colorado. Mr. Holt presented a slide presentation which showed
pictures of the proposed location of this project including their objectives which are to:
Obtain a 25 year land lease of public land (approximately 35 acres) on the old Lunenburg town dump
• Install a 1.3 megawatt community solar farm
• Sell solar panels to anyone that has an electrical meter
• Sell the electricity to the local utility (Unitil)
• Pay the land lease fees to the town
• Pay the folks who have solar panels in the community solar farm based upon their percentage of panels
• Make a small profit for managing the effort
•
Remove the solar farm at the end of the lease
CEC will at no cost:
Accomplish a solar survey
• Coordinate with the local utilities to see if they can support a solar farm - Circuit already approved for 2.6 megawatts
• Submit a formal proposal to the Town of Lunenburg to lease the land
• After the Town of Lunenburg agrees to the project CEC will create a site specific design and accomplish preliminary and
critical reviews
Once the design is agreed upon, CEC will at no cost:
• Install the solar farm
• Set up two trust funds
1. For operations and maintenance for the life of the lease
• To remove the solar farm at the end of the lease period
• Pay the Town of Lunenburg $20k (lease fee for the land use) for each megawatt of electricity generated (This rises over time
and is tied to the cost of a kilowatt of electricity
CEC looks ahead to:
• Accomplish solar survey. Town vote- Agree to long term leasing terms (more than 3 years)
• Size the land
• Coordinate with local utility (Unitil) to see if they can accept the electrical potential off this size solar farm
(Already pre-approved an increase of 2.6 megawatts on the circuit)
(Might be a project for 2015, 2016, or beyond)
(Need State Representative support on H3968 bill)
===PAGE 2===
Town sign a lease agreement
• Wait for everything to fall into place
Discussion: Board members were in agreement that a Community Solar Project on the land fill would be beneficial to the residents and
would support a project such as this but also pointed out the following concerns:
Borrego Solar had attempted a project at this site but the cost to tie into Unitil's 3 phase made the project uneconomical
The challenges of working with two different municipalities
• Ensuring that this is a fair opportunity with all involved
CEC should reach out to the Lunenburg Green Energy Committee for input
• If approved at Town meeting to move forward with a lease, does this need to go out to bid?
• Residents have 1' opportunity for purchase before going to businesses
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Holt for bringing this forward and said that they will discuss this with the Town Manager and hopefully it will
come to either the Fall or Spring Town Meeting.
7:30pm - Tentative: Presentation from Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, LP, regarding proposed pipeline project:
Mr. Alonzo began by apologizing to the public for not giving more of a notice regarding this presentation.
Allen Fore along with other representatives from Kinder Morgan came before the BOS to give a slide show presentation concerning the
proposed pipeline project and explained that Kinder Morgan had purchased the Tennessee Gas Pipeline Co. two years ago.
The presentation included the following:
Business information about the Kinder Morgan Company
• Utility Customers
Municipalities which are served by the Northeast Expansion Project
• Northeast Energy Crisis
• Route of gas distribution
• Regulatory Oversight
• FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission) Review Process
• Preliminary Route map through Lunenburg
• Post construction rights of way/reconstruction
• Project benefits/Grant Opportunities
• The process of contacting/educating homeowners who may be affected by the pipeline
• Landowners would be monetarily compensated for any easements that are acquired
• Property owners would be allowed recreation/agricultural use of this property put would be limited/prohibited from erecting
permanent structures
• Town owned land has not been identified, as of yet, as being on the pipeline route
• Final route will not be identified until FERC authorizes final certificate in the Fall of 2016
Project Overview
Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. ("Tennessee"), a subsidiary of Kinder Morgan, Inc., proposes the Northeast
Expansion Project to upgrade its existing Tennessee Gas Pipeline system within New York, Massachusetts, New Hampshire
and Connecticut
• The project, currently configured, would result in the construction of approximately 250 miles of new pipeline, additional meter
stations and modifications to existing facilities
• Tennessee anticipates that it will be able to locate a significant portion of the pipeline adjacent, or generally parallel to, existing
pipeline and electric utility corridors
• Northeast Expansion Project is projected to create over 3000 jobs during the peak construction period
available for the winter heating season
Timeline
Outreach Meetings - Ongoing
• Route Selection & Permit Preparation - Ongoing
•
Proposed Construction - April 2017
• Proposed In-Service - November 2018
Mr. Ebersole noted his following concerns:
Although it is called the Fitchburg route, it actually goes through Lunenburg & Townsend
• The route goes through the solar fields on Chase & Pleasant Streets
Legislators have not endorsed this pipeline & have only recognized the need of additional gas and infrastructure
: The proposed route comes close to conservation and bodies of water along with the size of the pipeline
Ms. Bertram requested that a more detailed map be given to the BOS for review.
Mr. Fore replied that when their routes are finalized a more detailed map will be available.
Mr. Ebersole noted that Representative Benson has scheduled a meeting at Lunenburg High School on 8/5/2014 regarding this project
Mr. Alonzo questioned how the production of the gas from the pipeline was to occur
Mr. Fore replied that it is fracked gas.
Ms. Luck asked if 1 out of 3 homes did not want this going through their property, would they not have a choice?
Mr. Fore replied potentially yes, if FERC determines that if this in the public interest, they have domain.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Toale pointed out that this also applies to Towns rights of refusal also.
Ms. Luck questioned what the policy is for leaks/evacuations.
Mr. Fore replied that the system is monitored 24hrs a day with systems in place to shut off/contain pipes. Leaks are for distribution
companies, not transmission companies.
Within the Massachusetts system there has not been any incident in a very long time. All
safety/incident records are published online. There will be emergency training for the proper entities within the Town provided by
Kinder Morgan.
Mr. Ebersole commented to say that he utilizes natural gas. Although he opposes this pipeline, if it goes through, he will work with the
BOS to make sure the appropriate safeguards are in place.
Mir. Alonzo commented to say that he does not see this pipeline benefitting Lunenburg, there may be better routes to navigate through,
and he wants to make sure that the landowner's needs are addressed.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Kinder Morgan representatives for the presentation this evening.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Further discussion of FY2015 Town Manager Goals - set work session date: Date set for 7/22/2014 at 6PM for discussion.
2. Further Discussion of FY2015 BOS Goals- set work session date: Date set for 7/22/2014 at 6PM for discussion.
3. Request to approve One Day Wine & Malt Beverages License for Conrad's Drive-In, Inc, 835 Mass Avenue; August 1, 2014,
from 8-9PM: Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that Police Chief Marino requested that the same number of Police Officers that were used at a
previous function at this site, be used again this time, if this is approved
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the one day Wine & Malt Beverage License for Conrad's Drive-In, Inc. 835 Mass Avenue on August 1,
2014, subject to determination by the Lunenburg Police Chief as to the number of Police Officers to be assigned. Ms. Bertram
seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
4. Request to approve Common Victualler's License for Ole Ahad d/b/a/ Hadwen Market, 1 Main Street: Ms. Bertram moved to
approve the Common Victualler's License for Ole Ahad d/b/a Hadwen Market, 1 Main Street. Mr. Toale seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
None
Warrants:
7/17/2014
7/15/2014
7/16/2014
W# 2P-15
W# 4-15
W#3-15
$473,983.91
$52,919.06
$469,963.44
Action File Issues: BOS will be scheduling a joint session with the Planning Board to discuss the Planning Board Appointment and
Economic Development.
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health: No Report
Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale reported that he had attended last night's Planning Board meeting to gather information
concerning the Charette but it was not discussed that night. They discussed the Village Center Zoning concerning the marketing
aspect of that project.
Mr. Toale will be attending the next School Committee meeting to discuss the property transfer of the Passios Building and Brooks
House from the school to the town. He will also bring up the matter of land transfer.
Mark Ericson has joined the Building Reuse Committee as the FinCom representative
Amory Phelps has resigned from the Building Reuse Committee as the Historical Commission representative and Mr. Toale thanked
her for her contribution.
Capital Planning Committee: No Report
Finance Committee: Mr. Toale reported that they will have one more meeting on 8/21/2014 where they will finalize their financial
policies for presentation to the BOS at a later date.
Library Board of Trustees: No Report
MPO: No Report
Planning Board: Ms. Bertram reported that at the last meeting this board discussed the following concerning the school building
project:
Waivers concerning signage and curbing
• The culvert located on Mass Ave which backs up but it's been determined that it would not get any worse than it is now. Ms.
Bertram would like feedback from the DPW Director concerning the culvert.
• Sewer pipe size
•
Parking space amounts and sizes
PACC: No Report
School Building Committee: No Report
School Committee: No Report
Sewer Commission: No Report
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: None
===PAGE 4===
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS:
Accept resignations: Council on Aging- Connie O'Dea, Anthony Bertone & Shirley Bertone: Mr. Alonzo spoke of the
resignations of Connie O'Dea, Anthony & Shirley Bertone from the Council on Aging. After determining the time served on this board, a
letter of thanks will be sent for their contributions.
Discussion ensued concerning quorum issues/ appointments to PACC, COA, and the Personnel Committee and all agreed that these 3
committees need members appointed ASAP when all interviews are completed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting.
Mr. Toale seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 9:05PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 22, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 8 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
