===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
....
RECEIVED & FILED
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
October 21, 2014
OCT 1 1 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OPPICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Thomas
Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Member and Town Manager
Kerry Speidel present.
Member not present: Phyllis Luck
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Pete Lincoln, Hemlock Drive, reported that at the Eagle House Senior Center they hold a volunteer appreciation
day in August. This year we had over 70 people and he suggested the Board do the same for the board and
committee members. It is a chance to meet with them, speak with them and express your appreciation.
Dave McDonald, Island Road, echoed what Mr. Lincoln said about volunteers. He encouraged people to forget
politics and to come and serve. He added working for this town is a good thing. As far as the Conservation
Commission; he disagreed with how they resigned but he wanted to thank them for their services. Mr. Alonzo
announced the Halloween Trick or Treat hours. He also thanked everyone who came out to the groundbreaking
ceremony last Saturday.
APPOINTMENT
Brian Guenard, 238 Arbor Street, presented to request to be appointed to the Council on Aging. Chair Pete
Lincoln recommended Mr. Guenard.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d:J. Toale
To appoint Brian Guenard to the Council on Aging with a term to expire June 30, 2015
Vote: All in Favor
CONSERVATION COMMISSION APPOINTMENT INTERVIEWS
Matthew Charpentier, 5 Park St. Terrace presented to request to be appointed to the Conservation Commission.
Mr. Charpentier has an environmental education background and is currently attending graduate school.
Neighbor Mike Nault spoke favorably of Mr. Charpentier, stating he would be a good addition to the
commission. Mr. Alonzo stated although the Conservation members could not attend they did send letters.
Todd Dwyer, 105 West Street, is new to Lunenburg. He has a Bachelors' degree in civil engineering and a
Master's degree in civil environmental engineering.
Mr. Alonzo stated Sheila Holt was previously interviewed and is a retired environmental engineer. She is also
an advocate of a solar farm near the landfill. Obviously if she is appointed she would not be able to participate
if it is presented to the Conservation Commission and would need to file a disclosure form.
John Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road, has lived here 28 years. He was on the Finance Committee for two
years, was the Chairman for one year, understands how the Town works and had a chance to interact with all
the departments. He served on the Board of Health for two terms and learned a lot. He is a member of the
Hickory Hills Lake Management Association and is a member of the Lunenburg Snow Riders. Ms. Bertram
stated all the candidates were qualified and thanked them for coming forward. Mr. Alonzo stated for the record
that three of the candidates are from the same area of town (Hickory Hills Lake area and although they would
like to have more diverse town representation in the membership, the situation of five vacancies on the
commission calls for qualified appointments to allow business to go forward.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°: P. Bertram
To appoint John Rabbitt and Todd Dwyer to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire June
30, 2016 and Sheila Holt and Matthew Charpentier with a term to expire June 30, 2015
Mr. Toale stated he was impressed with the candidates that came forward and how quickly they did so. He
asked if Mr. Murphy who was interviewed previously and was not appointed, was still interested. Mr. Alonzo
stated he spoke with him and he said he would consider it but has not contacted the town since.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Speidel reported that the Personnel Committee composition requires one of the members be a town
employee, adding this was an oversight on her part as the Board appointed five citizens to the committee. The
last individual the Board appointed to the committee was Rene Lafayette and she has spoken to him. He was
referred to the Historical Commission as he expressed an interest in that vacancy, She requested the Board to
rescind his appointment to the Personnel Committee and in his place appoint Nancy Forest, Payroll and Benefits
Coordinator.
Motion: P. Bertram
2":J. Toale
To rescind the appointment of Rene Lafayette to Personnel Committee and appoint Nancy Forest to the
Personnel Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2015
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request Approval for Modification to Traffic Rules for Isolated Stop Signs at Mulpus and Townsend
Harbor Road
Ms. Speidel reported this request is in regards to placing the stop signs at Mulpus Road for northeast bound
traffic and for southeast bound traffic at Townsend Harbor Road.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To approve the modification to the traffic rules for the addition of stop signs at Mulpus Roads and
Townsend Harbor Road
Vote: All in Favor
2. Review/approve additional charge to the Personnel Committee
This item is a follow up to the October 14*# meeting discussion to add an additional responsibility to the
Personnel Committee of recruiting/interviewing volunteers via talent bank forms and making recommendations
for appointments to the Board. Discussion on the process and implications ensued. The Board will review the
bylaw and process and continue the discussion at a later meeting or workshop meeting. Suggestion was made to
get feedback from the Personnel Committee too.
3. Review FY'2015, Q1 Financial Statements
Ms. Speidel reported the first quarter is typical of our expectations. Revenues came in at 27.2% of what is
expected and expenditures came in at 36.4%. Motor vehicle excise collections were 7% higher than last year.
Local options meal tax collection was 41% higher than expected. This is difficult to track because the receipts
are collected by the state and then awarded to the town. Net metering credits collected were $16,795.00 on the
Chase Road Solar project. Real estate tax collected was 4% higher than last year. New growth estimate was
calculated by the Assessors at $261,802. $77,000 of that is coming from personal property tax and is related to
the two solar projects.
Expenditures are typically higher in the first quarter because we pay our retirement assessment, insurance
policies and workers compensation in full as well as encumbrances. She wanted to point out some items in
particular for follow up during the year; police lockup and the salary appropriation for radio watch; we have
spent 1/3 of the appropriation for lockup. We are looking at regional opportunities on a small scale to cover
costs. There is a part-time desk officer to monitor lockup to avoid overtime.
Tree removal was over expended by $6000 due to the microburst in July. There won't be any state or federal
reimbursement for this. The Finance Committee has been advised of this.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°°: P. Bertram
===PAGE 3===
To adjourn the meeting at 8:21 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
