===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
3/4/2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with Chairperson Tom Alonzo, Vice
Chairperson Paula Bertram, Dave Matthews, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT - Mr. Matthews reminded all of the upcoming Citizens Party Caucus and then announced that due to
personal obligations he would not be seeking another term on the BOS. He noted that the Town is in a positive position with improved
credit ratings due to effective fiscal management and said that this is very important as we are preparing the school building project. He
went on to commend the Town's boards, committees, unions, and employees on the productive way they work together which has all
greatly impacted the Town's financial standing. His hope is that this positive course will continue in the future. He thanked all for the
opportunity to have served on the board.
Board members thanked Mr. Matthews for his time and service to the BOS.
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that the Town Manager had presented her FY15 Budget to the Finance Committee last Thursday and that there
was a very positive outlook towards it. He went on to thank the Town Manager for stewarding this process and praised her for the work
that she had done not only for that particular presentation but throughout her tenure as Town Manager.
Mr. Alonzo announced that the Citizens Party Caucus will be held on 3/17/2014 and reviewed the list of positions to be filled.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that the Boys & Girls Club will be having a fundraiser called "Are You Smarter Then a Sixth Grader" on
3/7/2014 and that they are looking for sponsors and contestants.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
1. Committee Vacancies: Historical Commission: Mr. Alonzo announced that there is 1 position open on the Historical Commission
and positions open on the Personnel Committee. Anyone interested should submit a completed talent bank form.
2. Eagle Scout Court of Honor, Andrew Keir: Will be rescheduled to a future meeting when the Proclamation is completed
APPOINTMENTS
7:00 PM - Frank Serreti, Powers & Sullivan, FY13 Audited Financial Statements: Frank Serreti, representative from Powers and
Sullivan came before the BOS to report on the Town's FT13 audited financial statements. Mr. Serreti spoke on the following reports:
Federal Awards - Tested was the Special Education Program and the results were that there were no questioned costs.
Although there was one current year find relating to time and effort reporting. Monthly activity personnel reports which are
required were not being done. A conversation with the School Superintendent resulted in her assurance that procedures have
been put in place and this process will be implemented moving forward.
Opinion on this report were "Unmodified" which is the best that you can receive.
•
Financial Statements - The time table where work needs to be done for the audit was completed on time which indicates that
le Town was prepared, the books and records were in very good shape, there were no proposed adjustments to the ledger
nd questions were answered in a timely basis. It is Powers & Sullivan's opinion that this was a very good audit from tha
stand point.
Transaction cycles were tested and it was found that the systems were operating as designed, the approvals that should be i
lace were there, transactions were coded properly the controls were working as designed, and there were no issues foun
relating to transaction cycles.
Opinion on the audit was "Unmodified" which is the best that you can receive. Noted was the timely way that information was received
which made this audit go very smoothly.
Highlights of the financial statement which contributed to the Town's Bond Rating increase were:
$123k surplus in budget
Structurally sound operations budget
Excellent Real Estate/Property Tax Collections
Total unassigned remaining fund balance in the General Fund of $1.6M
Remaining totals in General/Zoning Stabilization funding
Sewer Operation decrease
Increase in solid waste/recycling operations
• Additions in Capital Assets
===PAGE 2===
• Additions in the Sewer Fund
• General Fund Debt Service is at 7.6% of the Towns total appropriations which indicates that the Town is maintaining its assets
and its infrastructure
Management Letter- There were 13 prior year comments. Three comments were considered to be resolved, three were
partially resolved, and seven were unresolved.
Three new comments were introduced this year as follows:
1. Employee Reimbursements written policy & procedure document/standardized form
2. Centralization of procurement documentation
Investigate old receivables on the ledger
Two informational comments were:
1. New M.G.L. was passed which would allow the Town to create a reserve fund which can be used to fund compensated
2. New Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) changes regarding pensions
Overall the Town received a good report and any comments seen in the management letter do not reflect a significant deficiency or
material weakness but rather are suggestions on how to improve.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Serreti for his report this evening.
7:30 PM - James Sharkey, Wiring Inspector, Review of Wiring Fees, Solar Project: Wiring Inspector, James Sharkey spoke to the
BOS regarding the wiring fees for commercial solar projects. He explained that he has performed 7 inspections on commercial solar
projects and they have taken approximately 1 hour or less to do. The Wiring Inspector receives 82.5% of the fees collected and he
would propose that the fee be set at $82.50 per hour and any inspection which goes beyond 1 hour be an additional $82.50. Mr.
Sharkey said that he would maintain a log and submit it either monthly or bi-weekly.
He also made mention for the record that the Electrical Contractor on the project is very good.
Ms. Speidel added that the BOS had determined in past discussions concerning the solar projects that the building permit would
encompass the electrical inspection fees and at that time the BOS were to determine how to compensate the Wiring Inspector.
Board members were in agreement with Mr. Sharkey's proposal.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Sharkey if he would agree to $82.50 per hour and then in ½ hour increments beyond that. Mr. Sharkey agreed to
that term.
Ms. Bertram moved to compensate the Wiring Inspector $82.50 per hour for inspections at commercial solar projects at a 1 hour
minimum and then to be compensated in ½ hour increments after 1 hour. Mr. Toale seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Update on MA Broadband Project/Implementation from IT Director: (Discussed out of order after Announcements): Steve
Malandrinos, Director of Information and Technology came before the board to review the progress of the MA Broadband
project/Implementation. Mr. Malandrinos reviewed the history of this project and stated that Lunenburg's part in this project is just about
complete. There are fiber optic drops in several Town buildings and currently there is broadband access in Town buildings through
Comcast. After speaking to various vendors who will be serving communities on the network he found that they were priced at double
to ten times the cost of what the Town pays now, he believes that Comcast is the most affordable price out there, and he cannot
recommend jumping onto the network at this time. Currently he is watching other communities similar to Lunenburg to see what their
reactions to these prices will be and hopefully it will bring more competition into the market to force the prices down
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that as the liaison to the MA Broadband project he will voice his concerns about the exorbitant pricing during
the next conference call he has with them.
The board thanked Mr. Malandrinos on his efforts and for his report this evening.
2. Review/Discussion FY2015 Town Manager's Recommended Budget: Board members discussed the following concerning the
Town Managers FY2015 Recommended Budget:
Capital Planning not approving funding for the street sweeper request due to lack of data received for proper evaluation
• Lack of data/support from Conservation and Board of Health to support funding of street sweeper
• Operation status of the street sweeper
• Outsourcing of the street sweeper along with cost and/ or replacement time line of the equipment
• Storm Water Mandate concerns specifically with the amount of salt used this winter and the risk of contamination to local water
bodies
• Under funding of the Pavement Management program
• Request for the Fleet Management Program to provide information concerning replacements for cruisers & fire dept. vehicles
• Suggested Town Hall improvements and planning for funding for the structural component of it in this budget
• Capitalizing on generating revenue on current vacant buildings in order to fund other projects
Preparedness from Town Departments for Capital Plan requests
Support for proposal of creating a "Land Use Manager" position
Mr. Alonzo encouraged the public to either attend or view on T.V. the upcoming budget hearings in order to stay informed.
3. Review/ Discussion of Warrant Articles for Annual Town Meeting: Not discussed
===PAGE 3===
4. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
2/11/2014
Warrants:
nothing to report yet.
3/4/2014
W#44-14
$572,107.34
Action File Issues: The Chairperson asked if there was any progress on the Flat Hill Road property. Ms. Speidel replied that there was
7. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health - No Report
Building Reuse Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee met last night and discussed the following:
2 members have resigned & Mike Mackin has replaced Todd Blake as the School Board representative
• They can continue to add value by exploring retail and development possibilities to properties which had been originally looked
at by this committee
• Maintaining 9 members (possibly 11) on this committee along with recruiting for additional members with appropriate
experience relative to real estate properties
Capital Planning Committee- Mr. Toale reported that this committee will be reporting to the Finance Committee sometime in the near
future on their findings for the FY15 Capital Plan requests.
Finance Committee - Mr. Toale reported that this committee had begun its budget cycle with a presentation by the Town Manager and
will be meeting every Thursday for the rest of this month to hear from department heads.
Library Board of Trustees- Mr. Ebersole reported the following:
•
This board is in the process of updating policies
• The website continues to get good reviews
• 2 people are interested in openings on this board
MPO- Ms. Bertram reported the following:
The Functional Design Analysis on the Summer St. project has been submitted to Montachusett Regional Planning
Commission (MRPC) for review
Chase Rd. is still a awaiting project number and approval from Mass DOT
Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported that this board met on 2/24/14 and discussed the following:
Marijuana Dispensary Bylaw and consideration of an armed guard requirement
• They approved the definitive sub-division for Elmwood Rd.
• Easement refusal from property owner to Proctor Park but some improvements will be added to make park more accessible
Approval of development plan and review for Force Corp located at 305 Leominster/Shirley Rd.
Ms. Bertram reminded the BOS that the project on Elmwood Rd. will require significant maintenance of proposed detention basins anc
she is concerned about the ability of the Town to be able to maintain them. She would like the BOS to have further discussions on hov
to address this issue. It was suggested that a work shop with the BOS and the Planning Board should be scheduled, prior to their nex
public meeting and before their warrant articles are submitted, concerning who should be responsible for maintaining these storm water
basins.
PACC- No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity- No Report
School Committee- No Report
School Building Committee-
Mr. Matthews reported that this committee will be meeting tomorrow and will be discussing regulatory
inputs and landscaping/site work plans.
Sewer Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported following:
This commission has sent on its report regarding Highfields to the Planning Board for review
• They continue to work on compliance with grease traps
• Inter Municipal Agreement (IMA) has been signed with Fitchburg
• They continue monitoring of infiltration and inflow
MA Broadband- Mr. Alonzo reported that he will be having a telephone conference this Thursday with MA Broadband and will be asking
questions which were discussed previously this evening.
6.Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: No Report
APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS:
Appointment: Deven Z. O'Brien to position of Patrol Officer (taken out of order before the 7PM appointment): Police Chief Marinc
came before the board to introduced Officer in training Deven O'Brien and about Officer O'Brien's work experience and education.
Chief Marino requested that the BOS appoint Mr. O'Brien to the position of Patrol Officer, effective 7/20/2014, before the Police
Academy training begins.
Ms. Speidel spoke and amended her notice of appointment to state "appointment effective 7/20/2014".
Mr. Mathews spoke and commended Chief Marino on the work he has done with obtaining new officers at the Police Department.
Mr. Matthews moved to ratify the appointment of Deven Z. O'Brien to the position of Patrol Officer to become effective on 7/20/2014.
Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
===PAGE 4===
....
....-..=-.
Ms. Speidel requested that Chief Marino introduce the Police Officers who were there in support of Office O'Brien this evening. They
were Reserve Officer Quinn Smith, Officer Josh Tocci, Officer Josh Matthews, Lt. Mike Luth, and Sgt. Sean Connery.
Resignation: Fred Crellin, Public Access Cable Committee
Resignation: Troy Daniels, Public Access Cable Committee: Mr. Alonzo announced the resignation of Fred Crellin & Troy Daniels
from the Public Access Committee.
Ms. Speidel informed the board that 1 talent bank form for the PACC had been received a few days ago.
Mr. Alonzo informed all that we will be revisiting this regarding the proposed Bylaw change and reducing the membership. In the
interim the Town Manager will be approving time sheets and the Program Director will be running the programming.
Mr. Matthews spoke and thanked Mr. Crellin for his service to the PACC. Mr. Alonzo agreed and requested that a letter of thanks be
sent to him as they do to all long time volunteers.
Mr. Ebersole added that you send a letter of thanks to all members who have resigned and that you should be thanking your
Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he was not sure of the correctness of Mr. Ebersole's statement but said that if the board wishes to
establish such policy he would be willing to listen.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to end the regular scheduled meeting. Mr. Matthews seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Regular Scheduled Meeting adjourned at 8:39PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
March 11, 2014
March 18, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
