===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
6/17/2014
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 02 2014
UNENBURG TOWA
OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with, Chair Tom Alonzo, Jamie Toale,
Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck & Town Manager Kerry Speide
Absent was Vice Chair Paula Bertran
Regular Meeting opened at 7:01 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: None
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Alonzo announced that the Town Fair & Bon Fire will be held this Saturday from 4-9PM at the High School
Mr. Toale added that the BOS will have a booth at the fair to encourage volunteerism in town
Mr. Toale announced that the Historical Commission will be hosting a Visioning Session with the goal of reaching a common
understanding of the history of the Lunenburg Town Center on 6/30/2014 at 6:30PM at the Town Hall. All residents are encouraged to
attend
Mr. Alonzo announced that there will be a Public Hearing for the abutters of the new Middle/High School on 6/25/2014 at 6PM at the
Passios Building Cafeteria. Any interested party is welcome to attend
APPOINTMENTS: None
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Appoint Maureen Dupuis to Agricultural Commission: Ms. Speidel spoke to say that she is making the recommendation to the
board that Maureen Dupuis be appointed to the Agricultural Commission.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the Town Manager's recommendation to appoint Maureen Dupuis to the Agricultural Commission.
Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed
Mr. Alonzo congratulated Ms. Dupuis and reminded her that she would need to be sworn in by the Town Clerk.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to authorize Chair to sign Project Scope and Budget Agreement with MSBA: Mike Mackin, Chairperson of the school
committee spoke to the BOS and said that if there were any questions he is here to answer them.
Mr. Ebersole moved for the BOS to authorize the Chair of the Board of Selectmen to sign the Project Scope and Budget Agreement
with the MSBA. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 4 in favor, 0 opposed.
2. Further discussion on BOS Policies & Procedures: Ms. Speidel suggested that a workshop meeting to discuss BOS Policies &
rocedures be held the same evening that there would be a joint meeting with the Planning Board, perhaps on 7/8/201.
1r. Alonzo stated that he would not be there that night and suggested that considering there are 3 lengthy items to be discussed wi
the Planning Board, the BOS should restrict it to 1 item that evening.
After discussion the board agreed to begin these discussions with the Storm Water item.
A workshop will be set to discuss the FinCom and IT Director sections of the BOS Policies and Procedures for 7/1/2014 at 6PM.
3. Further discussion on Appointments Process and/ or FY15 Appointments: None
4. FY15 Town Manager Goals: Mr. Alonzo requested that board, with the exception of Ms. Luck, compile the Town Manager and BOS
goals to be discussed at the next BOS meeting.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
None
Warrants:
6/16/2014
W#26P-14
$741,058.10
6/18/2014
W#67
6/17/2014
$394,692.12
W#66-14
$454,069.10
Action File Issues: Mr. Ebersole questioned what the process was for the vacancy on the Park Commission position.
Ms. Speidel replied that she has not sent the advertisement to the newspaper yet, she is hoping to get it in for Friday so that it would be
advertised for 2 weeks, and we would essentially be 1 week behind.
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
===PAGE 2===
Board of Health: No Report
Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale reported that this committee has a joint meeting with the Planning Board scheduled for
tomorrow evening at 6:30PM in the Ritter Building.
Capital Planning Committee: No Report
Finance Committee: Mr. Toale reported that they are waiting on feedback on their procedures and they continue to discuss the turf
field.
Library Board of Trustees: Mr. Ebersole reported that this board will be meeting this Thursday.
MPO: No Report
Planning Board: Mr. Alonzo reviewed a report previously submitted by Ms. Bertram containing Planning Board activities which
included:
•
Planning Board developed an action to move forward with some of the recommendations in the draft document which was
compiled by MRPC
• Discussion on their website was held and new Planning Board member Ken Chenis will review other communities on how they
market themselves regarding economic developing & housing.
• Concerning Priority Development & Preservation, discussion of development of an economic development committee was
held
• Discussion was held concerning the joint meeting with the BOS
• Village Bylaws are currently in development and the Planning Board will be meeting with the Building Reuse Committee on
6/18/2014
• The Historic Society will be presenting at the Historical Commission meeting on 6/30/2014 to review the town's center history
• Planning Board will be reviewing Special Permit requirements concerning Zoning
• Road infrastructure improvements will be ongoing and communication needs to be ongoing with MJTC; MPO: and the DPW
Director
• Concerning the Retail Market Study, the Economic Development Committee and Land Use Director will be addressing this in
the future and will need to reach out to current and past business owners
• Concerning expansion of commercial and industrial development, further discussion and public input is needed for how to
expand
Review Site Plan Approval Bylaw and Sign Bylaw is under review
PACC: No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity: Mr. Ebersole stated that he will be giving a report to the BOS on 7/1/2014
School Committee: Ms. Luck reported that this committee met on 6/4/2014 and they discussed the following:
• Revised plan for the Middle/High School has been approved by the MSBA
•
Principals of all 3 schools presented their new School Improvement Plans
• 3 policy discussions were held:
1.
The State has a new finger printing requirement for teachers & perhaps chaperones on overnight trips
2.
$9000 deficit in the school lunch program was discussed and how to deal with this
3.
CORI policy discussion around procedures concerning how sensitive information is handled & who is trained to
access it
School Building Committee: Mr. Alonzo reported that this committee met last Wednesday and they discussed the following:
• Developing definitive plot/property lines & how to separate the Passios Building from the school building project
• Storm Water, installing an underwater retention system, gathering information on maintenance cost for this
• Traffic Signage on Rt. 2A and installing speed limit signs, who is responsible for installation and who is responsible for funding
• The proposed site work/logistics plan was presented for the initial excavation of the site
Sewer Commission: No Report
MA Broadband: No Report
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel informed the board that a letter was received from the
Massachusetts State Lottery Commission notifying the Town that Embers Pizzeria is applying for a KENO license. The Town has the
option of requesting a hearing within 21 days of being notified and if interested the Town would need to notify the Lottery Commission
by 6/30/2014 if the BOS would like to object to this license.
BOARD COMMENT: Tonight was Ms. Doherty's last night as the BOS Minute Recorder and the board recognized and thanked her
for her 2 years of employment with them.
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Mr. Alonzo stated that the board will be entering executive session, not to return citing
M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21A [9], to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair so declares. Discussion of O'Brien Lawsuit
Mr. Ebersole moved to adjourn the regular scheduled meeting. Mr. Toale seconded.
Roll call vote, Toale-Aye, Ebersole-Aye, Luck-Aye, Alonzo-Aye
6:00 PM - EXECUTIVE SESSION M.G.L. Chapter 30A, Section 21A [9], to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or
litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair so
declares Discussion of O'Brien Lawsuit
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting adjourned at 7:29PM
JUL 0 2 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 1, 2014
July 8, 2014
July 15, 2014
July 22, 2014
Susan Dulery, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 0 2 2014
LUNENBURG TOW
CLERK OFFICE
