===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 11 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
5/20/2014
CLERK OFFICE
A Be Fall
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled w
Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00 PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Alonzo welcomed Ms. Luck to the BOS and congratulated her on her win at the polls. He also
thanked all voters for their support for his re-election to the BOS. He congratulated and recognized all the other people who won at the
polls along with all of those who did not win.
Kim Massack came before the BOS to inform the public of the Japanese Exchange Student Program and encouraged the public to host
a student.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that he had hosted 4 students in the past and encouraged people to participate.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Lunenburg Yard Waste Days will be held on Saturdays until 5/31/2014 from 8AM-4PM
APPOINTMENTS:
7:00 PM - Joint Meeting with Library Board of Trustees to consider/ appoint Gare Thompson to open seat on Library Board of
Trustees: Present this evening from the Library Board of Trustees were Regina Raboin, Chairperson, Richard Mailloux, Lars
Widstrand, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, & Harry Kubetz.
Ms. Raboin explained that this appointment would be to replace Joanne McQuaid who had resigned and explained that Mr. Thompson
had served on this board before.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that this appointment would be until the next election is held in May of 2015 and that this will return the Library
Board of Trustees to a full board once more.
Mr. Thompson introduced himself to the BOS and explained his reasons for wanting to be part of this board again.
Election. Ms. Bertram seconded.
LBT: Mr. Mailloux moved to nominate Gare Thompson to fill the vacant position on the Library Board of Trustees. Ms. Venezia
seconded.
BOS: On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
LBT: On vote, motion carried, 6 in favor, 0 opposed.
7:30 PM - Brandon Kibbe, Land Acquisition Team, Request to revise Purchase & Sale Agreement on Lane Property; Request
to Name Property "The William H. and Saundra B. Lane Property at Lunenburg Town Forest": Brandon Kibbe, representative of
the Opens Space Committee Land Acquisition Team, came before the board and informed them that at Town Meeting the positive vote
was for approval to purchase the Lane Property at $3600 per acre or at appraised value, which ever is less.
The appraisal has
identified a price of $2400 per acre which now makes the purchase price $400k rather than $600k which was approved at Town
Meeting. He requested that the BOS sign an amendment to the Purchase & Sales agreement to reflect that change. This will codify
the agreement which had contingencies such as the appraised value and the fact that the seller is not going to sell another 5 acres to
the Town.
The seller has also requested that the property be named "The William H. and Saundra B. Lane Property at Lunenburg
Town Forest." The Open Space Committee Land Acquisition Team were unanimously in favor of this idea due to the fact that this
family was willing to work with the Town on this purchase. If the Land Grant is received, it requires that signage be placed on the
The family could also place a plaque or monument somewhere within this property with approval from the Open Space Committee
price approximately $150k - $176k.
Mr. Kibbe also mentioned that a "Point Person/s" would need to be added to the grant application and requested that he along with Ms.
speidel be those persons. This will be an agenda item at a future BOS meeting
Ms. Bertram moved to approve the revised purchase and sale agreement and the request to name the property "The William H. and
Saundra B. Lane Property at Lunenburg Town Forest". Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Letters of support will be sought from various entities to attach to the grant application.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Board Reorganization:
• Ms. Bertram moved to nominate Mr. Alonzo as Chairperson of the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen. Mr. Toale seconded
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
• Mr. Toale moved to nominate Ms. Bertram as Vice Chairperson of the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen. Ms. Luck seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
===PAGE 2===
• Mr. Ebersole move to nominate Mr. Toale as Clerk of the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen. Ms. Bertram seconded
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed
2. Member Committee Assignments: Mr. Alonzo mentioned that a list of the member committee assignments and what their purpose
as liaisons from the BOS are, will be given to new BOS member Ms. Luck for review. This task will be completed at the 6/3/2014 BOS
meeting.
3. Request to Review/ approve Middlesex County Interagency Mutual Aid Agreement (Police): Chief Marino reviewed the
Middlesex County Interagency Mutual Aid Agreement with the board. He explained that Lunenburg currently has Mutual Aid
Agreements with most of the Cities & Towns in Worcester County and this would be for the Towns such as Shirley which are in
Middlesex County.
This agreement gives the Police the authority to travel over the Town line and gives them the same powers and
indemnity that they would have if they were exercising their powers of arrest within in the confines of the Town of Lunenburg. We are
signed on to the State wide along with the Worcester County agreement and joining with Middlesex County would cover us completely.
Basically this would be used for when a major incident has occurred and would apply to all Towns in Middlesex County. The Chiefs of
Police Association is encouraging law enforcement agencies to go with Mutual Aid Agreements and Chief Marino believes this would be
a good idea in our efforts to become more organized as a Police Department.
Currently we appoint Officers from other communities to be able to work with our Police Department if asked to, and if this is signed,
that will no longer be needed. Officers will be able to operate within another Town when it's necessary and it will be self-initiated
Mr. Alonzo voiced his concern of giving Police authority within our Town to people who we don't know and he can see how this might
cause problems in jurisdictions.
Chief Marino assured him that this is only for extenuating circumstances and he cannot recall any incident where another agency did
not call to say that they were in this community. This is governed by Department Policy with rules and regulations and is generally only
used when another jurisdiction is calling you for help
After due and diligent discussion between the board and Chief Marino it was agreed to revisit this request again after further review is
done with comparing the Worcester County Mutual Aid Agreement with the Middlesex Mutual Aid Agreement.
4. Review/ discuss Town Manager's Annual Performance Evaluation: Mr. Alonzo reviewed the Town Manager's Annual
Performance Evaluation and the Narrative Summary Composite with the board which included 5 scoring sections and 3 essay sections
as follows:
Scoring sections included:
Relationship with the Board
• Fiscal Management
• Community and Public Relations
• Personnel Administration
• Professional skills & abilities
These sections are further broken into 8-10 skill items with points assigned ranking from 1 being unacceptable to 5 which is
outstanding. When totaled, the Town Manager scored an extremely strong "COMMENDABLE" ranking (178.6).
Essay sections included:
What has the Town Manager done well?
• What could the Town Manager do better?
• What could the Board do to help the Town Manager/What could the Town Manager do to help the Board?
Board members congratulated Ms. Speidel and expressed their thoughts on the evaluation process which ranged from:
Process was helpful
• Another step forward with this board in the full implementation of the Town Charter process along with full implementation of
the position of Town Manager
Request to read something of interest from the Town Charter at each BOS meeting
Making sure that the different roles of the BOS as policy makers vs. the Town Manager as running the Town, continues
through dialogue
Evaluation process was a good tool but flawed and needs to be revamped
Ar. Alonzo added that a letter was presented to him this evening from Town Department Heads requesting their future involvement i
he Town Manager's Evaluation. They feel that their day to day interaction with the Town Manager would be a valuable asset with th
Town Manager's evaluation process.
After due diligent discussion board members were all in agreement that having Department Heads involvement would be valuable and
will schedule a workshop for discussion on this in July.
5. Review list of outstanding BOS Policies & Procedures and schedule for future discussion: The list of policies requiring
additional review included:
Article II - Operational Policies
•
Section 2.03 Computer use
• Section 2.06 Vehicle Use
Section 2.07 Appointments
Article III- Financial Policies
RECEIVED & FILED
Section 3.01-3.05
Article IV - Regulatory
• Section 4.05 Circus Permit
JUN 11 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
Article V - Use of Public Buildings/Public Property
• Section 5.02 Road Acceptance
• Section 5.03 Use of Public Ways
Article VIII - Personnel
• Section 7.02 - Sexual Harassment
• Section 7.03 - Alcohol & Drug Testing
• Section 7.05 Equal Opportunity
• Section 7.09
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 11 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Proposed Policies Under Development
Article Il. - Operational Policies
• Section 2.08 Disposition of Chapter Land
Article III - Financial Policies
Section 3.07 Foreclosure of Properties in Tax Titles
• Section 3.08 Sale of Town Owned Land
Article V - Use of Public Buildings
Section 5.04 Boot Drives on Public Ways
Section 5.05 Road Signs
Article VII - Dog Hearings
Article VIII - Personnel
Section 7.10 Hiring
Ms. Speidel stated that the Finance Committee continues to work on the financial policies and have submitted them to the Town
Manager, Auditor and Financial Advisor for review. She would like for the BOS to review them at their 6/10/2014 meeting at 6PM.
Mr. Alonzo would like workshops scheduled before regularly scheduled BOS meeting to review the policies that require additional
review and asked that any other policies that may have been suggested but are not included on the list be brought forward also.
He also thanked Ms. Bertram for the work that she did with this project and asked all members for their help in revisions.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
5/6/2014 (Revised)
Warrants:
5/20/2014
W#61-14
5/21/2014
W#62-14
5/22/2014
W#24P-14
$303,604.02
$612,899.39
$619,440.07
Reuse Committee so as they may attend also.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that the next step in the Town Manager's Evaluation is for the Town Manager to review this evaluation and
provide a self-evaluation to be discussed at the 6/10/2014 BOS meeting.
3. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health: Mr. Ebersole reported that this committee met last night. The Agricultural Commission and representatives from the
Mass Farm Bureau were in attendance due to a potential complaint but that appointment was cancelled. However they did discuss the
new Right to Farm Bylaw which does not create any new rights but does provide a communication device. The BOH still remains an
enforcing authority but the Agricultural Commission can be a source of communication between the parties. Also noted was that there
is an online handbook for Agricultural Commissions that explains everything about what it means to be a commission and the Open
Discussion: Ms. Bertram questioned if there was a liaison to the Agricultural Commission.
Mr. Alonzo replied no.
Board members discussed the purpose of liaisons to commissions. Liaisons roles are to attend such meetings not to participate, but to
observe and to listen. All official acts such as vacancies on boards, should not be reported to the liaison, and should be reported
through the Town to the proper entities.
Ms. Bertram added that the MPO is a voting seat, which is different from other BOS liaison duties with Town commissions/boards.
Capital Planning also falls under that title.
Boards and Commissions will be reminded that the proper way to communicate things such as vacant seats is to the BOS and not to
liaisons.
Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale had no report, but stated that the next meeting will be on 6/2/2014 at 630PM.
Capital Planning Committee: Mr. Toale reported that this committee is on hiatus.
Finance Committee: Mr. Toale reported that they will meet this Thursday at 7PM, not to be televised
Library Board of Trustees: No Report
MPO: Ms. Bertram reported that at the last MPO meeting the Summer St. project was moved out to FY18 and the Sterling project was
placed ahead of it. She was successful in lobbying for the Summer St. project to remain in FY17 stating that the Town is ready to move
forward with design tunding and the community is committed to moving this project forward. This project has been released for public
===PAGE 4===
comment and she recommended that the BOS along with support from our Representatives send a letter of support/commitment for
this project.
Ms. Bertram informed the BOS that she will not be present at the meeting on 6/18/2014 where this will be voted on and requested that
a designee be sent in her place to vote in her absence.
There was a meeting last Friday with representatives from MPO concerning the Chase Rd. project. This is currently in the appendix of
the TIP and there is strong support for this going forward as a "Book Job"
HSIP (Highway Safety Improvement Program) money is available for signage and to correct our signage in Town will cost
approximately $44k. There is a potential to incorporate this in the TIP if we move that process forward.
Ms. Bertram would like to have discussions MassDOT regarding State funding for some of our paving projects in Town.
Planning Board: No Report
PACC: Mr. Alonzo stated that we are now looking for people to serve on the PACC and we will be appointing 5 members. Anyone
interested should fill out a talent bank form and return it to Town Hall.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that the BOS encourage people who are connected to the cable to apply but that it is open to anyone.
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that our cable contract with Comcast will expire in "2017" and we should begin discussions with them concerning
the contract.
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity: No Report
School Committee: No Report
School Building Committee: No Report
Sewer Commission: Mr. Ebersole reported that this commission met last week and they are looking at an extension down Highland St
from Oak Ave and Main St.
They are moving forward as far as implementing the votes at Town Meeting for the borrowing for the Pratt/Lakeview extension areas.
They are visiting various homes in Town regarding the infiltration reduction process. They have discovered 1 sump pump and are
working with the homeowner to remedy that situation.
MA Broadband: No Report
4. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel reported on the following:
The Annual EMS Cookout will be tomorrow at 6PM at the Public Safety Building
• A Memorial Service will be held at the Public Safety Building on 6/8/2014 at 9AM
•
Construction at Townsend Harbor/Mulpus has begun, will continue till the end of May and people should seek alternate routes
•
A request was received from the Girl Scouts of Central/Western Mass to have the BOS sign a letter of
recognition/commendation to the Lunenburg Girl Scouts who will be receiving the "Silver Award" which is the highest
achievement that they can receive.
MS. Bertram mentioned that concerning the MPO, she has been frustrated with the lack of detail included on projects. She requested at
he last MPO meeting that moving forward, she would like to have an overview at the beginning of the projects when they ar
onsidering their funding. Tomorrow evening at the MJTC meeting they will be doing this with their projects in this years TIP an
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Appoint Acting Police Sergeant Sean Connery to position of Police Sergeant
2. Appoint Acting Police Sergeant Jack Hebert to Position of Police Sergeant
Police Chief Jim Marino came before the board to request the appointments of Acting Police Sergeants Sean Connery and Jack Hebert
to the positions of Police Sergeant. He gave the work history of both officers and commended both on their work ethics. He introduced
Sergeant Sean Connery to the board and informed them that Sergeant Jack Hebert could not be present this evening due to a family
commitment.
Sergeant Connery spoke to the board and thanked the Town for allowing the opportunity for him to serve the community for 24 years.
Ms. Speidel informed the board that Chief Marino had recommended these appointments and that under the Town Charter these would
be Town Manager appointments which she recommends the BOS ratify. She also mentioned that Chief Marino has made a
Departmental Assignment of Officer Thibodeau to Detective.
Ms. Bertram moved to ratify the Town Manager and the Police Chief's recommendation for Sean Connery and Jack Hebert to the
position of Police Sergeant. Mr. Toale seconded.
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo spoke to say that he has the fullest confidence in the Chief and also with his appointments. He went on to say
that the two candidate's service to the Town is exemplary and he is in full support of these appointments.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
PUBLIC COMMENT: None
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 8:46PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
RECEIVED & FILED
June 3, 2014
June 10, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
JUN 11 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 5===
Board of Selectmen
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 11 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
