===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
7/1/2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with, Chair Tom Alonzo, Vice Chair
Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Alonzo thanked all who were involved with the Lunenburg Bon Fire and stated that it was a great
evening that was very well attended. He added that this will be the last one held at this location and hopefully this event will find a new
venue.
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Alonzo announced that there are three openings on the Finance Committee and anyone interested in
joining should fill out a talent bank form.
APPOINTMENTS:
7:05PM - Receive update on Summer Street Project: Review Contract Amendment: Trish Domigan representative from
the Engineering VHB Inc. came before the board to give an update on the Summer Street project which included the following:
MPO voted approval for $17.5M for the Summer St. Project in the 2017 TIP (Transportation Improvement Plan)
• The 25% Design Plan was submitted last December and most of the comments have been received back from MassDOT
which need to be reviewed and responded to
• This will then go to Mass Hwy District 4 for further review
• New policies have been implemented by MassDOT which needs clarification such as "Complete Streets/Sidewalks" 8
"Guardrail/Crash worthiness" of the bridge over Baker Brook
• Environmental Permitting is on hold until the project is advanced some more
• Once the Public Hearing is held on the project it can be advanced to 75% Design
• A Public Hearing will be scheduled once all comments have been responded to
•
The Process to schedule the Public Hearing takes approximately 6 weeks
• Fitchburg & Leominster will be following the same timeline as Lunenburg
Ms. Bertram mentioned that crash data will need to be gathered from all 3 communities in order to receive HSIP funding (Highway
Safety Improvement Plan) and a meeting with the proper entities should be set to begin this process.
She also mentioned that the 1 year of the TIP is set in stone and the projects will only fall off if they're not ready, but this does not
mean that the outer years are set and we still need to keep the momentum behind this project going.
Ms. Speidel informed the board that the design money for this project has been included in State Transportation Bond Bill which is not
available to us at this time. Although we don't have the contract amendment in front of us this evening, at some point this board is
going to have to make a commitment to use Chapter 90 money if it needs to be used to keep the momentum going on this project.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Report: Committee on Diversity & Acceptance: Mr. Ebersole came before the board as the BOS representative to the Committee
on Diversity & Acceptance explaining that his Committee was formed due to the unfortunate events which happened in the town and
school last fall. The charge of this committee was to:
Access the cultural climate, tolerance and diversity status in district and recommend changes and improvements to our
• Improve tolerance respect & diversity in our district by making recommendations on personnel changes, programs and to
make recommendations for policy changes that are necessary to ensure we have created an environment that is supportive of
diversity
Provide a ball park figure in March for any changes they recommend and to have the committee's charge completed by the
end of the school year
Mr. Ebersole also reported on the following:
•
The process of how this committee worked
• The various agencies/students/faculty that they had partnered with
Student Goals/Achievements
RECEIVED & FILED
Proposed budget of $30-38,000
• Committee Recommendations
Mr. Ebersole stated that this committee should be up and running again in the Fall.
Mir. Alonzo thanked Mr. Ebersole and the Committee for all of their efforts with this program.
SEP 09 2014
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 2===
2. FY2015 Annual Appointments and/ or Reappointments: Mr. Alonzo explained the process of the FY15 Annual
Appointments/Reappointments. This included the new reapplying procedure which is required for outgoing incumbents who wish to be
reappointed again which would entail filling out a brief questionnaire on why they would like to be reappointed.
Discussion ensued amongst the board members concerning the following:
• Concerns with incumbents whose terms had expired on 6/30/14 and have not received the questionnaire for reapplying
• Holding over any appointments until incumbents have a chance to return questionnaires
• Confirmation was received from Town Counsel that extending terms of incumbents is allowable without a vote
Establishing a practice that in the future anyone seeking reappointment will need to fill out the questionnaire in a timely fashion
• Taking out of consideration individuals names from reappointment lists that do not return questionnaires (unless they have
extenuating circumstances) and actively seek qualified new candidates who have submitted talent bank forms
• A BOS policy concerning incumbents seeking reappointment was adopted in 11/2013 but was not fully publicized and should
be followed
Mr. Ebersole moved to adopt the implementation of the reappointment form for all persons who want to seek reappointment for their
term ending 6/30/2014 and provide until 8/15/2014 for them to return the form to the Board of Selectmen's office through the Town
Manager. Ms. Bertram seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
BOS will conduct interviews of potential candidates in the month of July with the goal of filling the vacancies in August.
Mr. Ebersole recognized Mr. Toale's efforts of setting up the Volunteer Recruitment Booth at the Town Bon Fire where 4 people had
shown interest in volunteering.
Mr. Toale offered to "man" the booth again at any other Town function that may be held.
Mr. Alonzo announced that the Band Concerts will begin on July 7'
Ms. Speidel informed the board that the Council on Aging (COA) has 2 existing board member vacancies along with 3 expired term
vacancies. The COA had reviewed talent bank forms and sent their recommendations to the BOS. The COA was informed about the
"hold over" of appointments and not to expect any appointments in July. The COA was concerned with this because 2 of the expired
terms were of the Chair and the Vice Chair which they need in order to hold a meeting in July. They would like the BOS to consider
making appointments before this meeting.
The COA has their own internal policies regarding term limits and this would affect at least 2 out of 3 people whose terms have expired
and would be subject to the COA term limit policy. The Term Limit policy is not part of the Town Bylaws therefore the BOS are not
bound by this. If these vacancies can be held over there will be no issue with quorum and Ms. Speidel will communicate this to the
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that there were 10 applicants for the 5 positions. The COA term limit policies are their own and not the BOS
policies, therefore it is not binding.
Mr. Alonzo recommended that the interviews that would be scheduled first would be for the PACC, Personnel Committee, and the COA.
Ms. Speidel presented the Town Manager 2015 Appointment/Re-Appointments to be ratified as follows:
Animal Control Officer
Kathleen M. Comeau
Emergency Management Director
1 Year
Chief Patrick Sullivan
"RACES" Control Officer
1 Year
Ralph Swick
Jeanne Swick
Fence Viewer
1 Year
Field Driver
1 Year
Forest Warden
1 Year
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
1 Year
Hearings Officer
1 Year
Inspector of Animals
1 Year
Inspector of Wires
Asst. Inspector of Wires
1 Year
1 Year
Inspector of Weights & Measures
1 Year
Inspector of Plumbing & Gas Fittings
1 Year
Asst. Inspector of Plumbing & Gas Fittings
1 Year
Public Weighers
1 Year
Robert H. Bowen
Kathleen M. Comeau
Chief Patrick Sullivan
Kerry Speidel
Kerry Speidel
Kathleen M. Comeau
James Sharkey
John Biery
Stephen Cullinane
Gary R. Williams
Richard Kapenas
Faye Silva
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
Gary Savoie
Richard Reynolds
Eric Ward
Robert Pierce
Jay Valier
===PAGE 3===
Senior Citizen Property Tax Work-Off
Program & Taxation Aid Committee
Technical Advisory committee
Tree Warden
1 Year
Veterans' Service Officer
Local Census Liaison
Smart Growth Reporting Officer
Assistant Building Inspector
Alternate Building Inspector
Police Officers
Full Time
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
1 Year
Kathryn Herrick David Manzello Doreen Noble Shelly McCaie
1 Vacancy for a citizen at large
Jack Rodriquenz
1 Vacancy (Planning Director)
Jack Rodriquenz
T.J. Blauser
Kathryn Herrick
Vacancy (Planning Director)
Vacancy
Vacancy
Chief James P. Marino
Sgt. Thomas L. Gammel
Sgt. Jack A. Hebert
Officer Jonathan J. Broc
Officer Peter Lekaditis
Officer Bradley McNamara
Officer Sean Zrate
Lt. Michael F. Luth
Sgt. Sean J. Connery
Det/Ptl. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
Officer Robert D. DiConza
Officer Joshua M. Mathieu
Officer Joshua B. Tocci
Reserves
1 Year
Officer Robert J. Ayles
Officer Benjamin Campbell
Officer Michael Connors
Officer Walter C. Godfrey
Officer Samantha Hudson
Officer Lisa M. Melnicki
Officer Stanley W. Barney
Officer Linda C. Carrier
Officer Robert R. Da Costa
Officer Paul G. Grunditz
Officer Donald A Letarte
Officer Deven O'Brien
Officer Quinn Smith
Special Police Officers
Shirley MA
1 Year
Sergeant Peter Violette
Sergeant Alfreda Cromwell
Sergeant Samuel Santiago
Ptl. Craig K. LaPrade
Ptl. Everett W. Moody, Jr.
Ptl. Gregory Gushlaw
Ptl. Brandon Bruin
Ptl. Jason Strniste
R.O. Robert Pacetti
R.O. Merkendrick Jackson
R.O. Lesley Hampson
R.O. Heather Swick
Special Police Officers
Townsend MA
1 Year
Chief Erving M. Marshal, Jr
Deputy Chief David A. Profit
Sergeant Cheryl M. Stevenson
Sergeant Mark Giancotti
Sergeant John W. Johnson
Officer James P. Marchand
Officer Thaddeus G. Rochette
Officer Randy S. Girard
Officer Kimberly J. Mattson
Officer George Reidy
Officer Mark Francis
Officer David Phillips
Officer James Landi
Officer Brent Davis
R.O. Tony Brennon
R.O. Chris Van Voorhis
R.O. Austin Cody
R.O. Joseph Quinn
R.O. Michael Marchand
R.O. Daniel Shuitz
Mr. Ebersole moved to ratify the appointments of the Town Manager with the exception of the Animal Control Officer.
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole explained that there had been two circumstances over the past year that the BOS has dealt with the Animal
Control Officer and he feels there are issues as follows:
Many residents in town have spoken to him of their dissatisfaction of the services of the Animal Control Officer
He believes that this is an important position and he is not ready to ratify this individual's service based on what he would
expect an Animal Control Officer to do
Mr. Alonzo explained that in order to achieve what Mr. Ebersole is looking for, the BOS has veto power, and it could be done in two
Mr. Toale seconded the motion.
Discussion: Ms. Bertram suggested that the Animal Control Officer be given the opportunity to come before the BOS before it gets to
the point of not ratifying the appointment
Mr. Ebersole requested that the Town Manager implement the re-appointment form for many of these positions and agrees that th
opportunity should be given to the Animal Control Officer to come to the BOS for discussion of this matter
Mr. Toale spoke to say that his second was predicated to move the process to re-appoint everybody else and to make this a separate
discussion.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Bertram questioned what a Technical Advisory Committee was. Ms. Speidel replied that she was not sure if this committee was
, different than the Tech group for all development plans and was unsure of its function.
Ms. Bertram would like to see this removed considering that both individuals, the Planning Director and the DPW Director, are full time
employees of the Town.
Ms.Speidel added that she would also like to clarify who actually needs to be re-appointed annually and she would like to do some
more work on the appointment process.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that she would like to put the appointment of the Animal Control Officer under the Police Dept.
As far as the ratification of this position this evening, this has become a personnel problem that is not properly noted on the agenda and
she will need to review this further before meeting with this person to talk about any concerns.
Ms. Bertram requested that Mr. Ebersole amend his motion to include the non-ratification of the Technical Advisory Committee and the
Field Driver.
Mr. Ebersole suggested that all of the re-appointments be postponed until 7/15/14.
After due and diligent discussion, Mr. Ebersole rescinded his previous motion.
Mr. Toale withdrew his previous second
Mr. Ebersole moved to defer action on the Town Manager's appointments until the 7/8/2014 BOS meeting.
Ms. Bertram seconded.
Discussion: The BOS would like the Town Manager to clarify the duties of the Field Driver, Technical Advisory Committee, and clarify
who the appointing authority is for the Inspector of Animals.
No vote was taken by the board on Mr. Ebersole's motion.
All incumbents will be able to remain in their positions for 15 days after 6/30/2014 and if reappointments are not made at that time they
will be able to remain indefinitely.
3. FY2015 Town Manager Goals: Tabled until the 718/2014 BOS Meeting.
Mr. Alonzo will not be at the next BOS meeting and noted that that the two most important goals to him were:
Define and get settled with the Land Use Director
• Begin the process of the Economic Development Plan
4. FY2015 BOS Goals: The BOS discussed what needs to be done to complete the FY2015 Goals which included:
• Finish the policies manual
• List Town owned land and chapter properties
• Economic Development Plan
• Communication between committees and departments
• Town website/ appoint website committee
• Revision of Town Manager evaluation form
• Expand the role of the Personnel Committee
• Facilitate the recommendations of the Building Reuse Committee
• Storm Water Management
FY2015 BOS Goals will be discussed again at the 7/8/2014 BOS meeting.
5. Accept/ Adopt Energy Conservation Policy: Mr. Alonzo noted that this item was reviewed during the 6PM Workshop. There are
some things that the BOS need to contact the Green Energy Community about concerning potential changes but overall the board
thought this looked good. Once they have come to an agreement, the policy will be dispersed to the Facilities Directors on the town
and school side to begin the next phase of developing energy policies for each building.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes:
6/17/2014
Ms. Speidel mentioned that the School Superintendent is looking to hire a minute recorder and hopefully the BOS will be able to utilize
the same person to record their minutes
Warrants:
6/25/2014
W#69-14
$231,871.84
6/30/2014
W#1P15
$553,331.17
6/23/2014
W#FY-14LS
$355,183.83
6/24/2014
W#68-14
$316,351.04
6/26/2014
W#70-14
$115,316.82
7/2/2015
W#2-15
$254,917.04
7/1/2015
W#1-15
$1,491,042.04
Action File Issues: Ms. Luck mentioned that she had attended a Storm Water Forum where communities were urged by the EPA New
England Section Chief to establish performance standards for newly developed and redeveloped sites. There is an update to the
"2008" permit that is scheduled to be released this October. Also discussed was the Chesapeake Bay storm water management
program along with funding for storm water management.
Ms. Bertram reminded everyone that Storm Water Management needs to be a goal of this community.
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of Trustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC; School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity; School Committee;
School Building Committee; Sewer Commission; MA Broadband:
Board of Health: No Report
===PAGE 5===
Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale reported that this committee met jointly with the Planning Board on 6/18/2014 which proved to
be a great beginning meeting between the two committees along with the Historical Commission to begin working together on the future
building reuse projects in town. All committees involved are currently involved in outreach programs to keep the public informed. The
Historical Commission also held a meeting last evening to look "backward" at the town in a historical aspect. On 7/30/2014 the
Planning Board will be sponsoring a "charrette" which is an extensive planning session involving citizens, designers, and others to
collaborate on a vision for development of the town. Building reuse committee will have an open meeting on 7/7/2014.
Capital Planning Committee: No Report, on hiatus.
Finance Committee: Mr. Toale reported this committee is completing the work on their rules and regulations and will meet again on
7/10/2014.
Library Board of Trustees: Mr. Ebersole reported that this board met in June. Their book & bake sale raised approximately $3600
which goes towards programming beyond what their budget provides for. Friends of the Library will meet again on 7/26/2014.
New board members have added additional charges such as "what do they want to look like as a library in 5 years"
MPO: Ms. Bertram reported that the MPO voted to endorse the 2017 TIP funding for Summer St. She suggested that the Town may
want to participate in the "Safe Routes to School" program and if the town signs on to this program it will open up funding opportunities
for sidewalks & bicycle lanes etc.
Planning Board: Ms. Bertram reported that the Planning Board met on 6/23/2014 and the majority of the meeting focused on the
school building project concerning "100" points that the engineer had, which many have been addressed.
A resident of the town was concerned with some aspects of the projects and they reviewed the engineer's "100"points again. There are
still some issues remaining which have been tabled until the modifications of the plan are reviewed.
The school building project will be looking for a waiver regarding height and soil testing will be done regarding the drainage, which
people are very concerned with.
Planning Board is still waiting on more information regarding Highfield Village
PACC: No Report
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity: Presentation given earlier in the meeting
School Building Committee: Mr. Alonzo reported that there was an abutter's meeting last Wednesday where they discussed site
work and approximately 20 people were in attendance. Parking, bus traffic, pickups/drop offs, construction, all were discussed. Overall
the meeting went very well. There will be more abutters meetings scheduled to keep people informed of the progress and there will be
a ground breaking ceremony in September.
The committee also met on Thursday where they approved the 60% construction design and everything is on track.
Engineers reviewed the road next to the Passios building and it does meet all of the setback requirements.
Road access was not discussed
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that abutters are concerned about how and who to communicate with concerning any issues they may have
with the project and would like that to be clarified. Also of concern was the possibility of people thinking that the driveway from Mass
Ave to Oak Ave would be used as a "cut through" although there will be speed "platforms" installed. Abutters would also like written
documentation regarding the "100" points to keep them updated on the progress and resolutions to whatever may arise.
Mr. Alonzo replied that the School Committee has requested that all documentation/final report be posted as soon as it is available. He
also suggested that information be made available on the Town of Lunenburg's website.
School Committee: Ms. Luck reported that this committee met on 6/18/2014 and the focus of the meeting was on the report from the
School Advisory Committee on Acceptance & Diversity. They also approved school handbooks for FY15.
Sewer Commission: Mr. Ebersole reported that this commission is working on two policies; Capacity Feed Policy & Privately Funded
Extension Policy Update. They are also in the process of interacting with the ZBA and the developer for the building project in Whalom
concerning the developer's requests for waivers of many of the fees. The Sewer Commission has officially declared that they are
against the waiving of any fees. He also commended the ZBA on their due diligence during the fee waiver discussions.
MA Broadband: No Report
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel mentioned that the BOS had previously approved a Transfer of
License for Hadwin Market and it has come back from the ABCC for a request for a signature. Document was signed.
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Appoint: Ken Chenis, Representative to Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee: Mr. Ebersole moved to appoint
Ken Chenis as Representative to the Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee. Ms. Bertram seconded.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
2.
Resignation: Sheila Lumi, Lunenburg Housing Authority: Mr. Alonzo announced the resignation of Sheila Lumi from th
unenburg Housing Authority and requested that a letter of thanks be signed by the BOS and sent to Ms. Lum
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion
carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION: None
Meeting adjourned at 9:04PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
July 8, 2014
July 15, 2014 July 22, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
