===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
November 4, 2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Thomas
Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk; Robert Ebersole, Member; Phyllis Luck,
Member and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present.
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo reminded everyone that the election polls were open until 8:00 p.m. Ms. Luck noted a storm water
workshop on November 19" from 7 - 9 p.m. at the public library. Preregistration is required; there is more
information on the town website. Ms. Luck also wanted to thank the community for the tremendous outpouring
of support over the past few weeks since Mr. Luck's heart attack.
Mr. Toale reported this past weekend over eighty memorial bricks were placed in the Memorial Park pathway.
He thanked the work crew for all their help. There will be a dedication ceremony for all veterans on Tuesday,
November 11 at the Memorial Park at 11:00 a.m.
Ms. Bertram announced that Lunenburg was awarded a $269,300 land grant from the MA Executive Office of
Energy and Environmental Affairs/Division of Conservation.
• This grant will reimburse the Town for 64% of the
cost of the acquisition of the Holman Street property. She thanked all the groups and boards who were
instrumental in moving this forward. Special thanks were expressed to Brandon Kibbe for his vision and
leadership and the voters at town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who participated in the Miles for Myles event. He also wanted to acknowledge
two Lunenburg firefighters, Captain James Ricci, who received the Norman Knight Award and Firefighter
Austin Flagg who received the Meritorious Recognition for Courage Award at the State House in Boston
recently. Mr. Alonzo read aloud a Proclamation recognizing November 2014 as Pancreatic Cancer Awareness
Month. The Board signed the proclamation.
APPOINTMENT
Presentation on School Building Project Financing
Ms. Speidel introduced the Town's financial advisor, David Eisenthal of Unibank Fiscal Advisory Services.
Mr. Eisenthal covered the milestones achieved to date leading up to date since 2012, stating most of which has
happened this past year:
• May 2012- school feasibility study authorized
• December 2013- Bond anticipation notes (BANS) issued
• January 2014 - School project authorized; debt exclusion vote taken
• May 2014- additional $89,000 bond anticipation notes issued
• August 2014- $2,500,000 bond anticipation notes issued
• October 2014- $3,000,000 bond anticipation notes issued; Town takes bids on $9,000,000 general
obligation bonds
• November 4, 2014 Board of Selectmen considers award and execution of bonds
• November 13, 2014 bonds settle
• November 14, 2014 BANS mature
The next borrowing needs to occur in the next 90- 120 days due to interest rate advantages. The Town has 2
major options both of which would be in February or March 2015; issuing $18,000,000 in general obligation
===PAGE 2===
bonds or issuing $15,500,000 of bond anticipation notes that would mature in November 2015. The major
difference between these options is that the earlier bond issuance places most of the tax rate impact that will be
felt in fiscal 2016. If the Town were to elect a note issuance in February/March with a bond issuance in
November 2015, that would defer the bulk of that impact to fiscal 2017. If the Town were to issue $18 million
in bonds in February/March 2015, the impact on the 2016 tax rate would be an additional $1.21 per household
or a $300 increase for the average single family house. 2017 would have an additional increase of 40 cents on
top of that or another $100.00 through the remainder of the issue of the repayment of the financing out to the
2040's that would remain constant.
Issuing notes in February/March followed by a bond issue next November would produce about a 71 cents
impact in 2016, or about $175.00 annually for an average single family household. 2017 would see an
additional 96 cents for an additional $240.00 per household and after that it would level out again for the
remainder of the repayment.
Mr. Eisenthal stated the Town will need to monitor cash flow projections on an ongoing basis. There is an
additional issue; the premium is the amount of cash paid by the original purchaser of the bonds above the face
amount of the bonds. So on the $9,000,000, the purchaser is paying an additional $120,000; part of that is going
to be used for costs of issuance. There will be $55,000 left over after those costs of issuance. Under
Massachusetts law you can use that extra money in a couple of ways. You can either reduce tax rate impact on
an ongoing basis; basically a certain amount would be applied to reduce the tax rate over the next 29 years or
you can use that to be applied to project costs. This is recommended by bond counsel and requires a town
meeting vote. Treasurer/Collector Shelly McCaie requested the Board approve a $9 million bond for the school
project. A total of six bids were received. The winning bidder was Robert W. Baird and Co., Inc. at a fixed
interest rate of 3.292311%.
Motion: J. Toale
2"d P. Bertram
That the Board of Selectmen award $9,000,000 general obligation school bonds as detailed in the form of
the vote
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Speidel asked the Board how they would like to proceed next spring. It would be helpful to know what
direction; short term versus long term financing. Discussion ensued but no decision was made.
Minutes/Warrants/ Contracts
Minutes were approved. An accounts payable warrant for school construction in the amount of $5,966,746.25; a
payroll warrant in the amount of $521,483.79 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $6195.81 were
signed. The FY15 2'° Quarter Water Billing warrant in the amount of $6195.81 was signed.
Waiver - School Building Permit Fee
Ms. Speidel reported a request from the School Building Committee Chair was received asking the Board to
waive the school building permit fee associated with the school construction project. The request is for all the
permit fees. The Board has in the past waived building permit fees for municipal buildings.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
That the Board waives the building permits fees only for the school construction project
Vote: All in Favor
Appoint Temporary Treasurer/Collector
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. McCaie for her work as she is leaving the Town's employment. She tendered her
resignation effective November 13'h
• Ms. Speidel requested the Board appoint her until a replacement can be
hired. The position has been advertised and applications are due November 7".
• She expects to recommend a
candidate to the Board at their first meeting in December.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°d.P. Bertram
To appoint Kerry Speidel as the temporary Treasurer/Collector effective November 14 until a qualified
successor is appointed
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Committee Reports: Board of Health: Mr. Ebersole reported they are working with the Building Inspector on
Title V guidelines as they relate to numbers of bedrooms in dwellings: Building Reuse Committee: Mr. Toale
reported they are going to concentrate on Town Hall and a plan for municipal offices while they wait to see how
the school campus and zoning processes evolve; Capital Planning Committee: Mr. Toale reported they began
reviewing requests from Fire and IT. They will continue to review and report in December. Finance
Committee: Mr. Toale reported they plan to hold meet and greet sessions with budgeting groups: Library
Board of Trustees: no report: MPO: Ms. Bertram reported they have a meeting November 12" but she cannot
attend as she will be away, Ms. Luck will attend in her place; Planning Board: Ms. Bertram reported they met
on October 27 and continued a public hearing for 322 Flat Hill Road for community solar. There were a number
of concerned residents present. A straw poll taken of the Planning Board was split. Peer review on the plan has
not been completed. The hearing was continued. A hearing for High Field Village will be held on November
10th.
. A notice of intent to sell 90 W. Townsend Road was reviewed and will be deferred to Conservation
Commission and Open Space. Another work session will be scheduled for the Master Plan. PACC: Mr. Alonzo
reported PACC will be meeting with this Board in December. School Committee: Ms. Luck reported School
Superintendent Calmes had reported Race to the Top Funds were fully expended, providing stipends for
curriculum development and assessment, building administrator training, materials for curriculum units
provided at the state level and software to allow school data to communicate with state software. Asbestos
abatement at Turkey Hill Middle School will be stretched out over seven years saving around $200,000;
flooring and ceiling work will be done together. Mr. Londa will begin talks with Monty Tech about constructing
the new barn/garage. School Committee Chair Berthiaume stated the committee would not be supporting
relocating the community playground at this time. Enrollment figures as of October 1" were given. Total
enrollment has dropped slightly since 2011 and there are 67 less students this year than in 2011. School
Building Committee: Mr. Alonzo reported their next meeting will be an abutters' meeting. Everything is going
according to schedule. Sewer Commission: Mr. Ebersole reported they discussed connection and privilege fees
for the Lunenburg luxury apartments off Whalom Road as it relates to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Sewer
Commission stated they would not reduce fees. The project is considered affordable even with the fees. ZBA:
Mr. Alonzo reported the hearing for the gas station proposal at the Old Stone Farm package store on
Massachusetts Avenue has been continued to November 12t
Mr. Alonzo announced there is still a vacancy on PACC, Conservation Commission, Historical Commission
and Finance Committee.
Town Manager Report: Ms. Speidel reported the annual license renewal process has started. Renewal letters
went out yesterday to all licensees. Anyone owing money to the Town was notified in a separate letter to pay by
December 1st.
Mr. Alonzo stated next week is Veteran's Day and they will not be meeting. This Board meets again on
November 18th.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reported on the MART survey. The Board in response to public requests is seeking to expand MART
transportation services in Lunenburg. The Board is seeking input to find the route that best suits residents'
leeds. The survey is on the town website or you can pick up a survey at the Town Clerk office, Police Statior
ibrary and Eagle House Senior Center. Mr. Ebersole reminded they need to return to goals for the Board an
Town Manager. Mr. Alonzo thanked the Finance Committee for sitting in on the school financing presentation.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
2nd. R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 4===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
