===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
? 13
At this
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
October 7, 2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Thomas
Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck and Town Manager
Kerry Speidel present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Board: Ms. Luck announced the Lion's Club would be holding a pancake breakfast tomorrow at the Senior Center
from 8 - 11 am. Proceeds will go to the Food Bank.
Mr. Ebersole stated he had attended the Planning Board meeting last night regarding the village district bylaw and
proposed map. He stated he believed the proposed map area was too large; it extends the entire length of
Massachusetts Avenue, Chestnut Street to Whiting Street, all of Main Street, Oak Avenue, Lancaster Avenue, and
Leominster Road by the town common. The proposed uses expand the retail/commercial zone in that entire district
to include laundromats, convenience stores, taverns, pharmacies, restaurants and retail liquor stores by special
permit. He expressed concern about decimating the historic district and believes this proposed area goes beyond the
intent of the Passios and Ritter Buildings and the primary school.
Ms. Bertram stated this is only a draft and not the final document. Some members expressed concern about the
historic district and they are now looking at a reduced size. They did talk about holding a public forum for feedback.
Mr. Alonzo thanked public safety for holding their open houses last Saturday. He did attend them and believes they
were well attended in spite of the weather. He also attended the Friends of the Library Book and Bake Sale. The
Zoning Board of Appeals will be taking up the issue of Stone Farm use as a proposed gas station/car
wash/convenience store again tomorrow night here in this room at 7:00 pm.
Mr. Alonzo apologized for the late start this evening and postponed public comment until after the appointment
with the Housing Authority. He stated they were here tonight to appoint according to Article 3, Section 3-1 (f)
Filling of Vacancies.
Member Liz Murphy announced there was a vacancy and Paul Doherty was interested in filling it. He is a past
Housing authority member. Mr. Doherty stated there was some confusion concerning his term; he thought it was
for three not one year. Mr. Ebersole asked Mr. Doherty what he saw as the needs of the Housing Authority and
how can you address them? Mr. Doherty replied that right now the Housing Authority is in good shape financially
and has good leadership. He added things have turned around under the new leadership. He would like to see some
kitchen work completed.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd. J. Toale
To appoint Paul Doherty to the unexpired Housing Authority term until the next election
Vote: All in Favor
The Housing Authority members voted unanimously to appoint until the next election as well. Mr. Doherty
thanked the boards.
Mr. Alonzo asked if there was any other public comment.
Resident Richard Bursch presented to ask the board to review the current procedures for town board appointments.
He reported about a month ago he and Mark Murphy were up for reappointment to the Conservation Commission.
He stated he and Mr. Murphy had filled out the town bank reappointment forms. Mr. Bursch stated he was
reappointed and Mr. Murphy was interviewed further. Mr. Murphy answered questions and was not reappointed
Mr. Bursch stated Mr. Murphy was the only civil engineer on the Conservation Commission. This questionable
process brings Mr. Bursch here tonight. He found it concerning that no comment or input from the Conservation
Commission was asked for regarding the reappointment.
Jan Carrier, Conservation Commission Administrative Assistant, read four letters of resignation from members
John Burn, John Lattanzi, Sharon Jordan and Rob Verge. Ms. Jordan and Mr. Verge both resigned from the Open
Space Committee too. Mr. Alonzo asked if any of the resigning members could make it here tonight. Ms. Carrier
===PAGE 2===
stated no. Mr. Alonzo stated he was not present at the meeting concerning the reappointments that night. He added
at the meeting before he had lobbied against reinterviewing anyone who had served previously and had no
complaints from the pertinent committee/board and the public. He had even suggested not using the form this year
as no one was aware of it. He added this discourages volunteers to volunteer for the town and is detrimental to the
town. This is shown with the resignations this evening. He urged the town and Board to reconsider again the
process using this form. If we have multiple applicants, they should go to the affected board and talk to them and
possible come on as an associate member. He thought what was done to Mr. Murphy was disgraceful and
disrespectful.
Mr. Alonzo stated he understood why the conservation commissioners are doing this, but asked them to reconsider.
He stated he will not accept the resignations this evening, but will postpone for another week in hopes that some of
the members reconsider. Mr. Ebersole stated he was dismayed at the resignations and hoped they reconsider also.
He added he would understand if they choose not to. He stated the talent bank form provides transparency
throughout government. There is a danger of a board choosing someone that supports what they want to do. This
form will determine skills needed for a committee. We need to look at ways to get other people involved.
Further discussion ensued about appointments and involving the pertinent committee or board. Mr. Toale stated he
was also uncomfortable with the voting process, we are learning a new process to attract people willing to volunteer.
When we do have an occasion when there are more applicants than seats we don't have a good process for that.
Maybe we should have reached about and maybe they should have too. He supported not accepting resignations
this evening. Ms. Bertram stated she recused herself from this appointment purposely due to a potential for conflict
of interest and was shocked when her son was appointed; fully expecting Mr. Murphy to be reappointed.
She also was dismayed to hear the resignations and hope they reconsider. To lose their experience is truly a loss to
the town. We need to figure out and fix the appointment process. This form was to ensure more transparency. This
doesn't mean she did not support Mr. Murphy. Mr. Alonzo also doesn't believe because someone sits on a
committee, they should automatically be reappointed. But if you are not going to reappoint someone who is serving,
you better have a good reason. The form was to improve communication. Ms. Luck asked why we have someone
fill out a reappointment form if they are in good standing. We need to reevaluate the process. Mr. Ebersole stated if
you just fill out a form and are automatically reappointed then we haven't accomplished what we wanted to do.
Dawn Johnson stated when she heard Mark Murphy had not been reappointed; she thought what did he do wrong?
She stated the Board will have a hard time filling committees.
Cliff Worthley came in to update the Board on the Veterans' brick walkway. He thanked the Town Clerk's office for
collecting the forms. There are 84 open slots for engraved bricks. He already has 80 so far and one additional on his
voice mail. The next step is to compile the where and how the bricks are to be laid out. He is astounded by the
town's response and thanked them for their support. He is hoping to have this completed in time for Veteran's Day.
The Board thanked him for his report. Mr. Toale offered assistance as well, if needed.
Dave Blatt, Chair of the Green Community Committee, stated he is always looking for volunteers. He also provided
an update; they are waiting for their first check for 28%, in the amount of $38,000. The task force met with Unitil
and National Grid regarding the middle school. LED lighting projects will be started soon on Eagle House, the
Library and public safety buildings. Unitil and National Grid will give us incentives for putting certain items in the
middle school. Both would like to review the plans for the school; they will give us up to $2.25 per square foot for
them. He advised ensuring that someone from his committee is at the school building committee and is involved.
He thanked the Board.
7:15 pm Community Solar Garden- Eric & Shelia Holt
Mr. Holt, of Sunnyside Solar, stated he was here to request a limited easement across the town's property off
Young's Road to private property located in Fitchburg, east of the John Fitchburg highway. This is due to a brook
located on the frontage on the Fitchburg private property. Mr. Holt also requested limited easement to the
Lunenburg landfill property on either the south or north side. This will not affect the present capping on the landfill.
The landfill property, consisting of 47 acres, will support one (1.3) megawatt solar farm and will be built after the
John Fitch Highway property is completed. Both the Fitchburg and Lunenburg solar farms will represent 100,500
electrical meters. The Unitil utility footprint includes Fitchburg, Lunenburg, Ashby and Townsend. It was suggested
that the Lunenburg residents have the first chance to purchase solar panels on the Lunenburg site.
A question was posed if the existing town meeting vote would allow the Board to grant the easement. Ms. Speidel
stated the Board could grant the license, but town meeting vote will be needed to approve the easement and any
lease over three years. Mr. Holt stated he was seeking a 25 year lease with the option to renew for an additional 25
===PAGE 3===
years. The John Fitch Highway side would be developed first in 2015. Engineering work would be performed on the
Lunenburg side in 2015 with a construction start date sometime in 2016. A request for proposals (RFP) is the first
step in the process. Ms. Speidel will provide a draft Request for Proposals and get comments from the Board.
Mr. Holt thanked the Board.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request for Pedlar's License for Daniel E. Patton, Solar City Corporation
This was passed over as the applicant was not present.
2. Vote to Authorize Sale/Award Bid/$3,000,000 Bond Anticipation Notes to Century Bank
Ms. Speidel reported Treasurer McCaie is on vacation. This borrowing is relative to the school project.
Century Bank was awarded the bid for a $3 million bond anticipation note and was the low bidder of .25%.
Proceeds will be received on October 14, 2014 and will mature on November 14, 2014. This is due to a
change in cash flow for the building project. The town financial advisor will be present at the Board's next
meeting to discuss how the change in cash flow projection will impact short and long term borrowing.
Motion: J. Toale
2nd:P. Bertram
To authorize the $3,000,000 bond anticipation note to Century Bank at . 25%
Vote: All in Favor
3. Review comments to draft Hazard Mitigation Plan & authorize release to MRPC
Ms. Speidel presented comments submitted following the presentation on September 16, 2014.
Some additional items were added to the following:
a. P. 12 Transportation Network, Rte. 2A & Rte. 13 should be included and the existing condition of each
should be noted,
b. P. 41, paragraph 4, last line, Please include Wal-Mart as a major employer,
P. 42-44, Table 23, remove Cherry Hill Ice Cream under "public water supply," Emergency Shelter
locations-please note that Turkey Hill Middle School is the Town's primary shelter, and TC Passios is
the secondary shelter. Twin City Baptist Church is a tertiary/ overflow shelter and should be listed
instead of Lunenburg High School (which does not have emergency power). Under Other Critical
Facilities, add Honey Farms, 134 Leominster-Shirley Road, as a fuel dispensing location; and the Unitil
substation, 934 Massachusetts Ave.
Include the existing Tennessee Gas/Kinder Morgan Pipeline as an existing hazard wherever
appropriate, "Other Government Buildings: should include the Ritter Memorial Building, 960
Massachusetts Avenue,
d.
DPW Director requested that Forest Land be noted since it is significant in town. He questions whether
there should be a separate component of the plan to address Forest Management. He also believes there
should be a separate component to address Drainage.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°: J. Toale
To authorize the release of review comments and additional comments made this evening to MRPC
for inclusion in the updated Montachusett Hazard Mitigation Plan
Vote: All in Favor
4. Authorize Sign Modification to Traffic Rules & Orders; Schedule IV, Isolated Stop Signs
Ms. Speidel reported this was the official document that was prepared following the Board vote at the last
meeting for the stop sign locations discussed at the September 16, 2014 meeting.
Add to Schedule IV-Isolated Stop Signs
On Flat Hill Road for eastbound traffic at Sunset Lane
On Highland Street for southbound traffic at Main Street
On Oak Avenue for southbound traffic at Main Street
On Main Street for northbound traffic at Oak Avenue and Highland Street
On the connecting road from Highland Street to Oak Avenue for north eastbound traffic
Add to Schedule IV-B-Yield Signs
On the connecting road from Oak Avenue to Highland Street for south westbound traffic
The public notice will be listed before the placement of the signs.
5. Minutes/Warrants/ Action File Issues/Other Documents for Signature
Ms. Speidel presented the following warrants to the Board; Payroll Warrant totaling $672,966.91;
Payroll Deductions Warrant totaling $ 510,847.78; Accounts Payable Warrant totaling $463,819.38
===PAGE 4===
Action File Issues-Mr. Ebersole asked what was the time frame for acquisition of the Lane property. Are
we waiting for a grant? Ms. Speidel stated sometime in November. Ms. Bertram reported she visited the
property with a member of the reviewing committee on the grants with Brandon Kibbe, as part of the
application process. They are hoping to get word out before the November election but cannot commit to
that.
Committee Reports- Board of Health; they are meeting this Wednesday; Building Reuse Committee-Mr.
Toale stated they met last night. The committee needed to reconfirm what it believes is its charter, to do the
appropriate staff work to assess current and future maintenance and capital costs of town owned buildings;
to evaluate the market potential of surplus buildings and to recommend a course of action and assist in the
planning and execution in the renovation, demolition or sale of any space as directed by the town.
They are taking no action on the Passios Building and Brooks House, we are waiting to hear from the
school committee's decision on boundaries and timing of any excess property. In regards to the Ritter
Building and the old primary school, we are taking no action at this time and awaiting any changes to the
village zoning bylaw that would affect potential use and market assessment. In terms of the town hall, we
are reviewing renovation plans and costs for current capital needs and potential future use. For all five
buildings, we feel our role is to ensure the maintenance and short term capital expenses are budgeted and
expended to minimize future market price loss of any of those buildings. As far as the town hall, we are
looking to direct the budgeting and planning through some minimal seed money for planning and
engineering as we await the final outcome of the town hall.
Mr. Alonzo stated he understood there are some potential miscommunication issues with how the
Passios Building is being completed as far as final zoning lines. Is there a further explanation from the
Building Reuse Committee or the School Committee?
Mr. Toale believes when and if the town requests we do something with surplus property, we will make a
recommendation on what to do. He added the school committee hasn't yet determined any boundaries or
determined what the next step will be. Ms. Bertram stated the Planning Board met last night and discussed
the draft village district bylaw. The Planning Board considered drawing the zoning line down the middle of
the driveway and the Passios Building side would be in the village district. Further discussion ensued about
the effect of the village district bylaw on the Passios Building as well as other details. Suggestion was made
to schedule a joint board/committee meeting to discuss further. No date was set at this time. Mr. Alonzo
asked if the other member of the building reuse committee members present had any comment. Dave
Matthews reported they had discussed extending Memorial Avenue out to Massachusetts Avenue; is this a
viable alternative? Capital Planning Committee-Mr. Toale reported they had their first meeting and will
begın reviewing requests on October 21$c.
• with a goal to complete their prioritization list by December 31.t.
Finance Committee-Mr. Toale reported they had met jointly with the Parks Commission on September 25'
to discuss future repairs; reconstruction costs of the turf fields and user fees. Discussion ensued about
reinstituting user fees to pay for some of the field maintenance.
Library Board of Trustees-Mr. Ebersole reported they met on September 18". They have started the process
of short and long term visioning, technology issues, and budget and energy costs. They will be meeting with
the Capital Planning Committee or the Green Community Committee concerning some of the energy
savings items. 7400 library cards have been issued. MPO- no report. Planning Board-Ms. Bertram stated in
Sam Lawton of the MRPC presented a draft housing production plan. The town is at 4% of our affordable
housing requirement. If the proposed 352 units are completed by 2019, the town will have exceeded the
state's 10% goal. After that the goal will be to maintain 10% with inclusionary zoning; new numbers will be
provided following the 2020 census. The goal is to submit to Department of Housing and Community
Development (DCHD) on November 1 and the board will receive a draft at that time and the will be asked
to approve the plan in December. If the plan is approved by DHCD, the town will not have to accept
another application for another two years. An application for a solar farm on Flat Hill Road was
rescheduled for next Tuesday but there may not be a quorum again to possibly one member having a
conflict of interest.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee (appointment committee) had three interviews and appointed
two people. One vacancy remains.
PACC-Mr. Ebersole reported Ms. Speidel has scheduled a tentative joint meeting between PACC and the
board on October 21" for discussion on their charge and how it relates to the new bylaw. One vacancy
remains on that committee. School Committee- Ms. Luck reported the committee met twice since the
board last met. They entered a memorandum of understanding that the Passios Building would be an
emergency dispensing site for mass vaccinations, and the new Middle/High School will be used following
===PAGE 5===
completion of construction. They discussed the FY'16 Capital plan initial discussion; including asbestos
abatement at Turkey Hill Middle School. The abatement will cost $232,385 and will be spread over fiscal
years 2016 and 2017. The plan is to relocate administrative and maintenance staff located at the Passios
Building to Turkey Hill Middle School in 2017. School principals presented the spring MCAS results at the
October 1' meeting. Highest scores were in Grade 10 that was higher than the state averages.
Jim Laveck and his family donated funds for a buddy bench to be located at the primary school in memory
of Bob Meek Laveck who was a strong advocate for Lunenburg children and our schools.
There will be a dedication ceremony at a date to be determined. IT Director Steve Malandrinos outlined
plans to provide laptops for secretarial and administrative staff at a cost of $36,200. Dave Rogers asked on
details of the computers for every student initiative such as the initial and maintenance costs.
School Building Committee- Mr. Alonzo reported they meet tomorrow. The official groundbreaking
ceremony for the school is October 18"' at 1:15 pm at the site. He stated he would take Dave Blatt's message
regarding the public utility incentives to them, Everything is going as planned on the construction site.
Sewer Commission-Mr. Ebersole reported they met on September 30th
". They reviewed the Pratt Street and
Lakeview Avenue area sewer extension project. The state revolving funds application is due October 15" and
they will be able to meet that deadline. They expect to go out to bid in January with construction ending in
November with final pavement down in spring of 2016. They have issued various fines to property owners
with illegal connections of sump pumps and other water into the system and have also issued and some fines
to people who have not responded to the grease trap regulations as well. Their goal is not to fine but gain
compliance.
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports-
Ms. Speidel presented a liquor license for signatures for Wine, Malt, Cordials for Kabob-E-Licious located
at 165 Massachusetts Avenue. The board had previously approved it and was waiting for ABCC
review/ approval.
She also wanted to inform that the Chase Road solar project is up and running, we have received two
months of payment around $30,000. The first two months payments are slightly higher than what would be
normal. She stated she will have an update at each meeting on the pipeline.
Ms. Speidel reported the cable license is up for renewal and would like to establish a committee to begin the
negotiation process with Comcast. The license will expire in 2017. The committee would be called the
Cable Advisory Committee. Discussion ensued on who should serve on the committee. Mr. Alonzo
expressed his interest to serve on that committee.
Mr. Alonzo asked the board if they would desire to take a position in regards to the Kinder Morgan pipeline
project. It was decided to have a discussion about it in two weeks.
APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Mr. Alonzo stated JJ Cote had submitted a resignation letter from the Conservation Commission effective
September 18, 2014. He offered to continue to serving on the advisory committee for the acquisition of the Lane
property through the completion of the project, and continue to report to the Conservation Commission as their
representative, if this is amenable to the board. Mr. Alonzo offered his deepest appreciation to Mr. Cote for his
service to the town over the last fifteen years. He stated the Conservation Commission should decide if they want
him to continue to be their representative.
Ms. Bertram stated as with the other members of the Conservation Commission, she urged Mr. Cote to reconsider
his resignation. No action was taken on the resignation until next week.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2n:J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst. to the Town Manager
