===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
9/2/2014
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall as scheduled with, Chair Tom Alonzo, Vice Chair
Paula Bertram, Jamie Toale, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck & Town Manager Kerry Speidel.
Regular Meeting opened at 7:00PM
7:00PM PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Luck thanked the Lunenburg Ledger & the Fitchburg Sentinel for publishing stories issued by the
Mass Department of Public Health & Lunenburg Board of Health concerning the ban of all water activities/use of Lake Shirley due to
Ms. Luck also mentioned that the "Stop the Pipeline" Bolton committee is holding an informational meeting on 9/11/2014 and all are
welcome to attend.
Police Chief Marino thanked the Lake Shirley Association and Shady Point for their help with funding the lake patrol this year.
He also mentioned that he had heard that some people who live on Lake Whalom believe that the Lunenburg Police do not have any
jurisdiction on this lake, when in fact they do. Although they are not funded for this, they will patrol/enforce the boating laws on the lake
if there are issues. He reminded the public to please report any suspicious activity to the police and said that they rely heavily on public
input.
Chief Marino introduced Officer Tocci along with the new K-9 dog "Jerry" to the BOS. Officer Tocci explained the dog's history, how his
training will commence, and what his capabilities will be. Funding for the dog comes from local businesses/agencies outside of the
Police Dept. and the dog will be kenneled at Officer Tocci's home.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Zoning Board of Appeals will be holding a Public Hearing concerning the Stone Farm property on 9/20/2014 @7PM
• The event called "Worcester Revolution of 1774" will be held on 9/7/2014 on N. Main St in Worcester @ 4PM
• The Lunenburg Farmer's Market is being held on Sundays up until the end of October
APPOINTMENTS
7:30 PM Review Financial Policies, Mark Erickson, Chair, Finance Committee: Mark Ericson, Chairperson of the Finance
Committee (FinCom) came before the board and gave a brief synopsis of how the FinCom developed the Financial Policies and to
formerly present them to the Town. FinCom voted at their 8/22/2014 meeting to approve the financial policies for presentation to the
Policies included reviews on the following:
1. Stabilization Fund and General Reserve Account Definition and Purpose
a. Definition & Purpose
b. Stabilization Fund Policy/Guidelines
General Reserve Account (Fund) *Bond rating agencies rate our Town more favorably if we maintain a health
alance in the stabilization fund and other reserve type accounts, and adhere to the financial policies we hav
established
2. Free Cash
a. Free Cash, Definition, Process of Establishing
b. Provided monies from these three sources are neither encumbered nor reserved, they comprise the Town's
undesignated fund balance at the end of the previous fiscal year
c. Priorities for Applying Free Cash
d. Because Free Cash is non-recurring revenue, it should not be used to fund any personnel, program, or initiative that
would require expenditures in subsequent fiscal years
3. Capital Projects
a. Capital Projects Definition, criteria
Capital Plan Acquisitions & Expenditures
4. Financing Large Capital Projects
a.
Approval by the BOS by two-thirds vote
b. Approval by two-thirds vote at Town Meeting
C.
Approval by a simple majority of a town vote at the ballot
5. When the Town finances purchases of capital assets through borrowing, the term of borrowing should not exceed the
anticipated useful life of the capital asset.
6. The capital Planning Process
7. Regular Borrowing, Debt Burden
a. Regular Borrowing, Definition & Purposes
===PAGE 2===
b. Limitations & Terms
C. Process & Borrowing to Pay for emergencies
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole thanked the FinCom and pointed out that there were several "Shoulds" within the policies which allows Town
Meeting the opportunity to do something different then what is recommended. He mentioned that the Charter provides for capital plan
on a 5 year period, but the need for a 10-20 year plan would identify future needs and perhaps in the future they could develop
language to address that.
Mr. Ericson commented to say that the FinCom was very careful where they used "Should" vs. "Shall" within these policies.
Ms. Luck complimented the FinCom on the readability of this document.
Mr. Toale moved to adopt and approve the Financial Policies recommended by the Finance Committee. Ms. Bertram seconded
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo thanked the FinCom for the work that they did and echoed Ms. Luck's compliment regarding the readability of
the document. He also questioned how the FinCom came to the $10,000 figure regarding capital projects.
Mr. Ericson replied that they had done research through some multimillion dollar private sector companies where their limits would be
as low as $5,000.
Ms. Speidel commented to say that with the capital project section of the policies the committee was looking to document what's
happening now as much as what should happen. We have departments that have such small budgets and people key in on the
percent increase from one year to another. Any increase from year to year stands out and that's why we call it out separate.
John Henshaw, FinCom member, spoke to say that the FinCom revisits each year policies/guidelines which change every time the
Towns financial situation changes.
Mr. Ebersole stated that he supports this but to be prepared that at some Town Meeting in the future, someone may try to appropriate
"Free Cash" to supplement a budget and he will be voting against it. He hopes that this document is publicized on the website to
educate the voter.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. FY2015 Board & Committee Appointments & Reappointments-Interview Candidates & Review: Caroline Griffis, 31 Spring St.,
came before the board to be interviewed for appointment to the Council on Aging. Ms. Griffis explained to the board that she had
attended a COA meeting and thought they had a lot of projects that they need help with and that she has 30 years worth of
management experience.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Griffis for coming forward and explained that there are 4 vacancies with 5 candidates on the COA board.
He asked if she perhaps may be interested in a position on the FinCom, which has 3 vacancies.
Ms. Griffis replied that she has a lot of experience in finances/budgeting and that the BOS could consider her for both committees.
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that there is a different screening committee for the FinCom and the BOS will put Ms. Griffis name forward to
them.
Ms. Speidel updated the BOS with current vacancies on committee's as follows:
Conservation - Mark Murphy has submitted a re-appointment form and should be called for an interview along with the other 2
candidates who have shown interest.
Council on Aging - There are 4 vacancies, 5 candidates interested in appointment, & all have been interviewed.
Historical Commission - Damon McQuaid is not seeking re-appointment and there are no talent bank forms on file.
PACC - This is a 5 member board, there are 4 vacancies which include 1 member not seeking reappointment. There are 3 talent bank
forms on file. Two of the 3 candidates have been interviewed. Ms. Speidel also noted that 1 of the 3 had checked off multiple
boards/commission that they would be interested in and PACC was at #4 and FinCom was #2. You cannot serve on another
committee/board if you serve on the FinCom.
Registrar of Voters - Karen Kemp has submitted a request for re-appointment form.
Mr. Alonzo requested that the Town Manager contact the Town Moderator to begin the process of a screening committee for the
FinCom.
Ms. Speidel suggested that the appointments to the Council on Aging and the PACC could be made at this time.
Mr. Ebersole moved to appoint Jacquelyn Dwyer, Sarah Grant, Cheryl Moisan, and Diane Nowd to the Council on Aging.
Ms. Bertram seconded.
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole would like to see the other candidate (Ms. Griffis) be considered for a position on the FinCom.
Board members were in favor of Mr. Ebersole's suggestion.
On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Mr. Toale commented to say that he would like to get the PACC up and running but was concerned about appointing people who may
change their minds which would become a quorum issue once again.
After due diligent discussion the BOS decided to postpone appointments to the PACC until such time that talent bank candidates have
been contacted to see if they are still interested in appointment.
Ms. Speidel mentioned that due to the level of expertise you must have to serve as the Dam Keepers and the Clock Winders she did
not send re-appointment forms to them.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that he has had people express interest in the Clock Winder appointments and asked how many are
appointed.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo replied that this is informally done, there are 6 clock winders, and that it would be good to get new people to train for that
task. Currently each winder takes turns every 2 months and the clock is wound once a week.
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that the Registrar of Voters is part of the Election Officials discussion and that the appointment switches
between political parties.
Ms. Speidel will check into this further and this appointment can be taken up at next week's BOS meeting.
Mr. Alonzo updated the status of appointments that still need to be made as follows:
Conservation Commission - Interviews to be done at next week's BOS meeting.
Historical Commission - There will be 1 vacancy due to a member not seeking re-appointment. We need talent bank forms from
people who are interested in this commission.
PACC - Anyone who has submitted a talent bank form or if they have been interviewed prior will be contacted again to confirm that
they are still interested in appointment.
Registrar of Voters - Ms. Speidel will check into the appointment process.
2. Request to approve Voluntary Toll, Boys & Girls Club, October 4, 2014: Marcy Foreman, representing the Lunenburg Boys and
Girls Club came before the board to request permission to conduct a voluntary toll on 10/4/2014 in Lunenburg Center and at the
Whalom Rd/Electric Ave intersections from 9AM - 12 Noon. All participants will be over the age of 18 and will wear reflective vests.
At this time Mr. Alonzo disclosed that he is a Boys & Girls Club member.
Mr. Ebersole moved to approve the voluntary toll as requested. Ms. Bertram seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
3. Request to increase Ambulance Fees: To be discussed at a future BOS meeting
4. Request Vote of Support to Increase MART Service in Lunenburg: Ms. Luck reported that she had become the MART
(Montachusett Area Regional Transit) representative in July. She has had discussions with the Director of the COA, Doreen Noble,
about what her constituents transportation needs may be. Ms. Noble had indicated to her that a bus currently stops at Walmart and it
would be beneficial for that bus to continue its route to the town center. Ms. Luck had met with MART officials and they told her that in
order to get a quote of what the cost would be to continue the bus route to the center of town, a vote would be needed from the BOS.
Once MART receives confirmation of the BOS vote, MART will be meeting in October and they will vote on the request then.
MART mentioned that the Town is charged approximately $66K through the transportation fund, $33K of that goes to MART & another
$32K goes to the MBTA (Mass Bay Transit Authority).
According to M.G.L. - Section 9, the MBTA assessment can be used for local service if a town is a member of a regional transit
authority. Mis. Luck believes that the Town could move monies being paid to the MBTA over to MART. If we can keep our expenses
with MART under $33K it should not cost the Town any extra money.
Ms. Luck had developed a scenario of what the approximate costs would be as follows:
Monday - Friday Route $$ /year
# Of
@15 min/trip
Cost/day @
Cost/year
TOTAL ANNUAL COST
Trips/Day
$80/hour
250 service days/year
6 DAY/WEEK
6
90 Min
$120
$30,000
$30,000
Saturday Route $$/year
#Of
@15 min/trip
Trips/Day
Cost/day @
$80/hour
2
30 Min
$40
Cost/year
50 service days/year
$2,000
$2,000
$32,000
MASS. Dept. Revenue
Estimated Charges for FY2014
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITIES
MBTA
$32,028
MART
$33,985
Total
$66,013
Mass. Dept. Revenue Estimated charges IF
additional service to Lunenburg Center realized
$28
$65,985 ($33,985 + $32,000)
$66,013
*NOTE
Whatever we pay for
Regional Transit
Reduces what we
pay to MART
*According to Mr. Kahn, MART Representative, State/Federal grants could be obtained to reduce the figure of $80 once the Town asks
for an official quote.
Mr. Alonzo mentioned that they had received 2 emails from disabled citizens who have jobs but have no way to get to them. He
recommended that either Ms. Luck or Ms. Speidel contact them to ask if this service would be beneficial to them and stated that this
service would benefit many other citizens of Lunenburg.
After due diligent discussion board members thanked Ms. Luck for this information and encouraged the public to submit their thoughts
on this issue. BOS will not vote on a quote of support until more information has been gathered.
5. Minutes/Warrants/Contracts
Minutes:
7/1/2014
Warrants: 9/2/2014
9/3/2014
W#15-15
$162,733.47
$319,148.50
Action File Issues: Mr. Ebersole reminded the board that they should resume work on the BOS/Town Manager's Goals.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Ebersole mentioned that a proposed Charter Elementary School had been rejected in the city of Fitchburg and they are now looking
at surrounding communities to establish one. He would like to meet with the School Superintendent to discuss what the impact would
be on the Town.
6. Committee Report: Board of Health; Building Reuse Committee; Capital Planning Committee; Finance Committee; Library
Board of rustees; MPO; Planning Board; PACC: School Committee; School Building Committee; Sewer Commission:
Board of Health: No Report
Building Reuse Committee: No Report
Capital Planning Committee: No Report
Finance Committee: Reported early at this evenings meeting
Library Board of Trustees: No report but will meet later this month
MPO: Ms. Bertram reported that the Summer St. project is scheduled for the "2017" TIP (Transportation Improvement Program) and
funding will come from various sources such as CMAQ (Congestion Mitigation Air Quality Improvement Program), TAP (Transportation
Alternative Program), and the Safety Improvement Program. MassDOT (Massachusetts Dept. of Transportation) is questioning this
project's eligibility for the HSIP (Highway Safety Improvement Program) funds which currently stand at $445,955.00. They are
requesting that crash data be obtained through the Lunenburg Police Dept. She reminded all that the TIP was approved through the
MPO based on the projects funding sources and if it is determined that it is not eligible for HSIP funds, potentially a portion of the
project may have to be dropped off because we will exceed the total target funds for the region.
Planning Board: No Report
PACC: No Report
School Committee: Ms. Luck reported that this committee will meet tomorrow evening and will have a second reading of their policies
regarding CORI (Criminal Offender Record Information), finger printing, & school lunch accounts. They will also be reviewing their
service animals in schools policy.
Ms. Luck mentioned that the School Superintendent had spoken to MSBA's (Mass School Building Association) legal counsel regarding
the Passios Building property transfer and has provided them with the information which was requested.
The Superintendent has
requested a follow up phone conference regarding this matter with MSBA for later this week. The reason for contacting MSBA was to
ask if the school needed to retain the property in case they needed something later on.
School Building Committee: Mr. Alonzo reported that there will be an abutters meeting on 9/4/2014 at 6:00PM at the Passios Building
which will focus on landscaping, all other interested parties are also welcome to attend. Bi-weekly updates on the project are being
published in various media outlets.
Sewer Commission: Mr. Ebersole reported that this commission continues work on their policies along with the implementation of the
IMA (Inter Municipal Agreement) with Fitchburg, most specifically with the inflow/infiltration of water into the system. They also continue
to investigate illegally connected sump pumps to the system and focusing on grease trap cleanings.
7. Town Manager Reports or Department Reports: Ms. Speidel updated the board concerning the Municipal Electric Aggregation
Program. The Town is in a contract now through 11/30/2014 at the rate of 7.7 cents per KW hr which is lower than the basic service
rate provided by Unitil. Ms. Speidel met with the consultants who are responsible for the bidding and they have advised that this next 6
month period rates are expected to be significantly higher, possibly doubled. We have the opportunity now to go out to bid at this time
to obtain a "blended rate" over a 12 month period of time. Ms.Speidel would like to have the consultants come to the next BOS meeting
to report on this issue.
Ms. Speidel presented the board with another Form 43 from the ABCC (Alcohol Beverage Control Commission) for signage for
Ka-Bob-Elicious.
APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Appoint: Vernon P. Beauvais, Reserve Police Officer
2. Appoint: Jacob A. LaChance, Reserve Police Officer
Chief Marino introduced both candidates, Vernon P. Beauvais & Jacob A. LaChance, for Reserve Police Officers and gave a brief
description of each applicant's education and work experience.
oth candidates were present and spoke to the board briefly about their work/education experience
Ar. Alonzo thanked both candidates for coming forward and thanked Chief Marino on his efforts of bringing forward qualified applicants
Ms. Bertram moved to ratify the positions of Vernon P. Beauvais and Jacob A. LaChance to Reserve Police Officer.
Mr. Toale seconded. On vote, motion carried, 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Bertram stated that she is concerned with the actions of the School Department concerning the property
transfer of the Passios Building.
Mr. Alonzo will research this with the School Building Committee.
ADJOURNMENT: Being no further business Ms. Bertram moved to adjourn the meeting. Mr. Toale seconded.
On vote, motion carried 5 in favor, 0 opposed.
Meeting adjourned at 8:35PM
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE
September 9, 2014
September 16, 2014 September 23, 2014
Respectfully Submitted,
Susan Doherty, Recording Secretary
Board of Selectmen
