===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
all
Pb
RECEIVED & FILED
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
July 7, 2015
JUL 28 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Jamie
Toale, Chair; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chair; Paula Bertram, Member; and Phyllis Luck, Member. Town Manager
Kerry Speidel and Thomas Alonzo, Clerk, were not present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck reported Lunenburg families hosted Japanese exchange students recently. The students were great, it
was a lot of fun and she encouraged others to participate next year. She thanked Chief Marino and the Police
department who patrolled Lake Shirley this past Fourth of July weekend whose presence made for a safe
weekend. Ms. Luck attended the Farmer's Market this weekend and encouraged others to attend to make it a
successful event.
Mr. Ebersole wanted to remind that the Lunenburg Water District is hosting a special meeting on July 29"; 7:00
p.m. at the Lunenburg High School to discuss the extension of the water district to encompass the northwest
area of Lancaster. The Board has taken a position against the expansion. He encouraged all registered voters
within the LWD to attend that meeting.
Mr. Toale reported there is an environmental impact statement seeking input for the Northeast Energy Direct
Project aka Tennessee Gas Pipeline/Kinder Morgan Project. You can provide comment at the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission website; www.ferc.org. There will also be a meeting at the Lunenburg High School on
August 12' at 7:00 p.m.
The band concerts started last night and will continue on Mondays at the gazebo at 7:00 PM.
The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lion's Club pancake breakfast will be at Eagle House Senior Center on July 8th
from 8 - 11 am. Takeout is available. All proceeds go to benefit the Lion's Club charities.
Mr. Toale announced there were two candidates for appointment this evening; Jane Rabbitt is ill and will
reschedule for next week. Faith Beall is present to request appointment to PACC.
PACC met last evening and supports Ms. Beall's appointment. She has recently moved here and thought it
would be a good way to meet townspeople. She has always been involved in town events wherever she's lived.
Her previous experience has involved government and education work. The Board believed her experience
would be an asset to the committee.
Motion: P. Bertram
To appoint Ms. Beall to the PACC with a term to expire June 30, 2018
2: B. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
The Board moved on to the first current business item since the meeting with the Sewer Commission wasn't
scheduled until 7:30 p.m.
Letter Concerning Insufficient Notice of Right of First Refusal
Mr. Toale stated the letter from the Board to the owner of property located on White Street composed by legal
counsel regarding an insufficient Notice of Removal from Chapter 61A is due to the fact that that the notice
does not meet the procedural requirements of Chapter 61A, § 14. The location and acreage of the chapter land is
not shown on a map drawn to the scale of the Lunenburg Assessor's maps identifying the chapter land. The
Notice is also insufficient because the agreement is not limited to the chapter land but rather is for a 14.25 acre
parcel of land with the building thereon. The Board agreed to send the letter because there was some interest
from the Conservation Commission.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: B. Ebersole
To sign and send the letter of insufficient notice
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale presented an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $333,516.81 for signatures.
Action File Issues
Ms. Luck reported as of July 1S!, MART has revised the schedule for the new route by adding two more loops,
totaling seven per day. The commuter shuttle has been eliminated due to no one using it. The fee is $1.25 for
the MART service; students, seniors and disabled residents pay .60. Mr. Toale thanked Ms. Luck for her work
on this.
Mr. Toale contacted Joel Bard at Kopelman & Paige, PC and spoke to him about reviewing legal costs and fees.
Mr. Bard is willing to come to the Board and speak about them. Mr. Toale will arrange a time for the meeting
with Mr. Bard.
Mr. Toale reported the Board was invited to meet with the Town of Townsend regarding the Kinder Morgan
pipeline. All agreed it would be a good idea. A meeting will be coordinated by Ms. Peterson.
Joint Meeting with Sewer Commissioners regarding Vacancy Due to Failure to Elect
Mr. Toale asked Carl Luck, Sewer Commissioner Chair, to convene their meeting. Mr. Luck did so and reported
that John Reynolds of 91 Lancaster Avenue had applied to be appointed until the next election. The Sewer
Commissioners have already voted to support his appointment at their meeting.
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Reynolds to speak on his application. He expressed his interest in serving the town after
living here for many years. He has attended many sewer commission meetings and understands the process and
feels his background would be an asset to the commission. He intends to run for election in 2016.
Motion: B. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To appoint John Reynolds to the Sewer Commission until the next annual election
Vote: Mr. Ebersole-yes, Ms. Bertram - yes, Ms. Luck- yes, Mr. Toale- yes, Mr. Luck-yes,
Mr. Nault- yes- Mr. Daniels- yes, Ms. Bunish -yes
Mr. Toale congratulated Mr. Reynolds and asked him to see the Town Clerk to be sworn in.
He noted there are still vacancies on several appointed committees and encouraged others to come forward and
support the town.
Committee Reports:
Board of Health - no report; Building Reuse Committee- they met last evening and finalized a Request for
Quotes for the preparation of a Building Assessment and Space Needs Study for four (4) existing Town owned
buildings. It will be advertised on July 15" and submissions are due August 5'". A committee will be appointed
to review the responses and present the finalists to the Board of Selectmen. Mr. Toale recommended the
Building Reuse committee to be the reviewing committee for the RFQs; Cable Advisory Committee- no
report; Capital Planning Committee- no report; Conservation Commission- are working with residents on
enlarging patios near wetlands, they met with the Hickory Hills Lake Association regarding weed removal ;
Finance Committee- no report; Library Board of Trustees- met last night to interview three candidates for
two vacancies due to failure to elect, they will be attending the Board meeting next week to mutually appoint to
those vacancies until the next election; MART Advisory-no further report; MPO-met on June 17* and
reviewed the 2016- 2017 TIP which is now out for public comment until July 21" and available for viewing on
the MRPC website; Chase Road is listed in the appendix. If we want to move that project forward, we need to
maintain communication with MRPC and MassDOT. Summer Street project is still slated for 2017. The draft
FFY 2016 Unified Planning Work Program (UPWP) is also out for public review and comment. It will cover
transportation-planning activities occurring from October 2015 through September 2016. This is also on the
MRPC website. There is one task that pertains to storm water development; MRC is looking at developing a
mobile application with Lunenburg to assist communities in data collection compliance; an interesting
===PAGE 3===
component of that is the 2007 report identified all 556 storm water infrastructures in the community and Ms.
Bertram would like to follow up with the DPW Superintendent to ensure that we are using that GIS information.
There is also a $400,000 grant through MRPC for brownfields assessment that could possibly be used for the
cleanup of the Mass Avenue gas station property. Town Manager will be following up on this. Planning
Board- no report; PACC- they are continuing to review policies and job descriptions and how to work with
budget restraints; two members are working with the Cable Advisory Committee on the business plan regarding
the upcoming cable license renewal; School Committee- met on July 1", a $5000 donation was made to the
Middle School for computer purchases, there will be a workshop on August 13, next meeting is August 19;
School Building Committee - no report; Sewer Commission-met on June 30"
they opened with a
homeowner presentation on grinder pumps and continue to have discussions with various facilities regarding
grease traps; a presentation by Wright- Pierce was made to the public regarding Pratt Street and it was
determined to go forward with grinder pumps not gravity, the project is scheduled to start this month. ZBA-
there was one petitioner who would like to sell 8 cars at 10 Mass Ave.
Ms. Bertram wanted to remind about the Conservation Commission's "Walk in the Woods" program. The next
one is July 12 at 9:30 am, they are going to Robbs Hill, meet at the Ritter Building and dress appropriately.
Town Manager/Department Reports- none this evening
There was no further public comment. Mr. Toale announced the next meeting is July 14.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2:B. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting was adjourned at 8:33 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Clairem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 28 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
