===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Anil
... .
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
EXECUTIVE SESSION
June 16, 2015
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
Board Members present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram,
Member and Phyllis Luck, Member
Others present: Kerry Speidel, Town Manager; Elaine Peterson, Executive Assistant to Town Manager;
Attorney Mark Terry
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"': P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session to conduct strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining (Professional
Firefighters Collective Bargaining Agreement) if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining
position of the public body and the Chair so declares.
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-yes, Mr. Ebersole- yes, Ms. Bertram-yes, Ms. Luck-yes, Mr. Toale- yes
Attorney Terry began by summarizing certain concessions/agreements already in place.
He highlighted what the deal is for the town; the firefighters have agreed to language that resolves a potential liability of
the fair labor standards act and relief from the long term sick leave buy back. They have agreed to provisions that new
hires will not be able to buy back sick leave. However, this is contingent on the totality of the packages; they have agreed
to 1.5% wage increases per year. There is a secondary issue on the wages that we have not yet reached agreement on. The
Board has asked to try to balance out the value of the steps that the firefighters receive versus the lieutenants; the
firefighters have a bigger step increase, 4%, between steps, opposed to the 2.5%. A proposal was made to make the
firefighter schedule basically 2.5% per step by stretching out the existing schedule. He believed the town can obtain this
as it will not affect anyone working now. It provides the town cost savings in the long term. Presently the town is on a 5
step schedule, we are stretching it out to 7 steps. Mr. Terry stated they haven't agreed yet, but believed they will.
The firefighters have asked for an increase in the detail rate, generally private details. This doesn't affect the town. The
town may receive a small administrative tee. The detail rate would go up to $42.00 per hour. They did ask for a small
increase on town departments of $2.00. Mr. Terry cautioned to be careful of town details; it is actually the same as
employment for the town in terms of overtime, so we actually want that rate to be time and a half of what it would
normally be. They also requested an increase in the amount of time they get paid for call backs from two to three hours.
This would only apply to assisting on ambulance calls. The increase in costs for the town would be around $6,000 to
$7,000 more per year if you counted all calls. A realistic number would be around $3,000 to $4,000.
Discussion about changing the town over to 24/7 EMS coverage ensued. The cost of this was estimated to be $200,000 to
$220,000. It would severely reduce on-call events. Mr. Terry noted this only covers full-time personnel in the bargaining
unit.
The last issue is transition to EMT Advanced status. Ms. Speidel stated when this discussion began they had mentioned
putting funding in place for the transition to advanced. Some personnel need to make decisions this year due to the
additional training time involved for the transition in 2017. It was a good discussion and the Board was open to this. Now
the question is what the change would cost for the personnel who are ready to recertify and advance to that level. The
current incentive for the intermediate level right now is a 3% increase plus a $500 stipend which would be for the cost of
recertification. The firefighters are asking that if the town goes for advanced training to see an increase from 3% to 5%,
but the $500 stipend would be rolled into that 5% increase, amounting to a 1.25% to 1.5% increase.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Speidel reported on-call personnel are part of the salary administrative plan and there are different grades for what
level of certified training they are at and they receive a flat hourly rate with no additional incentives. There is no grade for
advanced grade yet.
Mr. Terry estimated the 1.5% increase will cost around $3000. Looking at advanced certification training, this would
include two personnel, at the cost of approximately $5000. Ms. Speidel stated Chief Sullivan has a training budget line
item. If the town goes to advanced trained personnel, the town could expect a significant increase in ambulance receipts
compared to what it is paying out. Ms. Speidel stated a cost analysis for paramedic services for fiscal year 2017 will be
done.
Ms. Speidel reported out of the involved firefighter personnel, the lieutenant is at step 4; the captains are at step 3 and
added two of the three have one additional step available. Ms. Speidel stated the 2.5% plus the 1.5 % COLA is 4%, but
they are trying to keep a 2.5% difference between the steps and when you reach the top, that's it. Longevity starts after
reaching 10 years of employment; they are all receiving it.
Mr. Terry stated he did not need a vote tonight only consensus of the Board at this point. There was a majority consensus.
Mr. Terry and Ms. Speidel will touch base after he discusses with the firefighter representative.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To exit Executive Session and enter into Open Session after a five minute recess
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-yes, Mr. Ebersole- yes, Ms. Bertram- yes, Ms. Luck-yes, Mr. Toale- yes
The meeting adjourned at 6:45 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elane i Peterson Peterse
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2*: P. Bertram
