===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
- AM fa
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
October 20, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chair; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chair; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck,
Member and Town Manager Kerry Lafleur.
The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment
Ms. Luck announced that she, Ms. Lafleur and Land Use Director Adam Burney attended a Stormwater
Management Workshop last week. There was a lot of practical and basic information. Mr. Alonzo announced
the Boys & Girls Club Fall Rockin' Auction fundraiser on November 7' at 7:00 PM at the Leominster Eagles
Club. There will be a lot of fun, dancing, food and raffles. There is limited seating. Ticket information can be
obtained at bgcluboflunenburg.org. Mr. Toale announced Halloween Trick or Treat hours are from 6 - 8 PM on
Saturday, October 31$t
Committee Reports
Ms. Luck attended the School Building Committee meeting. There was a report presented on contingency
spending. To date, $162,912 has been spent. There was a separate sheet with possible expenses adding up to
another $70,000. A final sheet titled discretionary items totaled $4,251,000. This list includes artificial turf for
the new athletic field, replacing the existing field for $675,000 and demolishing the Passios Building for $1.5
million. Ms. Luck expressed surprise at seeing this list as she does not recall prior discussion of these items. Ms.
Bertram expressed concern about the list as well and requested further discussion on this. Mr. Alonzo stated he
did not attend this meeting. He wanted the Board to know none of these items are being pursued at this time; the
main goal right now is completion of the building. Depending on where we sit at the end of the project, those
other items may be brought forward. Mr. Toale suggested this discussion occur at a School Building Committee
meeting. Mr. Ebersole added some of these items may need a town meeting vote as they were not included in
the original article.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission meets tomorrow night. One of the items on the agenda will be
the approval of the parking lot for the Lane Property.
Mr. Ebersole reported there may be possible changes to the state aid formula for Library Aid. It is unclear of the
impact of this on the budget. The Library is also installing a new burner and building management system.
Sewer Commission continues to update operating policies and procedures.
Current Business
1. Review/Comment on Marketing Plan for Community Solar Project
Ms. Lafleur reported Joe Fiori and Eric Misbach of Nexamp were present this evening regarding the community
solar project marketing. Mr. Misbah presented a brief overview of Nexamp. The community solar project that
could provide a 15% savings on residents' electric bill is a 650kw array and is under development in fitchburg.
Nexamp's advantages are that net metering project credits are available to homeowners, renters, condominium
owners and non-protits. A 15% discount applied to your electric bill is guaranteed for up to twenty years. There
are no sign up costs and no service or cancellation fees. Changes can be made every six months. There is no
maintenance for the home owner and there is no installation of equipment on the homeowner's property. The
===PAGE 2===
signup process is simple; a person would send Nexamp their electric bill and Nexamp sends you a contract after
analyzing whether you are eligible. Nexamp would administer the signup process for Lunenburg residents. In
order to spread awareness of this opportunity, Nexamp would like to send out emails via various distribution
lists, post information on the town website, use word of mouth, social media and have a Nexamp presentation
and sign up event. Nexamp has already signed up 20 customers so far via their website. There are 50 spots
remaining plus or minus ten depending on the electrical load of each residence.
Mr. Alonzo stated he was in favor of this project and requested reserving a time period where only Lunenburg
residents can sign up for the program. Mr. Fiori stated Nexamp executives have expressed that they can't
provide exclusivity to Lunenburg residents. They can't turn away other people because they are not from
Lunenburg, but they can stop marketing it. Further discussion about the sign up process ensued. Mr. Alonzo
stated that residents can go to www.solarizemybill.com or call 800-945-5124 to sign up. He suggested a sign up
event for residents. A link will be posted on the town website for ease of sign up. The estimated "go live" date
for the project is June 2016. Resident Greg Bittner of 129 Pleasant Street asked how he should refer people.
Mr. Alonzo suggested directing them to the town website link. The Board thanked Mr. Fiori and Mr. Misbach.
2. Review & Order STM Warrant Articles
Ms. Lafleur asked the Board if they would like to reorder the articles for the Special Town Meeting. The
warrant will be finalized this week and goes to the printer on Monday. Mr. Toale invited Police Chief Marino to
speak on his articles on the STM warrant. The bylaw articles were originally on the May 2015 Annual Town
Meeting warrant, but were not voted on due to lack of a quorum. Since then Chief Marino has consulted with
legal counsel and clarified them further. The bylaw regulating the use of motor vehicles, recreational and snow
vehicles on Whalom Lake was first.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of the Lake Whalom bylaw
Mr. Ebersole asked if this should apply to Lake Shirley as well. Chief Marino stated there is a separate
bylaw for Lake Shirley that needs updating.
Vote: All in Favor
Chief Marino moved on to the bylaw that restricts the public consumption of marijuana or
tetrahydrocannabinol. Chief Marino reported the Executive Office of Public Safety has recommended adoption
of this bylaw. The Attorney General's office has passed this version in many towns. Mr. Alonzo stated he has a
problem with the wording of ingestion other than smoking, even for someone who has a valid medical
marijuana card. Ms. Bertram agreed. Mr. Toale asked if there is a Massachusetts General Law that addresses
this it not passed. Chief Marino replied no. Further discussion on the bylaw wording ensued.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°d: P. Bertram
To make a recommendation on this bylaw at the special town meeting
Vote: All in Favor
The next proposed bylaw was to enact a bylaw authorizing the Board of Selectmen to license the business of
pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers, or dealers in metal. Chief Marino stated stolen property is brought to pawn
shops frequently. We need to be able to control what goes on at pawn shops. Discussion ensued regarding some
of the wording of the bylaw.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of the bylaw licensing pawn brokers
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo complimented Chief Marino on the formatting of the bylaw. He thanked the Board and exited the
meeting.
Ms. Lafleur reported on Article 1; collective bargaining agreement with the Professional Firefighters. There is
still no settlement at this time.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To make a recommendation at town meeting on Article 1
2"': R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Regarding Article 2, there are no prior year expenses. For Article 3 which amends amounts voted for the
FY'2016 Budget, Ms. Lafleur presented a brief update. New Growth has been submitted to the state in the
amount of $360,856, but not yet approved. If you add that to the additional state aid minus the cherry sheet
charges, there is additional revenue of $93,629 available.
Ms. Lafleur stated Veteran's Benefits based on approvals through the end of the calendar year, we will have a
deficit of $48,000, which is what was budgeted for the entire year. This is one area she asked the Board to
consider for additional appropriation.
There is also the potential to add more revenue to the Reserve Fund to deal with overexpenditures with snow
and ice or anything else unexpected that comes up. We have had a couple of retirement buybacks to date which
has expended 63.3% of the Salary Reserve Account.
Ms. Lafleur stated we do expect to see a surplus collection in our investment income as a result of the bond
proceeds we have for the school project. We will expect to receive an additional amount of collection in that
line item.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend transferring $50,000 to the Veteran's Benefits Account and the remainder to the Reserve
Fund
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of the budget adjustment article
25°. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur moved on to Article 12 and stated she reviewed this with town counsel and according to the 2012
September Special Town Meeting, Article 1, the Board already has blanket authorization to enter into
alternative energy power purchasing and/or net metering credit purchase agreements. Hence, there is no reason
to take up this article for Nexamp. Mr. Alonzo stated there may be some people who could say that the
September 2012 vote was for a particular project. Ms. Lafleur stated there is no harm going forward with this
article. It was suggested to present to voters that going forward these projects are going to come up more often
and this authority would address them all.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend Article 12 for approval
2"°: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafluer moved on to Article 14 which is the request to appropriate into the Stabilization Fund. She
proposed moving $2,623 into this fund which would represent the increased spending and conform to the
Stabilization Fund policy.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend transferring $2,623 into the Stabilization Fund
2'°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale stated there were some open items on the codification project that are still pending so the Board will
pass over that for this evening.
Ms. Lafleur presented the employment agreement for newly appointed Director of Municipal Finance, Karen
Brochu. This item is already included in FY16 budget. This agreement includes an amendment to her current
agreement and provides $9,259 for this position.
Motion: P. Bertram
To approve the amendment to the employee agreement
2nd. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
The Board signed the agreement.
15. Jas Payablested the in trd sign the da 5, 6 31, ST er A varano for 19, 9,52ad and a Payrol
warrant for $680,094.54.
Ms. Lafleur requested the Board sign another copy of the 1" Quarter Lunenburg Water Commitment to the
Treasurer as the original was misplaced. The Board signed the warrant.
===PAGE 4===
The Board approved minutes of October 6, 2015.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lafleur referred to the Board of Selectmen pending agenda items list that was updated as of yesterday. If
the agenda item is scheduled, a date has been placed next to it. She asked the Board to review the list and
inform Executive Assistant Peterson of any items they believe should be on the list. Ms. Lafleur stated she
intends to place this into a spreadsheet that identifies the current status of each item.
Ms. Lafleur directed the Board to the FY16 First Quarter Revenues/ Expenditures Report prepared by Town
Accountant Brochu.
The town has collected 27.43% of preliminary estimates through September 30, 2015.
Local Receipts: the town has collected 19.14% of the FY16 estimate.
Fines: 20.05% collected of estimates through September 30.
Local Options Meal Tax: 38.10% of the estimate through the 1"' quarter of FY'16. The average for FY'15 was
$24,600. Based on this average the estimate could be increased by $11,000 for FY'16.
Motor Vehicle Excise Tax: to date 10% has been collected; the majority of collections occur in the 35° quarter.
Investment Income: the current estimate is $15,300. The town has collected 257.31% through September 30.
This is partly due to the investment of proceeds received for the Middle School/High School project.
Miscellaneous Non- Recurring Income: the town has collected 34.75% of the net metering credits estimate.
Fees: the town has collected 30.18% of the current estimate for fees.
Taxes & State Aid: the town has collected 25.58% of our tax levy, including $70,791 in tax lien revenue and
24.08% of state aid estimate.
Expenditures: the town has encumbered 35.4% of budgeted expenditures. Of note on the expenditure side is
the Salary Reserve and Veteran's benefits, the details were already presented this evening. The Wiring
Inspector account has expended 65.1% of the appropriation to date. The Wiring Inspector receives a percentage
of fees collected and currently there is a large building project going in town. We will probably need to make
some adjustment at the end of the year.
All other expenditures appear to be at the level they should be at this point in the fiscal year.
She asked the Board to review the spreadsheet's line item detail and if they have questions to contact either Ms.
Lafleur or Ms. Brochu.
Public Comment
Greg Bittner stated he is a fairly new member of the School Building Committee and wanted to discuss the
school construction contingency list. He was surprised to see the solar panels for the new school roof were not
on the list. He asked Facilities Director John Londa about this and Mr. Londa informed him he was working on
a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA). Mr. Bittner wanted to bring this particular item up for discussion because
he feels it would be a good return on the investment. Mr. Alonzo suggested he bring it up at the next School
Building Committee meeting. Mr. Bittner stated four items were prioritized on the list; touchscreens,
reproduction of the murals, reconfiguration of the Passios Building parking lot and an outdoor classroom. Mr.
Ebersole stated the solar panels may not be on the list due to it being one of the Unitil circuits that has reached
capacity. Ms. Lafleur stated if there is a PPA, the school would not own the solar equipment. The town could
not afford the capital outlay for the solar panels. Mr. Bittner stated he had an appointment with School
Superintendent Calmes to discuss the contingency list and the history behind it on Friday.
Mir. Ebersole stated he attended the Lunenburg Water District meeting and the Commissioners met with the
Lancaster Town Administrator about the possible intermunicipal agreement. They are moving forward with
discussion with Lancaster, possibly leading to negotiations. Mr. Ebersole's public comment at that meeting was
their legal counsel has ruled that they have the right to purchase land and or develop water in another town to
supply Lunenburg. If they were to supply users outside the district it would have to go back to the water district
===PAGE 5===
meeting. Question was asked if legislature approval would be required as well. Mr. Ebersole believed both were
required.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2nd.P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
