===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
March 10, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with
Thomas Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck
and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Board: Ms. Luck reminded all of the Lions Club Pancake Breakfast at the Senior Center tomorrow
morning and they are selling May baskets already.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg will be holding their ten year anniversary
party on June 26, 2015 from 4- 7 pm. They also rescheduled Are You Smarter than Our Sixth Grader? to
Friday, March 27* at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg High School Auditorium. Admission is a donation
accepted at the door. Sponsorship information is on the website at www.bgcluboflunenburg.org.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Citizens Party Caucus on March 16* at 7:00 pm at the Turkey Hill Middle
School Cafeteria. He announced the following offices for the 2015 Annual Town Election:
Moderator- 3 years, Selectmen- 3 years, Board of Health (2) - 3 years, Assessor- 3 years, Sewer
Commissioner (2) - 3 years, School Committee Member - 3 years, Park Commissioner, (1) for 1 year and
(1) for 3 years, Commissioner of Trust Funds - 3 years, Cemetery Commissioner- 3 years, Library Trustee
(3) - 3 years, (1) - 1 year, Planning Board- (1)- 5 years, (1) -2 years, (1) -1 year, Housing Authority- 5
years.
There was no comment from the public.
Ms. Speidel reported she sent emails to the Public Access Cable committee members and two of them are
interested in serving on the Cable Advisory Committee. She added with three of the Selectmen on the
committee it comes to five members. She did find out that Bill Hewig at Kopelman & Paige handles the
cable license negotiation process. She has not spoken with him yet but has exchanged some emails with
him. He is aware of the timetable for the town. The discussion will be continued at next week's meeting.
She informed the Board that PACC members Rhonda Lisio and Steve Walker would be on the Cable
Advisory Committee.
Motion: B. Ebersole
2°: P. Luck
To appoint Steve Walker, Rhonda Lisio, Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram and Jamie Toale to the Cable
Advisory Committee
Vote: All in Favor
Discussion/Review of FY'16 Budget
Ms. Speidel stated that Governor Baker has released his budget. There were a couple of things that were of
note. In terms of local aid, Chapter 70 will receive an increase of 2.4% and Unrestricted General
Government Aid will have a 3.6 % increase, more than she had anticipated. It also included the 40S
payment which she is not sure if that will stay or not. The Cherry Sheet charges overall were about what
we were expecting. Ms. Speidel stated the biggest issue is that we are not going to see anything else from
the state before we make a presentation at town meeting. Health insurance renewal has increased 10.9%;
she had projected 7%. We do not have a preliminary assessment from Monty Tech yet. They are
presenting to the Finance Committee on Thursday night. It may possibly be $48,000 more than listed on
the preliminary budget.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Alonzo asked if there was any news on FEMA application for the multiple snowstorms. Ms. Speidel
reported the blizzard in January was certified and we will get FEMA reimbursement. However there were
three other snowstorms and MEMA has asked towns to compile their costs for all four storms, but
submit itemizations for each storm. The total costs the town incurred during those storms is around
$300,000. We have the potential to get 70% of the total amount reimbursed from FEMA. The Governor
also filed legislation to allow towns to amortize the cost over two years. Ms. Speidel did not believe the
town would choose this option. Ms. Bertram asked if we couldn't extrapolate the amount for 40S paid last
year and apply the formula. Ms. Speidel stated there is a formula but it is based on what the actual
expenditures were paid last year. We don't have all of that data. She added the FY'16 budget
recommendation has the FY'15 40S payment in it because under her proposal we would take that same
amount. But the Governor has another payment in that she did not anticipate so we potentially could have
two payments available to us in one fiscal year. If this is so, one payment should be for capital and the
other for nonrecurring expenses.
Minutes of October 7, 2014 were presented and signed. Payroll deduction warrant in the amount of
$487,168.37; Payroll warrant in the amount of $705,849.91 and the Accounts Payable warrant of
$386,626.77 were presented and signed.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Board had a 7:30 pm appointment with the Planning Board to discuss storm
water management. DPW and Conservation Commissioners will also be attending. This meeting will not
be televised
Committee Reports-
Board of Health-no report since last meeting; Building Reuse Committee- no report, next meeting is
March 18t; Capital Planning Committee- no report; Finance Committee-Mr. Toale reported last week
they reviewed budgets for Council on Aging/Senior Center, Public Schools, and Public Library. Next
week they will review DPW and Monty Tech's budgets.
Mr. Alonzo inquired if the Library was open again. Ms. Speidel replied it was.
Library Board of Trustees- no report, MIPO-they are meeting tomorrow,
Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported they met last night and it was mainly discussion about the village
district bylaw, some changes were made and they voted on the draft bylaw. One of the largest changes was
allowing construction of single story construction on parcels more than five acres.
There was discussion about tying the two articles (Architectural and Village Center. District bylaws)
together, but no decision was made. There is another Planning Board meeting tonight to discuss Village
Center District bylaw. Ken Chenis reported on the Montachusett Joint Transportation Commission
(MJTC) meeting. He spoke on behalf of the town advocating an increase in Chapter 90 funding as well as
incorporating into the requirements for roadways, funding a road preservation component. There is an
entire process for road construction vs, road preservation. The process to get federal funding is very
cumbersome. Ken is advocating for that component and a number of committees support his
recommendations. The Planning Board is meeting with the Historical Commission on Thursday
regarding the Architectural Preservation District. (APD).
Mr. Ebersole stated on the Town website/Planning Board page, under the Director's Page is the Village Center
District bylaw draft and map and the Architectural Preservation District draft bylaws. He urged everyone to go
there and read it. He expressed concern that both articles are not tied together. If the APD is not ready for ATM
he hopes they will delay both articles until they can be presented together. Ms. Bertram stated the Village
Center District draft actually has a delay component written into it. PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported they
discussed their budget last night. School Committee-Ms. Luck reported there was a presentation by the School
Calendar Advisory Committee on adolescence sleep requirements. It suggests they should start their day later.
The issue with that is does everyone start at the same time, what are the transportation cost issues? There is a
workshop Thursday at Passios Elementary to discuss the One on One Computer Initiative and the process to be
used for naming the new school. There will be a televised school budget hearing on April 1st
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Luck added that Ms. Speidel met with the MART representatives this morning and we should be ready for
next week's meeting with the final route and price.
School Building Committee meets tomorrow. Sewer Commission- no report. Town Manager Report- no
report
There was no further public or Board comment. Next meeting is March 17"
. The Board exited to the workshop
meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst. to the Town Manager
