===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
All tent
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
DECEMBER 1, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paul Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager. The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment
Mr. Toale stated he had attended the tree lighting ceremony last night. He thanked all who were involved in the
event. He also reminded everyone that there are vacancies remaining on the Finance Committee, Architectural
Preservation District Commission, Cable Advisory Committee, Personnel Committee and Public Access Cable
Committee.
Ms. Bertram asked everyone to support the Girl Scout Pancake Breakfast being held this Saturday from 8 to 11
a.m. at Andrew Hall at the United Parish Church.
Mr. Ebersole reported from 10 a.m. - 12 Noon on Saturday there will be children's activities at the Public
Library as part of their 10 year anniversary celebration. Open House will be from 3 - 6 p.m.
Ms. Luck stated the Eagle House Senior Center is holding their Christmas Boutique from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. on
Saturday. She also wanted to remind seniors to sign up for "Sand for Seniors" at the Senior Center. Ms. Luck
wanted to thank the volunteers that came out Sunday morning to light the town center. The Lions Club pancake
breakfast at the Senior Center is December 9h this month.
Ms. Luck reported on the Cost Effective Community Stormwater Solutions workshop she attended at WPI on
November 19th
School Superintendent Loxi Calmes invited all to attend the high school presentation this Friday and Saturday at
7:00 p.m. of "A Date with Judy."
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, appeared on behalf of the Salvation Army to request a tollbooth fundraiser
on December 12 from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the town center and also at the CVS intersection. He has contacted
both Police and DPW. The Monty Tech ROTC will be assisting them as well. He introduced Major Garrett of
the Salvation Army to the Board. Major Garrett stated although their office is in Fitchburg, they are eager to be
active in the surrounding communities. The toy drive and tollbooth fundraiser benefits children and people in
this community. They have noticed an increase in the applications for help during the holidays. They distributed
over 300 Thanksgiving baskets, more than double from last year. She added they appreciate the opportunity to
conduct the fundraiser in Lunenburg. Mr. MacDonald stated that all money collected stays in the community.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd. P. Bertram
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser on December 12* as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. MacDonald thanked the Board. Mr. Toale thanked Mr. MacDonald for all his community work.
Budget Revision Requests for Middle/High School Project
Supt. Calmes reported Change Order #4 included redesign of the main mechanical room ($5,817) as additional
space is required to accommodate equipment and recommended clearances. Also added were trash and
recycling receptacles ($6,890) for the main entry and the west ends of A-wing and D-wing gathering areas;
added drain piping, upgrading of emergency mixing valve and change shower head for emergency washing
stations ($6,257) to meet ANSI standards, and addition of cleanout for roof downspout connections ($5,971);
totaling $24,935.00. After this request the remaining amount in the construction contingency is $4,007,862.
Change Order #6 addresses notification from the MSBA about a clerical omission for advertising ($45,000) in
the PFA. Classification is being changed from cost estimates to advertising. The next request is based on
===PAGE 2===
Change Order #5 and has two changes; changes to the auditorium grading ($2,690) and the main gas service
entrance train size and location, installation of bollards ($5,513). Total of this change order is $8,203 with the
contingency amount now at $3,999,659.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'°:R. Ebersole
To authorize the Chair to sign the change order documents as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Calmes thanked the Board
FERC Filing as Intervener (Pipeline Project)
Ms. Lafleur reported she received notice from Congresswoman Tsongas' office recently relative to the
forthcoming application filing by Kinder Morgan with FERC (Federal Energy Regulatory Commission). The
application was filed on November 20" and started the 21 day clock on filing as intervener status. The deadline
to file would be December 7". Interveners have the right to participate in hearings before FERC's
administrative law judges, file briefs, file for rehearing of a Commission decision, have legal standing in a
Court of Appeals if they challenge the Commission's final decision and be placed on a service list to receive
copies of case-related Commission documents and filings by other interveners. Interveners have the
responsibility to send any documents or communication to other interveners, FERC and Kinder Morgan.
There are a number of agencies that are active in this process. The Attorney General commissioned a study on
the need for increased gas capacity and the study found that under existing market conditions, there is no
electric sector reliability deficiency through 2030 and that no additional gas pipeline gas capacity is needed to
meet electric reliability needs. Ms. Lafleur encouraged the Board and others to go to the Attorney General's
website to read the entire findings report.
Ms. Lafleur reported a resident recommended the Town join the Northeast Municipal Coalition Against the
Pipeline. Their mission statement reads as follows: Gathering knowledge and working collaboratively, this
coalition of municipalities shall provide representation and information to relevant government bodies and the
public concerning the Tennessee Gas Pipeline project proposed by Kinder-Morgan and its effect on our
communities. The group meets on a periodic basis and the next meeting is on Monday in Lynnfield, She
recommended the Town joining the group. She would be happy to attend the meetings if there is no board
interest. Ms. Lafleur stated the Board would need to decide soon if they want to file as an intervener. Ms. Luck
asked it there is a down side of being an intervener. Ms. Lafleur stated the cost of using legal counsel to prepare
and file the petition is minimal but the expense of legal counsel following the process could add up.
The Board discussed filing as an intervener and joining the coalition. The Board concurred that legal counsel
could file for the Town but does not want them to review the docket on an on-going basis. The Board members
will do this task themselves.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'd:T. Alonzo
To file as an intervener to FERC and to join the Northeast Municipal Gas Pipeline Coalition
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur will send out the agenda for the coalition's next meeting.
The Board approved and signed the minutes of November 3, 2015. The Board signed an Accounts Payable
warrant in the amount of $287,022.04, a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $42,222.51 and a payroll
warrant in the amount of $693,012.18. There were no action file issues this evening.
Committee Reports
Mr. Ebersole reported the Board of Health met last night and is continuing their septic system loan program
workshop. Their goal is to have the program ready for the spring of 2016.
Mr. Alonzo stated the School Building Committee meeting is next Wednesday; Finance Committee's next
meeting is December 3 and they have scheduled the Five Year Financial Forecast from Town Manager
Lafleur. Cable Advisory Committee met last night and reviewed completed questionnaires from town
departments on their current and projected use of public access channels. He asked if it was possible to insert a
cable survey in the tax bill mailing to inform about the online survey. Ms. Lafleur stated there is one page
===PAGE 3===
available for mailing. She was planning on sending an updated report on the school construction project but
they don't have to do that. Ms. Lafleur stated the best way would be to send the survey out with the tax bills.
Ms. Bertram reported the Conservation Commission met on November 18* and addressed some routine filings.
There were two hearings where the applicants weren't present; one of those was tabled. Some abutters were
present for the 155 Reservoir Road, lots 1- 9, hearing, however the applicant was under the impression his
hearing was another night. The abutters were allowed to comment since they had waited all evening to do so.
Although informed that the plans were available for viewing in the Conservation Commission office, they were
not. The abutters' primary concern was the number of homes and the forestry plan. That hearing was continued
to December 2nd
. They also reviewed their regulations and bylaws and continue to do so.
Ms. Luck did not attend the School Committee meeting but read aloud from the article in the Lunenburg
Ledger.
The committee discussed the health and wellness budget for fiscal year 2017 and the cost of operation and
maintenance predicted for the new Middle/High School next year. Facilities Director John Londa met with the
committee to discuss predicted costs of utilities at the new school. The committee meets again tomorrow
evening.
The Zoning Board of Appeals met on November 17" and approved a special permit for a dimensional variation
for Darren Specht, 13l Elm Street, to install 84 ground mounted solar panels. The project goes to the Planning
Board next.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee met on the 24*' of November and asked the architect who is
finalizing the feasibility study to look at costs involved with their recommendations. They meet again on
December 215 and will prepare a presentation to this Board for January 2016.
Ms. Lafleur reminded her Five Year Financial Forecast will be presented Thursday to the Finance Committee.
The meeting will be televised. Documents for the meeting will be available online. Capital Planning requests
are due this Friday. On December 7" the fiscal year 2017 budget packets will be distributed to all departments
and will be due on the 31$t
Ms. Bertram added the MPO meetings for November and January were cancelled; the next meeting is in
January 2016.
The next meeting for the Board will be December 8'h.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:50 p.m.
2": R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
cram Neteroen
Elaine M. Peterso
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
