===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
B JE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
RECEIVED & FILED
March 24, 2015
MAY 1 3 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with
Thomas Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck
and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. The meeting opened at 6:00 PM
Chair Alonzo announced the Board would be entering Executive Session for the following reason:
Mr. Alonzo called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. and read the following:
Under Executive Session, Chapter 30A, § 21A (9), the Board shall discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining or litigation, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or
litigating position, and the Chair so declares.
Motion: J. Toale
2nd: P. Luck
To enter Executive Session for the reason as stated and upon adjournment to return to open session.
Ms. Luck-yes, Mr. Toale- yes, Mr. Alonzo-yes
**********************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE*********************
After a five minute recess following Executive Session, the meeting resumed at 7:20 p.m. The Board began the
open session with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Board: Ms. Luck reported the Annual Meeting of the Massachusetts Coalition of Lakes and Ponds will
take place on Saturday, April 4th at Worcester State University. She encouraged others to attend as it is
very informative with lots of workshops.
Mr. Alonzo announced Are You Smarter than Our Sixth Graders? is this Friday at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg
High School Auditorium. Admission is a donation accepted at the door. Mr. Alonzo will be emceeing the
event.
He stated there is still time to take out papers for elected positions. He announced the following offices for
the 2015 Annual Town Election: Moderator - 3 years, Selectmen - 3 years, Board of Health (2) - 3 years,
Assessor- 3 years, Sewer Commissioner (2) - 3 years, School Committee Member - 3 years, Park
Commissioner, (1) for 1 year and (1) for 3 years, Commissioner of Trust Funds - 3 years, Cemetery
Commissioner- 3 years, Library Trustee (3) - 3 years, (1) - 1 year, Planning Board- (1) - 5 years, (1) -2
years, (1) -1 year, Housing Authority- 5 years. Nomination Papers can be picked up at the Town Clerk's
office. Forty- one signatures need to be submitted by 4 pm on March 26'
There was no comment from the public.
APPOINTMENTS
1. Request for Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg Toll Booth Fundraiser
Mr. Alonzo read the request by the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg to hold a fundraising tollbooth on
May 16* from 9 am to Noon. Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle, a member of the Board of Directors of
===PAGE 2===
the Boys & Girls Club, thanked the Board for their continuing support. He stated the tollbooth would be
situated at the intersection of Electric Avenue and Whalom Road. All volunteers are over the age of
eighteen years and will be wearing yellow construction t-shirts. There are orange cones and road signage
to ensure satety.
Motion: J. Toale
2": P. Bertram
To approve the request for the voluntary tollbooth on May 16" from 9 am to Noon
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Mackin thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
2. Purple Heart Community Presentation
Commander Leo Agnew presented Chaplain Betty Benoit and Adjutant Tony Bean to the Board.
Commander Agnew read "Department of Massachusetts, Combat Wounded Veterans, Military
Order of the Purple Heart: Certificate of Acknowledgment to the Town of Lunenburg; being
designated as a Town in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, to be known as a Purple Heart
Community. Honoring all who have made the ultimate sacrifice and shed their blood defending
our country in all wars from Lunenburg, Massachusetts, and honoring August Seventh as Purple
Heart Day. " He presented it the Board and all posed for a group photograph with the certificate.
The officers exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Lions Club Request to hold Spring Roadblock on Sat. May 9 (8 am to 2 pm)
Mr. Alonzo stated the Lions club had submitted a written request and no one was here this
evening regarding the request. He added the Lions Club usually holds two a year, one in spring
and the other in fall.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd:J. Toale
To approve the Spring Roadblock for May 9" from 8 am to 2 pm.
Vote: All in Favor
2. E911 Dispatch-M.G.L. / Session Laws, Ch. 500, Acts of 2014, §180-18V
Ms. Speidel reported a bill allowing regional dispatch centers has finally been approved by the
legislature and each member town should now take a vote to authorize the regional dispatch
center in order for employees to enter into the retirement system. Employees will be able to buy
back time already served. After some discussion it was decided to wait to see the agreement
wording before voting.
3. Discussion/Review of FY'16 Budget
Ms. Speidel reported she had received new growth numbers from the Assessors' office today
and wondered if the Board could attend the Finance Committee meeting on Thursday when
she would be able to present the information more succinctly. The Board will not deliberate at
that time and only pose their questions relative to facts presented at the budget presentation.
Mr. Ebersole asked how Ms. Speidel proposed using additional funding and how the town
would handle the snow and ice deficit. Is the new growth money going to go into the operating
budget or somewhere else? Ms. Speidel stated the new growth would probably go into capital.
The Board decided to meet on the 2"d of April at 6:00 pm. to follow up on budget items.
4. Review / Approve Draft ATM Warrant
Mr. Alonzo will consult with Ms. Speidel regarding the order of the warrant articles. The Board
reviewed the articles.
Ms. Speidel stated the first article is a request to reauthorize the ambulance billing revolving
account not to exceed $60,000 (up from $50,000 in the current year) during the fiscal year.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: J. Toale
To approve and recommend draft Articles 1 - 6 as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Speidel stated article 7 is to hear reports of certain committees. Article 8 is for payment of
three prior year bills amounting in $1782.00 for police and fire medical bills and copy paper.
===PAGE 3===
Motion: P. Bertram
To approve articles 7 and 8 as presented
2n: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Speidel stated that Article 9 is the 2015 budget adjustment article. The snow and ice budget
is projected to have an overage of $250,000. The town has submitted for the reimbursement
cost of four storms to MEMA in the amount of $228,609. She added the town needs to plan for
covering that in this fiscal year and suggested using a supplemental appropriation from free
cash. There is $485,000 in free cash. There are several other adjustments that need to be made
in the budget but will be accommodated without any other supplemental appropriation.
General Government has a projected surplus of $106.000. $50,000 of that is reserve fund. Ms.
Speidel reported that there had been requests to transfer from the reserve fund but they did meet
the legal requirements to do so. She proposed taking these requests to town meeting and
appropriating where we need it to be. She stated part of the surplus is due to having no
Treasurer for a while, and a vacancy in the Assistant Treasurer position. We are currently
recruiting for that position. Ms. Speidel is also predicting a surplus in Legal Expenses of
$12,500. There was also a part-time position under Selectmen's Administration office that was
funded for fiscal year 2015 but not filled. Under public buildings there is a projected surplus of
$11,620. She has asked DPW to go back to review and confirm. This is where utilities for all
public buildings except the Library can be paid from. Ms. Speidel believed it was overfunded
for this fiscal year. There are some small amounts remaining in Central Purchasing. Under
Public Safety, Ms. Speidel is projecting a deficit of $20,000 in police lockup and $28,000 in Fire
Department; this is due to increased activity. There is a small surplus of $3,000 in injury leave
account. Also under Public Safety, there is vehicle maintenance cost of $14,500 in additional
repairs in both police and fire.
Under General Highway Maintenance there is a proposed surplus of $51, 897, this would come
as a result of lowering road maintenance in order to balance this budget. The reason she would
propose this is because we are receiving and additional $110,000 to $120,000 more in chapter
90 funding and $63,000 from pothole money. If we don't reduce that more free cash would be
needed to fund the budget. Ms. Bertram had concerns in reducing the funding particularly after
this past winter. Mr. Ebersole also expressed concern about reducing that line. Mr. Toale
wanted to look at the bottom line before making any decisions. Further discussion resulted in
Ms. Speidel taking the necessary finding from free cash to fund road maintenance. Ms. Speidel
moved on to the recycling program. The accountant has done some analysis and believes we
are over budgeting.
Under Veterans' benefits, there is a proposed deficit of $57,500 this year on approved benefits.
We do get reimbursed for 75% of the amount we pay out for benefits for the previous year.
Ms. Bertram asked if Ms. Speidel could get a projection from the Veteran's Agent for upcoming
costs. She also asked if Ms. Speidel has increased that number according to funding increase.
Ms. Speidel stated she will look into it after consulting with the Town Accountant as she
receives the benefits approval letters.
Ms. Speidel stated she was predicting an overage of $16,200 in Library utility costs. Under
Choice Tuition Assessments, there will be an overage of $93,653.
Ms. Speidel reported some surpluses; under Unemployment Compensation of $11,000 and
Liability Insurance at around $4,500.
Ms. Bertram inquired about the Police "Narcan" (Community-Based Opioid Overdose Prevention)
program and where the town stands on it. She believed it was an important program and that it
should be continued. Ms. Speidel believed it was funded in the fiscal 2016 budget, but she will
confirm with Chief Marino.
Mr. Alonzo asked about Articles 10, 11, 12, 13; all related to collective bargaining agreements.
Ms. Speidel stated on Article 10, she is almost certain the Board won't have anything. Article
Il's details will be presented at the next Board meeting. Article 12's contract was already
===PAGE 4===
approved by the Board, but because of the timing of when it was approved, has yet to be on the
town meeting warrant. Article 13's contract was already approved by the Board. Three of the
four should be up for approval for town meeting.
Article 14 is the Capital Plan. Ms. Speidel stated she is likely to propose an adjustment to the
Capital Plan. Article 15 is dependent on the fiscal year 2016 budget article because we include
an amount to place in the stabilization account.
Article 16 is the fiscal year 2015 adjustment article, more detail will come later on. Ms. Speidel
stated she needed to confirm the dollar amount for Article 17. Ms. Speidel presented a
spreadsheet regarding Article 18 regarding the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund.
This involves the pay as you throw program. We are in the middle of a ten year contract with
Casella. $265,000 is the same amount as the fiscal 2015 numbers. The price of bags will not be
increased
Motion: B. Ebersole
To recommend Article 18 as presented
2*: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Speidel stated for Article 19 she is proposing the amount of $25,000 in the Water
Department/Water Enterprise Fund, which is the same as the current year. There are five
customers and we don't typically expend any of these funds.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend Article 19 as presented
2nd: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Article 20 creates a bylaw regulating the use of motor vehicles on Whalom Lake and was
submitted by Police Chief Marino. Ms. Bertram had some concerns regarding the bylaw and
Mr. Ebersole would like to know the cost of enforcing the bylaw to the Town. Ms. Speidel will
ask Chief Marino to a future meeting to present more information on this bylaw. Mr. Alonzo
requested others to present on their proposed bylaws as well. Article 21 is another bylaw
submitted by the Chief. Mr. Ebersole asked if this parallels the public drinking bylaw.
Article 22 is the licensing of pawnbrokers, buyers and sellers or dealers in metal and Article 23
proposes to restrict sexual offender residency and creates sex offender safety zones, including a
map, both submitted by Chief Marino.
The board concurred that public hearings would be helpful when bylaws such as the above are
submitted. Ms. Speidel pointed out it is very difficult within the charter timeframe to coordinate
such hearings.
Article 24 transfers the care, custody and control from the Board to the School Committee, the
property at 1079 Mass Ave. for the purpose of granting a perpetual easement to Boston Gas
Company to construct, install and maintain gas facilities upon said property. Article 25 is
another perpetual easement granted to Unitil for the same reasons. Ms. Speidel stated town
meeting is required to grant such easements. Ms. Bertram requested to see an easement plan.
Ms. Speidel stated Article 26 appropriates the premiums paid to the Town upon the sale of
bonds and notes issued for the construction of the new middle/high school to pay costs of the
project and reduces the amount authorized to be borrowed by the same amount.
Article 27 creates an
Architectural Preservation District, submitted by the Historical
Commission and Planning Board. Mr. Ebersole proposed the Board recommend approval of
both Article 27 and 28. He sees this bylaw article and the village district bylaw as a package
deal to protect the center of town. The village district bylaw expands the uses allowed in town
center while allowing safeguards for historic buildings. Mr. Ebersole stated he would be
actively opposing the village district bylaw if the architectural preservation district bylaw isn't
part of the package. Ms. Bertram agreed. Mr. Toale disagreed on presenting both bylaws as a
package. He commended the Historical Commission and Planning Board for their work on
both of these and thanked them for addressing his concerns. But he did not want one bylaw to
===PAGE 5===
fail by being contingent on the other passing. Further discussion ensued around if one bylaw
passes and the other doesn't.
Motion: B. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To recommend approving Article 27 and 28 subject to town meeting approval vote
Discussion: Ms. Bertram asked for the Planning Boar d and Historical Commission on tying
both articles together both the Board makes any recommendations. Mr. Alonzo stated the
APD could stand on its own without the VD bylaw. What do the other Board members
want to do? Ms. Luck was ready to vote. Mr. Toale stated he could not support tying them
together. Ms. Speidel reminded there is one more Board meeting before having to vote on
the bylaws. Mr. Ebersole stated he would like a member from both Planning and Historical
to present on the bylaws.
Mr. Alonzo moved on to other housekeeping issues depending on the approval of the two
previous articles. Articles 29, 30, 31, and 32 amend the zoning bylaws. Articles 33 and 34
amend zoning contingent on Article 27 being passed.
Article 35 designates Flat Hill Road as a scenic road under MGL Chapter 40, §15C and Article
36 is for Northfield Road for the same designation, both recommended by the Planning Board.
Mr. Ebersole asked about his previous motion. Ms. Bertram rescinded her second of the
motion. Mr. Ebersole stated he would keep the motion in place and wanted to readdress at the
next meeting.
Article 37 accepts White Tail Crossing as a public way, also submitted by the Planning Board,
upon the request of an individual. Ms. Bertram stated she would like the Planning Board to
follow up on some contingencies concerning the approval of the road as a public way.
Article 38, if approved, creates a zoning change from commercial to limited
business/residential on land described as Assessors' map 59, parcel 8 and 9, which is the old
Stone Farm package store property. There has not been a public hearing to date concerning
this. The Board requested a description of the difference between limited business/residential
use versus commercial use from the Planning Board.
Article 39 extends the sewer collection system to Pleasantview Avenue with the connection via
Graham Street. Ms. Speidel stated this was a betterment project.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend Article 39
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 40 creates a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 for special police detail funds to
pay personnel for Lunenburg police department details. This allows for more timely payments
to personnel. The proposed amount will be $10,000.
Motion: J. Toale
To recommend Article 40
2n: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 41 creates a Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund, submitted by the Sewer Commission.
Carl Luck, Sewer Commissioner, reported the fund came as a result of negotiations with the
City of Fitchburg. Lunenburg had people who wanted to connect to the sewer system, but there
was no capacity for them in Fitchburg. Lunenburg Sewer Commission supports an expansion
project on John Fitch Highway to the cost of $18,000 annually. The sewer bylaws already
support a capacity fee. There will be another requirement for capacity in the future. We have
collected $617.10 already and this is why we need to establish the fund.
Motion; P. Bertram
2n°: J. Toale
===PAGE 6===
To recommend Article 41
Vote: All in Favor
Article 42 establishes a revolving loan program under the jurisdiction of the Board of Selectmen
for assisting income qualified residents to replace or upgrade septic systems or connect to the
town's sewer system. MRPC shall administer said funding. Ms. Speidel stated the Board of
Health has inquired whether this can be done. Town Counsel will review. Ms. Bertram
questioned why the Selectmen are administering the program rather than the Board of Health.
Mr. Ebersole clarified the BOH doesn't have any jurisdiction over the sewer connections and
the sewer commission doesn't have any jurisdiction over the BOH. Ms. Bertram stated the
Board of Selectmen doesn't have the staff do the administration of this program and will still
require the assistance of the Board of Health concerning applications, especially if it is the
replacement of a septic system. Mr. Ebersole stated his biggest concern is the BOH has been
sitting on the funding for over fifteen years. It was suggested to hold a workshop with the BOH
members. Ms. Speidel stated there has been interest expressed but no action taken. Mr. Alonzo
stated he would like to know more of what's involved. Ms. Bertram inquired what MRPC
would get for a fee to administer the funding. Mr. Ebersole stated he believed the fee was 10%.
The Board moved on to Article 43, rescinding $284, 263.59 from Article 2 of 10/01/2002
Special Town Meeting (STM) and Article 44, rescinding $28, 708 from Article 4 of the
05/07/2002 STM for engineering and construction of sewers. Article 45 rescinds $125,000, the
remaining borrowing authorization for renovation of Turkey Hill Middle school heating
system and Article 46, rescinding $56,550, the remaining borrowing authorization from Article
4 of the 05/03/2003 STM for construction and/ or renovation of the heating system at the
Thomas Passios Elementary School.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend Articles 43 through 46
2^: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Article 47 is to add wording to Article XXIX, Agricultural Commission, Section 1"to
oversee/operate or run a Farmers' Market"
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: R. Ebersole
To recommend Article 47
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo will review the order of the articles with Ms. Speidel.
5. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed the following warrants: $1,619,144.65 for school construction; $656,487.84
for payroll; $147,020.96 for payroll deductions and $91,744.87 for accounts payable.
Action File Issues: Mr. Ebersole stated Pleasantview Avenue residents had noted their water
comes from Leominster and have stated their water lines are very bad. What can the Board do
for them while construction for sewer lines replacement is ongoing? Ms. Speidel reported DPW
Director Rodriguenz reached out to Leominster for the potential to upgrade the lines while the
sewer installation is occurring but they have not shown any interest at moving this forward. Ms.
Bertram asked if we have any documentation on the problems and if not, it should start. The
Board needs more information.
Mr. Ebersole asked about Town Manager Speidel's performance evaluation, specifically her
goals and updating the evaluation form. It is usually performed in April.
Mr. Ebersole also asked if the Personnel Committee had met and discussed the proposed
committee charter as proposed by the Board of Selectman. Ms. Speidel reported they had met
but did not vote on it because all five members were not present.
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Luck stated Jo McLaughlin has updated the MART flier for the new route. Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms.
McLaughlin and Ms. Luck for their work on this.
Committee Reports-
Board of Health-Mr. Ebersole they met last night and they are dealing with landlord/tenant issues.
Building Reuse Committee- Mr. Toale reported no report due to lack of quorum at the March 18t
meeting, they are meeting on April 6* and as soon as possible afterwards with the School Committee to
discuss the Passios and Brooks properties; Capital Planning Committee- Mr. Toale reported no meeting,
but there is a spreadsheet being created by John Henshaw that will allow some analysis of and provide
different scenarios for borrowing for the future; Finance Committee- Mr. Toale reported they recently
reviewed budgets for PACC and Sewer Commission, they will review other moneyed items on the budget
and hold their official public hearing on the fiscal year 2016 budget this Thursday; Library Board of
Trustees- no report, MIPO-no report, but Ms. Bertram reported one of the large projects coming up for
review at the April 8* meeting will be Summer Street; it is important that support of the project be
expressed there; Planning Board-Ms. Bertram attended the workshop between the Historical Commission
and Planning Board at which they fine-tuned the proposed bylaw but she was unable to attend their
meeting Monday night; PACC- no report; School Committee-Ms. Luck reported they are meeting tomorrow
night; School Building Committee meets in a couple of weeks; Sewer Commission- no report. Town
Manager Report- no report
There was no further public or Board comment. There is no meeting next week, but there will be a volunteer
appreciation social at the Senior Center from 6- 8 p.m. sponsored by the Board of Selectmen. There are still
openings on several committees.
Next meeting is April 2nd
• The next regularly scheduled meeting is April 7'
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:11 p.m.
2nd:J.Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted
Elairem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst. to the Town Manager
