===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Pe g
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
.. . ..
March 17, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with
Thomas Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck
and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM
PUBLIC COMMENT
Board: Ms. Luck stated she had applied online for a burning permit and the process was quick and simple.
She encouraged residents to use this service. Mr. Ebersole reported that a resident had sent an email that
they had submitted an application to Unitil for a residential solar system and were told due to their
location on Highland Street, a study costing around $10,000 would be needed as there could be possible
back feeding into Unitil's substation system. He would be asking the Town Manager to contact the Green
Community Task Force regarding this. Mr. Alonzo confirmed stating the Green Community Task Force
should contact Unitil and get some clarification. Ms. Bertram stated this is concerning as many people are
interested in getting solar panels installed.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to alert abutters and others in the area of the middle/high school construction site that
there will be one day that the work goes past normal business hours due to the requirements of the
concrete pouring process. The date will be announced.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg fundraiser Are You Smarter than Our Sixth
Grader? is Friday, March 27" at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg High School Auditorium. All are welcome,
doors open at 6 p.m. It will be telecast at a later date.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to thank everyone who attended the Citizens Party Caucus last night at the Turkey
Hill Middle School. He congratulated Ms. Bertram on her nomination to run for Selectman again. He
thanked people who nominated and were nominated. Out of twenty openings, ten remain open for
candidates. Towns rely on volunteers and appointed boards to do the work of the town.
He encouraged people to come forward and run for the following offices; one member of the Board of
Assessors (3 years), one member of the Board of Health (3 years), two Sewer Commissioners (3 years),
Park Commissioners (one 3 year and one 1 year term), Library Trustees (one 3 year and one 1 year),
Planning Board (one 2 year and one 1 year term).
Nomination papers are in the Town Clerk' office. They must be returned by March 26* at 4:00 p.m.
There are also openings on the Finance Committee, Conservation Commission and Public Access Cable
Committee.
Ms. Luck reminded those present of the Volunteer Appreciation Social at the Senior Center on March 31st
at 6:30 p.m.
There was no comment from the public.
APPOINTMENT
7:10 p.m. Special One Day Liquor License
Kelms Food Service d.b.a. A Quality Thyme Catering has applied for a one day license for wine and malt
at Platinum Productions Inc. 555 B Chase Road for March 26*. From 4:30 - 6:30 p.m. Ms. Katie Marsh
appeared to apply for the event. The Board reviewed the application form. Ms. Marsh stated the event is
===PAGE 2===
a North Central Mass Chamber business event. Mr. Ebersole asked if the Board has ever issued one day
license to a caterer. Ms. Speidel stated the license is normally issued to the person who is serving the
alcohol.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°: J. Toale
To approve the One Day Special License (Wine & Malt) for Kelms Food Service d/b/a A Quality
Thyme Catering for March 26 from 4:30 - 6:30 p.m. at Platinum Productions, Inc.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Marsh thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Transfer Farmer's Market charge to Agricultural Commission
Ms. Speidel reported several months ago the Agricultural Commission had requested the Board
assign the charge of running the Farmer's Market to them. Ms. Speidel had contacted the Board of
Health per the Board's request as the BOH has been in actively/passively approving it for the past
couple of years. The Board of Health discussed the issue recently and the Chair had reported to
Ms. Speidel. She spoke to the Board of Health Chair again this morning to confirm that there is no
authority under M.G. L. for the BOH to regulate the Farmer's Market in its entirety, However the
Board of Health would monitor food safety regulations. He also pointed out the existing Farmer's
Market has been run by an individual, not the BOH, so he did not believe it is a town entity and
therefore cannot be transferred by the Board of Selectmen to the Agricultural Commission.
However, the Town could establish a town sponsored Farmer's Market and have that overseen by
the Agricultural Commission.
Jeff Mendoza, Agricultural Commission Chair, was asked for comment. Mr. Mendoza stated the
Commission's primary concern is to turn the Farmer's Market into something more inclusive than
previously. Some people have been turned away in the past. He stated it may be easier to start from
scratch. He liked the Westminster Farmers Market model for guidance as far as dealing with issues.
Ms. Bertram stated she had no problem with establishing a new Farmer's Market but asked if the
Board needed to revoke the prior permission granted before doing so. Ms. Speidel stated the Board
granted permission on an annual basis. Ms. Bertram suggested sending a letter to the individual
who has run the previous Farmer's Market to inform of the Board's decision and thank them for
their service.
Mr. Ebersole stated that looking at the Agricultural Commission bylaw; it does assign additional
responsibilities as charged by the Board of Selectmen. He also echoed Ms. Bertram's
recommendation in sending a letter. Mr. Alonzo agreed but wondered if the bylaw should be
amended for clarity for the future. Mr. Ebersole suggested wording for an additional clause to the
bylaw. Mr. Toale stated a town meeting warrant article vote would be required for the bylaw
amendment.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Mendoza for a copy of the Westminster regulations for the interim between
now and town meeting. Mr. Mendoza stated the Agricultural Commission has already adopted
some regulations modeled on the Shirley Farmers Market but liked the way Westminster handled
disputes. He added the A.C. would prefer something in the middle of Shirley's and Westminster's
regulations. Mr. Ebersole recommended establishing a policy and going forward with a bylaw
amendment, as the season for the market could start before the Town receives the Attorney
General's office approval.
Motion: B. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To charge the Agricultural Commission with the oversight of a Farmer's Market under the
existing Agricultural Commission bylaw (Article 29)
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: B. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To submit the language as previously described to amend the Agricultural Commission's charge
as an Annual Town Meeting Warrant article
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Motion: B. Ebersole
2n: P. Bertram
To send a letter to the former Farmer's Market Coordinator notifying her of the change and
thanking her for her service
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Mendoza if the Agricultural commission has a website or would like a
place on the town website. Mr. Mendoza replied it is on their agenda for the next meeting. Mr.
Mendoza wanted to publicly thank Ms. Speidel for her work and the Board of Health for the
previous market coordinator. Ms. Bertram recommended placing something on the town website
concerning the Farmer's Market and its details. He thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
2. Notification to Comcast of Start of Formal License Renewal Proceedings
Ms. Speidel directed the Board to the letter to be sent from the Board to the Comcast Senior
Manager of Government and Regulatory Affairs notifying him of the intent to commence cable
television license renewal proceedings, consisting of a compliance audit, ascertainment and will
include one public hearing. This letter meets the requirements under law for commencing the
The Board has appointed a Cable Advisory Committee and the first meeting is set for April 14. The
Town will be working with Kopelman and Paige Attorney Bill Hewig who is the same attorney
who participated in the negotiations for the cable license ten years ago.
Motion: P Bertram
To approve the notification letter as presented
2nd:J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
3. Mosquito Control Project/Form SRB-3
Ms. Speidel reported this form is sent to member towns asking for a show of support or non-
support for the District's budget request for fiscal year 2016.
Ms. Luck asked how is it determined how Lunenburg will be assessed. Ms. Speidel stated it is a
combination of land area and equalized valuations.
Motion: B. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
That the Board approves and declares support for the Mosquito Control Project
Vote: All in Favor
4. Approve Schedule for Additional MART Public Transportation
Ms. Luck reported that she and Ms. Speidel had met with MART representatives and determined
that MART will provide a van to transport from three Lunenburg locations, Monday through
Friday, to the Fitchburg Intermodal Station. It will return from the station in early evening. There
will be no additional cost to the town the first year. Ms. Luck is hoping to advertise the new route
in the ATM warrant. Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Luck for working on this. He asked if there a way
to ascertain how many Lunenburg residents is using this. Ms. Luck stated MART will be
monitoring and reporting to the town on the ridership. Mr. Ebersole suggested handing out fliers to
the 6:30 am train riders to inform them of the new service.
Motion: P. Bertram
To go forward with the new route as presented
2": J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: B. Ebersole
To start the new route on April 13, 2015
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
5. Convert the Green Community Task Force to a standing committee
Ms. Speidel noted the task force had never been converted to a standing committee and suggested
that if the Board wants it to be a bylaw committee, now would be the time to do it. It was decided
to research what the original charge of the task force was. This item was tabled until more
information is obtained.
===PAGE 4===
6. Discussion and review of FY'16 Budget
Ms. Speidel wanted to go over the email she sent to the Board after the Governor's budget was
released. Governor Baker proposed more than what Ms. Speidel had planned for, specifically
$292,171 in state aid for Lunenburg; charges and assessments are outside of that. The Governor's
budget proposes an additional $90,810 in Chapter 70 and an additional $3404 in charter tuition
reimbursements. The big difference is the Governor's budget includes a Smart Growth 40S
payment in the same amount as this year's payment in the amount of $183,618. The town would
need to apply for these funds in September of the fiscal year in which the funds are granted. We did
apply in FY'15 and we received them in FY'15, but not in time to be appropriated. These are funds
that need to be appropriated. She suggested using the FY'15 payment to partially offset the FY'16
budget. She did not include any estimate in FY'16 for an additional payment as she was not sure
the new Governor's staff understood how the 40S payments are administered. There are only two
communities in the state that receive this money. It can be used with the understanding this may
not materialize in the upcoming fiscal year. If there is interest in using the funds in FY'16, it should
only fund additional capital and non-recurring expenses. Ms. Speidel asked School Superintendent
Calmes to look at her recommended budget and identify if there is anything this could cover. She
will be making recommendations at the school committee meeting. Ms. Speidel will attend and
report back. Under the Governor's budget, school lunch funding was eliminated ($7,526). The
school choice receiving tuition is lower than what Ms. Speidel anticipated, $27,913; unrestricted
general government aid (lottery) is up $33,875. Veterans' Benefits (prior year's reimbursement) is
up $14,699, exemptions total $1,736, and Library is down by $532.
The state assessments are higher than what Ms. Speidel included in the FY'16 recommendation in
the amount of $78,836 and most of that is an increase in the choice tuition assessment.
In non-appropriated expenditures, the cherry sheet charges are higher by $78,836 and cherry sheet
offsets are lower by $35,970, so the net to the non-appropriated categories is an increase in
expenditures of $42,866. The net e increase revenue overall is $249,305 of which part of that is the
40S amount of $183,618 which is not guaranteed at this point and time. If you take that out, the
remaining amount is $65,687. Generally speaking we are doing better than anticipated.
Ms. Speidel distributed another copy of the timetable for the Town Meeting. The warrant will
remain open until next Monday at 4:00 p.m.
Discussion ensued about the close timetable required by the Charter for submission of articles and
planning for funding, if needed, for some articles, as well as going to town counsel for review, the
printer and the post office.
7. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues-Proclamation for Eagle Scout
Minutes were presented. An accounts payable warrant in the amount of $275, 850.44 was
presented for signatures.
A proclamation for an Eagle Scout ceremony was presented for signatures. Mr. Toale will present
it on behalf of the Board on Saturday.
8. Committee Reports-
Board of Health-no report since last meeting; Building Reuse Committee- next meeting is March 18";
Capital Planning Committee- no report; Finance Committee-Mr. Toale reported last week they
reviewed budgets for DPW and Monty Tech. Next week they will review Public Access Cable, Sewer and
any other warrant articles requiring funding. Mr. Alonzo thanked the DPW Director and Monty Tech
Financial Director Tammy Crockett for presenting their budgets. Library Board of Trustees- they are
meeting on Thursday MPO-Ms. Bertram reported they met on the 11", there was an amendment
proposed to the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) 2015-2018. There was a full bridge
replacement proposed in Lancaster in the amount of 3.4 million dollars and it is obligated, but doesn't
need to be programmed into the TIP, so it is out for 30 day public comment. This means there may be 3.4
million dollars available for bridge replacement. They began an initial discussion for the 2015- 2019 TIP;
===PAGE 5===
the hope is to endorse that in June. One of the items that came up was the Summer Street project. More
information is requested. Ms. Bertram did alert Ms. Speidel and DPW Director Rodriguenz about this.
There is an MPO meeting on April 8" and the project engineer is requested to attend to give an overview
of the project at that time. One question that arose was does the Summer Street project meet the guidelines
of the Highway Safety Improvement Program?
Another item discussed was the Unified Planning Work Program and they are looking for a June
endorsement. This program identifies planning work that needs to be done in member communities and if
Lunenburg has projects that we can submit, we should do so right now. We should alert the Planning
Board about this and see if there are projects they would like because there is funding available:
Regional Transportation is being worked on and they hope to be done by June. The next meeting is April
8tn
'. Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported they are meeting with the Historical Commission this week to
review the proposed Architectural Preservation District (APD). PACC- Mr. Ebersole reported they are still
seeking two members and they are looking for volunteers to do filming and editing as well.
School Committee-Ms. Luck reported they are meeting tomorrow night. The Superintendent's televised budget
meeting will be April 1st
. School Building Committee Mr. Alonzo reported they met last Wednesday and
received a status update on the building. One building is enclosed and heated. The steel erection has continued
and is almost completed. There will be a ceremonial topping off of steel beams sometime in April. There will
also be a flyover for an aerial view too. Due to the weather there are some delays, in some areas up to four
weeks behind. There is no anticipation of overtime though due to the length of the project. Once the snow is
removed a normal schedule and catch up in those areas will resume. We are preparing the furnishings and all
non-building oriented items as a check list with the architect and those will be submitted later in the year. Sewer
Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported they are meeting tonight. They have gone out to bid for the Pratt
St./Lakeview area sewer extension. Bid opening will be April 15, awarding May 22'd with a notice to proceed
of June 5th
'. Pleasant View Avenue residents have petitioned to have the sewer extension which was part of the
original plan. There will be an article on the Annual Town Meeting warrant to borrow about $300,000 with the
understanding that betterments will fund the extension at no cost to the town. The other articles will be to
establish stabilization accounts.
Town Manager Report- Ms. Speidel reported several meetings ago she had hoped to arrange a meeting with
the Library Trustees and the Board. They are now ready to move forward and are looking for a time to schedule
when everyone involved can attend. She will be proposing a meeting time within this week to wrap up before
town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to bring up Pioneer Drive in Leominster. That road is in terrible condition, someone's car is
going to be ruined. Can we send something to the DPW in Leominster regarding the road condition? The road
may be private. Mr. Ebersole suggested sending correspondence to the Mayor of Leominster as well.
Re-Appointment
Ratify Reappointment of Animal Inspector Kathleen Comeau as Animal Inspector-term from May 1,
2015 to April 30, 2016.
Ms. Speidel reported this appointment actually runs from May to April 30 under state law rather than on a July
1 appointment schedule. She pointed out the list of duties of the animal inspector qualifications and duties as
described by Division of Animal Health. She stated Ms. Comeau is interested in continuing in the position. This
is a $600 stipend position. Mr. Ebersole asked if this position covers wild animal calls. Ms. Speidel stated it
appears to deal more with domestic animals coming into contact with rabid wild animals. Mr. Ebersole asked
where they were with the concept of regional animal control. Ms. Speidel stated it is with MRPC, part of a grant
funded study. She will request an update from them. Mr. Alonzo asked if we had a sense of how many calls the
Animal Inspector responds to. Ms. Speidel replied no but that the bulk of the work is barn inspections. Mr.
Ebersole would like to see a report on the barn inspections. He stated he was concerned about the current person
and should go forward with a regional concept.
Motion: P. Bertram
30, 2016
2°: J. Toale
To ratify the appointment of Kathleen Comeau as Animal Inspector for the term of May 1, 2015 to April
Vote in Favor -4, Against- 1
===PAGE 6===
Discussion ensued about making a final determination on Holman Street and the Holman Street bridge. Ms.
Bertram stated a citizen mentioned large trucks going down Holman Street and realizing they couldn't turn
around. If a final decision is made to keep the street closed, better signage will be needed. Mr. Alonzo stated
there should be some cul de sac created at the end for emergency vehicles to turn around.
public or Board comment was added.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:50 p.m.
2n: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
clairem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst, to the Town Manager
