===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
I All Ja
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
September 8, 2015
Member and Town Manager Kerry Lafleur. The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M.
ALS Intercept Agreement with Town of Townsend
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the ALS Intercept agreement with Town of Townsend
2nd. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo reported he was invited to an Eagle Scout Court of Honor on Saturday October 3'° at 10:00 A.M. at
the United Parish for two boy scouts, but he cannot attend. Mr. Toale stated he could. Mr. Alonzo will forward
the information to him. A proclamation will be needed for each scout.
Mr. Ebersole asked about the plans for parking at the Stillman Country Fair. Mr. Toale stated there was a
committee including the Police Chief coordinating it.
Mr. Toale stated he got little feedback from other committees for the volunteer booth. Rhonda Lisio, P.A.C.C.
Chair has volunteered and Board of Health Clerk Andrea Schnepf will have her own booth there and can help
out. Mr. Alonzo, Ms. Luck and Ms. Bertram stated they could cover some of the time.
Board Goals
Stormwater Goals:
Ms. Bertram reported she and Ms. Luck met with DPW Director Rodriquenz after going over the initial
stormwater goals and reasoned this work needs to be addressed by a committee.
1) Appoint a stormwater task force
The suggested task force would be composed of the members of the Planning Board, Conservation
Commission, DPW, Board of Health, Selectmen and two members at large. The members at large would be
people who would be stakeholders (environmental interests, lake groups, etc.).
Action items for the task force would be:
• To gather and review existing data (2007 Stormwater Report, stormwater submittals to the state, GIS
data, etc.). One issue during the meeting with DPW Director Rodriquenz that came up was they
discussed what MRPC is doing; Rodriquenz wasn't aware that Earth Tech report graded the stormwater
structures
• To work with appropriate personnel to identify current maintenance requirements and associated budget
of existing stormwater infrastructure. The budget for stormwater is currently built into the drain budget,
typically related to road work, but not set aside for stormwater maintenance and construction
• Review and investigate proposed regulations for MS4s and make recommendations to ensure
compliance
• Work with appropriate personnel to suggest protocols to investigate and remove sources of suspected
illicit or illegal discharges; the Board of Health or the Sewer Commission could have a role in this
aspect
• Investigate and make recommendations on various software options
• Initiate and execute an RFP for a feasibility study to determine viability of a stormwater utility
===PAGE 2===
• Identify an appropriate service fee method
• Initiate and execute a rate study (required by law and based on the feasibility study)
• Draft a bylaw to establish the utility in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 83, § 1
• Investigate grant opportunities
• Coordinate volunteer program and public outreach (identify the stakeholders, quantify the need, identify
what is not being done because of lack of funding and potential impacts, promote educational
workshops, generate literature for dissemination and posting)
2) Facilitate adoption of revised stormwater regulations by fostering communication and cooperation with
various boards
3) Encourage the Town Manager to investigate the feasibility of incorporating a separate line item for
stormwater (this is being done)
4) Schedule quarterly meetings with the task force and DPW Superintendent to monitor compliance with
regulations and progress on stormwater utility investigation
Mr. Ebersole asked if there should be a Water District member on the task force. He stated he thought the draft
was a good charge for the committee. Ms. Bertram will contact other towns to see what would be the cost of a
feasibility study. She added the software mentioned earlier is not too expensive. Remote sensing technology is
more expensive, averaging under $10,000. There is a lot of work that can be done in advance of hiring a
consultant. Further discussion of strategy ensued. The establishment of the task force would be the first step
along with creating a mission statement. Ms. Luck and Ms. Bertram will compose a mission statement to be
ready for the September 22 meeting.
Pavement Management Plan/Traffic Rules & Orders
Mr. Ebersole presented his report.
1) Exploring revenue sources and projecting into the future. The capital plan should include all these
sources. Some are storm water fees for culverts, betterments that are percentage based on road
classification, federal funding documentation for qualified roads with software, Chapter 90 funding,
Town funding and borrowing. He cited the Pratt Street sewer extension. Mr. Ebersole noted the Sewer
Commission has a 2/3rds policy, meaning 2/3rds of the property owners of the road has to approve the
extension before the town proceeds. The road was in bad shape before the project started and would
have needed to be repaved anyway. Usually betterments are done when something "new" happens or
when a road is accepted, or a sewer line is installed. Does paving a road, normal road maintenance,
really improve your property value? Mr. Alonzo noted betterments are usually applied towards a
permanent change. Discussion ensued about betterments and how they should or should not be applied.
Mr. Ebersole recommended taking betterments off the table for now but keeping for further
investigation, privately funded projects done by the Town.
2) Pavement Management Software Index
Establishing a recommended index of streets for Board of Selectmen adoption; includes splitting off
road segments as separate items. There may be a need for coordination with the storm management
goals in order to include the costs of drainage into the pavement management plan. Mr. Ebersole
presented a list of town roads that are eligible for federal funds. Ms. Lafleur recommended adding these
to another field in the pavement management plan. Ms. Bertram stated sometimes TIP funding becomes
available and an unexpected project could be funded at the last minute. He moved to developing,
adopting and implementing a policy for utility road openings.
It was suggested to confer with the DPW Director Rodriquenz for guidance on the policy.
Discussion ensued on whether to put the cost of repaving Pratt Street following the completion of the sewer
project on the Town versus placing betterment fees on the residents to pay for it. Past practice has been if a
utility company comes in to install gas, electric, etc., the cost of repaving the road falls on the utility company.
Past betterments have included the cost of repaving a road as part of the project, not as a separate item.
Mr. Ebersole asked the Board to email any other comments regarding pavement management to Ms. Lafleur.
===PAGE 3===
3) Economic Development
Mr. Toale stated that since they last met on the subject, not much has changed from the July draft. He
stated the Board needs to determine whether they want to set small or large goals. It is a part of the
Master Plan, but do we want to include this as part of it or make it the lead. He has met with Adam
Burney, Land Use Director, who would like to work closely with the Board on this. Discussion followed
about looking at other communities' economic development goals and possibly partnering with them
and chambers of commerce.
Mr. Alonzo asked the Board what they hoped would be an end goal(s) of an economic development
policy. Ms. Bertram stated she would like to examine what serves the community needs that would not
have a major impact on the town's infrastructure; to get the tax benefit without the burden on town
services. Ms. Lafleur suggested looking at availability of utilities.
Further discussion ensued about making the permitting process easy to understand and attractive to
developers. Ms. Lafleur stated another factor is creating an inventory of available parcels. Ms. Bertram
added that a marketing plan for the town should be produced. Mr. Alonzo asked what type of town
atmosphere and character Board members would desire for Lunenburg. Concord, Northampton, and
roton were mentioned. Ms. Toale asked how to proceed going forward from this discussion. It was
suggested to meet once more and discuss further before meeting with other groups. It was decided to
have a vision by the end of the calendar year and progress further for town meeting. Ms. Lafleur
suggested getting someone from Fitchburg State University in business development to
participate/facilitate in the process.
Minutes of April 21, August 4, August 11 and August 18, 2015 were presented. Accounts Payable
warrant in the amount of $286,887.90, Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $419,572.29 and a
School System warrant in the amount of $667,788.02 were presented for signatures.
Town Manager Goals were presented but Ms. Lafleur needs to add dates to them.
Meeting Process and Schedule
Mr. Toale stated a discussion had been started on how often to meet and if they wanted to meet with other
boards and committees differently. There had been discussion about meeting with all Board chairs and
scheduling regular workshop sessions with other groups. Ms. Luck and Ms. Bertram thought tonight's meeting
was productive. Mr. Alonzo stated the Board should meet on the last Tuesday of the month, but Ms. Bertram
has a conflict with that time. Mr. Ebersole thought this was valuable with a clear agenda/timeframe, especially
meeting with other boards about specific issues. Ms. Bertram concurred. Ms. Lafleur stated she would prefer to
hold two formal business meetings per month due to the time required to prepare for meetings. She also
preterred having department heads attend meetings to present their own items rather than Ms. Lafleur
presenting for them. Discussion ensued about how board liaison reports should be presented. A different format
will be tried for future meetings. Ms. Lafleur stated sometimes things are too informal regarding submitting
items for meetings. The policy for submitting items for agendas should be reexamined. Another topic suggested
for a future workshop is liquor license hearings.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2"': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M Peterson
In Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
