===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
NOVEMBER 10, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; PaulaBertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur,
Town Manager. Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman, was not present.
Also present was DW Director Jack Rodriquenz, Police Chief James Marino, Rich Benevento and Mike
Pompili of World Tech Engineering
This meeting was not televised over the public access channel.
Mr. Toale called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m.
Pavement Management
Ms. Lafleur stated this workshop was put together to discuss one of the Board's goals. Ms. Lafleur announced
there were two consulting engineers present, Rich Benevento and Mike Pompili of WorldTech Engineering,
Woburn, MA. She added they were here to discuss the different items the Board identified as important under
this goal. Mr. Benevento and Mr. Pompili created a presentation.
Mr. Benevento stated there was a reevaluation of the Lunenburg roads over the summer and fall and that is now
in the program and available for use to determine the pavement condition index. Lunenburg is a "62" out of
"100." In order to determine where the Town wants to be is the level of investment the Town wants to make;
pavement management in the Northeast is very dynamic. Roads and bridges worsen with age. Establishing
priorities is a town decision, where and how much to invest. Main roadways have the highest priority as they
are used the most and cost more to maintain.
If you take funding to work on the local roadways, then you are taking away from the prioritized roadways too.
What do you want to invest in your program, keep the status quo or something else?
You want to be maintaining; preventative maintenance is better than redoing an entire road; this buys you some
time.
Mr. Pompili presented a summary of the present condition of the various town roads and the costs to maintain
them via preventative actions such as crack sealing and overlay. An overlay costs about a quarter of the cost of
road construction. He added runoff surface water and overload of structural capacity are the two main reasons
roads start to break down.
Discussion ensued on various types of roads and costs for restoration. "Excellent" rated roads change to "good"
rated roads in an average five years and that is when crack sealing would be warranted. If you do nothing, the
roads continue to deteriorate and costs to restore grow significantly.
Mr. Rodriquenz stated that success with maintaining the present pavement management plan is to increase
funding annually. Ms. Bertram agreed but asked where the funding is coming from? Do we take part of the
funding for the main roads to keep up the collector, local and secondary roads?
Discussion ensued on how to inform and encourage taxpayers to pay for these roads, as well as how to fund
future new improvements while still maintaining current roads. Mr. Pompili stated they could supply scenarios
based on certain amounts of funding. Mr. Toale stated the Board needed to know what the actual cost was of
getting a road done.
Traffic Rules & Orders
The Board reviewed current traffic rules and orders as well as draft traffic rules and orders along with Police
Chief Marino. One item discussed was increasing parking fines. The discussion will continue at the January 19,
2016 meeting.
Animal Control Policy & Procedures
===PAGE 2===
Chief Marino presented a draft of animal control officer scope of service and responsibilities and municipal
animal inspector qualifications and duties. The group also reviewed the MRPC feasibility study on regional
animal control.
Review of Special Town Meeting Articles
The Board reviewed Warrant articles for the Special Town Meeting on November 16, 2015.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $474, 419.08.
The Board adjourned
Respectfully submitted,
clinchpetecon
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
