===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
J4.
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
All thA
March 3, 2015
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with
Thomas Alonzo, Chair; Paula Bertram, Vice Chair; Jamie Toale, Clerk, Robert Ebersole, Phyllis Luck
and Town Manager Kerry Speidel present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Board: Ms. Bertram announced that at the February 23"d meeting, Planning Board member Nathan
Lockwood announced he will not be seeking reelection. Last night, Chair Joanna Bilotta-Simeone
announced she was resigning. Ms. Bertram noted their commitment and dedication to the community is
greatly appreciated.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg will be holding their ten year anniversary
party on June 26, 2015 from 4 7 pm. They also rescheduled Are You Smarter than Our Sixth Grader? to
Friday, March 27" at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg High School Auditorium. Sponsorship information is on
the website at www.bgcluboflunenburg.org.
Ms. Bertram also announced it has been an honor for her to serve the town for the past nine years and will
be seeking reelection this May. She asked for the support of Lunenburg citizens to serve another term. Ms.
Bertram invited all interested persons to the Citizens Party Caucus on March 16* at 7:00 PM at the
Turkey Hill Middle School. Mr. Alonzo thanked both Mr. Lockwood and Ms. Bilotta-Simeone for all
their service and wished them good luck in their futures.
Mr. Alonzo announced the recent passing of a longtime resident of Lunenburg, Charles Deming Sr. Mr.
Deming was a graduate of Lunenburg High Class of 1952 and was a firefighter and EMT for 49 years in
town. He also served in the Lunenburg Athletic Hall of Fame, received the 2012 Lunenburg High School
Alumnus Award, and served on the 275" Anniversary Committee. Mr. Alonzo stated Mr. Deming's
service to the town is notable and worthy of thanks. Mr. Alonzo expressed his condolences to the family.
Proclamation for Boys and Girls Club Week: March 22 to March 28, 2015
Mr. Alonzo read the proclamation aloud:
WHEREAS, the young people of Lunenburg are tomorrow's leaders; and
WHEREAS, many such young people need professional youth services to help them reach their full
potential; and WHEREAS, there is one Boys & Girls Club in Lunenburg providing services to more than
150 young people annually; and WHEREAS, Boys & Girls Clubs are places where great futures start, and
they are at the forefront of efforts to encourage and develop academic success, healthy lifestyles, and good
character and citizenship; and WHEREAS, The Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg helps ensure that our
young people have a place to go after school, offering them not only a safe and supportive place but also
providing them with quality programs; and WHEREAS, The Boys & Girls of Lunenburg will celebrate
National Boys & Girls Club Week, 2015 along with hundreds of Clubs and millions of young people
nationwide; THEREFORE; the Board of Selectmen of Lunenburg do hereby proclaim March 22nd
through March 28th, as Boys & Girls Club Week in Lunenburg. We call on all citizens to join with us in
recognizing and commending the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg for providing comprehensive, effective
services to the young people in our community.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: P. Bertram
To support the proclamation for Boys and Girls Club Week from March 22 to March 28, 2015
2nd: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review / Approve Domestic Violence Leave Policy & Workplace Violence Policy
Ms. Speidel requested the Board approve two policies. The workplace violence policy is an update
of our existing sexual harassment policy but more inclusive and in compliance with requirements set forth
under state law and recommendations from our insurance carrier. The purpose of our workplace violence
policy is to state the town is committed to providing an environment that is conducive to personal safety and
security during all work related activities. The policy outlines prohibited activities and advises that violations
will result in disciplinary measures. The second policy is the domestic violence leave act which provides all
employees leave for domestic violence, subject to the Domestic Violence Leave Act, M.G.L. Chapter 149, §
52E. The policy outlines the conditions under which an employee may take leave and the procedure that must
be followed in order for the leave to be granted. The policy also gives the Town Manager the ability to issue
procedural rules and guidelines to carry out this policy. Both of these policies were drafted in house and
reviewed by labor counsel. The drafts were based upon ones provided by MIIA, our insurance carrier. Ms.
Speidel stated we are currently reviewing all of our policies and procedures against state law to ensure we
remain in compliance. We will be bringing drafts, when needed, forward for board review and approval as part
of the process. Ms. Speidel added updating and approving some of these policies will entitle the town to MIIA
credits. Ms. Speidel stated on an annual basis, MILA gives us the opportunity to receive credits to apply towards
all of our insurance lines through inspections of buildings, vehicles, etc. or from participating in MIIA approved
trainings. She added the total credit available to the town is $11,000, of which the town would be eligible for at
least half of this amount this year. She hopes to increase this for next fiscal year. Ms. Speidel reported the
trainings are relevant and many are available to take online. She stated one thing we can do is to attend the
citizen planner conference; many boards would find it beneficial.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adopt the Domestic Violence Leave Policy & Workplace Violence Policy
2": J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discuss/Review FY'16 Budget
Mr. Ebersole stated he appreciated Ms. Speidel's and her staff's work on the budget. He requested an
expenditure report that excludes prior years' encumbrances in order to show what was appropriated and what
was expended. Ms. Luck suggested having a discussion regarding setting future budget goals. Mr. Alonzo
stated the board did do this three or four years ago. The problem is there may not be funding to reach those
budget goals. Discussion ensued about balancing the budget and meeting the needs of the departments/town
with limited funding. Mr. Ebersole suggested designating new revenue to specific programs.
He recommended starting goal setting in June for the next year and holding a charrette for residents. Mr. Alonzo
stated the Board could also revisit those goals from three years ago. Ms. Bertram suggested meeting with
department heads before meeting with citizens.
Ms. Luck stated she had read the DPW has ceased providing sand and salt to residents due to the lack of
availability of materials. She stated if this is unsustainable for the town to provide for next year, we need to
inform the residents so they can plan accordingly. Ms. Bertram stated this issue merits further discussion and if
the town terminates this service, residents need notice. She added if the town does continue it, it needs to be
changed to avoid abuse.
3. Set meeting time for workshop with Planning Board and identify topics for discussion
Ms. Speidel confirmed the Planning Board is available on March 10%
. Mr. Ebersole suggested
discussing the draft village district bylaw and storm water management. Ms. Bertram agreed. She suggested
inviting the Conservation Commission and DPW to the storm water management discussion as well. Ms.
Speidel asked Mr. Burney to put together a memo outlining all of these issues such as timetable and who is
doing what, expected costs, etc. Ms. Bertram stated the public hearing for the village district bylaw is on the 9*
4. Vote to Authorize Emergency Expenditure; M.G. L. Chapter 44, §31(d)
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Speidel reported the library suffered significant damage due to burst pipes on February 17".
A claim has
been filed with our insurance carrier, MIIA. Everything should be covered under insurance but the town needs
to cover expenses until they are reimbursed. She requested the board declare an emergency and authorize deficit
spending under M.G. L. Chapter 44, §31 (d). The heating system had 14, possibly 16, damaged heating coils
replaced. The sprinkler system has been tested and is working. The claims adjuster and a contractor will be
coming in to conduct a moisture content analysis to determine jointly what portions of drywall and carpeting
need to be replaced. There is no date for full reopening of the Library. However residents can check out items
through the online system. Those items can be picked up during a certain time at the Library. It may be possible
to open up a portion of the Library for those who need to use the facility to read newspapers and magazines.
The damage to Library materials due to the burst pipes totaled $4,600.00.
Ms. Speidel reported there has been an ongoing issue with the Library's heating system. Ms. Speidel requested
DPW obtain a comprehensive report on the system's issues and what DPW has done to date to maintain the
current system. She also requested DPW obtain a quote for replacement.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°°: J. Toale
To authorize the emergency expenditure/deficit spending as requested by the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
5. Discuss Appointment of Committee to Negotiate Cable License
Ms. Speidel reported it is time to begin the negotiation process with Comcast for renewal of the cable license.
agreement. Comcast has met its notification requirements. The town needs to begin by appointing a committee
to conduct a public hearing. This is to identify any issues subscribers have with Comcast and to receive
testimony on future cable--related needs and review past performance under the existing contract. This hearing
should take place in March.
Mr. Ebersole requested reaching out to Verizon to see if they would consider placing FIOS in Lunenburg as
well. Ms. Bertam suggested doing an online municipal survey via Survey Monkey. She also suggested
obtaining the complaint reports from Comcast. The Board will act on this item at their next meeting.
Ms. Speidel will contact the Public Access Cable Committee to ascertain interest in serving on the committee.
6, Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues/Other Documents for Signature/ Action File Issues
Minutes of September 16, 2014 were presented and approved.
Mr. Alonzo presented the accounts payable warrant in the amount of $392,934.55. The Board signed the
warrant. Ms. Bertram suggested Selectmen's goals be discussed. Mr. Alonzo will send out the draft goal
list to the other members in advance of discussion. Mr. Ebersole announced March 16" is the Citizens'
Party Caucus at Turkey Hill Middle School cafeteria. There is still an opening on the Finance Committee
and two openings on the Public Access Cable Committee.
7. Committee Reports- Board of Health- Mr. Ebersole announced George Emond will not be running for
reelection to the Board of Health after 24 years of service. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Emond for his years of
service. The Board of Health discussed the usual septic and well issues. They discussed the farmers market
and the board does not have any jurisdiction over the market except for some of the items vendors may be
selling. The Board will discuss this further with the Agricultural Commission at a future meeting.
Building Reuse Committee-Mr. Toale reported they will meet on March 18th. Dave Matthews has
resigned from the committee. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Matthews for his service. Capital Planning
Committee- no report; Finance Committee-Mr. Toale stated they have met twice. On February 24th,
they approved the deficit spending in the snow and ice removal account at the request of Ms. Speidel and
she presented the preliminary FY'16 budget. At the February 26 meeting, the Police and Fire Chiefs
presented their preliminary budgets. At the next Finance Committee meeting the Council on Aging,
Lunenburg Public Schools and the Library will make their budget presentations. Library Board of
Trustees- Mr. Ebersole stated one item being discussed is working with the Green Community Committee
on upgrading lighting of the Library parking lot with led lights and other internal and external lighting
needs. They briefly looked at a building systems management process. Two long term Library employees
will be retiring this year; Kate McCarron at the end of this month and Karen Kemp in July. The trustees
are conducting some comparison research to other communities to ensure they replace these staff in an
===PAGE 4===
appropriate way and still provide the same services. MIMPO Planning Board-Ms. Bertram reported their
next meeting is March 11'h
Planning Board- they met twice since the last meeting; on February 23d one item discussed was High
Field Village. There were several abutters in attendance relative to this hearing and expressed numerous
concerns; specifically property egress. The Planning Board reported Mass DOT objected to egress onto
Mass Ave. due to traffic congestion. Emergency access to the site is proposed via Pope Road. If blasting is
needed, pre-blast surveys will be required on adjacent properties. Many residents were concerned about
traffic congestion on Northfield Road and potential safety issues. The project engineer reported there was
a traffic study done for the project. At the intersection of Route 13 there will be a conduit installed for
future traffic lights (if needed) and two turning lanes. A number of people expressed concern about the
potential impact of more students on the school system and the infrastructure of town services. A final
concern was the effect of the project on the water table and water systems and blasting, if needed, on
private wells. The Planning Board explained if the subdivision plan meets existing regulations, they cannot
deny by law. They are aware of a number of issues relative to the site and are taking all that information
under advisement. They continued the hearing to April 13t
Another agenda item was the village district bylaw. There was a lot of public discussion on it point by
point.
They also discussed the architectural preservation bylaw. At last night's meeting there was a joint meeting
with the Historical Commission and the Planning Board and they reviewed the bylaw. A key point
discussed was that the proposed district consists of 78 parcels. Only a handful of those parcels can support
the parking requirements associated with commercial and retail development and the number of required
parking spaces. Multi-use buildings were discussed and the associated requirement of handicapped
accessibility after four units is exceeded. The goal of the bylaw is to restore the historical aspect of the area
and bring back vitality to the center. They did make a few changes to the draft. Glazing was reduced from
the proposed 60% minimum to a range of 35% minimum to a maximum of 60%. They clarified residential
uses for newly constructed building rather than existing homes.
All of the properties within the village district will fall under the architectural preservation bylaw. Design
standards and enforcement issues were discussed. Further work needs to be done. Ms. Bertram stated Mr.
Ebersole generously offered to work with Adam Burney and the Historical Commission on revisions. Ms.
Bertram asked what has to be ready for the deadline for the warrant article for town meeting. Ms. Speidel
stated the warrant is open until the 23*d
. It goes to the printer at the beginning of April. Mr. Ebersole stated
he believed the text will be substantially completed in time for the warrant. The public hearing on the
village district bylaw is March 10"h
PACC-Mr. Ebersole reported the committee worked on policies and reviewed their budget. They held an
open house recently. Two additional committee members are needed. School Committee - Ms. Luck
reported the committee met on February 25"h.
'. School officials met during February break to plan the
transition to the new school in the summer of 2016. Mr. Londa reported the high school roof is leaking in
the same place as last year plus one new spot. Two classrooms had to be relocated. $10,000 has been spent
to mitigate these leaks so far with no success. They will try again this spring. The school calendar for next
year was approved. February vacation has been reduced to two days in order for the students to get out
earlier. A recommendation has come from the Department of Education to remove February and April
vacations and replace with a March vacation week. The committee will meet again on March 4 and it
has a joint meeting with the calendar advisory committee. School Building Committee- Mr. Alonzo
reported he was unable to attend the last meeting on site. The weather has slowed progress. Work
continues and the slack will be picked with the good weather. The next meeting is the 18th
'. Sewer
Commission- Mr. Ebersole reported the sewer commission is meeting tonight. They had a workshop on
improvements to the sewer extension policy. Pleasant View Avenue residents have been sent letters asking
who would be interested in participating in the sewer extension project. The commission is going out to
bid on the Pratt and Lakeview betterment project. There are two openings on the commission. Mr.
Ebersole added he failed to note earlier that there are two openings on the Board of Library Trustees also.
Jeanne Raboin and Robin Venezia will not be running for reelection.
===PAGE 5===
Town Manager Report- Ms. Speidel reported Governor Baker will be releasing his budget tomorrow. In
terms of local aid, Chapter 70 will receive an increase of 2.4% and Unrestricted General Government Aid
will have a 3.6% increase, more than anticipated.
Last Thursday Ms. Speidel attended a joint meeting of Bolton and Berlin Selectmen concerning feasibility
of regionalizing dispatch services. Their consultant's recommendation was they join the regional district
dispatch. Bolton is similar to Lunenburg in that they have a new public safety building with a dispatch
center; Berlin needs all their equipment replaced in the amount of $250,000 to $400,000. The
regionalization concept appeared to be well received by the public. If they were to move forward it would
not be until December 2016. Ms. Speidel is hopeful they will join. Savings for Lunenburg would appear in
fiscal 2017.
Ms. Speidel reported people are asking when the volunteer appreciation social is. A date of March 31s*
from 6:00 - 8:00 pm at the Eagle House Senior Center was confirmed.
Mr. Alonzo asked the board members to consider being a liaison to the Conservation Commission. They
meet twice monthly on the first and third Wednesday.
APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Speidel requested the Board appoint Jean Larkin, (citizen representative), Shelia Craigen (Board of
Assessors representative) and Myleen Mallari (Treasurer/Collector) to the Senior Tax Work Off
Committee.
Motion: P. Bertram
To appoint Jean Larkin, Shelia Craigen and Myleen Mallari to the Senior Tax Work Off Committee
with a term to expire June 30, 2015
2*d: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo asked for any final public comment before adjourning.
Mr. Ebersole wanted to follow up on several of the board's comments tonight regarding appointed or
elected people leaving their terms for various reasons and to thank them for their service. He wanted to
encourage others to step up or go from an existing committee to an elected position, It is hard work but
rewarding. Mr. Alonzo agreed. He stated it truly is a citizen run community except for employees. All of it
is overseen by elected officials who have other jobs. Mr. Toale wanted to echo Mr. Alonzo's statement
and thank everyone. He also noted Ms. Bertram is seeking reelection and he is thrilled with this.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
claire m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst. to the Town Manager
