===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
I put lip.
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MEETING MINUTES
August 11, 2015
.. . .
The Board of Selectmen met in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, as scheduled with Jamie
Toale, Chair; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chair; Thomas Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member and Phyllis Luck,
Member. Town Manager Kerry Lafleur was not present. The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment: Ms. Bertram announced the passing of David Shea, a longtime resident, on August 8".
Mr. Alonzo reported another longtime resident, Seymour "Sy" Schnuer passed away on August 7"
: The Board
expressed their condolences to both families.
Mr. Toale announced two very important public hearings this week; the first is the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) meeting which is reviewing the proposed Kinder Morgan gas pipeline on August 12'" at
7:00 PM at the Lunenburg High School, and the other is the Department of Public Utilities, also on August 12th
at 7:00 PM, at the Fitchburg Memorial Middle School, regarding Unitil's rate increase request. He encouraged
all citizens to attend either of these meetings. Mr. Alonzo stated it is important of the Lunenburg residents to
attend either of these meetings and let these officials hear their opinions. He added there will be another hearing
by the DPU due to the conflicting time of the two meetings.
Appointments
Mr. Toale read a memorandum from Town Manager Kerry Lafleur to the Board. Last month a screening
committee was formed to make recommendations for a candidate for the position of Council on Aging Director.
The members of the committee were Pete Lincoln, Council of Aging Chairman: Phyllis Luck, Board of
Selectmen member, and Ms. Lafleur. The position was advertised and four candidates were selected to be
interviewed by the screening committee. The candidate being recommended tonight is Sue Doherty. She has
been an employee of the Town for 21 years, 19 of which was with the Council on Aging. She has extensive
knowledge of COA operations and also has many ideas and suggestions for improvements. She has done a great
job during her term as acting COA Director, additionally Ms. Doherty has full support of the Council of Aging
as well as many of the seniors who attend the COA events and activities.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: P. Bertram
To appoint Sue Doherty as Council on Aging Director on the recommendation of the Town Manager and
Screening Committee
Discussion: Ms. Luck noted that committee interviewed four very qualified candidates and it was a tough
decision, but Ms. Doherty's experience and working knowledge of the Council on Aging and its mission
and actions clearly gave her the edge. She looks forward to working with her. Ms. Bertram stated she has
worked with Ms. Doherty dealing with aging parents and she has been a wealth of knowledge and it's
very easy to see in her environment how much the elders appreciate her and what a great job she does.
She added she was very happy to see her come forward for this position. Mr. Alonzo pointed out the two
previous COA Directors in support of her nomination and her appointment so that meant a lot to him
and the support that she has in that arena.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale congratulated Ms. Doherty. Applause arose in the room. Ms. Doherty thanked the Board.
1. Vote to Release Chapter 61A Option to Purchase Land at 150 & 164 White Street
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toale reported the last Board to consider the Chapter 61 land, the Conservation Commission, had met last
week and voted against recommending that the Town exercise its Right of First Refusal. Mr. Foster, 164 White
Street, requested the Board vote to not exercise its Right of First Refusal on the property.
Motion: P. Bertram
To not exercise the Town's Right of First Refusal on the Chapter 61A land containing 11.13 acres located
at 150 and 164 White Street
2'°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Foster thanked the Board.
2. Testimony for Unitil Hearing
Mr. Toale asked the Board members if they had reviewed the draft statement for the public hearing regarding
the Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company Hearing (D.P.U. 15-80). Mr. Alonzo stated he had no issue with
the draft but pointed out that one of the items Unitil had requested was automatic rate increases. He wondered
how the Department of public Utilities could allow that. He again encouraged people to voice their concerns
either orally or in writing. Mr. Toale agreed and also hoped the issue of inability to install residential solar
installations is brought up to start the conversation on that. Ms. Bertram believed it would be as Unitil has
alluded to it as part of the rate increase; in order to improve and upgrade the existing infrastructure. She added if
it doesn't come up, she will probably bring it up. Mr. Toale stated there was no motion needed on this draft.
3. Special Municipal Employee designations for Board of Registrars, Warden, Deputy Warden,
Election Clerks: Election Inspectors and Deputy Inspectors
Mr. Toale reported this designation is to avoid potential conflict of interest as discussed previously by the
Board. Mr. Ebersole stated it is actually a conflict of interest for a municipal employee to hold two paid
positions.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"': P. Bertram
To designated the following as Special Municipal Employees; Board of Registrars, Election Warden,
Election Deputy Warden, Election Clerks, Election Inspectors and Election Deputy Inspectors
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes of July 21, 2015 were presented for approval.
Warrants: A school custodian payroll warrant in the amount of $1937.66 was presented as well as the school
custodian payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $140.08. Accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$40,474.43 was presented. A payroll warrant in the amount of $496,430.79 along with the payroll deductions
warrant in the amount of $410,141.60 was presented.
Action File Issues
Mr. Toale stated he serves on the Cable Advisory Committee meeting and will be able to make the next meeting
on August 17". But he also serves on the Building Reuse Committee which meets around the same time as the
Cable Advisory Committee. He will be resigning from the CAC and asked if any other Board members were
interested in serving on this committee. No interest was shown by the other board members.
Committee Reports:
Board of Health -no report; Building Reuse Committee- met on the 7 and reviewed Requests for
Qualifications from the respondents, the committee has invited two firms to be interviewed on the 17" and they
Will make recommendations to the Board of Selectmen afterwards; Cable Advisory Committee- meets on the
17th; Capital Planning Committee- begins work again the first week of September; Conservation
Commission-met on the 5"h; there were several hearings; one discussion was on Lake Shirley herbicide
treatment and drawdown and the order of conditions; a lake management plan by Lake Shirley Improvement
Corporation will be requested by the Commission, the hearing has been continued to the 19'"h
* commissioners
are being asked to submit any questions in advance of the continued hearing; other violations and enforcements
were discussed; Finance Committee-meets on the 13th; Library Board of Trustees- no report; MART
Advisory- there was a meeting of the MART Finance Committee on August 5",
, the Unit 8 analysis as of June
30th shows a net surplus, which is the first one in years; other items discussed were formation of committees to
address executive compensation and an auditing subcommittee, Mr. Ebersole requested some feedback on the
===PAGE 3===
number of riders on the extended route. Ms. Luck will follow up. MPO- the August meeting was cancelled;
Planning Board-Mr. Ebersole noted they are beginning to review the entire zoning bylaw; PACC-they are
working on gathering information for the Cable Advisory committee for the license renewal negotiations; they
are also continuing to review their policies and procedures on a monthly basis; one vacancy remains on their
committee; School Committee-the asbestos abatement project at Turkey Hill was completed last Friday;
census data used to determine the Title 1 allocation for school districts revealed in Lunenburg the number of
families at the poverty level increased from 131 to 312; the system allocated $350,478, up from $123,00 from
last year, the funding will be used to hire two new reading specialists for the Title 1 program; a budget update
was presented; Chapter 70 budget was $5,834,483 and the town budget projected $5,808,799. A town meeting
vote is needed to allocate the additional revenue. The circuit breaker was fully funded, no final numbers
released yet. The kindergarten grant of $34,000 was restored by the legislature. There is a meeting on Thursday
and there is a workshop on goal setting and strategic planning afterwards. School Building Committee-meets
Thursday; Sewer Commission- is meeting tonight, the sewer project has begun; ZBA- no report
Mr. Toale stated the next meeting is on August i8t
and then on September Is. The Board will hold their next
workshop on September 8t'
continuing on goal setting.
Public Comment:
Sally Jahriss presented her resume to the Board regarding her upcoming request to be appointed to the Cultural
Council. She stated she has been in the arts since age ten; she has a Master's Degree in Arts Education and
wants to contribute to the community. Mr. Toale thanked her for coming in and will have her come back as
soon as possible. Ms. Bertram suggested Ms. Jahriss attend one of the Cultural Council to get a feel of what
they do. She thanked the Board.
Ms. Luck reminded everyone the Lions club Pancake breakfast is tomorrow morning.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:32 PM
2"d: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiem. Petetson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
