===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Amr
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 23, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member, Phyllis
Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Toale thanked all who attended the special town meeting last night. Ms. Luck thanked the Lunenburg
Police Department for continuing to patrol Lake Shirley on Sundays. She also encouraged everyone to attend
the Farmer's Market from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Boys and Girls Club are holding their Annual 'Are We There Yet SK Color Run' on
Sunday, August 28th at 10:00 a,m. Registration opens at 9:00 a.m. or you can preregister on their website at
http://bgcluboflunenburg.org. It will begin and end at 15 Memorial Drive.
Mr. Alonzo commented on the special town meeting, particularly inappropriate behavior during a presentation.
Sue Doherty, Council on Aging Director, reported in June that the Council on Aging (COA) voted to amend the
name of Eagle House Senior Center to Eagle House Senior Community Center in order to open it up more to the
community. There is a new program, Veterans' Coffee, held on the last Friday of the month from 9:00 - 10:30
a.m. Supporters of Eagle House will supply the coffee and doughnuts. The center also has darts, bocce and
horseshoes to play. A billiards table has been purchased and is coming soon. They are trying to make it more
inviting to a larger demographic of people. Faith Anderson, Outreach Coordinator, is going to be taking
applications for fuel assistance for any first-time applicants beginning in October.
COA Chairman Pete Lincoln reported the COA has prepared a letter to Ms. Lafleur. He read it aloud;
"The Lunenburg Council on Aging would like to thank you for your service to the Town of Lunenburg and for
your support of the Council on Aging. We believe you have been an outstanding Town Manager to our
community and your experience will be missed. It has been a pleasure working with you and the Council on
Aging wishes you the best of luck in your future endeavors." It was signed by COA members Pete Lincoln,
Judy Tarbell, Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Now, Brian Guenard, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Kevin McNally,
Betty DiGiacomo, Sarah Grant and Jane Rabbitt. He added a personal note stating," we will miss you, you have
been part of the fabric of town government and I hope you will hold memory in your heart as we will hold you
in ours." Applause resounded in the meeting room as he presented the framed letter to Ms. Lafleur.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion of Letter of Support for Town of Lancaster for Massworks Grant (cont.)
Ms. Lafleur referred the Board to a draft letter of support from the Lunenburg Board of Water
Commissioners which they would be sending on behalf of the Town of Lancaster for their grant application.
The Water District Board voted in support of the project and has begun drafting an Intermunicipal
Agreement with Lancaster. Discussion ensued on a draft support letter from the Board of Selectmen.
Motion: P. Bertram
21d: P. Luck
To authorize Chairman Toale to sign the letter as amended and read
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed
(Ebersole)
===PAGE 2===
2. Lunenburg Municipal Aggregation: Colonial Contract and Supply Contract with ConEdison Solutions
Ms. Lafleur stated this is a request to renew the existing agreement for management of the Town's municipal
aggregation program with Colonial Power Group/ConEdison Solutions and also to review the upcoming rate for
the next twelve months. She introduced Mark Cappadona from Colonial Power. Ms. Lafleur stated the contract
with Colonial Power is for three years for their consulting services. They assist in procuring power supply rates,
maintain a website and provide customer service for any questions on the program. Mr. Cappadona added they
also prepare an annual report for the state. Their consultant fee is .001 per kilowatt hour which is added on to
the supply rate on the utility bill. Ms. Lafleur clarified that there are actually two agreements; one for the
consulting services and the other for the twelve month supply (rate) contract.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To extend the Colonial contract as presented
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Cappadona reported rates are historically low right now. But one problem that is coming next summer is
capacity. We will be paying more due to that increasing need, actually doubling by then. The new rate is .09661
which runs through the November 2017 meter read. This is 7.46% lower than the contract that is ending.
Motion: R. Ebersole
znd. P. Bertram
To approve the supply contract with ConEdison Solutions for one year
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Cappadona thanked the Board and stated it has been a pleasure working with Ms. Lafleur over the last few
years.
3. Execute Boundary Agreement - 64 Chestnut Street
Ms. Lafleur reported at special town meeting the Board received authorization to execute the boundary
agreement with the property owner at 64 Chestnut Street. The agreement was reviewed by both town counsel
and the property owner's attorney. Both have agreed as to the form. The agreement recognizes the existing
stone wall as the boundary in exchange for the property owner agreeing to a release of claim against the town.
She presented two originals of each document.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'': T. Alonzo
To approve and execute the boundary line and the release of claim agreements concerning 64 Chestnut
Street
Ms. Bertram asked for clarification on blank lines remaining in the agreement. Ms. Lafleur stated the
"consideration paid of" line would be filled in with $1.00 and the "plan entitled" line is coming from the survey
company hired by the Town as it is being modified for recording. It is not known what it will be called until it is
received. It will allow the property owner to move forward on her sale of the property. Further discussion
ensued on the plan.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur exited the meeting to have Town Clerk Herrick notarize the agreements. Elaine Mroz, 64 Chestnut
Street and 3 Riley Road, stated she was as frustrated as the Board about the lack of promptness on this matter.
She added she has a buyer scheduled to close on the property on September 2n0.
• She requested the Board and
Town Manager put a rush on the process.
4. Review Proposed Scope of Work under Residential Pavement Management Program
DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz presented an update of the program. He thanked the Board for being the driving
force and seeing the need for this. He also thanked the voters for approving the funding. He presented the list of
roads and the calendar year they will be addressed. They may not be done in the order listed but will be done in
that calendar year. All crack sealing for 2016 will be done in September.
Ms. Bertram asked if storm drainage costs were considered. Ms. Lafleur stated the cost was estimated at
$850.00 per drainage basin with 600 basins amounting to $510,000. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Rodriquenz for his
presentation and keeping everyone informed
===PAGE 3===
Ratity Town Manager Appointment of DPW Worker- Christopher M. Clark
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": P. Bertram
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Christopher Clark to DPW/Heavy Equipment Operator
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Rodriquenz stated on behalf of the DPW, he wanted to thank Ms. Lafleur. She has been a great supporter,
noting her budget work to get more funding for paving. He also noted her previous efforts to get a new DPW
building. She will be missed. He added on a personal note, she has become a great friend. He thanked her.
5. Request to Approve FY 2016 Chapter 44, §33B Transfers
This will be continued to the September 6'' meeting.
6. Review Cost of larger-sized PAYT bags and consider offering
Ms. Lafleur reported currently the town offers 15 or 33 gallon, 1.35 mil bags, for pay as you throw. Larger bags
re available, a 40-42 gallon bag. i
aised the price for bags since 2008. Spresengested increasing prices effective bans ay 2. 17, some the Town
cost has increased. There is also opportunity to purchase a thicker (1.5 mil) 15 or 33 gallon bag that would cost
more. If the town decided to use 40 gallon bags, 1.75 mil, Ms. Lafleur proposed charging $3.95 per bag.
The current issue with larger bags is there would be increased disposal costs. Another issue could be weight and
disposal of prohibited items. Bags are limited to a maximum of 30 pounds under the contract. The larger the bag
the greater the potential for an over the limit bag. She suggested not implementing any changes until January 1,
2017 or later as we order bags twice per year.
7. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes of August 2, 2016 were approved. The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$374, 882.79; a payroll warrant in the amount of $265,404.39 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of
$76,433.57.
Ms. Lafleur presented the collective bargaining agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and the Laborer's
International Union of North America, Public Employees, Local 39 for signatures.
8. Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the Zoning Board of Appeals will be conducting a public hearing on September 14" on a
special permit request for John Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road, for a dimensional variation to create an
accessory apartment within the existing footprint of the dwelling on a non-conforming lot.
MART meets on August 30". The School Committee meets tomorrow and the Storm Water Task Force meets
on August 29"
The Conservation Commission met on the 17th and an extension was granted for 225 Pleasant Street, as well as
100 Pleasant Street and 190 Electric Avenue. The deadline is September 21" and a new remediation plan
proposal is needed. She requested an update from Land Use Director Burney for the September 6" meeting.
There was also a continuation on 181 Howard Street's enforcement order. A site visit is planned.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory Committee meets Monday where they will discuss PACC's business plan
and the cable survey done earlier this year. They will also set the agenda for the next year going into the cable
license renewal. Finance Committee met on the 11 and held a public hearing for the Special Town Meeting
articles. They meet again on the 25".
• The School Building Committee meets in September.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Sewer Commission is meeting tonight to determine betterments for the most recent
project.
Mr. Toale reported the Building Reuse Committee met on the 15th and heard two proposals and one alternate
proposal for their Requests for Bids. They meet again on the 29'' to further discuss those proposals and what to
do going forward. The Interim Town Manager Screening Subcommittee is interviewing some candidates this
week. The Town Manager Screening Committee is receiving resumes for the permanent position. The deadline
for those applications is September 9th
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Toale announced tonight's meeting is Ms. Lafleur's last Board meeting. He thanked her for her service to
the Town and particularly for her service to this Board and her contribution to this team. He wished her well in
her new endeavors. Mr. Alonzo stated he has said wonderful things on the performance of the Town Manager
over the years and the evidence has been clear. Of all the hundreds of votes he has participated in over the past
twelve years, the best vote he ever made was to vote to appoint her as CAFO and then Town Manager. He
thanked her for all she has done for Lunenburg.
Ms. Bertram also thanked her for all the time she has devoted to Lunenburg. She stated the time she has put in
has brought us to a much better place. She noted Ms. Lafleur's financial background, her ability to present and
look at a project or issue and find a solution that meets the needs of the town has been an incredible asset.
She regrets that she will be leaving but wished her the best. She truly hoped she would be happy in her new
position. Ms. Luck added that Ms. Lafleur has done it all with grace and composure. She stated Ms. Lafleur
never seemed to get rattled. She has been a great mentor for Ms. Luck and helped her when she was unfamiliar
with being a selectman. She added she was always very kind and never thought any question was dumb. She
thanked her for all she has done.
Ms. Lafleur thanked each member of the Board for the opportunity to serve adding it's been a lot of fun for her.
She wished she had been composed as much on the inside as much as it appeared on the outside. There certainly
have been things that have gotten her excited. She prided herself on not showing her excitement because it
doesn't always help to show the public. She stated it's been a lot of work but also a lot of fun working with all
of the department heads and seeing them grow. Ms. Lafleur stated it was nice to have some senior people here
when she started to carry her through. It was nice to have the opportunity to hire department heads. She felt the
town is a great organization and is happy to have been a part of building that organization. She is going to miss
working for the town; it does feel like her community even though she doesn't live here. It's an exciting time
for her and her family and she knows there will be a number of qualified persons applying for the position.
She offered any assistance with the new person coming in.
9. Town Manager Report - FY'16 MIIA Participation Credits
Ms. Lafleur reported the town is receiving $8,848.00 in FY 2016 MIIA Rewards Credits. She stated the
rewards program is something we participate in through Nancy Forest's coordination. She looked forward to the
town continuing on.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Bertram asked to amend the August minutes to record the opposing voter when a mixed vote is taken and
also for future minutes.
Mr. Toale announced their next meeting is September 6'
The meeting adjourned at 8:55 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine In Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
