===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Member and Phyllis Luck, Member
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 6:30 p.m.
Mr. Tale presented a base contract provided by Labor Attorney Mare Terry for the Town Manazateurs
contract. He had met with Ms. Lemieux earlier and had an idea of what she was interested in. Mr. Toale read
aloud some points Attorney Terry had made about the contract.
Ms. Lemieux is interested in a $60.00 monthly cell phone allowance, at least four weeks of vacation and
payment for her professional development (dues, subscriptions, meetings etc.). The Board determined a limit of
$5000 annually for the professional development.
Mr. Toale noted a "cooperation" clause in the contract that states she would provide information or testify as to
her actions as Town Manager subsequent to her working as Town Manager and to be reimbursed per diem for
expenses associated with her testimony and/or cooperation.
Discussion centered on Ms. Lemieux's request to have four, preferably five weeks' vacation. Consensus was to
settle for 20 days of vacation for the first year, 22 days the second year and 25 days the third year.
Mr. Toale stated Ms. Lemieux preferred 180 days' notice from the Board if her contract is not renewed.
The Board moved on to salary. Ms. Lemieux is seeking $120,000 annually. Discussion ensued over the amount.
The Board decided to offer $118,000. Mr. Toale will send an offer letter with the above discussed details.
Discussion turned to performance evaluations and incentives. It was decided to place wording in the contract to
amend the base salary annually depending on performance evaluations and other criteria.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": P. Luck
To exit Executive Session and go into Open Session
Vote: Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned at 7:10 p.m.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully submitted,
Clavie m. Petesson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
JUN 05 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
