===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
JANUARY 12, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager. The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo expressed thanks to Sharon McCullah's civics class who came to Town Hall today to hear him
speak about town government.
Mr. Ebersole announced extended hours for the Lunenburg Historical Society: the second Saturday of each
month starting in February from 1 to 3 pm, as well as their regular hours on Wednesdays from 9 - 12.
Ms. Luck attended a Cost Effective Storm Water Solutions workshop in November at WPI. It was very
informative. One presentation, Monoosnoc Brook Renewal in Leominster is available for viewing on
Lunenburg Public Access, courtesy of Leominster TV. The Lions Club monthly pancake breakfast is tomorrow
morning at Eagle House. Ms. Luck reported School Superintendent Calmes is seeking a new name for the
school for grades 3- 5 opening in fall 2016. Three names presented at the school committee meeting were:
Lunenburg Elementary, Turkey Hill Elementary and Oak Avenue Elementary, Residents of Lunenburg should
submit their choice in writing by 4:00 pm on Tuesday, March 1, 2016. Votes may be sent electronically to
petersen @lunenburgonline.com. Votes can also be sent to the School Committee by mail or otherwise
delivered to the Superintendent's Ottice, Room #12, Thomas C. Passios Building, 1025 Massachusetts Avenue,
Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, was here to report on some progress on accessing school building committee
minutes. The committee has submitted three months of minutes to the Town Clerk's office. He expressed
concern about the Building Reuse Committee's minutes. They have been meeting for ten months and no
minutes are available. Mr. Toale stated they have been approved and he will follow up. Mr. Rodgers inquired
about the status of negotiations with the Firefighters Union. Ms. Lafleur stated they are ongoing and scheduled
to meet with them again a week from Monday.
Current Business:
Ambulance Fee Abatement Request for $817.46
Ms. Lafleur stated this request was submitted via the Fire Chief's office. The application is complete and the
applicant meets the low income limits as set forth in the application process.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the abatement in the amount of $817.46
2nd. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Tollbooth Fundraiser Policy Amendment
Mr. Alonzo stated this agenda item should be an amendment to the form as there is no policy. Discussion
ensued on private businesses being promoted during a charitable fundraiser on public ways. It was suggested
the organization conducting the fundraiser could hand out a piece of paper showing the person had donated
already if they have to go back through the tollbooth.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: R. Ebersole
To amend the tollbooth fundraiser form under Special Conditions to read "No advertising of private
businesses is allowed during the fundraiser. "
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale recommended concluding the other agenda items before addressing #3 FY16 BOS Goals/ Pavement
Management.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $430,263.65; an accounts payable warrant in
the amount of $244,789.21 and a payroll warrant in the amount of $688,187.05.
Committee Reports:
Mr. Ebersole reported Sewer Commission is meeting tonight. Mr. Alonzo reported School Building Committee
meets tomorrow. One item being discussed will be the opinion from bond counsel regarding use of the
contingency fund. There will be a walk through of the school building first. The meeting will be recorded for
future broadcast. Finance Committee meets on Thursday. Cable Advisory meets at the end of the month. Ms.
Bertram reported Conservation Commission met on the 6'.
' it was a very long meeting going until 11:00 p.m.
There were a number of hearings realtive to routine filings. One item was 357 Electric Avenue for proposed
construction of a 4,500 square foot facility for Unitil. There was discussion concerning the plan, stormwater
flow, storage of utility poles, transformers and equipment, and impact to the wetlands. It was continued to next
week. At the Planning Board meeting similar concerns were expressed for the Unitil project. Unitil's engineer
presented a new technology (Petro-Plug). It allows water to run through but if oil comes into contact with it, the
barrier solidifies. This will be incorporated into the project design. It was continued to February 22nd
High
Field Village was on the agenda again last night; it was continued to February 8. MPO meets tomorrow.
Ms. Luck reported the MART Advisory meeting is on January 26'h. The Storm Water Task Force will hold their
first meeting tomorrow night. At the School Committee meeting last week, the Superintendent presented a
budget which is $312,600 over target. They meet again next week.
Mr. Toale reported the Building Reuse Committee will meet this Friday at 7:30 a.m. to review their final
presentation to this Board. Capital Planning met this afternoon; they have reviewed all requests and will spend
the next two meetings working on prioritizations. They will make their presentation to the Finance Committee
on January 28th
Ms. Lafleur indicated a warrant for the state primary needing signatures. From the Town Clerk Office: Absentee
ballots are available in the Town Clerk's office for the February 2°° Special Primary Election for Precinct B
voters only. The last day to register for this election is Wednesday, January 16. The Town Clerk office will be
open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. that day.
The Fire Department has recieved fire safety and education grants for the Student Awareness Fire Education
(SAFE) Program in the amount of $4,237 and the Senior Safe Program in the amount of $2,716. These grants
are aimed at students in primary school and senior citizens, educational materials. Special thanks to Captain Jim
Ricci and Lieutenant Mark Bursch for their work on the grant applications.
Mr. Toale suggested a five minute break be taken before they begin their workshop on Pavement Management.
The televised meeting ended at 7:25 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
