===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
Others in attendance: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 8:07 p.m.
Ms. Lafleur reported on Marshall Park abutter, Elaine Mroz and her claim against the Town. Ms. Lafleur had
spoken to Kopelman & Paige attorneys Joel Bard and Vicki Marsh regarding this issue. Ms. Mroz contacted
Ms. Lafleur because she is selling her Chestnut Street house and her buyer's realtor advised the buyer not to
close on the sale because the Town had a claim on the property that would take years to sort out. Ms. Mroz and
her realtor met with Ms. Lafleur earlier today. Ms. Lafleur clarified that the Town does not have a claim on the
Mroz property. Ms. Mroz would like the Town to acknowledge the stone wall as the property boundary. Ms.
Lafleur told Ms. Mroz the Town would be looking for her to drop her claim against the Town. Ms. Mroz
informed her that if she sells the property she would not have a claim against the Town anyway.
Ms. Lafleur asked Ms. Mroz if this would satisfy the buyer and she believed it would. It is complicated because
any disposition of town property requires town meeting approval. Any disposition of park land requires
approval of the state legislature.
After consulting with Attorney Marsh, the Board would send a letter that states as a show of good faith on
behalf of the Town, that if the Town determines after due diligence through additional title or survey work that
the property in question is owned by the Town, the Town would agree to convey the property provided they are
able to obtain the necessary approvals from Town Meeting and or the state if needed under Article 97. Further it
would be their understanding that in exchange Elaine Mroz will release all rights to her claim under the letter of
January 2016 sent to the Town. Ms. Lafleur stated she was using the word convey because it is uncertain what
we would be doing at this point. The issue is that trees were cut in July 2014, we worked for a period of time
with Ms. Mroz to come to a solution and it seemed the more we worked the further we got from it. We decided
to hire a surveyor to determine the park boundaries. The surveyor came back and said he wasn't able to close
the bounds. Last fall after a couple of public meetings the Parks Commission held with the residents, we
decided there seemed to be enough opposition to parking in that location that we should be looking tor other
locations. We knew we were never going to come to agreement with Ms. Mroz if we had the parking there. We
decided to hire a surveyor to do an existing conditions plan. We weren't focusing on the boundaries but wanted
to identify areas we could locate for parking as there are also wetlands on the property. We hired Whitman and
Bingham in the fall and in May they presented a plan to us. They returned the plan with a letter that you have
seen. What they found was there wasn't any problem with Ms. Mroz's deed. The Town deed raises an issue
with the western boundary, which is the boundary which borders Ms. Mroz's property. If you start from the
eastern point and proceed west along the frontage, there is an eighty foot overlap. This is the area where some
of the trees were cut. Most of the trees cut were located on the town side of the stone wall, but what was cut on
the other side was within that eighty foot boundary. That is a key point in trying to mitigate any damages we
have under the claim. Ms. Lafleur didn't think the property on the Mroz side of the stone wall is critical to the
park; the stone wall makes a nice boundary. According to what Whitman and Bingham said, if you took this to
land court, the resolution would most likely be the stone wall. She believed the letter that she and Ms. Mroz
discussed is a reasonable settlement to this issue. The question was asked if the Board could designate the stone
wall as the boundary. Ms. Lafleur stated no, town meeting would do that. Ms. Lafleur stated another item she
===PAGE 2===
- •k. Ebersole
To adjourn from Executive Session and reconvene in Open Session to adjourn
Vote: Mr. Ebersole- aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Toale-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
