===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting commenced at 6:00 p.m. Ms. Lafleur reported on the history of negotiations with the Public Employee
Committee. The Town adopted M.G.L. Chapter 32B, §19, which states a contract with a health insurance carrier shall be
in conformity with an agreement reached by the Town and a Public Employee Committee (PEC). The PEC is composed
of one representative from each union, one non-union representative and a retiree representative. Each collective
bargaining unit represented on the PEC shall have a vote equal to the proportion of employees eligible for health
insurance employed in the collective bargaining unit. The non-union representative does not have a vote. The retiree
representative gets a ten percent vote. The first agreement was negotiated by the Selectmen and the PEC. The current
contract went into effect in FY 2009. The two subsequent amendments were negotiated by Ms. Lafleur.
Ms. Lafleur stated the big issue coming up for the Town will be the Cadillac Tax; a levy on high-cost health-benefit plans
provided by employers to their employees. It imposes an excise tax of 40%, starting in 2018, on health plans whose value
is more than $10,200 for individual coverage and $27,500 for a family. She stated there may be a need to reduce benefits
or town contributions to avoid paying it. Suggestion was made to go for a three year contract with language that considers
the cadillac tax, if/when it arises.
Ms. Lafleur stated there has been an increase in retiree enrollment for health insurance benefits. Currently the Town
reimburses 75% of the Medicare Part B premium incurred by subscribers enrolled in it. The agreement language is unclear
on whether this applies to the retiree or the retiree and their spouse. Past practice has been to reimburse for both. The
agreement needs to be more clear on who is covered. The Town reimburses retirees around $200,000 annually for the
Medicare Part B and also pays a Medicare penalty of around $30,000 annually, but this amount is decreasing over time.
Suggestion was made to decrease the amount of employer contribution towards health insurance by a percentage every
three years. It was also suggested to research what other towns' contributions are for their employee's health insurance
Ms. Lafleur was seeking feedback on how to proceed with negotiations. It was decided she will proceed with negotiations
and report back to the Board of Selectmen. Ms. Lafleur will meet with the PEC next week to review the claims report.
This agreement expires June 30t" but negotiations will continue until agreement is reached.
The Board moved on to the next Executive Session.
Respectfully submitted,
Clairem. Peleison
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 05 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
