===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Ink
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
FEBRUARY 16, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk and Phyllis Luck, Member. Kerry
Lafleur, Town Manager and Paula Bertram, Member were absent. The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck stated over the weekend Ms. Lafleur, Mr. Alonzo and she had received an email from a resident
concerning the school building contingency fund. This person expressed that she did not believe contingency
money should be spent on items that were not part of the original scope and are not essential to meet the
objectives of the project. An email from another resident was received by the Town Manager that asked "Do
we need to remind you that the contingency fund is the taxpayers' money?"
Mr. Toale announced absentee ballots are now available for the March 1, 2016 Presidential Primary and the
Precinct B Special State Representative Election. Absentee voting is available at the Town Clerk's office
during regular office hours. The Town Clerk's office is closed on Friday. The Town Clerk office will open for
absentee voting on Saturday, February 20 from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. for anyone unable to vote on Election
Day. Absentee voting closes for both elections on Friday, February 29, 2016. The actual elections will both be
held at T.C. Passios Elementary School on March 1st
'. Polls open at 7:00 a,m. and close at 8:00 p.m. For more
information call the Town Clerk's office at 978-582-4130. Also, if you interested in working during the
election, please contact the Town Clerk office.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all that the Boys and Girls Club "Are You Smarter than Our Sixth Graders? fundraiser
will be Friday, March 11 at 7:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg High School. He encouraged people to support them by
going to their webpage: http://bgcluboflunenburg.org/wp/ and to attend a fun event.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. A. License Transfer Hearing of All Alcohol General On Premise License for MIJ, Inc. from
MLMR, Inc.d/b/a Primetime Pub
Mr. Toale read the hearing notice aloud: "The Lunenburg Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on
February 16, 2016 at 7:00 PM in the Town Hall, Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, 17 Main St.
Lunenburg, on the application submitted by MIJ, Inc. d/b/a J & M's Sports Bar, for a transfer of a General On
Premise All Alcohol license from MLMR, Inc. d/b/a Primetime Pub, located at 5 Summer Street, Lunenburg,
MA. The premises is described as a 22' × 78° end unit, one large room with bar, storage area, 2 bathrooms, 1
entrance, 1 exit, seating for 48. Jamie Toale, Chairman/Board of Selectmen/Licensing Authority"
Melissa Thibodeau, applicant, stated she was here for the license transfer hearing. Mr. Toale stated the
paperwork was in order and asked the Board if they had any questions for the applicant. Mr. Alonzo asked if
the fees had been paid and a CORI performed. Mr. Toale affirmed. Mr. Ebersole asked if the hours of operation
and everything else would be the same as the current establishment. Ms. Thibodeau affirmed. Mr. Toale asked
if anyone else was here to speak for or against the application. There was not. Mr. Toale announced the public
hearing was closed
Motion: T. Alonzo
2*:R. Ebersole
To approve the transfer of the General On Premise All Alcohol license transfer as presented
Vote: All in Favor
B. License Approvals: Automatic Amusement, Jukebox, Common victualer, Weekday Entertainment
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toale moved on to the request for Automatic Amusement, Jukebox, Common Victualer, and Weekday
Entertainment licenses for MIJ,Inc. d/b/a as J & M's Sports Bar.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'd. T. Alonzo
To approve the automatic amusement, jukebox, common victualer and weekday entertainment licenses
for MIJ, Inc. d/b/a J & M's Sports Bar as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale moved on to current business until the next hearing scheduled for 7:30 p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Notification of Change of Sunday Hours for Lunenburg Liquors
Mr. Toale stated this is a change to opening hours on Sunday from 12 Noon to 10:00 a.m. This is notification
from the licensee and does not need Board of Selectmen authorization.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: T.Alonzo
To receive and accept the notification of change of hours for Sunday sales for Lunenburg Liquors
Vote: Áll in Favor
2. License Survey Discussion (continued)
Mr. Ebersole noted Ayer and Lancaster were at the higher end for license fees. Mr. Toale stated he had done
some calculations and if we compare our fees to the highest fees, we would be $35,000 behind. If we were to
compare ourselves to the average fees, we would run $5,000 behind. Ms. Luck noted the most licenses issued
were common victualer (35) and were $25.00. She added the Town would be able to charge up $100 for a
common victualer license. Mr. Alonzo stated his definition of a license fee was that it should be based on what
it costs the Town to process a license. Mr. Ebersole stated he agreed and asked does this also cover police for
enforcement, which wouldn't be too much based on past behavior.
Mr. Toale stated he had a slightly different take on Mr. Alonzo's point; not so much as to recover the
administrative costs but to balance the cost of a license with the economic development upside for the Town.
Mr. Alonzo asked why the Town licenses jukeboxes, are jukeboxes out of control in Lunenburg? Mr. Ebersole
stated it mostlikely originated from getting them licensed way back when automatic amusement devices were
licensed to avoid illegal gambling. Mr. Alonzo stated he was fine with everything and if there was one fee to
change it could be for common victualer licenses. It was decided to request a cost analysis for processing a
license application.
3. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board approved minutes of January 19, 2016. The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the
amount of $181,604.51 and a school construction warrant in the amount of $2,543,308.05. The Board also
signed 5 original warrants for the Presidential Primary and the Precinct B Special State Representative
elections.
Action File Issues: none.
APPOINTMENT-Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC)
Mr. Toale stated the request to appoint Brian Corcoran to the APDC came from Chairman Richard McGrath.
Mr. Corcoran had been before the Board in November and no one else has come forward to request to be
appointed. Mr. Corcoran is a resident in the APD and is still interested in serving.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": R. Ebersole
To appoint Brian Corcoran to the APDC with a term to expire June 30, 2018
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale announced there still was one opening on the APDC. There are still vacancies on Town boards and
committees, 2 on PACC, 1 on Finance Committee, 1 on the Personnel Committee and 2 on Cable Advisory.
He encouraged anyone interested to submit a talent bank form to the Board of Selectmen office.
Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported School Committee meets tomorrow. She and Ms. Lafleur met with MART officials to see if
Lunenburg could provide more beneficial van transportation services to more of our residents without adding
===PAGE 3===
cost. MART will be able to increase the current loop from town center to the Shirley line. In order to do this
they will need to reduce the number of trips from seven to five per day. The big advantage is that disabled
residents will be able to request the MART van pick them up at other times other than the loop schedule. This
will go into effect on March 1, 2016 and will be an agenda item that night. Mr. Toale thanked Ms. Luck for her
work on MART. Ms. Luck reported the ZBA was unable to meet with Gary Lorden so that was rescheduled.
Storm Water Task Force met recently and they discussed the role other boards play pertaining to storm water
management. They concluded there has to be more collaboration between boards. They will be looking at the
MS4 reporting process and other storm water coalitions. Their next meeting is March 10*
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets in March. Finance Committee met last week and he was unable to
attend but the meeting is on the Lunenburg public access channel. Ms. Lafleur presented the FY2017
budget.Finance Committee meets again this Thursday where they will start reviewing department budgets.
These will go over the next consecutive weeks. School Building Committee met last Wednesday. There was a
presentation given by an artifical turf company. They went over other items remaining on the contingency list.
These will be under further discussion in March.
Mr. Ebersole reported Library Trustees meet this Thursday. PACC meeting was postponed to the 22" and
Sewer Commission meets next Tuesday. No report for Board of Health.
Mr. Toale reported Capital Planning is done and is available for Finance Committee, if needed. Building Reuse
will be meeting with department heads concerning space needs.
Class II Auto Dealer License Hearing 1312 Mass Ave. Michael Bartnowski
Mr. Toale read the hearing notice aloud "The Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on February 16,
2016 at 7:30 p.m. at Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor, Lunenburg, on the application submitted by Michael
Bartnowski d/b/a KC Sales and Services LL.C, for a Class II Auto Dealer License. The license is to be exercised
at premises located at 1312 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. Jamie Toale, Chairman, Board of
Selectmen/Licensing Authority"
Applicant Michael Bartnowski came forward. Mr. Ebersole noted the ZBA approved the special permit and
provided conditions. Mr. Bartnowski presented the certified letter receipts for the abutter notifications. Mr.
Toale noted the CORI came back with no findings.
Mr. Alonzo asked how many cars would be allowed. Mr. Bartnowski answered 35 including employee cars. Mr.
Toale asked if there was anyone present that was in favor or opposed to the application. There were none. He
closed the public hearing.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d.R. Ebersole
To approve the Class II Auto Dealer license for KC Sales and Services, LLC located at 1312 Mass
Avenue
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale announced their next meeting is on March 1st
There was no further public comment.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting at 7:33 p.m.
2^°: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
claim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
