===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 16, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with Jamie
Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member and Phyllis Luck, Member
Not attending: Tom Alonzo, Member; Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
Others attending: Patty Specht, Debra Hall
Finance Committee: Terri Burchfield, Chair; Mark Erickson, Member; John Henshaw, Vice Chair
Planning Board: Matthew Allison, Chair; Greg Bittner, Clerk
Board of Zoning Appeals: Ray Beal, Chair; Al Gravelle, Vice Chair
Architectural Preservation District Commission: Richard McGrath, Chair, Jim Laveck. Member
Board of Assessors: Lou Pranco, Chair; Rich Letarte, Member
Public Access Cable Committee: Faith Beall
Sewer Commission: Carl Luck, Chair
Cultural Council: Maryellen Letarte
Town Clockwinder: George Martin
Library Board of Trustees: Richard Mailloux
Housing Authority: Liz Murphy
Parks Commission: Pete McCauliff
The meeting opened at 7:15 p.m. as the Executive Session was cancelled.
The Board met with the above listed committee members and discussed various options for recruiting volunteers by
building interest in participating in town "leadership," having a vision/purpose message for each committee and
publicizing the rewards of volunteering via the website, newspaper, public access and televising meetings and events. The
talent bank form introduces an applicant and their committee preterences.
Other items discussed were having the new member becoming familiar with the charge and work of the committee. This
can be achieved in various ways such as attending meetings before being appointed to see if there is further interest and
serving as an associate before becoming a voting member. Once appointed follow up training on Robert's Rules of Order
and the Open Meeting law is recommended.
Discussion on performance of a board/committee occurred
Finally, communication to the public, with the Board of Selectmen and between other boards was discussed.
Ms. Bertram and Mr. Ebersole took specific notes and will report out on all the suggestions and a proposed template for
committees to use.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $574,486.58, a school construction warrant in the amount
of $1,997,702.35 and a payroll warrant in the amount of $555,439.20
Motion: R. Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting
2nd. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elainch Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
