===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
June 7, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk and Kerry Lafleur, Town
Manager
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member
Mr. Toale called the meeting to order at 6:00 P.M. Mr. Toale stated the reason for meeting in Executive
Session. "Chapter 30A, § 21A (3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and the Chair declares so. (For the
purpose of discussing consent to mediate in Caron-Gustus case.) "
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd.R. Ebersole
To enter Executive Session and upon adjournment to enter into Open Session
Vote: Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
*****
**************Executive Session Minutes Are Separate********************************
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo reported we have official notice that Kinder Morgan/Tennessee Gas Pipeline has withdrawn
its certificate of application. He congratulated all the Lunenburg graduates of 2016. He thanked the Memorial
Day Committee for inviting him to speak at the ceremony. It was well attended. He thanked Lunenburg Ledger
reporter Anne Gilman for her kind words regarding his speech. He also wanted to thank the Police and Fire
Department for their memorial event on Sunday.
Mr. Ebersole thanked all those who voted to reelect him and those who voted in favor of the debt exclusion for
the town's roads.
Mir. Toale thanked the voters for his reelection and the debt exclusion approval. He thanked the Memorial Day
Committee and Mr. Alonzo for his speech. He thanked the Police Department and Boy Scouts who served as
the Honor Guard. It was a very moving ceremony. He encouraged anyone who wants to participate next year to
come forward. He encouraged anyone who hasn't attended the Fire/Police memorial to go to it as well.
APPOINTMENT:
Historical Society 50*h Anniversary Dedication
Members Chuck Venezia and Bill Tyler presented to request permission to use the parking lot in the front of the
Historical Society located at 10 School Street for the dedication and cornerstone laying event of the building on
July 31ªt
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: T. Alonzo
To allow use of the parking lot for the 50# anniversary dedication
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Board Reorganization
Motion: R. Ebersole
To nominate Jamie Toale as Chairman
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
Motion: T. Alonzo
To nominate Bob Ebersole as Vice Chairman
Motion: R. Ebersole
To nominate Tom Alonzo as Clerk
2": J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
2": J. Toale
Vote: All in Favor
2. FY 2017 BOS & Town Manager Goals
3. Date for Volunteer Appreciation Social
Mr. Toale stated the next item was to set the date for the Town Manager's and Board of Selectmen's FY 2017
goal setting workshop. He will check with Executive Assistant Peterson for a date that everyone will be present.
He also will work with her on the volunteer appreciation social date for some time in July.
4. Notice of Commonwealth's Proposed Acquisition of Agricultural Preservation Restriction (APR)
on property located in Lunenburg, Lanni Orchards, 294 Chase Road- Project ID #16A01
Ms. Lafleur reported the Town had been notified by the MA Department of Agricultural Resources of their
proposal to purchase an Agricultural Preservation Restriction (APR) for the farmland located at Chase Road,
specifically Lanni Orchards. The Town is required to post the notice and make a public announcement.
The notice has been posted and this evening is the public announcement of the proposal. The appraisal has been
performed on the property and the owners are in agreement with it. The Town has been asked to contribute 10%
of the property value ($580,000) or $58,000. Any contribution from the Town needs to be approved at a Special
Town Meeting. MDAR had gone through this process in 2012 but the owners and the MDAR could not come
to agreement on the property appraisal. Ms. Lafleur reported the Town is actually in a better position now
because it has adopted a Right to Farm bylaw and has an Agricultural Commission, thereby reducing the
Town's requested contribution. Ms. Lafleur reported the Town has to act within 120 days, but after speaking
with Michelle Padula at MDAR earlier today, has found out the state expects a year or more to close on the
APR, which gives the Town more time to appropriate their proposed contribution.
The Agricultural Preservation Restriction Program is a voluntary program which is intended to offer a non-
development alternative to farmers and other owners of prime and state important agricultural land who are
faced with a decision regarding future use and disposition of their farms. The program offers to pay the farm
owners the difference between the fair market value and agricultural value of their farmland in exchange for a
permanent deed restriction which precludes any use of the property that will have a negative impact on its
agricultural viability. The current use of the property is primarily for small fruit/orchard/vegetables production.
Ms. Lafleur reported Massachusetts' APR program began as an act of legislature in 1979 and was the first in the
nation. The MA APR program has permanently protected over 800 farms and a total land area over 68,000
acres. The primary purpose of the program is to preserve and protect agricultural land, including designated
farmland soils which are a finite resource, from being built upon for non-agricultural purposes or being used for
any activity detrimental to agriculture. It is also to maintain APR land values at a level that can be supported by
the land's agricultural uses and potential. She did not believe the property located on Chase Road is serviced by
municipal sewer or water. It is a fairly developable piece of property and one that the town should consider
supporting. This proposal will be forwarded to Conservation Commission, Planning Board and Agricultural
Commission for review and recommendation. It will then come back to the Board for consideration and vote.
5. Discussion of how to proceed on Power Purchase Agreement
Ms. Lafleur reported the Board has asked the Annual Town Meeting minutes be checked for what was said
to the voters regarding power purchase agreements. Mr. Ebersole stated the Board had told voters for future
solar projects they would come back to town meeting even though the Board was authorized to enter into
them. His intention at that point was the discussion as far as where future solar projects would be located in
the town. He stated we are talking about locating solar on top of the new Middle/High School as long as we
can come to agreement on the aesthetics on how the building looks. He didn't think this type of project was
what the Board intended. The Board was trying to deal with solar in the backyards of various people and
===PAGE 3===
they didn't want to do that in commercial areas or other similar areas without having the town have some
information on that. He did not have a problem with the Middle/High School solar installation that would be
generating revenue directly back to the town. Ms. Lafleur stated John Londa was here to update the Board
and explain why it was important to act in a timely manner regarding these power purchase agreements. Mr.
Londa reported the Town had entered into an agreement with Nexamp for the 650 kw system; 325 kw for
the town and 325 kw for community solar. That project is moving along. They are working on the financing
and expect to start construction within the next month. They expect to be completed by the end of the year
and be online by 2017. The next project is for the DPW and the Middle/High School roof. This needs to be
completed by the end of the year due to the SREC II deadline. He is waiting for the green light to begin this
project.
Mr. Londa stated there could be another proposed project. Robert Patterson and Associates, our solar
technical advisor, informed him Borrego Solar has a proposal for a 650 kw system/project coming to the
Unitil service area. Borrego Solar is seeking a municipal host and inquired if Lunenburg is interested.
Savings for the Town would be around $56,000 per year for 20 years. Mr. Londa did indicate to Borrego
that the Town was interested and requested a letter of intent from them. He proposed to split this 50/50
between the Public Safety Building and the Lunenburg Primary School and Middle/High School.
Ms. Lafleur noted the timing on some of these proposals/projects can be short and not wait until a town
meeting. The sooner a project is negotiated and going the better. She did not believe any other town
business items would be ready for a fall STM. Mr. Alonzo stated it was important for him to keep the
Board's word to the voters for what they said they would do. He preferred to hold a special town meeting if
it meant more revenue for the Town. Mr. Toale stated to create a Special Town Meeting for the sake of
announcing another power purchase agreement did not make sense to him because the Board is already
authorized. Mr. Ebersole stated he agreed with Mr. Alonzo on that part, but his reference was to private
projects that was going to go on land elsewhere in town. If we were going to put something on the school
and the School Committee and this Board voted on it, that would be sufficient for him. He suggested the
Board could put the word out there, send it to the press, ask for public comment and feedback.
Mi. Ebersole offered to call some of the people who spoke to this at that town meeting for feedback by the
next Board meeting. The Board continued this discussion to the next meeting.
6. Budget Revision Requests #10, #11, #12, #13
School Committee Chair Mike Mackin presented budget revision requests which cover all of the current
change orders approved by the School Building Committee. BRR#10 is in the amount of $31,540 that
covers some ADA compliance of where certain humidity sensor mountings were.
BRR#11 is in the amount of $16,999, for adding electrical service that might serve a future touchscreen
athletics archive, electronic door hardware revisions, and electrical and sensor work for the walk-in freezer
alarm in the kitchen. BRR #12 is in the amount of $7,127 for providing electrical/data wireless for the
outdoor classroom. The majority of the work was generously donated by the power company.
BRR #13 in the total amount of $768,768, is in various amounts; $56,415 for the added site digital sign,
$181,197 to furnish and install the new maintenance garage, $528,815 for the added cooling at classroom
wings, and $2,341 for a stadium wheelchair lift enclosure.
He provided a progress report on the school construction. Phase 1 of the construction is complete. Phase 2
will begin next week which includes hazardous materials abatement beginning in the gym. After that the
gym will be taken down. The fields should be completed in the fall. This week is moving week. They are
finishing up commissioning which tests all the operational systems. As a School Building Committee
member, Mr. Alonzo reported there are no further change orders that he is aware of, leaving $3,168,612
remaining in the construction contigency. He wanted to reiterate everyone who has worked on this project
has been great to work with and very professional.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: R. Ebersole
To authorize the Chair to sign the Budget revision requests as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Mackin to comment on the letter requesting former School Committee member
Colleen Shapiro be appointed to the School Building Committee as a citizen at large. Mr. Mackin explained
===PAGE 4===
that Ms. Shapiro did not elect to run for School Committee again but wanted to see the school building
project through to its end.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To appoint Colleen Shapire to the School Building Committee
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale moved on to the resignation of Karin Menard from the Finance Committee effective May 25,
2016, due to being elected to the Parks Commission.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To accept the resignation of Karin Menard from the Finance Committee
2": R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
The Board thanked Ms. Menard for her service to the Finance Committee and welcomed her future service
on the Parks Commission. Mr. Toale reminded the meeting that there are several vacancies on town
committees. Mr. Alonzo stated there are now three vacancies on the Finance Committee.
The Board approved minutes of May 10, 2016. An accounts payable warrant of $787,364.50, another
accounts payable warrant of $450,833.58 and a payroll warrant of $770,431.27 were signed.
Committee Reports:
Mr. Alonzo reported School Building Committee meets tomorrow. The School has its certificate of
occupancy. Cable Advisory Committee meets in July. Finance Committee meets this Thursday.
Mr. Ebersole reported due to work obligations he will have to step back from some of his liaison duties and
will communicate that to some of the affected committees. He will ask them to relay anything they want
announced at Board meetings to him until he can resume attendance at the meetings.
Mr. Toale had no committee reports this evening.
There was no further public comment.
Motion:T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2^d: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaineh. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
