===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
March 1, 2016
Those present:
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram,, Member; Phyllis Luck,
Member
Not present: Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman
Others in attendance: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
Chairman Toale opened the meeting at 6:05 p.m. and declared the reason for entering Executive Session.
"To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair declares so; PFFM
Collective Bargaining Agreement."
Motion: T. Alonzo
To enter into Executive Session for the stated reason
2nd: P. Luck
Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Toale- aye
**·***********************-*Executive Session Minutes parate**************************
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck read an email sent from a concerned citizen regarding the School Building Committee spending
contingency funds on discretionary items. The email read the approval of murals was based on subjective value
of the items not objective standards.
Mr. Alonzo asked what was the purpose of reading these emails aloud at a Board of Selectmen meeting and not
at a School Building Committee meeting? He did not understand why this forum was being used to present
these when all of these emails have already gone to all the members of the School Building and School
Committee members. Ms. Luck replied she wasn't sure this email was forwarded to all the above listed
committees. She added the Board of Selectmen is the Chief Executive of the Town and residents look to this
Board to be leaders and for information. The Board of Selectmen met with the School Building Committee
here. The School Building Committee is considering spending the four million dollars of contingency funding.
She stated she had no confidence that the School Building Committee is approaching the use of the contingency
funds in a frugal manner. Mr. Alonzo stated so this is what it comes down to; there are members of this Board
who have no contidence in the School Building Committee who have kept the project completely on time and
under budget. They were duly authorized by Town Meeting vote to do the project which is going to come in
very much under budget. He stated he would love to see any evidence that the School Building Committee is
not acting without confidence of what we are being asked to oversee. This seems to be an endless series of digs
at the committee over and over. It just gets to be tiring.
Mr. Alonzo moved on to announce the polls were still open until 8:00 p.m. tonight. He reminded those present
that they are getting close to the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club fundraiser "Are You Smarter Than Our Six
Graders?" scheduled for Friday, March 11* at 7:00 p.m. at Lunenburg High School. They are still looking for
three teams to participate.
Mr. Toale reported there would be an agenda item on the March 8* meeting concerning the role of the
Selectmen on various committees and as liaisons.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toale stated in anticipation of the Annual Election on Saturday, May 21, 2016, the Citizens Party Caucus.
Will be held on Monday, March 14, 2016 at the Turkey Hill Middle School, 129 Northfield Road at 7:00 p.m.
Anyone interested in running for office should attend the Caucus, and if nominated, will be placed on the ballot.
Those who are not nominated that evening may pick up nomination papers from the Town Clerk office. Those
papers must be returned to the Town Clerk with a minimum of 42 valid voter signatures on or before Thursday,
March 24th at 4:00 p.m. He read aloud the offices to be filled: (2) Selectmen for 3 years, (2) Sewer
Commissioners for 3 years, (1) Sewer Commissioner for 2 years, (1) Sewer Commissioner for 1 year, (1)
Board of Health member for 3 years, (1) Assessor for 3 years, (1) Town Clerk for 3 years, (1) Constable for 3
years, (2) School Committee members for 3 years, (1) Park Commissioner for 3 years and (1) for 2 years, (1)
Commissioner of Trust Funds for 3 years, (1) Cemetery Commissioner for 3 years, (2) Library Trustees for 3
years and (1) for 2 years, (1) Planning Board member for 5 years and (1) Housing Authority for 5 years.
Mr. Toale also reported the Town Census has been mailed. If you haven't received one, contact the Town Clerk
office at 978-582-4130 and one will be mailed to you. Also, dog licenses are due April 1% and are now available
in the Town Clerk office.
Mr. Toale reported on February 25" he attended a Salvation Army event called "Angels Among Us." It was a
thank you dinner for volunteers from Fitchburg, Leominster and Lunenburg for their work during 2015. Many
Lunenburg residents were recognized for their efforts. Lunenburg resident Dave MacDonald was named
"Superhero Volunteer of the Year." He congratuled Mr. MacDonald.
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street, Board of Health member, announced for homeowners with failed septic
systems that the Board launched their septic/sewer loan program in February and applications are still being
accepted. Loans are written with two percent interest rates and a betterment placed on the property. Contact the
Board of Health office for more information at 978-582-4146. There is also information on the Town website.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Boys & Girls Club Week Proclamation
The program director from the Boys and Girls Club came forward and explained the National Week is the week
they get to showcase the best of our club. He thanked the community for supporting them.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d: T. Alonzo
To sign the proclamation proclaiming March 7 through 12, 2016 as Boys & Girls Club Week in
Lunenburg
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale read the proclamation aloud:
Whereas, the young people of Lunenburg, Massachusetts are tomorrow's leaders and
Whereas, many such young people need professional youth services to help them reach their full potential; and
Whereas, there is a Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg providing services to more than 200 young people
annually, and Whereas, Boys & Girls Clubs are places where great futures start. They are at the forefront of
efforts in providing Health and Life Skills, The Arts, Education & Career Development, Sports, Fitness and
Recreation and Character and Leadership Development, Whereas, Boys & Girls Club organizations in our state
help ensure that our young people keep off the streets, offering them a safe and supportive place to go and
providing them with quality programs; and Whereas, Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg will celebrate National
Boys & Girls Club Week, 2016 along with some 4000 Clubs and more than two million young people
nationwide. We, therefore, the Board of Selectmen do hereby proclaim March 7 through March 12, 2016 as
Boys and Girls Club Week in Lunenburg, Massachusetts, and call on all citizens to join us in recognizing and
commending the Boys and Girls Club organizations in our state for providing comprehensive, effective services
to the young people in our communities.
2. Vote to Change MART Route in Lunenburg
Ms. Luck reported she and Ms. Lafleur met with MART officials to arrange for more beneficial van services so
that more residents could be helped. To provide additional service without added cost, MART is going from
seven, 30 minute loops to five, 45 minute loops per day. The service will begin at 12:45 p.m. and the last loop
goes out at 3:45 p.m. Complimentary ADA service is provided up to ¾ of a mile from a fixed route. Clients
===PAGE 3===
who require and qualify for this service must fill out an ADA application at the MART office. Upon being
determined eligible they would call the MART office to schedule transportation. The map to define the ¾ mile
eligibility zones is still being worked on. The new schedule/service goes into effect today.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To amend the Mart routes as presented by Ms. Luck
2"d.P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Bertram thanked Ms. Luck on her continued work on the MART routes.
3. Further Discussion on Financing of Pavement Mgmt. Plan
This item was tabled until March 15.
4. Third Amendment to Intermunicipal Agreement (Devens Regional Household Hazardous Products
Collection Program)
Ms. Lafleur reported the town is one of a number of members in this program. Residents of Lunenburg can
drop off items ten times per year at the site at Devens. The Town has been a member since 2012.
This is a request to approve the third amendment to add the Town of Stow to the program. There are no
additional costs to the Town for this.
Motion: P. Bertram
To approve the third amendment to the intermunicipal agreement
2"d, T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes of February 2, February 9 and February 16, 2016 were approved. An accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $644,219.92 was signed.
Action File Issues: Ms. Luck asked the Board to consider adding an alternate member to the Storm Water Task
Force due to a lack of quorum. Members of the Task Force are sometimes not available to attend due to other
committee obligations. Land Use Director Adam Burney will be attending all of the meetings and could fill in
when needed. It was decided to add this to a future agenda.
Mr. Alonzo requested considering adding a larger "construction size" bag to the approved yellow town trash
bags.
6. Committee Reports:
Ms. Bertram reported there is an MPO meeting next week and a Conservation Commission meeting tomorrow.
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee renewed its FY2017-2019 Transportation contracts. There was a
$40,000 increase in the contract as the vendor has reported the state mandated it pay its part-time employees for
sick time. There was no cost increase in the Special Education contract with Van Pool.
A Master Teacher project was presented by Robert Truax. These projects are approved annually and a $5000
stipend is awarded for approximately 100 hours of work. School committee meets again tomorrow night.
Zoning Board of Appeals is meeting on March 235 and will hear the petition of Douglas Jackson for a special
permit to use 436 Massachusetts Avenue for a single family home. The Storm Water Task Force met on
February 10# and discussed the role that town boards play in storm water control, with a goal of better
coordination among boards. They will be meeting the second and fourth Thursday of each month. The next
meeting is March 10'
The Planning Board met on February 22nd
• There was an informational meeting on 339 Electric Avenue (Unitil)
and that project was approved. Unitil representatives updated the board on changes done due to previous
suggestions made by the Conservation Commission. Unitil will return to the Planning Board on March 14*.
". The
public hearing on 274 Prospect Street (Highfield Village) was continued to March 28th
". The Highfield Village
applicant was looking to build their project as a cluster zoning development. Town bylaw calls for dwelling
units to be developed on a maximum of 50% of the land within the development (120 acres) with the remaining
50% of the land (60 acres) being designated as permanent open space. Not more than 10% of the open space (30
acres) shall consist of wetlands. In lieu of a cluster development a lot can be developed in a minimum of five
===PAGE 4===
acres each. Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets later this month. School Building Committee meets
again on March 23rd
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee is willing to meet with any board to bring them up to speed on
the work they are currently doing. They are preparing to do a market analysis on the municipal buildings.
Town Manager Report: The Finance Committee continues to review the individual department budget
requests for Fiscal Year 2017 through the end of this month. She reported the School Committee is interested in
transferring the ownership of the TC Passios building to the Town as soon as Annual Town Meeting in May.
The school is not proposing anything in their Fiscal Year 2017 budget to carry the operating/maintenance costs
of that building. Ms. Lafleur is working with the School Superintendent to continue to lease that building to the
current tenants at a cost to cover the building maintenance expenses. Flacc and PACC are currently renting
space there.
Mr. Toale announced the next meeting is on March 8th
Public Comment:
Dave Rodgers requested clarification on the MART schedule as it relates to Veteran Jim Bellafiore. Ms. Luck
stated he needs to provide an ADA application to MARI. Ms. Latluer added once he is determined eligible for
the service; he will be provided door to door service by MART during their business hours. Mr. Rodgers wanted
to thank the Senior Center personnel for assisting during this transition time. He also thanked the Board for their
help. Ms. Bertram thanked Mr. Rodgers for his assistance as well.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:42 p.m.
2'd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
chanch Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
