===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
June 14, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk and Kerry Lafleur, Town
Manager
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mr. Toale announced the Town Clerk office will be closed on Thursday, June 16" but will be open on Friday,
June 17* from 8 a.m. to 12 Noon. He announced the following vacancies on committees: Finance Committee-
three; Architectural Preservation District Commission - one; Sewer Commission (elected position) - one; Fence
Viewers, Public Access Cable Committee-two; Cable Advisory Committee-one; Storm Water Task Force-one;
Personnel Committee-one and Conservation Commission-one.
Mark Bursch, Lunenburg Water District Commission Chair, presented an update on their work. They met
following Town Meeting and reviewed their warrants and minutes. The Superintendent informed them of
pending receipt of a Memorandum of Understanding with the Town of Lancaster; since then they have signed it.
It does not tie them to any agreement at this time except discussion about selling water to Lancaster. The clerk/
treasurer requested to remain in her position for another year. The Board agreed with her request. They also
discussed financing for the new garage. The consensus was to apply for a thirty year note with interest rate of
between 2.185% and 3.125% through the USDA loan program. They have hired an independent auditor for
years 2015-2016. They discussed adding a "communication with the public" portion to their agendas.
They met again on May 25'i
• They had a request for an abatement that was denied. They discussed how to be
more transparent and disseminate their information more efficiently. They also discussed placing inserts in their
billing statements, public access and reporting during this Board of Selectmen public comment segment. They
discussed whether they are required to hold a meeting regarding an IMA with Lancaster. Their legal counsel
and the Attorney General's office stated that it is not required but they have not decided on that at this time.
Water restrictions are now in effect from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. as required by the DEP. Water can still be used for
vegetable gardens, business and farming use. They meet again tomorrow night. Their agenda is posted
downstairs.
Police Chief Marino wanted to remind the public that Animal Control falls under the auspices of the Police
Department. He advised residents to call the Police Department not the Animal Control Officer's home.
The correct number to call is 978-582-4531 and more information regarding animal control policy is on the
town website: http://www.lunenburgma.gov/
He also wanted to remind everyone that Animal Control is not required to relocate wild animals unless it poses
a threat to public safety.
Request to adopt Montachusett Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan 2015 Update (continued)
Ms. Lafleur reported MRPC has completed the 2015 update to the existing plan. The Board has reviewed it and
should adopt it. Chief Sullivan is here to answer any questions on the plan. Mr. Ebersole stated he was glad to
see comments submitted were incorporated into the plan and that it is updated periodically.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°°: T. Alonzo
To adopt the Montachusett Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan 2015 Update Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
Hearing for B & H Corporation d/b/a Mickey Shea's pursuant to G.L. c. 138 § 23 for Alcohol License
#063600039 located at 324 Electric Avenue regarding May 5, 2016 Violation of Lunenburg License
Regulations Section 1.04 (a) and Section 1.04 (c).
Mr. Toale opened the hearing at 7:15 p.m. and read the above violation aloud. He stated everyone testifying
must be sworn in. Brian Riley of Kopelman & Paige stated he was here to assist with the hearing. He
proceeded to swear in the witnesses. Sergeant Jack Hebert presented his incident narrative first.
On April 17" at approximately 2:10 a,m., he observed eight vehicles remaining in the parking lot of Mickey
Shea's. He pulled into the lot and observed two males standing at the right side of the bar. He pulled around to
the back of the building and exited his cruiser. Upon pulling on the rear door he found it to be locked. He
knocked on the door and observed the two males looking at him. A male employee, David Vargo, came to the
door and advised him the door was locked. Sgt. Hebert advised him to unlock the door and Mr. Vargo stated it
was padlocked. Sgt. Hebert advised him to go get the key as he walked away from the door towards the front of
the building. Upon walking by the side door he observed the two males later identified as Michael Desaulnier
and Mike Nettelbladt still standing at the side of the bar. He could hear Vargo tell the manager, Lindsey Achilla,
that ne was at the rear door. He then heard Achilla state, Oh t
- _ → you go out the front door, as she was then
observed through the side door to start to push Desaulnier towards the front of the bar, away from the door Sgt.
Hebert was last at and away from where Desaulnier's vehicle was later determined to be parked, in the rear lot.
Sgt. Hebert could hear Achilla stating "get out, get out," He noted prior to his knock on the rear door the bar
was quiet. No one was heard telling the two males to get out, they were not being pushed towards the exit nor
did he receive a call requesting assistance with the removal of these two patrons. He approached the front door
and was able to open it without assistance as it was unlocked. Desaulnier and Nettelbladt had not yet exited the
front door and were both inside the bar with Achilla. Vargo was observed cleaning and the bartender, Rhonda
Eaton was observed cleaning the bar. He noted there was no doorman and no one was wearing anything
identifying them as staff. Achilla immediately began crying and pleading with him to not to file a report and
stated it was only two friends. Sgt. Hebert advised her that a report would be filed. He then had a conversation
with Achilla about the previous eight or so documented and undocumented incidents over the past three years
regarding this reoccurring issue of patrons being in the bar after closing and other alcohol-related issues
involving Achilla. He spoke to her about numerous suggestions that were made in attempt to combat this issue
and steps her father and bar owner, Robert Herrick, told the Board he was taking to solve this issue. Nettelbladt
and Desaulnier were both observed to smell of alcoholic beverages with bloodshot glassy eyes and were
stumbling around. Trying to talk to either one of them was pointless as they could not hold a conversation and
kept stating the same things and asking the same questions. They were advised to leave the property as they
wanted to walk to Upland Avenue; however they were subsequently transported home by Achilla.
Attorney Riley asked Sgt. Hebert to confirm that he observed the two non-employees Desaulnier and
Nettelbladt had a vehicle in the rear lot. Sgt. Hebert confirmed there was a pick- up truck in the rear lot. Riley
asked Hebert as far as he knew they were both in the same vehicle. Hebert responded they both had their own
vehicles there but the one that was observed being pushed to the front had his vehicle parked in the rear lot.
Riley asked Hebert to confirm there were no alcoholic beverages on the bar. Hebert stated he did not observe
any present. Mr. Herrick was curious about the second vehicle in the parking lot that had occupants in it but was
not mentioned in the police report. Sgt. Hebert stated the bartender had said she had three people waiting out
front in her vehicle that she was transporting home.
Owner Robert Herrick stated he did not have a statement to make because he was not there that night. He
believed Achilla submitted a letter to the Board the day before because she could not be present this evening.
Mr. Herrick stated he could answer questions about their policy. Mr. Alonzo asked what the policy was if
someone is inebriated. Mr. Herrick stated the policy is to offer food or carbonated beverages. In the situation
that night the two men had reentered the bar before the front door could be locked to get their car keys from the
manager. They were friends of hers and she did not want them to drive. Mr. Herrick stated we all know in those
situations the only real remedy for overdrinking is time. That front door should have been locked. Mr. Alonzo
asked Sgt. Hebert as a licensing authority agent, what is the proper procedure in that situation? Sgt. Hebert
stated all doors should be locked at 2:00 a,m., so he shouldn't have been able to open that door at 2:10 a.m. Mr.
Alonzo asked about having patrons in the bar that shouldn't be driving; what is the procedure? Sgt. Hebert
===PAGE 3===
stated he did not know what Mickey Shea's policy was but they should not be overserving patrons that appear
to be under the influence of alcoholic beverages. If someone is stumbling they should not be served. He stated
he has discussed these situations with Mr. Herrick and advised him to call the Police for assistance as that seems
to be a recurring situation with them. He added he would rather get a phone call at ten minutes to two and put
someone in a cab rather than going there at ten after two and getting into the situation they are here for tonight.
He stated he has spoken to both Mr. Herrick and Ms. Achilla each time downstairs following a hearing about
these situations. Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Herrick if this was true. Mr. Herrick stated this was an option but
normally not the first option. Mr. Herrick stated the ABCC and TIPS training is sketchy with this situation but
generally you try to get a friend to take them home, call a cab, offer a ride; calling Dispatch would be the last
thing you do. Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Herrick to acknowledge that this was an option. He did, but as a last
option
Mr. Ebersole asked Sgt. Hebert to clarify that one violation was allowing patrons to be on premises after
mandatory closing hour and failure to have patrons leave in a quiet and orderly manner, not the serving of
alcoholic beverages after hours. Sgt. Hebert confirmed. Mr. Herrick stated certainly calling Dispatch is an
option but these were people that Ms. Achilla went to school with, lifelong friends. They weren't belligerent;
they just wanted their car keys back. It wasn't a situation that was even remotely out of control. They just
happened to get back into the building because the door wasn't locked yet. The personnel he had should have
been out of there before two a.m.
Mr. Toale was curious to know how Ms. Achilla got their keys in the first place given the story he has heard so
far. But with Ms. Achilla not here and not sworn in,
he wasn't sure he should be dealing with her letter to the
Board. Mr. Herrick stated when they came in, we were not closed. She recognized the same thing Sgt. Hebert
had recognized, that they shouldn't be behind the wheel. She talked them into giving her their keys and she was
going to drive them home or to her house.
Mi. Alonzo asked Sgt. Hebert if he is often on the night shift. Sgt. Hebert confirmed. Mr. Alonzo asked
approximately how many establishments of this type are in Lunenburg. Sgt. Hebert stated he believed
Lunenburg had 13 "on premises" licenses. Mr. Alonzo asked of those places, how often do you visit those
places after hours? Sgt. Hebert stated that night he had gone to American Graffiti at 2:02 a.m. and they had
thirteen people "on premises" and the Lieutenant had issued them a warning. This is a new policy allowing the
Police to handle a first offense in house before it comes before the Board. He added he patrols as routine
procedure every night around 2 a.m, or 1 a.m, depending on the night.
Attorney Riley summarized that the report speaks for itself; nothing in it has been contradicted by either Mr.
Herrick or Ms. Achilla's letter. As the Board may recall a hearing was held in April 2015 for Mickey Shea's
and the Board found two separate violations for this establishment. One was for serving a minor and the other
was similar; having patrons on premises after hours. The Board issued a five day suspension at that time. The
violations tonight are within two years. Under the regulations you are allowed to consider this a third offense.
Mr. Ebersole asked Mr. Herrick what his process was for replacing the manager. Mr. Herrick stated he has
spoken with the ABCC on two separate occasions and they informed him as the owner he would be the acting
manager until his change of manager paperwork was processed. The paperwork is currently being filled out by
his attorney. Mr. Alonzo asked if Ms. Achilla was no longer the manager or no longer any employee. Mr.
Herrick stated she is no longer an employee after twenty-four years.
Attorney Riley advised Mr. Toale to close this part of the hearing since there was no more testimony and to
have the Board rule on the violations and determine how to proceed. Mr. Toale closed the hearing. He stated the
next step would be to determine if a violation(s) occurred.
Motion: R. Ebersole
That a violation occurred on May 5, 2016
2n': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo noted this is a repeat problem. Lunenburg liquor license regulations state only offenses that have
occurred within the last two years preceding the date of the violation shall be used in calculating the number of
offenses for purposes of sentencing guidelines. Last year there were two violations. There were policies and
procedures that could have been followed instead of the officer finding out, especially with their prior history.
They could have called the Police and said we know you come by; we have this issue, please help us with this.
===PAGE 4===
The fact that they were friends was immaterial and just shows bad judgment again. He suggested the same
penalty as before, another five day suspension. Mr. Ebersole believed that was a reasonable recommendation.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d R.Ebersole
To issue a five day suspension of the liquor license of Mickey Shea's from June 27 through July 1st
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Town Manager Review
Mr. Toale reported as Chair of the Board he is charged with collecting performance reviews for the Town
Manager from all the Board members and creating a composite evaluation. He has done this with the Board and
discussed it with the Town Manager.
He read the overall evaluation into the record:
A. Relationships with the Board (out of a possible score of 50): the combined score was 45 resulting in an
Outstanding rating
B. Fiscal Management (out of a possible score of 40): the combined score was 38 resulting in an Outstanding
rating.
C. Community and Public Relations (out of a possible score of 40) the combined score was 36 resulting in an
Outstanding rating.
D. Personnel Administration (out of a possible score of 45): the combined score was 36 resulting in a
Commendable rating.
E. Professional Skill and Abilities (out of a possible 50); the combined score was 43 resulting in an
Outstanding rating.
Overall Rating-the highest possible total score divided by 5 and spread into the rating categories as defined in
the summary resulting in a score of 197 which results in an Outstanding rating.
Relationships with the Board
All members agreed that communication from the Town Manager is timely and helpful in their decision making
on issues being faced by the Board. All members felt they were being treated fairly and equally, which is vital
to a well-functioning Board. One member noted an instance of communication-disconnect on the Pavement
Management Plan but this was not mentioned by other Board members. We should continuously improve the
feedback loop and suggest improvements and maintain smooth communications between the Board and Town
Manager with regard to Personnel and Operational Policy.
Fiscal Management
As with prior years, the Town Manager remains an excellent steward of our finances. This is clearly her greatest
strength. Budgetary and financial reports are prepared on time, presented with clarity and made available to the
public in various manners and media. Sound financial policies and practices continue to be added and refined,
when needed and followed during the fiscal year. Our current S & P bond rating reflects that excellence. Of
particular note were Ms. Lafleur's efforts with regard to the Pavement Management and Turf Field financial
solutions. She has continued to effectively work with the Board and Labor Counsel in reaching mutually
beneficial union contract agreements.
Community and Public Relations
As the outwardly facing representative of the Town, the Town Manager conducts herself professionally and
fairly to all with whom she deals. She is calm and attentive but always positive and helpful. One has to look no
further than Town Meeting to indicate how clear, concise and available her information is. There are few
questions and even fewer challenges or misunderstandings. The Board and the public have grown to trust her
research, analysis and presentation. When questions are asked they are answered thoughtfully, respectfully and
substantially. Sometimes frustration occurs when those questions cannot be answered immediately as further
research may be needed or input from other sources may be required.
Personnel Administration
The scores in this category are lower only because the other categories were scored "Outstanding" and this
received a "Commendable" score. This may be due to lack of agreement as to the relationship between town
employees, their performance (real or perceived) and the expectations of the Board. The goal setting workshop
===PAGE 5===
process should create an "agreed understanding" of roles and performance metrics between Town Manager,
town employees and the Board of Selectmen.
Professional Skill and Abilities
The Town Manager maintains the highest standards of ethics and honesty and demands that of those who work
under her charge. Her planning and execution skills are outstanding and only limited by time and available
resources. She takes responsibility for those who work under her charge. She is encouraged by the Board to
maintain active membership in her professional associations as they are good sources of information and
contacts that can benefit the Town.
Mr. Toale added there are other items such as:
What has the Town Manager done well? What could the Town Manager do better? What could the Board do to
help the Town Manager? What could the Town Manager do to help the Board? and Suggestions for Town
Manager Future Goals. These items will be addressed in detail at a future workshop meeting with a full Board.
Mr. Toale added in his opinion, Ms. Lafleur has done an outstanding job and it's a pleasure to work with her.
Mr. Alonzo stated the work she has done during her tenure here has been invaluable, to be in the position we
are; to get the bond rating, projects we have done, to have a projection on how to maintain where we have
gotten, and to urge people on Boards as well as employees to maintain what we have achieved. Mr. Ebersole
echoed that with the comment that we as a Board need to stay out of the way of the Town Manager so she can
do her job.
2. Power Purchase Agreement Discussion (continued)
Mr. Ebersole reported he contacted several people who he believed commented during the discussion regarding
power purchase agreements at Special Town Meeting. There was a combination of understanding that this was
different than solar on the ground, to solar is solar, to supporting the expansion of solar where appropriate.
There were some questions about leasing versus purchasing, use of the contingency fund from the school to do
it and concerns about aesthetics. One comment was they thought all projects were going to come back to town
meeting whether pre or post approval by the Board. The bottom line he got from various comments was that
there should be a public forum separate from the Board of Selectmen up to or including a Special Town
Meeting for discussion. Mr. Alonzo stated he believed the Board should follow through on what they promised
and believed they should hold an informational meeting and a Town Meeting. He also thought the Board could
hold a STM in a timely manner to meet the SREC II deadline.
Mr. Toale believed the discussion at Town Meeting was that voters felt comfortable the Board could make
decisions that were longer than three years, but the Board felt the need to be transparent. To the extent the
Board should hold a town meeting just for this purpose, we should weigh whether having the town ratify the
decision and input as to the aesthetics at some point after we meet our objectives is a reasonable way to
approach our commitment. He was concerned about trying to do this in the summer in time to meet the
deadlines and if they could get a quorum. Mr. Alonzo stated if there was a Nexamp type project and it didn't
even exist in the town and we were just purchasing it to save money, he would probably say there's no need for
STM. It's just a cost saver. If we call a STM and there is no quorum, we always have the ability to say we
wanted the Town to be involved but now we have to make a decision because it's going to involve the savings
that Mr. Londa said and we have offered it to the town. If they don't come and participate then that's different
than giving them the option. Ms. Lafleur wanted to remind that the forum for discussion of aesthetics is not
going to be at Town Meeting. Town Meeting would only take up the actual power purchase agreement.
Aesthetics would be discussed at the School Committee and Planning Board meeting level. Ms. Lafleur stated
the Board needs to consider the legal authorization that it has for these agreements and if it is the Board's intent
that all or some of these power purchase agreements go back to Town Meeting to be voted on every time they
are presented to them. She suggested the Board makes its intentions clear at the Special Town Meeting by
rescinding the prior authorization and then proposing authorization for certain types of solar projects. Mr.
Alonzo suggested forming a policy to bring to the meeting.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"': T. Alonzo
To hold a Special Town Meeting to present a power purchase agreement
Mr. Toale asked if there were any other items that might be presented at the Special Town Meeting as well.
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Lafleur did check and Planning Board has one minor item they could put on the warrant. The Town does
not have any budget items to present and it is too early to tell if we need anything for a fall town meeting.
Vote: All in Favor
FY 2017 REAPPOINTMENTS TO COMMITTEES/BOARDS
Board of Selectmen Appointments
Ms. Lafleur read aloud the list and noted there were reappointment requests for all except the two Selectmen
positions on committees.
Agricultural Commission- 3 years-term expires June 30, 2019.
Maureen Dupuis-175 Highland St.
Cable Advisory Committee- term to expire June 30, 2017
Steve Walker-227 Pleasant Street
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.
Paul Bertram- 312 Townsend Harbor Road
Conservation Commission- 3 year terms-term to expire June 30, 2019
Todd Dwyer-105 West Street
Jack Rabbitt-314 Townsend Harbor Road
CC Associate Members- 1 year term
Vacant
Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2017
Lou Franco -250 Arbor Street
Michael Kidney- 86 Lancaster Ave.
Joseph "Al" Dettenrieder -72 Lancaster Ave.
George Martin -522 Burrage Street
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.
Constable- 1 year term
Stanley R. Young - 108 Arlington St. Fitchburg
Kevin Rice- 14 Iris Road, Leominster
Council on Aging--term to expire June 30, 2019
Pete Lincoln -46 Hemlock Drive
Judith Tarbell-111 Woodland Drive
Jacquelyn Dwyer- 105 West Street
Kevin McNally- 68 Hemlock Drive
Jane Rabbitt- 314 Townsend Harbor Road
Historical Commission-expires June 30, 2019
Lois Lewis- 389 Sunnyhill Road
MART Advisory Board- expires June 30, 2017
Phyllis Luck
Montachusett Regional Technical Vocational School Committee-expires June 30, 2012
Barbara Reynolds-952 Flat Hill Road
Senior Citizen Property Taxation Work Off Program-expires June 30, 2017
Myleen Mallari-Treasurer/Collector
Nancy Forest-Human Resources
Sue Doherty-COA Director
Shelia Craigen- Principal Assessing Clerk
Town Counsel-term to expire June 30, 2017
Kopelman & Paige, PC
Zoning Board of Appeals- 5 years-term expires June 30, 2021
James Besarkarski-69 Elm Street
===PAGE 7===
Motion: R. Ebersole
To appoint the parties as read by the Town Manager
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Appointments
Ms. Lafleur moved on to the Town Manager appointments. She stated many of these are town employees and
they did not submit a reappointment request. These are all one year appointments that expire June 30, 2017.
Assistant Building Inspector
John Morreale- 8 Sequoia Drive
Alternate Building Inspector
Ed Cataldo -276 Granite St. Leominster
Dam Keeper
Ronald Wilson 701 Reservoir Road
Assistant Dam Keeper
Rich Patry 655 Reservoir Road
Emergency Management Director /Forest Warden-
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan
Fence Viewers- 1 year term
Vacancies
Field Driver-
Kathleen Comeau -806 West St.
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Kerry Lafleur
Hearings Officer
Kerry Lafleur
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas
Gary Williams - 34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas
Richard Kapenas
Pound Keeper
Jean Larkin- 17 Highland Street
Inspector of Weights and Measures
Stephen E. Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires
James Sharkey
Assistant Wiring Inspector
Jack Biery
R.A.C.E.S Control Officer
Ralph Swick-113 Townsend Harbor Road
Brian LeBlanc- Asst. Radio Operator- 67 Mulpus Road
Jeanine Swick- Member- 113 Townsend Harbor Road
Tree Warden
Jack Rodriquenz
Veterans' Service Officer
I. J. Blauser
Police Officers/Reserve Police Officers/ Licensing Commission Agents
Full-Time Officers:
Chief James Marino
Lt. Michael F. Luth
Sgt. Thomas L. Gammel
Sgt. Sean J. Connery
Sgt. Jack A. Hebert
===PAGE 8===
Det. Sgt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
Officer Jonathan J. Broc
Officer Robert D. Diconza
Officer Peter Lekaditis
Officer Joshua M. Mathieu
Officer Bradley McNamara
Officer Deven O'Brien
Officer Joshua B. Tocci
Officer Sean Zrate
Reserves:
Officer Stanley W. Barney
Officer Benjamin Campbell
Officer Robert R. DaCosta
Officer Jacob Lachance
Officer Meaghan B. Landry
Officer Donald A. Letarte
Officer Zachary J. Levasseur
Officer Todd F. Lynch
Officer Jonathan G. May
Officer Lisa M. Melnicki
Officer John Morreale Jr.
Officer Chad Stateler
Officer John M. Wagner
Special Police Officers (Town of Shirley)
Sgt. Peter Violette
Sgt. Alfreda Cromwell
Sgt. Samuel Santiago
Ptl. Craig K. LaPrade
Ptl. Everett W. Moody Jr.
Ptl. William McGuinness
Ptl. Joseph Barker-Santiago
R. O. Alan Rice
R. O. lan Brown
R. O. Mark Lafferty
R. O. David Lange
R. O. Matthew O'Sullivan
R. O. Ryan Strianese
Special Police Officers (Town of Townsend)
Full-Time:
Chief Robert M. Eaton Jr.
Lt. Mark Giancotti
Sgt. John Johnson
Sgt. Kimberly Mattson
Sgt. Randy Girard
Officer James Marchand
Officer Thaddeus Rochette
Officer George Reidy
Officer Mark Francis
Officer David Phillips
Officer James Landi
Officer Brent Davis
Officer Jeffery Giles
===PAGE 9===
Officer Michael Marchand
Reserve Officers:
Tony Brennan
Chris VanVoorhis
Austin Cote
Joseph Quinn
Thomas Kalil
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: R. Ebersole
To ratify all the Town Manager appointments as presented
Mr. Ebersole asked what R.A.C.E.S stands for. Ms. Lafleur reported Radio Amateur Civilian Emergency
Services; a stand-by radio service provided for in Part 97 of the FCC rules and regulations. It is administered by
local emergency management agencies to engage licensed amateur radio operators who have registered in the
program. The program is activated only by the Town Emergency Manager. Mr. Ebersole asked why the Town
does not appoint Special Officers from Leominster and Fitchburg. Mr. Alonzo added Ashby too. Ms. Lafleur
will research that question and get back to the Board.
Vote: All in Favor
The Board thanked Executive Assistant Peterson for coordinating all of the reappointments. Mr. Toale noted a
couple of the Council on Aging appointees have invited the Selectmen to attend one of their meetings a couple
of times a year.
Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $347,080.85; a MS/HS project warrant in the
amount of $1,117,316.51; payroll warrant in the amount of $742,405.04; and a deductions warrant in the
amount of $23,339.99.
Mr. Toale stated he had one action file issue; to work on a flag policy and procedure. Mr. Ebersole added
scheduling workshop meetings on a regular basis. Mr. Toale recommended one workshop devoted solely to
setting goals.
Committee Reports:
No report on Finance Committee. Cable Advisory Committee will be meeting at the end of July due to summer
vacations. The School Building Committee met at the new school last Wednesday. Asbestos abatement in the
gym will begin in order to demolish it. This will create room for the new maintenance garage. Following that,
other individual sections will be demolished. The committee authorized some change orders in the total amount
of $31,842. $15,834 of that provides supplemental heating units in one of the open spaces. The athletic
department wanted to have a digital screen installed for teaching a large class in the weight room. The
committee authorized only the electrical wiring and the outlet placement for a future installation. Two
convectors in the locker rooms had to be relocated because they stuck out too far to be ADA compliant, costing
$3,680. There was a flooring change in the control booth in the auditorium electrical room from carpeting to
vinyl composite tile flooring which reduces static electricity build up. This cost $1,401. They modified the
"boulder wall" where the concessions stand is, originally there was going to be chain link fence; the area will be
regraded at a cost of $10,039. There are some other change requests amounting to $95,000. It is not known
whether they will go forward. Right now there is a little less than $4 million remaining in the contingency fund.
The only thing coming up that could incur further costs could be soil conditions or an unknown utility not that
has to be relocated during demolition. There were no other committee reports.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lafleur reported Unitil is working on the circuit upgrades and is now saying they should be ready by the
end of the fall. Anyone on the waiting list for solar project approval should be contacted by Unitil in the next
few weeks.
===PAGE 10===
Joe Fiori, Business Development Manager of the Nexamp solar project, is requesting a slight amendment to the
timetable for the commercial operation date. This will be on the next meeting agenda.
The auditors are in Town Hall doing pre-audit work this week for fiscal year 2016.
We are moving forward with the Verizon Wireless lease for the cell tower to be located on school property.
This still has to go through a special permit application process with the Planning Board.
Ms. Lafleur reported bids for a three year contract were received for the purchase of asphalt. The low bidder
was P.J. Keating and the price is lower than the current contract. The complete file on all services and materials
bids is available for viewing on request.
We are still working on how to go forward with the pavement of the local roads. We are currently completing
the spring paving project. Next we will be doing the sewer betterment district paving. We will be coming back
to the Board with a proposal on how we are going to proceed on Phase 1 of the local road paving.
Mr. Toale announced their next meeting will be on June 21$t
Mr. Ebersole wanted to thank the DPW and their work on Leominster Road and Lancaster Road. Mr. Alonzo
wanted to wish everyone a safe and Happy Fourth of July as he will be absent from the meeting next week.
There was no public comment.
Motion:T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting at 8:22 p.m.
2": R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted.
Elaine m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
