===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 2 S 2016
LUNENBURG TON
CLERK OFFCE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
October 11, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Interim Town Manager David Marciello
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Homecoming Parade and new school dedication on Saturday, October 22nd
Open House at the school is from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. The parade begins at 12:00 and the ribbon cutting
commences at 12:45 p.m. outside by the main entrance, weather permitting and inside the auditorium if weather
doesn't cooperate. A reception with refreshments will follow. The football game begins at 2:00 p.m. with
parents and player recognition at 1:45 p.m.
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club pancake breakfast is tomorrow morning at Eagle House Senior Center
from 8:00 - 11:00 a.m.
Mr. Toale announced the 7:05 p.m. appointment has been cancelled. He noted Interim Town Manager Marciello
was not present for this part of the meeting.
Town Manager Candidates Recommendations-Tim Murphy
Town Manager Screening Committee Chairman Tim Murphy thanked the selection committee members; Mr.
Toale; Finance Committee member Mark Erickson; Planning Board member Matt Allison and School
Committee Member Heather Sroka. He gave special thanks to Executive Assistant Elaine Peterson for keeping
the committee organized and taking on administrative tasks for the committee.
Mr. Murphy reported on the committee's progress and their search for candidates. He stated the Massachusetts
Municipal Association website was the key place to advertise for the position. He reported they met with
outgoing Town Manager Kerry Lafleur and department heads for feedback on filling the vacancy. The
committee received over 30 applications and from those they narrowed it down to those they wanted to
interview. Those selected were sent the financial forecast, the most recent audit report, and the budget. They
were also directed to the website and the annual report. They were requested to draft a brief memo and make a
presentation on economic development.
He presented three finalists for the Board. Heather Lemieux, Town Administrator in Barre; Kellie Hebert, Town
Administrator in Topsfield; and David Marciello, current Interim Town Manager and past Town Administrator
in Rehoboth. Mr. Murphy wished the Board well in their interview process. The Board thanked Mr. Murphy
and the committee for their work.
Mr. Toale stated this Board's next step was to decide on the process going forward. Discussion ensued.
Mr. Toale suggested having the finalists interview at least twice for a richer point of view. Mr. Ebersole liked
Mr. Alonzo's suggestion to have them provide written answers to questions. Ms. Bertram also asked for another
presentation from each. A list of questions and discussions should be sent via email to Mr. Toale. The interview
dates will occur on November 8 and 15 in a workshop format. Mr. Toale announced there was not a need to
enter Executive Session this evening. He requested Mr. Marciello join the meeting.
Weekly Entertainment License for The Bootlegger Restaurant
Sean Morrison, new owner, presented on behalf of the license application.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: P. Bertram
2": T. Alonzo
To approve the Weekday Entertainment License for Fifty Mass Ave, LLC d/b/a The Bootlegger
Restaurant
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Morrison thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
1134 Northfield Road Easement
Motion: Rill reported the easement has been reviewed by Town Counsel and is ready for signing. y. Bertoad.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To sign the easement as presented
Vote: All in Favor
RFP Town Counsel Services
Mr. Marciello reported this draft is before the Board for review and comment. Discussion ensued on the
requirements and terms of the proposal. The Board requested it be advertised on the MMA website and in The
Beacon. Mr. Marciello will email the updated draft to the Board.
Warrants/Action File
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $394,104.33.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To sign the warrant for the November 8th election
2'°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale stated he wanted to discuss holding a Special Town Meeting in the fall. This item will be on next
week's agenda. Mr. Marciello was asked to discuss dates with the Town Clerk. Another agenda item should be
the Board representatives for MITC and MRPC.
Mutual Appointment to Sewer Commission
Mr. Toale invited the Sewer Commissioners to come forward to mutually appoint Richard St. Cyr to the
commission. Chairman Luck opened their meeting and recognized members Joan Pease, Joe Anderson and John
Reynolds. This appointment would be until the next town election. Mr. St. Cyr stated he has worked in the
wastewater field for thirty years. He believed he could be an asset to the Board and would be willing to run for
election next year. He is also a sewer customer.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'°: T. Alonzo
To appoint Richard St. Cyr to the Sewer Commission until the next annual election
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. St. Cyr for coming forward. Mr. Luck stated he is also thankful that Mr. St. Cyr came
forward.
Vote: Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Ms. Luck aye, Mr. Luck-
aye, Ms. Pease-aye, Mr. Anderson-aye, Mr. Reynolds-aye
There are still vacancies on the Finance Committee (1), PACC (2), Cable Advisory Committee (2) and
Personnel Committee (3).
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on September 21". The Lifelong Learning Advisory Committee
now has four community members. Three of the four school principals gave reports on MCAS results from last
year. There were improvements in the fourth grade scores that were linked to an additional fourth grade section.
A resolution against lifting the cap on Commonwealth charter schools was presented. One committee member,
Heather Sroka, recused herself from the vote to support the resolution. Another member did not believe it was
their role to suggest how others should vote. No action was taken. Their next meeting is October 19".
Ms. Luck reported COA Director Doherty, herself and Mr. Marciello has been in discussion with MART on the
Council on Aging contract with Mart concerning van transportation. MART is asking the towns to take on the
insurance for their vans. They are meeting again tomorrow morning to continue the discussion.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Bertram reported she was unable to attend the Conservation Commission meeting. The Planning Board
meets on October 24th. The MPO will be meeting next Wednesday to consider a time sensitive TIP amendment
and to establish a public review and comment period. This could affect funding for the Summer Street project.
She did follow up with Brad Harris at MRPC on Chase Road; it is funded in the 2019 TIP for $1.765 million.
Ms. Bertram requested an update from Trish Domigan of VHB on the Summer Street project before the 19 in
order to update MRPC on the project. Mr. Marciello reported they are at 75% completion; however there are
some change orders that were divided between three towns. The assessment to the town is substantial.
Mr. Alonzo reported the School Building Committee meets tomorrow night. Cable Advisory Committee meets
on October 17h
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee meets on the 17"
• Capital Planning meets on the 18th.
• He did
have one request from a citizen if Capital Planning meetings could be televised. He stated they meet during the
day to have department heads present and because some members do work. They are now meeting at 5:30 p.m.
It is difficult to televise due to limited PACC capabilities. Minutes are available for those who can't attend.
Ms. Bertram reported the next Walk in the Woods hosted by Conservation Commission is October 22d at 9:30
a.m. Those interested should meet at the Ritter Building parking lot. More information is on the website.
Mr. Alonzo requested a forum discussion of the November election ballot questions to be on the next agenda.
Mr. Toale stated he would put it on an agenda but believed it was each voter's responsibility to research each
question and make their own decision. Ms. Bertram and Ms. Luck agreed. Mr. Alonzo stated some of these
questions may have an impact on the town and it merited discussion. Mr. Marciello presented an update on the
issues he is working on.
Mr. Toale reported their next meeting is October 18th
RECEIVED & VILED
There was no further public comment.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
OCT 2 6 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2^d: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elace In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
