===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 1 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
December 13, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Acting Town
Manager Adam Burney
Not present: Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale stated at the November 22, 2016 meeting the Board approved a toll booth fundraiser request by the
Salvation Army for the town center and the intersection of Electric Avenue and Whalom Road on December
". Later that evening a citizen questioned this approval based on a perceived bias against the Gay community
by the Salvation Army. This issue got quite a bit of press and caused concern among the public, including the
local high school ROTC administration who had volunteered at previous toll booth fundraisers. He stated he
did his research and he guessed others did as well, because last Saturday I stood at the intersection of Lancaster
Ave. and Main St. and along with many of my friends and neighbors and quite a few of the high school students
in civilian clothes, we waved and wished the people of Lunenburg a Merry Christmas. We smiled and held red
buckets to collect nickels, dimes, quarters and bills to make Christmas just a little happier for kids and families
less fortunate that we are without regard to who or what they are. We had a record day, best ever and collected
more than we did in Fitchburg or Leominster, towns four times the size of ours. Thank you Lunenburg, I am
proud of you.
Ms. Bertram stated she did research it as well, there were a couple of isolated incidents and none locally a few
years ago, but the Salvation Army as a whole is accepting, they help all regardless of race, gender and sexual
orientation. She will continue to support them and the good work they do in the community. Ms. Luck
concurred. She worked the toll booth by the intersection of Whalom Road and Electric Ave and people were
very responsive and happy to give. Mr. Alonzo stated he collected in the town center and was very happy to do
so. He wanted to thank all of the people who donated and the Salvation Army. 83% of the money collected
stays in the local community to go to hundreds of families. They do great work all year.
Ms. Luck reminded everyone about the pancake breakfast tomorrow morning from 8:00 to 11:00 a.m. at Eagle
House Senior Center. $2.00 per person, take out is available.
APPOINTMENTS
7:05 P.M. Pole Petition for Sunset Lane
Mr. Toale read the petition aloud:
"In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are hereby
notified that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2n Floor, in the Joseph F. Bilotta
Meeting Room, Lunenburg, MA, on December 13, 2016 at 7:05 P.M. upon petition of National Grid for permission
to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such other fixtures as may be necessary to sustain
or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon, along, across, or under the following public
ways of said Town:
LOCATION
Sunset Lane-to install 1 SO Pole, down guy, and anchor with a six foot lead across from Pole 48-5-5 Sunset Lane.
Pole and anchor will be located on town property on the east side of Sunset Lane. Pole will be labeled 48-5S.
Location approximately as shown on plan attached."
===PAGE 2===
National Grid representative Rich Nalesky presented for the POLE petition. He stated this is for a single pole to
upport an adjacent pole (P-48->) with guy wires; it will not be carrying any energy carrying wires. The tw
urrent guy wires are terminated in living trees and need to be removed. Ms. Bertram asked if any trees need t
be removed. Mr. Nalesky stated he visited the site earlier and did see the need to remove any trees. Ms. Bertram
asked if abutters were notified. Mr. Burney confirmed they were. Mr. Alonzo asked where the trees were
located. Mr. Nalesky indicated where they were on the map. Mr. Toale asked if anyone was here regarding the
petition. There was noone.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the pole petition as detailed in the public notice and attached diagram
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
2017 License Renewals (continued)
Mr. Burney stated these are some remaining renewals for 2017. He read the list aloud:
Common Victualer $25.00
Ole Ahad d/b/a Hadwen Market
Seth Silver d/b/a The Ugly Omelet
Stella's Coffee Shop d/b/a Stella's Coffee Shop
PK&P Corp. d/b/a Dippin Donuts
Lanni Orchards, Inc. d/b/a Lanni Orchards
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the license renewals as presented
2nd.P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Burney read the auto dealer license renewal:
Class l Auto Dealer $100.00
Recreational Dimensions Inc. d/b/a Central Mass Power Sports
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the Class I auto dealer license for Recreational Dimensions, Inc. d/b/a Central Mass Power
Vote: All in Favor
Sports
7:15 PM Petition for Transfer of Alcohol License for Hadwen Market
Mr. Toale asked the affected parties to come forward. Attorney Matthew Porter presented for the license
transfer request, stating it was a very straightforward transaction. Anjuben Patel who is present tonight has
many years of liquor store experience. She has another store in New Bedford. She will be working full-time in
this store. Joseph Vargeletis, also present will be the manager and has convenience store experience. The plan is
for him to work in the store over the next few weeks to get trained by the seller and to get TIPS certified.
In the meantime, Ms. Patel will be in the store with him 35-40 hours per week. The lease assignment has
already been agreed upon and financing is all set. Ms. Bertram asked about the TIPS certification. Mr. Porter
stated the alcohol TIPS certification isn't required for package stores but they will be taking the course.
Ms. Bertram asked if a CORI is required. Mr. Burney affirmed.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: P. Bertram
To approve the retail alcohol license transfer request as presented by the applicant through their
attorney
Attorney Porter asked the Board to approve the pledge of the license as well. The license is being pledged to
the lender; whenever a bank gets involved, there is a pledge on the license and if the lender defaults it goes back
to the bank. The Board took no action on the request to approve the pledge.
Vote: All in Favor
Attorney Porter thanked the Board.
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of
$1,746,634.34; a Payroll Warrant in the amount of $778,243.30, another payroll warrant in the amount of
$560.04, and a Payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $492,481.68.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo requested the larger Pay As You Throw trash bags be ordered.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met last week and school principals presented their 2018 budget
requests. There was an increase in requests to hire new personnel. The School Committee contracted with New
England Educational Consultants to facilitate a strategic visioning and planning initiative. The consultants are
going to meet with a steering committee composed of twelve parents from all the schools as well as educators,
School Committee member Meredith Weiss and herself. The initial step is a draft consisting of a mission, core
values and vision. The committee is going to work with stakeholders and hold three focus groups to involve the
community. The first meeting is December 19". The School Committee meets again on December 21st
The Storm Water Task Force met with the consultants who are working on the Ms4 permit. They have worked
out a schedule where it is completed by August. They meet with them again on January 26"
Their next meeting is January 12 which is an educational workshop because one of the six points in the Ms4
permit is outreach, MART Advisory Board met and they have reached out to other regional agencies regarding
the van insurance issue. Tomorrow she is attending the Baystate Roads Program Snow and Ice Workshop in
Hadley.
Ms. Bertram reported the Conservation Commission met on December 7*
* They approved a number of requests
to work within 100 feet of wetlands. The Snow Riders Club president gave an update on trail work on the Lane
Property. Six bridges have been completed. There was trail work done that addresses erosion. They will be
coming to this Board with an update. They did request the large multi-use bridge be dedicated to Peter
Charpentier, who was a club member. Conservation approved that request. Hearings on Hickory Hills and Lake
Shirley management plans were continued to December 21st.
. Remediation work for 190 Electric Avenue and
225 Pleasant Street, areas of wetland violations, has been completed. Mitigation work at 189 Howard Street has
been completed. There is a violation at 675 Reservoir Road; the Commission is concerned about the amount of
vegetation removal and grading there. They are requiring a restoration plan be submitted by January 18 or
there will be significant fines. The Commission received a $20,000 grant for a forest stewardship plan. RFPs
have been sent to three foresters and only one bid has been returned. It was awarded to Gary Gouldrup. The
properties being looked at for the plan are the Lane Property, the large and small town forests, the Cowdry lot
and Robbs Hill. The plan covers forest and habitat maintenance and income generation. The plan deadline is
June 17%
Planning Board discussed the Complete Streets program. Ken Chenis attended a MJTC meeting and his
understanding is that Complete Streets has backed off some of the stricter requirements and we can put forward
different areas of the town for the program. Mr. Chenis is working with Brad Harris of MRPC specifically
focusing on the Village District and Summer Street areas. There is a free bike rack program that MRPC is
looking into. They are trying to gauge interest. Any municipal building/property would be eligible. If we are
interested, we should let them MRPC and the Planning Board know. It is reimbursable program.
Site work at 357 Electric Ave. (Unitil) is almost completed. 270 Electric Ave. is moving slower. Mr. Burney
informed the Planning Board that he is Acting Town Manger until January. There was discussion on bylaw
changes; the definitions and use table. Accessory housing was discussed. Mr. Burney reported there was
discussion on Article 5 from the November 28, 2016 Special Town Meeting.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets in January. School Building Committee meets tomorrow.
There was a talent bank form submitted for Finance Committee, so Finance Committee Appointing Committee
should be meeting soon.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee meets December 19* and they are going to review the
November 284 STM Article 5 in terms of what is the next step. They are also anticipating the new Town
Manager to assist them through the RFP process. Capital Planning met today and heard from the School
Department. They meet with the IT Director at their next meeting which includes school, town and library. He
attended the Council on Aging meeting today with Ms. Luck. They were very appreciative that we were
attending.
===PAGE 4===
Joel Bard of KP Law - Town Counsel Review
Attorney Bard reviewed some past cases and how they were handled. He was surprised to see the Request for
Proposal (RFP) for legal services. He requested feedback from the Board, both good and constructive criticism.
Mr. Alonzo stated he always had the belief to put out RFPs to see what's out there. He has some issues with KP
Law's speed in litigation preparation. There have been some miscommuniciations between the Board and the
former Town Manager. One instance was the lack of a written opinion for the recent special town meeting. Mr.
Alonzo stated the Board recieved a letter from the Sewer Commission who is very pleased with your work.
Your involvement in town meetings has been good.
Mr. Bard stated he was never asked for an opinion for Special Town Meeting pertaining to the Planning Board
issue but he wrote one afterwards. If any issue is still out there he is happy to help out.
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Burney if there were more issues remaining. Mr. Burney reported there is a fundamental
disagreement between the Zoning Enforcement Officer and the Planning Board on the determination of density
for a special permit application. The special permit hearing has been opened. The applicant appeared before the
Board and they are working on some revisions to the plan. The Board believes they have the authority to set
density at what they feel is appropriate per the circumstances of the parcel, the development and the
surrounding neighborhood. They have at least two opinion letters from the Zoning Enforcement Officer. One
agrees with that opinion and one sets the density for them at eight units per acre. So there is still some
disagreement and the applicant is holding firm that they deserve eight even though they only want six. The
Planning Board feels their proposal is not appropriate for the topographical and surrounding conditions of the
site. Ms. Bertram strongly recommended the Planning Board consult with Town Counsel on this application
before a decision is issued. Mr. Bard stated the Building Commissioner opinion is not binding on the Planning
Board. Ms. Bertram stated legal services is a significant portion of the budget. It makes sense periodically to go
out for proposals and see what is available. Her biggest concern was relative to the Whalom overlay bylaw. She
believed there was a miscommunication. She was looking for a written opinion before Town Meeting and did
request one through the Town Manager. She added in the event that Mr. Bard has a strong disagreement with a
town official that he let the Chairman know. Mr. Burney added that he was aware of all those conversations and
he wasn't prepared for what happened at town meeting. Discussion continued.
Mr. Toale stated he agreed with his colleagues about seeing what's out there. He added while he did not intend
to take away from the Town Manager's relationship with Legal Counsel, if Mr. Bard thought it would be
helpful to contact the Chairman directly, to do so. He stated he owed Mr. Bard an apology as he should have
given him a heads up about going out for Legal Counsel RFPs and did expect KP Law to be in the RFP
interview process when it happens. This Board will go over them once the new Town Manager begins here. Mi.
Alonzo suggested Mr. Bard coming into the Board three or four times annually. Ms. Bertram agreed.
Mr. Bard did not have any questions but noted he was never asked to review the Village District bylaw before it
went to town meeting. Mr. Burney apologized and stated he would make sure future bylaws would be sent for
review.
Ms. Bertram inquired on the Architectural Preservation District Commission's progress. Mr. Burney stated
they are working on their regulations. They will need to hold a public hearing.
Mr. Bard thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule.
There was no further public comment.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:21 p.m.
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M Ritersar
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 1 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
