===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
November 15, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member and
Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting opened at 6:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
ANNOUNCEMENTS/PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced there would be a coat drive by Cub Scout Pack 1728 at the Ritter Memorial Building on
November 19th from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Please bring your used coats, hats, gloves, scarves and snow pants
to be distributed to a nearby charity.
The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club will hold a Meat Bingo on November 18" from 7:00 to 9:00
p.m. at the Eastwood Club on Townsend Street in Fitchburg. There is a $20.00 entry fee which includes the
bingo.
The Lunenburg Family Gift Mart donation boxes are located at the Public Library, T. C. Passios Building, the
Lunenburg Primary School, Turkey Hill Elementary School, Lunenburg Middle/High School, the Boys and
Girls Club, New Outlooks Salon, Bellissima Capelli's Salon, the Lunenburg Public Safety Building, Eagle
House Senior Center, the Pilgrim Covenant Church and Lanni Orchards. You can also send checks to
Lunenburg Gift Mart, 1025 Massachusetts Ave.
The last day to register to vote for the November 28th Special Town Meeting will be Thursday, November 17"
at 8:00 p.m. at the Town Clerk office.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg Rockin' Auction fundraiser on November
19* at the Eagles Club in Leominster from 7:00 - 11:00 p.m. There will be live music, raffles, food and
refreshments and several auctions. He encouraged everyone to attend and buy tickets at
http://bgcluboflunenburg.org.
Town Manager Candidates - Economic Development Presentations and Follow Up Questions
1) David Marciello
Mr. Marciello began his presentation by stating you should have short and long term goals. He stated viable
economic development involves the use of a comprehensive package of strategies and tools.
• Successful development in small towns is always multifaceted. Community development equals
economic development.
• Successful economic development strategies are guided by a broadly accepted vision. Case studies of 45
towns who undertook successful economic development initiatives found that in small towns, people are
the most valuable resource.
• Be proactive. Utilize future oriented approaches but also address the town's current needs.
• Use regionalization strategies to identify common opportunities and partnerships beyond municipal
boundaries.
• Short term success can build long term momentum.
• Address abandoned/blighted property via municipal fines, liens and receiverships.
• Long term goals include creating and developing smart growth; Mr. Marciello noted the Lunenburg
Village District and having a Master Plan in place.
===PAGE 2===
• Things we can start doing right now include having Mixed Land Uses, taking advantage of Compact
Designs, creating a Range of Housing Opportunities and Choices, creating Walkable Communities,
providing a Variety of Transportation Opportunities
Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Marciello if he knew of any smaller communities using the receivership option for
abandoned/blighted property. Mr. Marciello replied that Dracut is using this option. Further discussion ensued
on this option. The Board proceeded with other questions for Mr. Marciello.
Mr. Alonzo asked if there was any better answer to any question from last week that he would like to modify.
Mr. Marciello stated that he could not recall any of the questions from last week but would want to expand on
this presentation if given the opportunity.
Mr. Alonzo asked what the longest commute is that you ever had for a job and how long did you keep that
commute up? Mr. Marciello replied when he was in the National Guard for six years and it was fourteen hours
every few weekends.
Mr. Alonzo asked what in your mind determines when you will delegate something and when you will
personally do it yourself? Mr. Marciello stated he would always delegate to an expert or whoever is best based
on the scenario.
Ms. Luck asked how you would handle a disagreement between two subordinates or two boards. Mr. Marciello
stated elected boards are autonomous and you try to mediate and get consensus. If they are appointed, it
depends on how contentious it is. You let everyone have their say and again try to get consensus. You find out
what the issues are and where there is agreement and try to build on that.
Ms. Luck stated in the written questions we asked you how you view your role of the Board versus how you
view the role of the Town Manager and you mentioned that your view is not relevant. She stated she actually
thought it was. Please explain how you view the role of the Board versus the Town Manager. Mr. Marciello
stated the role of the Board is to set policy. The Town Manager effectuates the policy.
Mr. Ebersole asked regarding management style, how you would do evaluations? Mr. Marciello stated you use
a standard form for the annual review and use it on everyone in the same manner. But you see things every day
and commend and correct when necessary. Using the standard form, you bring the person in and you allow the
person to likewise evaluate themselves. It is a formalized way on the anniversary date rather than doing
everyone on July 1st
'. Ms. Luck asked how much in advance the employee would get the evaluation sheet. Mr.
Marciello stated it is a public record, they could get it at any time.
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Marciello if he had any comments or questions. Mr. Marciello thanked the Board and
stated he loved the town. He feels very comfortable here. He wants to work somewhere he can make an impact
and be a part of the community.
He asked Ms. Luck why she saw stormwater as a big issue. Ms. Luck stated it is such a worthwhile cause, water
is precious.
Mr. Marciello asked Ms. Bertram and Mr. Alonzo about ecotourism; what has been done in town to improve
that? Ms. Bertram stated as a member of a regional trail coalition, she is interested in seeing what other
communities are doing to capitalize on their natural resources and recreational opportunities. As an MPO
member, it's one of the common strings in conversations. We have an opportunity to capitalize on that.
Mr. Alonzo stated we are in a key location and are blessed with the three lakes and trail system. It is important
to the townspeople as well. We need to promote that and invest from a municipal and volunteer aspect. It's a
great untapped opportunity.
Mr. Toale stated time was up and thanked Mr. Marciello. The Board took a brief recess at 7:00 p.m. and
reconvened at 7:06 p.m.
2) Heather Lemieux
Ms. Lemieux thanked the Board for inviting her back. She stated her first task was to identify the major
components in developing an economic development plan for Lunenburg and the steps she would take to
develop that plan.
• Vision (comes from the stakeholders and what they want for their community)
• Quality of Life (ex. Affordability, Sense of Community, Transportation Availability, Public Services)
===PAGE 3===
• Support for More Business (Water/Sewer Infrastructure, Freight Rail, Accessibility)
• Smart Growth ( Update the Master Plan, Review Priority Development Area Study by MRPC, Zoning
Bylaw Review)
Step 1 Perform an Assessment by Meeting with the Stakeholders (town officials, civic organizations, business
owners, residents) to identify the vision. You would need to review town and zoning bylaws, and any MRPC
reports. Next would be to perform a SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats) analysis.
Strengths would be Route 2A and Route 13, the freight line, the five year pavement management plan and
natural resources. Weaknesses/threats would be a lack of vision, zoning bylaws, perception of not being
"business friendly," lack of water and sewer in certain town areas.
Step 2 Work with the Stakeholders to Improve on Weaknesses and Threats:
• Enter into a Community Compact with Commonwealth of MA to fund Economic Development Self
Assessment Report or related development plan;
• Work with the business community to identify their needs and support growth
• Identify Priority Development Areas and ensure necessary infrastructure is present and roads are
accessible. Possible areas- Leominster Shirley Road, Summer Street, Chase Road, Whalom District
• Infrastructure Improvements: Apply for Mass Works Grant to fund projects outside the Five Year
Pavement Mgmt. Plan; Apply for Complete Streets Program Funding that will improve accessibility and
provide up to $400,000 for construction
• Zoning Bylaw Review; Work with Land Use Director and Planning Board to ensure the endorsed
"vision" is implemented through necessary zoning bylaw updates.
Step 3 Promote the Strengths and Opportunities in Town:
• Village District; Focus on developing the Village District to create a vibrant downtown
• Freight Rail: look at adjacent available industrial/commercial parcels that wouldn't require significant
costs to develop. Work with Mass Development to educate business owners about loan/training
programs.
• Maintain the high Quality of Life; fair tax rate, high level of public services, affordable housing
• Natural Resources- preserve Open Space and expand use of recreation land. Promote trail use through
access to trail maps on the town website.
• Market the "Brand" of the Town; whether it be a vibrant downtown with shops or recreational areas to
visit, or unique community events, market it through social media and website that could be tied to MA
Office of Travel and Tourism
Step 4 Adhere to the Vision
• Follow the Economic Development Plan as agreed by stakeholders and adapt over time by consensus
• Every plan needs a champion to see it through and move it along and supporters that will assist in
carrying it out.
Mr. Alonzo asked in your mind what would be the goal why 1 as a resident would want economic development
in town. Ms. Lemieux replied most likely to lower your tax rate; bringing in commercial business could
potentially lessen the resident's tax burden. He asked what the biggest obstacle(s) is to implementing this plan.
Ms. Lemieux replied getting the consensus from all the parties. You could hold forums, have monkey surveys
on the website, survey through the tax bill mailing or meeting with public officials.
Mr. Alonzo asked it there was any better answer to a question from last week that she would like to modify.
Ms. Lemieux stated there were a few. She thought her mother was still the smartest person she knew but
another was retired Senator Stephen Brewer.
Mr. Alonzo asked what the longest commute is that she ever had for a job and how long did she keep that
commute up? Ms. Lemieux replied she worked in Boston but lived in Warren. She commuted from Warren to
===PAGE 4===
Worcester to the train station and went in to South Station and then she walked to Ashburton Place which is the
building behind the State House. She did this for a year and a half. She left due to layoffs. It took at least a three
hours round trip.
Mr. Alonzo asked what in your mind determines when you will delegate something and when you will
personally do it yourself? She replied she has a great assistant so I delegate a lot to her. Department heads are
knowledgeable in their fields. I trust them to carry out their work and get information from them.
Mr. Ebersole asked regarding management style, how you would do evaluations? Ms. Lemieux replied they
haven't done evaluations in Barre since 2008, but just this year she created two forms, one for management and
the other for non-management positions.
Ms. Luck asked her to talk about a grant that she was proud to receive. Ms. Lemieux stated she has applied for
many and has been pretty successful. Just this week they were awarded a generator grant through the FEMA
hazard mitigation program for the DPW for the fuel pumps and the DPW Building.
Mr. Toale stated we talked about the difference between a Town Manager and a Town Administrator. He asked
if you were to get the job as Town Manager, what you see as the exciting part to that difference. She replied
with a Town Administrator there are more layers versus Town Manager having that direct relationship with
department heads. I would feel very comfortable and honestly don't have any real concerns. I feel like I'm
ready for that next step in my career.
Ms. Lemieux asked the Board members what they see as the role of the Town Manager versus the Board of
Selectmen. Mr. Toale stated hopefully both are pursuing the same vision and goals. Once that task is
accomplished the Board role is to set vision and policy, deliver that to the Town and listen to the Town's needs.
Obviously the Town Manager role is more operational and managing all the department heads.
Ms. Bertram agreed with Mr. Toale but added the Town Manager should bring forward initiative and innovative
ideas. Someone who thinks outside the box and looks for creative opportunities. Not someone who is looking to
the Board for guidance, but a strong leader. Our job is to create policy and procedures and make important
decisions. The Town Manager would keep a pulse on the community and what's going on around the state.
Mr. Ebersole stated this Board has turned over throughout the last several years. This allows us to focus on
projects such as storm water, roads, economic development, governance, etc. Clearly we are at a point now that
we have a Board recognizing what the Town Manager can and should be doing.
Mr. Alonzo added because we are employed other places we don't see what's going on in the town. It's
important to bring up the opportunities or challenges that you are presented with day to day; not only
recommendations, but options. I want to know about all the options before we need to make the decisions. Any
task that is not understood well should be communicated to us that you need more clarity.
Ms. Lemieux asked if the town has looked at becoming a Community Compact town. Mr. Toale stated we
discussed it early in the process and wanted to wait and see if it was worth it for the town.
The Board thanked Ms. Lemieux and took another recess before resuming the meeting at 7:44 p.m.
Mr. Toale stated the Board should deliberate about the two candidates and discuss about how to proceed.
Ms. Bertram stated she believed they had a viable candidate. Ms. Lemieux is better suited for this community
due to a number of reasons. The fact that she is currently working in her field is to her credit. Her written
responses were excellent and she has a strong financial background. Ms. Bertram was very interested in some of
the items that she brought forward regarding economic development, such as leveraging our existing traffic
corridors and how we can benefit from that. She has exhibited a lot of time to get to know our community,
meeting with department heads and finding out their concerns and gaining some of their knowledge.
Mr. Ebersole supported Ms. Lemieux as the candidate. Both candidates were technically competent. Her
presentation skills were something that he felt more comfortable with; it was more interactive with the Board.
Ms. Lemieux feels more approachable when I think of her interacting with the public and town employees.
Mr. Alonzo stated we had two good candidates with varying skills, strengths and weaknesses. He is looking
more for a financial person and that more critical to him. Ms. Lemieux is more of a financial person and Mr.
Marciello is more of an administrative person. Ms. Lemieux's presentation skills were better, they were more
engaging and that is going to be more important for future meetings. Overall the better fit is Ms. Lemieux.
Ms. Luck stated she had opportunity to speak to seven Department Heads and the Executive Assistant to the
Town Manager. Since these are the boots on the ground people who will be working with the Town Manager
===PAGE 5===
every day, she thought their input was valuable. Although their input was varied, some themes emerged. I heard
that Ms. Lemieux appeared to be a good listener and was very personable. They liked that she said she was a
coach and they could see that and appreciated that type of interaction. It was mentioned that she worked in a
smaller town with less staff and she has probably done a little bit of everything, so she'll understand what's
going on here. Budgeting seemed to be a strength of hers. They majority felt she would be easy to work with.
They felt Mr. Marciello was diligent, a hard worker and personable. His temperament was intense and a little
off putting for the people that I interviewed. She would vote for Ms. Lemieux.
Mr. Toale agreed they were both qualified. He thought Ms. Lemieux's presentation skills were more polished.
Both candidates answered the questions thoughtfully and shared themselves completely. He also got quite a bit
of input from members of the town in terms of the interaction of the Interim Town Manager and also the effort
and willingness of Ms. Lemieux to come and spend time with department heads. His only question was have we
seen a big enough pool (of candidates)? But he was comfortable that either of these candidates could do the
job. He shared all of the Board's opinions and thought Ms. Lemieux might be able to do the job better.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: P. Bertram
That the Board offers the position to Heather Lemieux and enters into contract negotiations for the
position of Town Manager of Lunenburg
Discussion: Ms. Bertram stated that Mr. Toale raised the question if we had a big enough candidate pool
and she was comfortable moving forward. Mr. Alonzo did not want people to think this is all we have.
He was confident Ms. Lemieux would be an excellent Town Manager. Mr. Ebersole agreed and thanked the
search committee chaired by Tim Murphy. Mr. Toale appreciated the comments and he also thought they had a
good candidate and he appreciated the validation.
Vote: All in Favor
The Board discussed how to proceed until Ms. Lemieux starts in Lunenburg. Mr. Toale suggested appointing
Land Use Director Adam Burney as Acting Town Manager. Mr. Ebersole suggested Mr. Toale in
communicating with Ms. Lemieux. Mr. Alonzo offered to assist, if needed.
Appointment:
Ratify Town Manager Appointment of Garry Rhodes to Alternate Building Inspector
Land Use Director reported Garry Rhodes of 75 Hazen Road, Shirley, MA has been appointed by Interim Town
Manager Marciello as Alternate Building Inspector beginning November 10**.
, due to the Building
Commissioner being out for a planned medical leave. There will be compensation of $100.00 per week while
Mr. Rhodes is performing these duties. Additionally, current Local Inspector John Morreale Sr. will be working
hours outside of those associated with his stipend and these hours will be paid at a rate of $30.00 per hour for
the duration of the required additional hours.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: P. Bertram
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Garry Rhodes to Alternate Building Inspector
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes from October 18, 2016 were approved. The Board signed the Fiscal Year 2017 2nd Quarterly Water
Commitment in the amount of $5,853.72.
The Board signed Accounts Payable warrants in the amount of $162,809.97 and $170,494.05; a Payroll warrant
in the amount of $753,961.91. Mr. Toale signed the previously approved lease with FLAAC for renting space in
the T.C. Passios Building.
The Board discussed whether to go into Executive Session or not. They decided to schedule for the following
week.
Mr. Toale asked if there was any public comment. Ms. Luck thanked Mr. Toale for his work on the search
process and adding he did a great job organizing and steering the board through the process.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:14 p.m.
2nd:R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 6===
Respectfully submitted,
clairem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
