===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 € 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
October 18, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Interim Town Manager David Marciello
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Homecoming Parade and new school dedication on Saturday, October 22°
Open House at the school is from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. The parade begins at 12:00 and the ribbon cutting
commences at 12:45 p.m. outside by the main entrance, weather permitting and inside the auditorium if weather
doesn't cooperate. A reception with refreshments will follow. The football game begins at 2:00 p.m. with
parents and player recognition at 1:45 p.m.
Mr. Toale reminded all that October 19' is the last day to register to vote in the November 8th Presidential
election. The Town Clerk office will be open from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Their hours on Thursday will be from
9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. They are closed on Friday.
Kathy Murray presented on behalf of the Lunenburg Family Giftmart to request use of the T.C. Passios
Building for their charity event in December. Lunenburg Family Giftmart was created because of an identified
need in the community. Through the generosity of the community they have been able to offer a way for
Lunenburg families in need to shop for free. They work with St. Boniface Church, the Lions Club, the
Lunenburg Food Bank and the Lunenburg School District. This is a one day, invitation only event. For the past
seven years the event had been held at St. Boniface Church, which is unavailable this year. They are coming to
the Board with this time sensitive, emergency request. Their fundraising and gift collections must begin
immediately to ensure the success of the event; however without a guaranteed space they cannot do so. She
stated she had met with Facilities Director John Londa yesterday to work out the details. Mr. Toale stated the
tenants were contacted and there is no issue with the event.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d: T. Alonzo
To approve use of the T.C. Passion Building for the Lunenburg Family Giftmart as outlined
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Murray thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
John Londa presented an update on contract negotiations for two solar projects; Solect Energy for the rooftop
solar arrays on the DW Building and the Middle/High School and the Borrego net-metering agreement for the
Town. Mr. Londa presented risks of each the contracts that the Board should be aware of. He stated he has been
working with the Interim Town Manager, legal counsel and Solect Energy's legal counsel to work out the
details and they are at a point where they both either agree or walk away from the negotiations. The Board will
discuss these further at their next meeting. They requested copies of contracts of other solar projects for
comparison before the next meeting.
Trish Domigan - VHB- Summer Street Project Update
Ms. Domigan reported the 75% plan, which means it is 90% completed, was submitted to Mass DOT in May of
this year. She added they are moving the project along to final design which is very exciting. The
advertisement date is May 6, 2017. The entire project construction cost is $9.9 million right now. Mass DOT
===PAGE 2===
asks for updates on the construction cost regularly. All of the environmental permitting is completed. They will
now be going to the property owners concerning easements and are in the process of scheduling a neighborhood
meeting to talk to the Lunenburg property and business owners along Summer Street for the beginning of
November. There are 26 temporary and 6 permanent easements that are required for the project. Most of the
permanent easements are on MBTA property. She will be scheduling a meeting with them next week.
Appraisals are scheduled for January 2017. VHB will be coming to your meeting next April to present the
takings and will prepare a right of way certificate and return it to MASS DOT for approval. The Board
requested wording for the easements by the end of March in time for Annual Town Meeting approval.
Discussion turned to the additional cost of $120,000 due to a change order. Ms. Domigan also stated
construction phase services are not included in the final cost of $9.9 million. This is when the contractor
submits shop drawings such as any plan interpretations or clarifications. The cost will be distributed through all
three communities. The Board thanked Ms. Domigan for coming in this evening.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Election Ballot Questions Forum
Mr. Toale polled the room for interest on each of the four ballot questions. Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle,
School Committee and School Building Committee Chairman, presented on Question 2. Question 2 would give
the state Board of Elementary and Secondary Education the authority to approve 12 new charter schools or to
expand existing charter schools as a result of increased enrollment each year beginning on January 1, 2017.
Priority would be given to those charter school applicants who seek to open a charter school in public school
districts that are in the bottom 25 percent in the two years before application. Further, the Board would establish
standards by which annual performance reviews would be judged. Mr. Mackin was asking voters to vote "no"
on Question 2. Mr. Mackin stated he was speaking as a resident. He stated there is nothing in Question 2 that
addresses quality, financing or the current problems in financing our public schools. Public schools serve
children in thirteen categories of disabilities, charter schools do not. This has a budget impact. There are 180
school districts that have passed resolutions opposed to Question 2. He named several organizations opposed to
Question 2. He concluded by saying he is not against charter schools just the impact on the school system. He
stated it should be up for public forum discussion. He thanked the Board for their time and hoped that they
would discuss it.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, spoke of his grandson who lives in Fitchburg, who attended parochial school
and a public school in Fitchburg. He was accepted into The Sizer School, a charter school. He just received his
report card and got five Bs and one A. The issue that is most important to Mr. Rodgers is the direct result of a
charter school education for his grandson. He also wanted to disclose that he is on the Foundation Board of the
Sizer School. In terms of fiscal responsibility and management, they are very well run. He personally is in tavor
of funding charter schools. He thanked the Board and stated he agreed with Mr. Mackin that the subject needed
more debate and discussion.
Mr. Alonzo thanked both for coming forward and thanked Chairman Toale for putting this on the agenda. He
believed having a forum on this item and others that impact this town are important. Mr. Alonzo stated he was
opposed to voting yes for Question 2. You are taking a single funding stream and splitting it. Those charters are
not overseen by publicly elected bodies that have direct accountability to taxpayers. The idea that there is a
lottery to choose students creates a poorly competitive system that leaves the current school system at a loss for
funds. The public school system has no choice on where people want to go. For those reasons, he is opposed to
voting in favor of Question 2.
Mr. Ebersole stated he is concerned with the privatization of the school system. He is appreciative of the good
charter schools we have in the area and the success rates for some of those students, but is concerned with the
economics. There is no cap on these additional charters and that is why he opposed to Question 2.
Mr. Toale thanked those who spoke tonight and encouraged everyone to vote.
2. MART Proposal/MOU Regarding COA Van
This item is a transportation service contract by and between MART and the Town of Lunenburg. Ms. Luck
reviewed contract details. The contract states that the Lunenburg Council on Aging (COA) elects to perform
and operate transportation services during normal business hours for elderly and disabled residents. Lunenburg
===PAGE 3===
would provide their drivers' workers' compensation and liability insurance. The contract is for three fiscal
years. MART will reimburse the Town up to 20% of this position's monthly salary. They will also reimburse
the Town for all eligible expenses related to the operations of the COA transportation services. The Town
would also insure the van under their insurance policy. The Town will lease the vans from MART for $1.00 per
year. There is also an option to have MART take over the van transportation service. They would use their own
drivers and can't assure that they would hire the current Lunenburg employees to work for MART. A cost
comparison of the Town and MART operating the van service was provided. MART's costs would be around
$89,000. Lunenburg's costs would be around $80,000 to $90,000. MART would like the Town to sign the
contract by November 1st
!. Discussion ensued about using the MART service and their drivers or Lunenburg
using their own drivers and the differences.
Mr. Ebersole asked if the auto insurance and the claims that need to be paid are being paid out of the insurance
account or the Council on Aging budget. Mr. Marciello stated the existing $3,500 bill would be paid and MART
would reimburse the Town up to $2000. Mr. Ebersole wanted to make sure that the Council on Aging is made
aware of whatever claims are to be paid and it becomes public record as a part of this review process.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'': P. Luck
To approve the Transportation Service Contract as presented by MART
Mr. Ebersole noted there is a clause that the Town can back out of the contract with 60 day notice. Discussion
ensued about the one year trial. Concern was expressed about additional costs and liability with this contract.
It was requested to continue this discussion on a future agenda. Mr. Ebersole asked if there was a previous
contract that has expired with MART. Mr. Marciello stated he would find out. Mr. Ebersole withdrew his
motion. Ms. Luck seconded. Further information on refused calls and the cost of workers' compensation was
requested to be provided before a vote is taken. COA Director Doherty and the Finance Committee should be
invited to participate in the discussion.
3. Request for Proposals for Legal Counsel Discussion
Mr. Toale referred the Board to the draft Request for Proposal for Legal Services. Mr. Marciello asked the
Board when they want the RFP advertised and what deadline to submit. Discussion about the timing ensued.
4. Request to waive building permits fees for DPW and School Solar project installations
Mr. Alonzo asked what has been the past practice for the other projects. Mr. Londa stated he could not recall
how Turkey Hill Middle School project was handled. He did state the contract states the contractor is
responsible for building permit fees. After some discussion, the Board took no action.
5. Notice of Removal from C.61B: Recreational to Residential Use of 200 Reservoir Road
Mr. Marciello stated the Town has been notified that the Larkin property composed of approximately 20 acres
and located at 200 Reservoir Road is being removed from Chapter 61B recreational status and changed to
residential. The Town has the First Right of Refusal and would have 120 days to exercise its option to purchase.
The Town would have to pay for an impartial appraisal of the property and in order to purchase it would require
town meeting approval. The property owners will pay the back taxes on the property. The Board requested
feedback from the pertinent departments. It was also suggested to inform the Lunenburg Water district as their
property abuts this land
6. Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee (BOS) Representative Appointment
This position would be an alternate to attend meetings in the event the Planning Board designee, Ken Chenis,
cannot attend. Also needed is the MRPC representative. After some discussion it was decided to advertise for
volunteers to represent the Board of Selectmen for both positions.
7. Special Town Meeting Discussion
Two dates were offered for a Special Town Meeting, November 28" and December 5'.
'. Mr. Marciello presented
some possible warrant articles for the Special Town Meeting.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd,
:T. Alonzo
===PAGE 4===
To open the warrant for a Special Town Meeting on November 28'2016 and close it on Tuesday, October
25 at 6:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
8. Vote to send Letter (Certified Copy of Votes) to Dept. of Education
Mr. Marciello reported a letter needs to be sent to the Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary Education
requesting permission to lease the rooftop and related space on the Middle/High School for the solar project
with Borrego.
Motion: 1. Alonzo
2': P. Luck
That the Middle/High School rooftop space be declared surplus and the leasing of that space for the
purpose intended will not interfere with educational programs, and that a letter be sent to the
Commissioner of Elementary and Secondary Education requesting approval for the leasing of the surplus
space on the roof of the Lunenburg Middle/High School
Mr. Ebersole requested a rendering or design illustrating how the solar array will look on the school. Mr. Toale
requested this be part of the package when the discussion on this project occurs. Mr. Londa reported the design
would include the two shingled south-facing roofs. The bulk of the panels would be on the flat roof. He stated
he would bring something back for the Board to view. Mr. Alonzo asked if we ended doing the same project
with a different company would we have to write another letter. Mr. Marciello stated if things change and
something is different, we would have to go back to the Department of Education.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale signed the letter.
9. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes of November 4, 2014 and October 4, 2016 were approved. A payroll warrant in the amount of
$720,200.91; a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $163,155.11; an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $149,702.24; a middle/high school construction warrant in the amount of $985,713.01 and a void
payroll warrant in the amount of -$338.01 were signed. There were no action file issues.
10. Committee Reports:
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory Committee did not have a quorum at their last meeting. Their next
meeting is December 12. PACC continues to work on their business plan. The School Building Committee
met and progress on construction continues; front fields are being sodded, the greenhouse is near completion
and the outdoor classroom is being finalized. The funding is coming in $4.3 million under budget. There are
very few things that would add to that, but there may be some minor change orders. The School Building
Committee will not be meeting regularly after their December meeting because anything that is left will be
sporadic.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission is meeting tomorrow night. The "Walks in the Woods"
continues on Sunday, October 23°° at 9:30 am; please meet at the Ritter Building. Montachusett Planning
Organization (MPO) meets tomorrow at 1:00 p.m. and the Planning Board meets on October 24t
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee is meeting tomorrow evening. The next Storm Water Task Force
meeting is October 27*. The Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition is sponsoring a workshop on Friday,
October 28th.
". There is going to be a stormwater financing forum on November 15 and 16 at the University of
New Hampshire/Durham.
The Zoning Board of Appeals is hearing a petition from Asian Imperial Garden for expanded parking. The
proposed layout does not meet zoning requirements. They are also hearing the petition of a homeowner at 172
Leominster Road to live in an existing building on site while constructing a new home. They would then
demolish the older building.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse met last night and reviewed the Requests for Proposals on the municipal
buildings as well as a visionary proposal for the town center. They are awaiting the assessment of the properties.
Capital Planning met this afternoon and reviewed the one year and fifteen year plans of the Police Department.
===PAGE 5===
11. Town Manager Report
Interim Town Manager Marciello reviewed his report with the Board. Mr. Marciello has compiled information
the Pay as You Throw larger bags. More information is coming. Kabob-e-licious did not meet the deadline for
submitting their alcohol server training certification. A hearing will be scheduled to address this. Mr. Marciello
will be out of the office next week from Tuesday through Thursday to attend MCPPO training in Boston.
He is awaiting further data for coming into compliance with a USDA survey request regarding Meadow Wood
Trailer Park. Mr. Marciello reported he made an emergency appointment of Sheila Craigen as temporary
Accounting Clerk to assist in the back up of work in the accounting office due to the permanent person being on
medical leave.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To ratify the appointment of Shelia Craigen as temporary Accounting Clerk
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Marciello presented meeting notes formatting to the Board. The Board stated one modified agenda with
bullets was acceptable. The Board discussed whether they would meet on October 25'.
' They will schedule a
meeting and cancel if the information is not ready by then. Mr. Marciello exited the meeting.
12. Town Manager Interview Schedule Discussion
Mr. Toale stated the three finalists will be notified of their interview times and the formats for the November 8
and 15 meetings. Discussion on the process ensued. The Board reviewed draft questions for the applicants.
Responses to the written questions will be returned to the Board in advance. A 10- 15 minute presentation on
economic development will be presented on the 15'
'. A meeting schedule was reviewed as well.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated he spoke to Facilities Director John Londa and it would take 60 days
to complete the solar project. It must be substantially completed by the 8'" of January. His point was time is of
the essence. He also expressed concern about the Summer Street easement project. He wondered if the Town
should give the Board permission at the Special Town Meeting to proceed forward with the easement taking
It was noted there is not enough time to create that article in time for the Special Town Meeting.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 10:33 p.m. Vote: All in Favor
2''': T. Alonzo
Respectfully submitted,
Claim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 1 6 2016
LUNENBURG!?" :
CLERA! / : !
