===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
November 8, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member and
Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting opened at 6:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Chairman Toale announced this meeting and the next meeting would focus primarily on interviewing two
candidates for Town Manager.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club Pancake Breakfast at Eagle House Senior Center tomorrow morning from
8:00 - 11:00 a.m. Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg Rockin' Auction
fundraiser on November 19* at the Eagles Club in Leominster from 7- 11 p.m. There will be live music, raffles,
food and refreshments and several auctions. He encouraged everyone to attend and buy tickets at
http://bgcluboflunenburg.org.
Interviews for Town Manager
Mr. Toale announced the first candidate was Heather Lemieux. He explained each board member has questions
they will ask her. He asked Ms. Lemieux to briefly tell them about her and why she was interested in
Lunenburg.
Ms. Lemieux replied her educational background is in Political Science, having received a Bachelor's degree
from Providence College and a Master's degree in Public Policy at the College of William and Mary. Ms.
Lemieux works as Town Administrator for the Town of Barre and has been there for 10 years. She started as the
Administrative Assistant to the Town Administrator and Finance Clerk. About four and a half years ago she was
appointed Town Administrator. She stated she is looking for the next step in her career from Town
Administrator to a Town Manager in a larger community.
Mr. Ebersole asked what she has done professionally and succeeded at, but is not an experience that she wanted
to repeat. Mr. Lemieux replied Barre has entered into a net metering agreement but it took three attempts to
arrive at the one they have. It was a long frustrating process, meeting with various companies and looking at all
the various details.
Mr. Alonzo asked if she has ever been involved with introducing new ideas and programs into a community in
which she worked and about the process. Ms. Lemieux replied the creation of a Regional Information
Technology position with the Town of Rutland and Rutland Regional Emergency Communications Center. This
was a new concept; we had never had an IT person on staff. We had always used various vendors which she
foresaw as a security issue. The attempt started with brainstorming with a neighboring community because we
both had the mutual need for IT and saw the benefit of having someone on staff. Working with the other
community we could share the costs of related employment benefits. This was a new concept. Staff was very
receptive to this due to seeing the need and overall benefit. The outcome was successful. Recently we attended a
state conference at which our IT Director was a panelist and Barre was noted for being a model for this. It was a
proud moment for her and staff. Mr. Alonzo asked if there were any obstacles that she had to overcome. Ms.
Lemieux replied working out the details of the position, performing a salary survey, making sure it fit into the
current compensation plan and creating an intermunicipal agreement with the other town.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram asked if she considered her management style as a commander or a coach and to provide an
example. Ms. Lemieux replied more like a coach; my style is more hands off. The department heads are the
professionals and they know how to run their departments. If they need some guidance or help with issues, I am
more than happy to support them and help, if needed.
Ms. Luck stated many communities are faced with implementing the new MS4 permits dealing with
stormwater. Barre is not one of them. Can you share with us anything you know about it? Ms. Lemieux stated
she did not know a lot, but in years past we were asked if we wanted to participate in a regional grant program.
Ms. Luck asked how Barre deals with storm water. Ms. Lemieux replied we have a Water Commission that is
part of the Dept. of Public Works. The water employees handle all the issues related to drainage and repair of
those structures.
Mr. Toale asked what has been the most difficult management problem that you dealt with in the last five years.
Ms. Lemieux stated there was a decision made by the Barre Selectboard stemming from a situation where there
were problems in a certain department for many years. The Board tried to assist with solving those problems
with the department head and the union. Ms. Lemieux stated she was the liaison for the Board in this matter.
The issue was not able to be resolved and in the end there was a vote of no confidence. The Board decided not
to renew that person's contract. That whole process and the outcome was the most difficult as it wasn't very
popular in some respects.
Mr. Ebersole asked how she would deal with reduced available revenue in a budget year. Ms. Lemieux stated
she would look for savings in other areas, going out to bid for electricity, plan changes; another source could be
selling town land. Mr. Alonzo asked her to explain something complicated but that you know well. Ms.
Lemieux replied many people are not familiar with the municipal budget process. Breaking it down into steps
and having visual aids is helpful. Another complicated process is setting the tax rates for a town. Mr. Alonzo
asked her to explain that further. Ms. Lemieux stated you start with a budget worksheet and you look at your
starting tax levy, add your new growth and your 2½ percent limit, hit your maximum allowable levy, add in
various revenue sources, add in each department's total budgets and add in your bottom line. That's like a
balance sheet to update numbers.
Ms. Bertram stated she wanted to understand Ms. Lemieux's role in the oversight of Barre employees and her
responsibility for day to day operations. Ms. Lemieux stated it is a little different than Town Manager. In
Lunenburg's charter, you have direct appointments. With a Town Administrator the Board of Selectmen does
the various appointments, but I am the liaison for them. My role is to oversee the day to day management of
departments, make sure things run smoothly and to deal with any issues. I report to the Board and keep them
informed. I am the personnel administrator.
Ms. Luck asked if she ever had to hold a subordinate accountable for their actions. Ms. Lemieux answered yes,
there was a situation where an appointment was made to a position and it was within the probationary period.
We did end up letting that person go and I was involved in that process. It was not easy to make or do. It had to
be done in a delicate manner because of their relationship to the finances. It was the Board's decision but I was
aware of the knowledge that led to her release and I related that to the Board and they asked me to carry out it
out. That person did not take it well, but you have to remain calm and not try to get into a "back and forth" with
them about the situation.
Mr. Toale asked if he were to poll people Ms. Lemieux works with, what percentage of them would not be fans
of hers. Ms. Lemieux stated she couldn't say she was everybody's best friend. She believed she got along with
the majority of people she works with but obviously being in her position you're not going to make friends with
everyone. Mr. Toale asked if he were to talk with those people who are not fans, what kind of words he would
hear. Ms. Lemieux stated even those who may not be my biggest fans have said positive things. I can't think of
what they would say; that I am an honest person; that I try to do my job well. I am not entirely black and white,
but I hold integrity to a high level for all the department heads.
Mr. Ebersole asked her something she'd be happy doing every single day for the rest of her career. Ms.
Lemieux replied the budget part of the job. The budget is the framework on what you provide your services
from. She stated she really enjoys that. Policy is important as well.
Mr. Alonzo stated before this town was under a charter, the job position was called chief administrative and
financial officer. What side is your strongest; administrative or financial and how would you go about
strengthening the weaker of the two? Ms. Lemieux stated she really enjoys the financial part but the
===PAGE 3===
administrative portion is very rewarding as well. Finance is probably her strength. To strengthen the
administrative side, I don't have a good answer for that, maybe spending more time on that part of the job,
seeing processes through, receiving constructive criticism and feedback on how to improve those skills from the
Ms. Bertram asked how you would go about producing a working environment that supports maximum
productivity. Ms. Lemieux stated you have to know what motivates people besides income. If people's needs
are met, the really rewarding aspect is that they are part of a solution; helping department heads achieve their
goals.
Ms. Luck stated communication among town boards and committees as well as department heads can be
difficult to achieve. What specific actions have you taken as a town administrator to improve communication
among these groups? Ms. Lemieux stated she has learned to over communicate most of the time; making sure
you are relaying the message to everyone and not just a select few. Also attending meetings so you can listen to
what's going on; email is important. Ms. Luck asked what you would do as a first step to improve
communication here in Lunenburg. Ms. Lemieux stated call different department meetings, so everyone can
come together and discuss what each department is currently going through and see if there are mutual needs
that they may not have been aware of that could be addressed at those meetings. With the department heads
here, it seems like there is already a cooperative nature. They were all very welcoming and knowledgeable in
their fields so to facilitate that would appear to be an easy process.
Mr. Toale asked if it was better to be perfect and late, or good and on time. Ms. Lemieux replied perfect.
Obviously everyone wants employees that arrive on time at work, but I think striving for perfection in your field
is definitely an asset to have as department heads and staff. You want to motivate them to the next level not to
just come to work to the daily grind. Mr. Toale asked if you were working on an important project for the town,
is it more important to get it absolutely perfect but miss the deadline. Ms. Lemieux stated no, not to the point
where you miss the deadline. I put a lot of effort into everything I do, I try to make it as best as possible.
Instead of reinventing the wheel on different things, I look for best practices from other communities. I reach
out to other communities and take the best.
Mr. Ebersole asked her to describe a time when she screwed up. Ms. Lemieux stated going back to making sure
that all parties are notified; this was a lesson that I learned. We entered the Community Compact program and
one of the best practices areas we chose was regionalization and I brought it to the Board of Selectmen and they
endorsed it. But we hadn't informed all of the Planning Board members because over time it had evolved into a
regional planner position that we created for the town. That kind of had some pushback where they were
reluctant at first but in the end they came on board after they were comfortable and there was success in the
program. We are now in year two of the program. I went to them immediately because I wanted to reapply and
make sure everyone was aware.
Mr. Alonzo asked who is the smartest person that you know personally and why? Ms. Lemieux replied probably
my mother. She stated she has been fortunate to have many mentors in her life, especially her predecessor who
taught her a lot about her field and about being a people person, vital for this role. He taught me a lot of life
skills, approaching the day with a positive attitude.
Ms. Bertram stated you talked about wanting to work in a bigger community. What challenges are you looking
for in this position? Ms. Lemieux stated Lunenburg is going through some of the same challenges as Barre such
as looking at net metering agreements and Complete Streets Program. Economic development would probably
be my biggest hurdle. My experience has been around applying for Massworks grants to improve infrastructure
and the Capital Planning portion of that. We are also involved with our regional planning agency to apply for
the Massachusetts Downtown Initiative grant which we did not receive when we applied, but ended up
receiving technical assistance funding through the development committee. I find new projects exciting and I
am a lifelong student.
Ms. Luck asked what your strategies are for getting things done during the day while still managing to react to
situations that arise. Ms. Lemieux replied being organized helps me immensely. I have my daily planner that
holds details of the different projects and goals. These tools help me focus and keep me refocusing. I have an
excellent assistant that helps me throughout the day and assists me on projects if needed.
Mr. Toale stated you did your research and met with the town manager screening committee and various
department heads. What surprised you the most about Lunenburg? Ms. Lemieux stated what surprised me the
===PAGE 4===
most coming from a small town was that some people said there is not a lot of business here. From my
perspective it looks like you have a lot of businesses. When I did the tour with Chief Marino he took me around
town, I got to see the various areas. I did not know the extent of the farms in town, so that was pleasant to see;
the beautiful farmland and the lakes.
Mr. Alonzo asked what opportunities in your present job have eluded you. Ms. Lemieux stated she always
wanted to explore economic development more in Barre. My first few years were spent on housekeeping things,
making sure all the policies and procedures were updated. We've been slowly working on position descriptions.
Police Chief Marino asked if there was anything in Lunenburg that jumped out at her. Ms. Lemieux stated the
recreation aspect. To further explore that as a natural resource and that is something that would bring people
into Lunenburg. You have your beautiful lakes and recreation land. Chief Marino asked if she had any desire to
come and live in the community. Ms. Lemieux stated right now she is pretty grounded with her family where
she is.
Mr. Toale asked Ms. Lemieux if she had any questions. She asked the Board what they think are the major
issues right now facing the town and what are the opportunities?
Ms. Bertram responded that she would like to see the economic development go forward. She believed
Lunenburg had an opportunity to excel in ecotourism because of the natural resources and the numerous trails.
She stated as a Board they have done a good job on policies and procedures. She thought there is some more
work to do. She added she would like to see some standardization for personnel evaluations. It is a tool for the
employee as well as for the person responsible for overseeing that department.
Mr. Alonzo stated storm water is a huge challenge; it is going to be tough to stay on top of that because of the
cost involved. Internally a challenge is that we run the town on a skeleton crew basically in every department;
that leaves us with little flexibility. Another challenge is how to deal with all the municipal buildings. What we
do with that is both a challenge and an opportunity.
Mr. Ebersole added economic sustainability of the community. How do we do what we do with the limited
resources that are available? Mr. Ebersole stated we have a strong commitment of residents who participate on
various committees. Ms. Luck stated she sees the issues with storm water but also sees the lakes and streams as
an opportunity to improve the conditions.
Mr. Toale stated he is confident this town can do a lot of things when they focus on it, set a goal and try to
achieve it. His only concern is that they get enough people in town to participate. We just need to zero in on
whatever that vision is.
Ms. Lemieux asked what key issue makes Lunenburg unique and a good place to work? Mr. Ebersole stated we
have committed staff here who want to do the right thing. They may not always get the funding or the tools, but
after talking to the Finance Committee and saying what they want, then with whatever they get, they make it
happen. Mr. Alonzo stated from a natural resource point of view, this is a beautiful town and it makes it a great
place to want to live in. What makes it a great community is that we act as a community and even though we
may not always agree, we've developed a sense of constructive open dialogue that you don't see often in many
other communities. This Board has tried to be as transparent as possible; we share every bit of information.
Ms. Bertram stated she agreed with Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Ebersole. She added the miles of trails that we have
are phenomenal. We also have a lot of focused community groups; the Lions Club, for example. There truly is a
sense of community. Our school system is phenomenal. Everyone in town does everything they can to make
sure residents know what is going on, because our department heads and volunteers go the extra mile. Because
of that we have a strong sense of community. Ms. Luck agreed adding it's a very welcoming place. When you
need help people are there for you. Mr. Toale stated time was up and that the interview would continue next
week. Ms. Lemieux thanked the Board. She wanted to thank the department heads for being so helpful and
welcoming and she appreciated that.
After a brief recess the Board reconvened at 7:02 p.m. to interview David Marciello.
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Marciello to tell them briefly about him and why he is interested in the Town Manager
position. Mr. Marciello stated he was an attorney and has a Bachelor's degree in Political Science and a
Master's degree in Public Administration. He was the Town Administrator in Rehoboth for ten years.
He stated he has twenty years of experience working as a municipal attorney. He stated he is the Interim Town
Manager for Lunenburg and is interested in making it permanent.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Ebersole asked what you have done that you succeeded at, but wouldn't want to repeat. Mr. Marciello
stated he does not want to work for a divided Board. He has done it numerous times and it is not a pleasant
existence. I did well at it, we coexisted and we did monumentally good things.
Mr. Alonzo asked have you ever been involved with introducing new ideas or programs into a community in
which you have worked and tell us about it and describe the steps you used to improve its acceptance. Mr.
Marciello stated he was hired in Rehoboth for one main purpose. Personnel issues were a complete shambles at
the time. They did not have any working policies or any tracking of people that were paid hourly. I had to start
from scratch, had to write the policy, all of the procedures and install tracking. It took a lot of collective
bargaining and about a year and a half. Mr. Alonzo asked what it made it successful. Mr. Marciello replied
there was no way to track how many hours people worked. It was successful economically and liability wise.
Ms. Bertram asked do you consider your management style as a commander or a coach and provide an example.
Mr. Marciello replied there has to be hierarchy; an operational plan. You have to know the chain of command
but you have to bring all the stakeholders in. You have to delegate authority but ultimately the chain of
command has to rule. So I prefer both and implement both.
Ms. Luck stated Massachusetts towns are faced with implementing the new MS4 permit. Can you share what
initiatives you have undertaken to tackle the requirements of this permit in your last job and how the community
you serve in has funded the requirements of the permit to date. Mr. Marciello stated I wrote the MS4.
I was instrumental in designing our program; it was a lot smaller than it was today. I went to a lot of seminars, I
had consultants. I helped create educational videos on public access, showing how to do things correctly and
incorrectly. We made pamphlets. In the second phase we had to come up with timetables and in the third phase
we had to implement it. Ms. Luck asked how you would implement it in Lunenburg, He stated I do not know
the town well enough yet; I need to learn what issues we have as well as resources.
Mr. Toale asked what has been the most difficult management situation that you had to handle in the last few
years. Mr. Marciello stated Rehoboth; it was during the recession. We had to face potential layoffs. We had
under-performing departments. We did not layoff or cut hours and instead took cuts in pay. I gave back almost
10% of my pay to keep the budget balanced. Eventually we came out of the recession.
Mr. Ebersole asked how he would deal with reduced available revenue in a budget year. Mr. Marciello replied
there is no one right answer. It depends on the situation you have and using the right tools.
Mr. Alonzo asked him to explain something that is complicated but that you know well. Mr. Marciello stated
Proposition 2 1/2. People want to know why their taxes went up 4% when there is Prop. 2 ½. The reason is the
town as a whole can only raise taxes 22% on the town plus any new growth that it had, plus any exemptions,
debt exclusions and overrides. That is your starting point. "John Smith" could have more because of
assessments.
Ms. Bertram asked if he could tell them about a goal he set and walk us through your thinking and planning
process. Mr. Marciello stated in 2011 my contract as Town Administrator was not extended. I thought I could
get another job easily with my experience. I was frequently told I placed second as I did not have my Master's
degree. So I went back to school. I became a graduate assistant and worked fifty hours per week and I graduated
in just over two semesters. That was a goal I set, I had to do it quickly. I had a family to support. Those were
my goals, I needed to recredential myself and to excel and I achieved it all.
Ms. Luck asked him to tell them about a time as Town Administrator he had to hold a subordinate accountable
for their actions. Mr. Marciello stated that happens frequently; everything from the minor trivial thing to
termination. He stated he couldn't be specific because they were personnel issues. Mr. Toale asked if I were to
poll everyone you worked with, what percent would not be a fan of yours. Mr. Marciello replied he could think
of a few, but you are never going to please everyone. He stated when he left Rehoboth, there were people who
were initially critical of him who told him he would be missed
Mr. Ebersole asked him what something is that you'd be happy doing every single day for the rest of your
career. Mr. Marciello stated if there was one positive change at the end of each day, and that isn't possible, that
would make me happy.
Mr. Alonzo stated before this town was under a charter, the job position was called chief administrative and
financial officer. What side is your strongest; administrative or financial and how would you go about
strengthening the weaker of the two? Mr. Marciello stated actually the charter states that the Town Manager is
the Chief Financial Officer, unless that has been changed. I don't see myself as the CFO, I am administrative.
===PAGE 6===
I understand budgets in the whole; the omnibus and the big picture. I need the financial geniuses to make sure
they walk me through the minutia. Mr. Alonzo asked him how he would strengthen his financial side. Mr.
Marciello stated he relies on the experts and every time you do that you learn a little more, you have more
expertise.
Ms. Bertram asked how you would produce a working environment that supports maximum productivity. Mr.
Marciello stated it's lateral, it's all about relationships. You bring everyone into the mix, the stakeholders.
Ms. Luck stated communication among town boards and committees as well as department heads can be
difficult to achieve. What specific actions have you taken as a town administrator to improve communication
among these groups? Mr. Marciello stated he committed a faux pas when he first started here. I sent out an
email to the School Committee but neglected to send the email to the School Superintendent. I had put in my
email please share this but it did not reach her. I faced my mistake and apologized. Communication is key but in
that scenario I did not have all the information. I've adjusted since then.
Ms. Luck asked how you would improve communication among all the Boards. Mr. Marciello stated he would
make sure all the information got to all the Boards by acting as an intermediary.
Mr. Toale asked is it better to be perfect and late or good and on time? Mr. Marciello stated good and on time
because steady wins the race. You want consistency and accountability. You want to improve but being late
doesn't cut it.
Mr. Ebersole asked what your relationship was in the past with legislative delegations and other people outside
of the community that you have worked in. Mr. Marciello stated he was a liaison on all different levels, state,
federal, all the agencies. Some were friendly informal relationships and some were "go through the channels."
Mr. Alonzo asked who is the smartest person you know personally and why? Mr. Marciello replied his old
accountant; I think his IQ is 185. Numbers just fell out of his head
Ms. Bertram asked what challenges are you looking forward to should you get the position. Mr. Marciello stated
I've already started with some policies. Every town this size works on a skeleton crew. Everyone tends to focus
on their job but they don't know anything else. They don't know how other departments work and that is
dangerous. I've already started things being backed up on the main frame, people being cross-trained. You need
to have that safety net.
Ms. Luck stated there are multiple interruptions during the day. What are your strategies for getting things done
while still managing to react to situations that arise? Mr. Marciello stated you have to come up with coping
skills and ways to work around that. I come in early and stay late. I get everything done in two hours in the
morning and an hour and a half after we close. I'm focused and can tear through stuff in those times.
Mr. Alonzo asked what opportunities in your present or past job have eluded you. Mr. Marciello stated we had a
bridge that washed out and we went through all the preliminary requirements during a Board transition. We had
to hire an engineer in order to get funding. They never hired the engineer. The bridge is still closed because they
never got the permits. I wish I had a board that was amiable to getting things done but it did not happen.
Mr. Toale opened questioning to department heads. Chief Marino asked Mr. Marciello if he had any desire in
the future to move into the community. Mr. Marciello stated he did not know but he would definitely be part of
the community. That's a family decision that we would have to make as it affects everyone.
The Board thanked Mr. Marciello and he exited the meeting.
Mr. Toale stated the interview process involves the candidates coming back next week with a prepared
presentation and follow up questions. He encouraged department heads to attend this meeting also. At the
conclusion of that meeting we will deliberate. We can decide to vote on an appointment, decide to continue the
process or we can decide to start the process over again. The Board agreed.
Execution of Documents for November 15, 2016 Pavement Management Temporary Financing
Mr. Toale stated this was a bond anticipation note (BAN) in the amount of $800,000 due on January 26, 2017.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"':P. Bertram
To approve the Bond anticipation note as presented by Chairman Toale
Finance Director Brochu confirmed and stated there will permanent borrowing on a larger amount ($2.5
million, which includes the $800,000) in January 2017 in order to have that funding available for the next round
of paving in the spring. This BAN will be paid off when we do the permanent financing. Ms. Luck requested
DPW Director Rodriquenz come in to the Board before that occurs for an explanation of how it will be spent on
===PAGE 7===
the paving, stormwater management costs, etc. Mr. Ebersole noted the presentation given by Mr. Rodriquenz
had listed funding timelines and that this could be reviewed again. Ms. Bertram also wanted to continue a
discussion on the Complete Streets Program as well before January 27%
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action File Items
Mr. Toale presented Special Town Meeting warrants for signatures in order to post them. He presented an
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $1,202,514.55 and an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of
$582,687.39.
Ms. Bertram noted there will be additional costs of around $40,000 for the Summer Street project to move
forward. Mr. Toale stated the Board should meet on November 22'd in preparation for Special Town Meeting.
There was no public comment.
Motion: P. Luck
To adjourn the meeting at 8:14 p.m.
2nd.P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
