===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
FEBRUARY 9, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Kobert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member, Phyllis
Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager. The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo announced the Lunenburg Historical Society, located at 10 School Street, will be open Saturday,
February 13 from 1 - 3 p.m. and continue to be open on Wednesdays from 9 a.m. to Noon.
Mr. Ebersole noted the Lunenburg Water District is meeting tomorrow. Ms. Luck reported the Lions Club
Pancake Breakfast was cancelled this week due to impending bad weather. The next one is March 9th
Mr. Toale announced the last day to register to vote in the March 15 Presidential Primary and the Special State
Election for Precinct B is Wednesday, February 10 at 8:00 p.m. in the Town Clerk's office. This is also the last
day to change party affiliation for those elections. Absentee ballots are available for the Presidential Primary.
For more information, contact the Town Clerk's office at 978-582-4130 during office hours.
Mr. Toale announced the Board is seeking people to join the Memorial Day Committee to plan this year's
activities, particularly Veterans or anyone with active military duty. Anyone who would like to work on the
committee should contact the Selectmen's office at 978-582-4144.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Amend Class II Auto Dealer license
Ms. Lafleur stated this license was approved in December 2015 and no motion is required as it is a
spelling correction for the owners' names. The board signed the amended license.
2. Discussion/determination on availability and use of existing FY16 appropriation ($40,000) by the
Storm Water Task Force
Ms. Lafleur reported there is a line item in the F2016 budget for $40,000 for storm water projects. It is
listed under the DPW budget. There were no specific projects in mind when it was established. As the
Board knows, the Storm Water Task Force was established and Ms. Lafleur has reviewed this topic with
the Storm Water Task Force Chair.
Ms. Lafleur requested clarification from the Board on what their intention was in regards to the task
force and spending storm water funding. When she reviewed the goals of the task force it wasn't
immediately clear and it is not typical that we have a task force that would appropriate money.
Mr. Alonzo stated he sees the task force as submitting recommendations to this Board and they would
appropriate the funds because the task force is an appointed committee. Mr. Toale agreed.
Ms. Luck, Storm Water Task Force Chair, stated that would fine. She was visualizing task force
members attending workshops or needing training. If they applied for grants, there may be a need to
provide matching funds or if they wanted to join a storm water coalition there might be a fee. She asked
if they were doing a pavement project and they needed engineering or if they needed implementation of
storm water remediation that was unanticipated, could they use some funding for that?
She also looked at the annual MS4 report that the DPW Director files. Could we purchase trash bags to
clean up around ponds; it's part of education/outreach and making people aware.
Mr. Ebersole asked if she would need a consultant at some point this year. Ms. Luck stated they might
need an engineering firm for applying for a grant or for training, adding they don't have one lined up at
===PAGE 2===
this point. Ms. Bertram stated she didn't have a problem with any of the above but thought it made sense
to bring back a plan to the Board for approval. Ms. Lafleur thanked the Board for the clarification.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $587,073.33 and a Payroll Deductions
Warrant in the amount of $434,899.43.
Action File Issues:
Mr. Ebersole asked if the Bylaws Review Committee has met yet. Ms. Lafleur stated not her knowledge
but she will have Ms. Peterson follow up.
4. Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force and the ZBA are meeting tomorrow. ZBA will be
discussing the Whalom Luxury Apartments, Gary Lorden's project, and discuss regulations and the use
agreement. She attended the School Committee meeting last week. It started off with a presentation on a
Master Teacher project. Mr. Londa talked about replacing a cell tower. It is anticipated to be seventy-
five feet tall but the lighting will be at sixty feet. Verizon won the bid and it is anticipated to generate
$30,000 plus 3% additional per year. Mr. Londa requested approval of an easement going across school
property. They will vote on it next week. Town Meeting vote will also be required due to the long term
contract. There was a presentation on the Summer Enrichment Program, which will run for two weeks in
June. Any profits realized will be used to fund student activities. Another presentation was made on turf
fields. The Lions Club of Lunenburg presented a check for $36,000 to the School Committee for the
new playground at Turkey Hill Middle School. There is only around $3000 left to raise.
The School Committee also accepted the donation from Powell Stone & Gravel for the materials for the
outdoor classroom, totaling around $40,000.
Ms. Bertram had no reports as she had been out of town.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory will not be meeting this month as they are waiting for PACC to
finalize their business plan. Finance Committee met on Thursday for a presentation on Chapter 70
funding by Marc Abrahams. It is available on public access for viewing.
School Building Committee is meeting tomorrow.
Mr. Ebersole reported Sewer Commission is meeting tonight. Mr. Toale followed up on the Building
Reuse Committee members are now meeting with individual departments to get more detail on space
needs.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lafleur wanted to thank the DPW staff who did another excellent job of keeping the roads clear.
The Fiscal 2017 Budget presentation will be at the Finance Committee this Thursday at 7:00 p.m. in this room
and will be televised. At last week's Finance Committee meeting the Chapter 70 resolution was discussed. She
requested signatures on the resolution in order to send it our Representative and Senator.
Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Toale wanted to thank the DPW staff as well.
APPOINTMENT
Mr. Toale presented a request to appoint Nancy Forest to the Senior Taxation Work Off Committee.
Ms. Lafleur reported this is a five member committee that reviews all the applications from senior citizens for
the tax work off program. Those eligible can work up to 100 hours to get abatement off their real estate tax
bills. Ms. Forest's expertise is in reviewing financial criteria for the program applicants.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To appoint Nancy Forest to the Senior Taxation Work Off Committee.
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
There was no further public comment.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2^. P. Bertram
===PAGE 3===
To adjourn the meeting at 7:26 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
