===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
July 5, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member
Not present: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo reported that resident Larry Marshall, who had purchased the Jones House and who was very active
in the Lunenburg Boy Scouts, had passed unexpectedly on June 29th
. He offered his condolences to his family.
Mi. Toale stated he got to know Mr. Marshall through his help with Memorial Day planning over the past
couple of years. He wished the family the very best.
Ms. Luck wanted to thank the Police Department for their excellent work over the Fourth of July weekend
on Lake Shirley. They patrolled diligently and kept everyone safe.
Mr. Toale listed several vacancies on the following: Finance Committee- 2, Public Access Cable Committee- 2,
Personnel Committee- 3, Conservation Commission- 1, Parks Commission - 1, and Fence Viewers-several.
There was no further public comment.
APPOINTMENTS
Joint Appointment of Joseph Anderson to Sewer Commission Vacancy with Sewer Commission
Mr. Toale noted the Sewer Commissioner is an elected position and there was a failure to elect. He requested
Sewer Commissioner Chair Carl Luck to come forward. Mr. Luck opened the joint meeting of the Sewer
Commission with the Board of Selectmen. Mr. Anderson introduced himself; he moved to West Street in
Lunenburg about three years ago. He wanted to help the Town out. Mr. Ebersole asked if he had a sewer
connection on his property. Mr. Anderson stated no, not yet. When asked what he did as a job, he stated he was
a quality assurance specialist for a defense contracting company in Ayer. Mr. Toale asked him if he knew the
term ran until the next election in 2017 and if he would run for election at that time. Mr. Anderson stated yes to
both. Sewer Commissioner John Reynolds stated he had a background in quality assurance as well so it would
be nice to have someone else on the commission. Mr. Luck thanked him for volunteering.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd.R. Ebersole
To nominate and jointly appoint Joe Anderson to the Sewer Commission until the next annual election
Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Toale, aye, Ms. Luck - aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Luck-aye,
Mr. Reynolds- aye, Ms. Bunish-aye
Mr. Anderson thanked both Boards.
Mr. Toale requested Arthur Snow come forward regarding his request to be appointed to the Agricultural
Commission. Mr. Snow stated he was asked by the Agricultural Commission to come on their board. He has
attended all but three of their meetings over the past year. Mr. Snow is a local farmer and owns Snowflake Farm
on Goodrich Street and is a licensed contractor working in the Concord area. He moved here in 2012.
He would like to be part of the team.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'°: T. Alonzo
To appoint Arthur Snow to the Agricultural Commission with a term to expire June 30, 2019
===PAGE 2===
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale asked Holly Carr, 86 Valley Road, who has requested to be appointed to the Cultural Commission to
come forward. Ms. Carr stated she has lived here for 30 years and has experience in the arts and music and
would like to volunteer again.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To appoint Holly Carr to the Cultural Council with a term to expire June 30, 2019
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Carr thanked the Board. All appointees were reminded to go to the Town Clerk office to be sworn in.
Resignation- Bob Robuccio from Parks Commission effective June 22, 2016. Mr. Toale read Mr. Robuccio's
resignation, which was due to personal obligations.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To accept the resignation of Bob Robuccio effective June 22, 2016
2"d. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale thanked Mr. Robuccio for his service to the Town. He encouraged others to come forward and
volunteer on the Parks Commission.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. License fees (continued)
Mr. Toale reminded that this was a continuation of a discussion started at a previous meeting. The Board
reviewed Lunenburg's current license fees and those of the surrounding communities. They also reviewed
license transfer fees of other communities. A memorandum from May 9th outlined the process of what is
involved in a license application. Ms. Bertram recommended setting a fee for a license transfer and noted there
was currently no fee for a Club- Wine and Malt license. Discussion ensued over the various fees for different
licenses.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd.P. Luck
To add the fee of $75.00 for alcohol license transfers to the license fee schedule
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: R. Ebersole
To add the fee of $175.00 for a Club - Wine & Malt license to the license fee schedule Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d.P. Bertram
To remove the jukebox license from the license fee schedule
Mr. Toale stated he would like to know what would be the difference between an automatic amusement device
and a jukebox license. It was decided to research further before voting.
2. Donation of Granite Bench to Town
Mr. Toale reported Mario and Phyllis Andella will be moving and would like to donate a granite bench to the
Town. They would like it to be placed at the Turkey Hill Gardeners planting area in the center of Town.
DPW will be able to move it.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd. P. Bertram
To accept the donation of the granite bench from the Adellas as described
Vote: All in Favor
The Board thanked the Andellas.
3. Finalized Storm Water Scope of Services Request
This item was postponed to a later meeting.
4. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of June 21, 2016 were presented for approval. The following warrants were presented for approval and
signatures: FY 17 Accounts Payable $1,796,259.07; FY 16 Accounts Payable $584,850.81; FY 16 Payroll
Deductions Warrant $215,539.09; FY 16 Accounts Payable $134,449.24 and a Payroll Warrant $572,940.75.
===PAGE 3===
5. Committee Reports
Ms. Bertram reported the Montachusett Metropolitan Planning Organization (MMPO) met last week. The MPO
voted to release the following documents; Draft Amendment #2 FFY 2016 TIP; some money was moved and
some projects awarded. Also released was the Draft FFY 2017-2021 Transportation Improvement Plan. The
Summer Street project remains in the 2017-2018 schedule. In the event it does not meet the target deadline
MRPC would like to be notified. Lastly, the Draft 2016-2017 Unified Planning Work Program was also
released. These are all out for public comment until August 1, 2016. One item under the UPWP is a storm water
data development program; this program will be offered and used to assist communities in their data collection
responsibilities required to follow EPA Phase II stormwater regulations for NPDES/MS4s. The next meeting is
August 3r0
. There was one other issue regarding the Summer Street project. The number used to program into
the TIP is slightly less than the dollar amount that the town engineer used. The difference is the cost of drainage
is slightly higher. There is some concern on that number. DPW Director Rodriquenz is going to touch base with
VHB engineer Trish Donovan. The Town will need to get the final number to MRPC as soon as possible.
The Planning Board met on June 27. Ms. Bertram did not attend but viewed the meeting. There was an
interesting discussion on storm water and the adoption of infrastructure. They will be reviewing rules and
regulations of the Planning Board and will be working with the Storm Water Task Force on low impact
developments that the Town can maintain. They did vote to support the Lanni Orchards Agricultural
Preservation Restriction. They held a special hearing on the revision for special permits and site plan approval.
The next meeting is July 25th
The Planning Board is working in the Use Table in the bylaws. They discussed removing the Whalom Overlay
District which will be a warrant article for the Special Town Meeting.
Conservation Commission is meeting tomorrow. One issue on the agenda is the continued enforcement on 101
and 225 Pleasant Street. The deadline to have the reestablishment plan is tomorrow. Conservation has not
received anything yet from Mr. Gardner.
Ms. Bertram stated she received a letter from a business owner on Summer Street. Ray Morin Inc. was
concerned about using a gated entrance onto Summer Street for their equipment for their business. They have
expressed concerns with the current road plans and have not been contacted by the engineers. With the current
plans they would not be able to access their equipment. They requested a procedure from the Board on how to
implement changes to the current plan in order for their business to continue. Ms. Bertram will forward the
letter to the Town Manager and VHB for follow up.
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee is meeting tomorrow evening. The Storm Water Task Force met on
June 30th
• They discussed the scope of services request. Land Use Director Burney took the task of finishing it
ig bring ilage presentation to this geard. They meet again on July 18". The 2BA meets on July 13 and
Mi. Alonzo reported due to vacations, the Cable Advisory Committee will meet in August. Finance Committee
and School Building Committee have not met. The asbestos abatement continues at the old school in
preparation for demolition. Everything is right on schedule.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Sewer Commission continues to work on grease trap requirements compliance. They
are also finalizing the betterments on the sewer project.
Mr. Toale reported the Building Reuse Committee has reissued an invitation to bid on the market analysis of the
municipal buildings. The new deadline is July 18h
'. Capital Planning should start meeting again in the fall.
The quarterly Animal Control report is in the Action file under Correspondence.
The Board will meet again on July 12"* for a workshop session; it will not be televised.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck reminded all of the Lions Club Pancake Breakfast at Eagle House on the 13"h
. Mr. Alonzo noted the
Volunteer Appreciation Social will be on the 26* at Eagle House from 5 - 7 p.m. for volunteers on boards and
committees. It will be a barbeque. Anyone interested in serving on a board may attend to find out more about it
from the current members.
There was no further public comment.
===PAGE 4===
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:46 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainen Reteroon
Blaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2"d. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
