===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
July 12, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Town Manager Kerry Lafleur.
The meeting was called to order.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Michelle Belleza, Executive Director of the Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg, reported there was a Board
meeting last night and they wanted to thank this Board for the Teen Center parking lot resolution. The club is
seeing 45-60 teens per day through the summer. Ms. Belleza was here tonight to request a toll booth fundraiser
on Saturday, September 10" from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. for the center of town.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To approve the toll booth fundraiser pending submitting the application
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Belleza thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Ms. Lafleur reported Town Moderator Murphy was not available for the Special Town Meeting on August 2nd
An alternative date of August 22'd
was suggested.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'': I. Alonzo
To reschedule the Special Town Meeting date to August 22, 2016
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To open the warrant for the Special Town Meeting tonight and close it at 4:00 p.m. on Thursday, July 14,
2016
Vote: All in Favor
The Board reviewed the draft Special Town Meeting warrant articles. Ms. Lafleur reported the first article is a
budget adjustment article. She did not expect any adjustments, but it is on the warrant if it is needed.
The second and third articles address funding the first year of collective bargaining agreements for the Police
Officers IBPO Local 353 AFL-CIO and (DPW) Public Employee Local 39 Unions.
Article 4 is a request to appropriate $35,000 from sale of cemetery lots for care, improvement and
embellishment of the cemeteries. Article 5 is the Solect Energy Development power purchase agreement for the
rooftop installations at the Middle/High School and DPW. Article 6 was suggested by legal counsel assuming
there is a PILOT agreement with Solect. Ms. Lafleur will speak to Attorney Joel Bard about this further.
Article 7 is the power purchase agreement with Borrego Solar Systems for the purchase of energy and net
metering credits.
Discussion about power purchase agreements and returning to town meeting for approval ensued.
It was decided to clarify at the special town meeting that the Board has the authority to enter into these power
purchase agreements.
Article 8 corrects incorrect lettering of section 4.175(d) Village Center District to (c) of the zoning bylaw due to
a previous typographical error. Article 9 amends zoning bylaw, Section 8.4 by deleting two typographical errors
and inserting the correct words. Article 10 deletes section 4.12 Whalom Overlay District from the zoning
bylaw. Article 11 amends zoning bylaw section 3.1 by deleting the word "fifteen" and inserting the word
"fourteen," deleting section 3.11, Whalom Overlay District, and relettering the items that followed after
Whalom Overlay District. Article 12 amends zoning bylaw 3.2.1 by deleting references to Whalom Overlay
District and deleting "May 2, 2015" and inserting "August 8, 2016."
===PAGE 2===
Article 13 removes the words "Whalom District Overlay" in the table of contents and replaces with the word
"Repealed" Article 14 removes the Whalom Overlay District from the official zoning map.
Article 15 establishes a boundary line agreement with 64 Chestnut Street property owner Elaine Mroz and the
Town's Marshall Park. Article 16 appropriates $58,000 for the local contribution towards the Agricultural
Preservation Restriction for Lanni Orchards at 292 Chase Road. Ms. Lafleur stated this funding is coming from
the 2016 budget.
Minutes of July 5, 2016 were approved.
The Board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $557.810.55; an accounts payable warrant for $477,579.54
and an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $298,048.21.
The Board signed a new Form 43 for reconsideration of the transfer of The Bootlegger restaurant all alcohol
license to be sent to the Alcohol Beverages Control Commission.
The discussion turned to hiring a new Town Manager due to Ms. Lafleur's resignation effective September 5th
A Town Manager Search Committee, according to the Charter, shall consist of one member of the Board of
Selectmen, one member of the Planning Board, one member of the School Committee, 1 member of the Finance
Committee, and the Town Moderator, who shall serve as the Chair and call all meetings of the committee. The
committee provides a list to the Board of Selectmen who would appoint to the position.
Discussion of the process, desired abilities of a town manager and option of an interim town manager ensued.
It was decided to hire an interim manager and begin the hiring process simultaneously.
The Board moved on to desired qualities of a new Town Manager. Some of the qualities were:
Familiarity with personnel evaluations.. Toale stated someone who could work on
• Building a good Personnel Committee
• Good communication with elected Boards
• Familiarity with marketing the town
Mr. Ebersole stated volunteers should be trained on what it means to be a good committee member. Mr. Toale
stated he wanted to work more with Board and Committee Chairs.
Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. Lafleur what she thought the Board should work on. Ms. Lafleur stated the biggest
issue right now is vacancies on boards and committees and the turnover of members. It is time consuming to
advertise and go through that process. In addition there are boards and committees that have work under the
bylaws, such as the Parks Commission and Personnel Committee that is not getting done. The Personnel
Committee (or lack of one) is causing upset with non-union employees right now. One of the charges under this
Board is to keep those boards and committees filled. People don't seem to be interested in volunteering.
Minutes from committees/boards were another concern. Suggestion was made to put a training video on
YouTube.
Discussion ensued on how to get people on committees, train them and keep them on them.
The Board decided reviewing legal counsel services should be one of their goals.
Mr. Toale will work with Ms. Lafleur to follow up on unfinished business.
Motion: P. Bertram
To appoint Jamie Toale to the Town Manager Screening Committee
2nd.T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:20 p.m.
2"°: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Respectfully submitted
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
