===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member
Others present: Interim Town Manager David Marciello, Elaine Peterson, Executive Assistant to Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 6:02 p.m.
Mr. Marciello reported Deborah Ecker of KP Law sent an email stating Fitchburg Gas and Electric (Unitil) has filed a
Petition for Approval of a request to purchase, own and operate a solar facility with the Department of Public Utilities. As
with the rate case, the Attorney General's Office has filed a notice to intervene and will represent the "ratepayers" in
reviewing Unitil's filing as the outcome will have an effect on future rates. She did not know if the Board was aware of
the proposed solar project and/or if the Town had concerns and wanted to participate in the case. Ms. Luck entered the
meeting. Discussion ensued.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2: T. Alonzo
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Mr. Toale reported the Police Union and Town Manager Lafleur had met regarding the IBPO contract without legal
counsel present and came up with a Memorandum of Agreement. The last remaining item to resolve was the detail rate
and a special strike detail rate. Since that meeting the union has agreed that they did not need the strike detail rate. The
union believes the current detail rate is lower than the standard. The Town detail rate and private detail rates are different.
Currently the Town pays time and a half of the officer's normal hourly pay. Private details are currently charged $42 per
hour. The union would like to charge the Sergeant overtime rate (currently $54 per hour) so that they don't have to keep
coming back and renegotiate a set rate. The question was asked if DPW hires a private contractor and the contractor pays
the detail rate, does the Town rate still apply? It was suggested to keep the town rate at time and a half. Mr. Ebersole
spoke on behalf of Ms. Bertram who was against an increase as it might have a negative effect on businesses.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"°: T. Alonzo
To propose the Town detail rate remains at time and a half and private details at the overtime rate of sergeant
Ms. Luck expressed concern of increasing rates right before the Town begins its pavement management projects. It was
suggested to keep any town projects at the time and a half detail rate. Mr. Marciello asked if the contract addressed this.
Was there a past practice? Mr. Ebersole changed the motion To propose the Town detail rates remain at time and a
half for all Town projects, contracted or not, and private details be charged at the overtime rate of sergeant
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Alonzo- aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Mr. Toale will present the offer to the union. The Board approved various Executive Session minutes.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2™': T. Alonzo
To exit Executive Session and return to Open Session after brief recess
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye, Mr. Toale- aye
The meeting adjourned at 6:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire. Alson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
