===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 3, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo reported that Kinder Morgan and its subsidiary, Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, has suspended
further work on the Northeast Energy Direct project. He wanted to thank everyone who participated in making
it very clear the pipeline was not desired.
Ms. Luck stated this week is Teacher Appreciation Week and thanked all the teachers in Lunenburg who work
with our children. She added, when Lunenburg counts its blessings, we count our teachers twice.
Hazardous waste collection at Devens Regional Collection Center, 9 Cook Street, is the first Wednesday and the
following Saturday of each month from 9 a.m. to Noon. They take many types of hazardous products and she
hoped Lunenburg residents would use the service.
Mr. Toale reported the Town Clerk has announced annual town election ballots are now available at the Town
Clerk's office for the May 21, 2016 Annual Town Election; polls open at the T.C. Passios Building, 1025 Mass.
Ave. at 7:00 a.m. and close at 5:00 p.m.
Thursday, May 19'h
, 12 Noon, is the last day and hour to vote on an absentee ballot at the Town Clerk office.
If you have not returned your 2016 census or returned a phone call from the Town Clerk office, please do so as
soon as possible. Anyone not doing so will be put on an inactive voting list by the state and at any future
elections you will be required to get out of line and fill out paperwork before being allowed to vote.
Renewal of dog licenses was due on or before March 31, 2016. If you have not updated your dog license, please
do so by Wednesday, May 11, after which all delinquent accounts will be referred to the Police Department for
Turther processing. Hours are Monday and Wednesday trom 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and Tuesday and Thursday
from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. For more information call 978-582-4130.
Mr. Toale read aloud the list of on committee vacancies; Finance Committee, Sewer Commission, Zoning
Board of Appeals, Public Access Cable Committee, Cable Advisory Committee, Personnel Committee, Storm
Water Task Force and the Memorial Day Committee. There is also a vacancy on the Board of Health and the
Sewer Commission which are elected positions by which a person can be appointed to until the next annual
election. Anyone interested can fill out a talent bank form at town hall or get one off the town website.
APPOINTMENTS:
Request to relocate a gate at 171 Lancaster Avenue-no one presented for this item.
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of April 5, April 12, April 19, 2016 were approved.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $2,121,180.95; two payroll warrants, the first
in the amount of $941.49 and second in the amount of $654,206.33; and a payroll deduction warrant in the
amount of $439,549.
===PAGE 2===
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on April 27'h.
. Facilities Director John Londa reported on work to
be considered on for school buildings and properties over the summer. The disposal of the T. C. Passios trailer
will go out for bid. Turkey Hill Middle School may have $30,000 in ceiling and facia work and the Primary
School entrance may be painted. At Turkey Hill Middle School, the Industrial Arts room has been divided into
two individual spaces by Monty Tech students. One half is a computer lab; the other half will be transformed
into a heated maintenance garage at the cost of around $30,000. This will also go out for bid. The heated
maintenance garage will be close in proximity to the new unheated school maintenance garage. The School
Committee meets again tomorrow night. The Storm Water Task Force (SWTF) met on April 28'h,
• Jim Auge has
informed Ms. Luck that due to personal reasons he will not be able to serve on the task force. He has informed
the BOH Chairman, who will ask for another member to serve as the BOH representative. Ms. Luck and Land
Use Director Adam Burney attended an informative workshop in Salem on April 26" on "Creating a Revenue
Stream for Storm Water Management." SWTF member Sarah Cammer continues to work on the 319 Nonpoint
Source Grant application. They are finalizing plans for a volunteer cleanup of a designated area in town on
May 14*"*
• It was announced that Massachusetts along with 46 other states is going to apply to take over
enforcement of MS4 permits from the Environmental Protection Agency. The next SWTF meeting is May 12*
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission met on April 20th. The public hearing for 101 Pleasant Street
continued; wetlands have been flagged and the excavated area has been filled in. They discussed not removing
the culvert through the roadway but instead properly sizing it and considering it temporary while the forest
cutting plan is in effect. The engineer did indicate they are willing to address the wetlands violations on town
property. They need to complete remediation on 101 Pleasant Street prior to doing other work on the property.
They are going to present a remediation plan at the next meeting. Conservation Commission did a site visit
there last Saturday. The Lake Shirley management plan was presented. They requested to continue with the lake
drawdown and chemical herbicide application. Conservation indicated they needed more data and the item was
continued to the May 4*' meeting. Conservation held a workshop on Lake Shirley management and regulations
on April 27th
. Conservation also reviewed a punch list of items remaining for Stone Farm. A letter will be sent
to the property owner concerning catch basin cleaning, maintenance, as builts and a number of other items.
Street sweeping was discussed and their role in that activity due to stormwater and wetlands issues. An auditing
program was discussed. The Cowdry Lot Trails property has a number of areas being flooded and damaged by
beaver activity. The commission is looking into remediating this damage. A meeting attendee asked if the
Conservation Commission would televise their meetings. This will be done for their second meeting of the
month beginning in June. Planning Board met on April 25t
'. They approved a plan for a drive up area for
grocery pick-up at Hannaford's, 301 Massachusetts Avenue. There was lengthy discussion on the proposed
bylaw changes. Planning Board is planning to remove the front yard parking restriction other than on designated
parking areas from the proposed changes. There was also discussion of exempting single family homes from the
paving requirement for driveways except for the first twelve feet. The MPO meeting had discussion on the
Summer Street construction project. The projected cost exceeds the $6.9 million cost originally projected. It is
now estimated to be $10 million and with revisions and escalation factors as much as $13 million, which
exceeds the target funds for the entire region. Due to the complexity of the project, it is anticipated it will take
two, maybe three construction seasons to complete. MPO agreed it needs to be categorized as an advanced
construction project and requested additional scenarios for the Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) be
developed in order for the funding to be allotted over multiple years. Federal Highway Administration requested
Lunenburg supply a projected timeline that includes the construction schedule so it could be granted the
advanced construction status. Mass DOT is looking for Lunenburg to continue obtaining temporary and
permanent easement acquisition.
The other Lunenburg project discussed was the Chase Road project which is at the 75% design phase. This may
be eligible for safety funding. More information will be available at the MPO May 25* meeting concerning this
project.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Sewer Commission held their second hearing on the updated grease trap regulations.
They did vote to adopt the revised regulations.
===PAGE 3===
Lori Lehtinen- ATM Article # 44 (yard waste curbside pickup)
Resident Lori Lehtinen appeared regarding the annual town meeting article #44 regarding curbside yard waste
pickup. She wanted to reiterate why she wanted this article on the town meeting warrant. Lunenburg does not
offer this service while other communities do. The Youngs Road facility is open only four Saturdays in the
spring and again in the fall. This proposal will need funding. She stated she believed many folks will find this to
be cost effective and have more of a constructive approach for residents' time management. In order to provide
this service for all residents we have to look for cost saving methods while keeping to our commitments for
curbside services. We should also consider the town's commitment to being a Green Community. Ms. Lehtinen
contacted six service providers. She presented three quotes for the service to the Board members. She thought it
was enough information to get a basic understanding of what is required. She also contacted the City of
Fitchburg and learned the Town could negotiate with them for a closer yard waste disposal site. Ms. Lehtinen
reported that from her research it would come to around $20.00 per year per household for this service. She
added that not everyone may use it at first but everyone would be paying for it. She stated she does not have
children but she is happy to pay for the new school for the benefit of those who do need it. She thanked all the
people who helped her in her research as well.A suggestion to keep the Youngs Road facility open more often
for residents via a permiting system arose as an option to the curbside pickup. Ms. Lehtinen stated that would
only work for residents who were able to transport their yard waste there. Ms. Bertram thanked Ms. Lehtinen
for her research but noted it was very late in the budget schedule to fit this in. She asked Ms. Lehtinen if she
was proposing a financial based article, where would the funding come from? Ms. Lehtinen stated she
understood it was late in the budget season and would assume this could be put into motion for fiscal year 2018.
Ms. Bertram stated she would like to get a feel from the community on what they want. She added she
personally did not want the recycling curbside pickup to go to an every other week schedule. Some options for
motions at town meeting were suggested. It was also suggested to discuss this with the Town Moderator before
the meeting. Ms. Lehtinen was agreeable to the suggestion to get a non-binding vote at town meeting and to
postpone such services until fiscal year 2018. Another suggestion was to do a survey monkey to get more
feedback.
Vaness, Hangen Brustlin, Inc. (VHB) - Summer Street project re: ATM Article #29
Trish Domigan, Project Manager, presented a status update on the Summer Street project. She stated she had
spoken with Arthur Frost at Mass DOT/District 3 about the construction time duration. This defines what
materials and labor is required for a project. He referred her to the Boston office and they told her it doesn't
warrant a comprehensive schedule. Arthur Frost then stated to her that he would defend the advanced
construction status of the project with the Federal Highway Administration. Ms. Domigan believed it will
probably take three construction seasons to complete due to the complexity of the project. Due to comments
from the Mass DOT, sidewalks must be placed on both sides of the street rather than just one. Extensive
drainage requirements will also escalate the cost of the project. By reviewing all the different design
components, VHB has been able to reduce the price of the project down to $8.5 million. This does not include
utility poles, MassDOT construction administration costs and police details bringing it up to $10 million.
All construction costs are covered within the Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP). If approved, it will go out
for public review on May 25th
. Ms. Domigan will be submitting the cost estimate to MassDOT this Friday.
75% percent of final design phase plans were completed in April. They are now in the process of filing a Notice
of Intent with the three Conservation Commissions involved; the first public hearing in Lunenburg will be on
June 1St
• National Environmental Policy Administration (NEPA) is the entity for the EPA to file its own
documents for the environmental impact of the project. The right of way process can't be started until the
NEPA process is complete. For the right of way, there are 37 temporary and 2 permanent easements required.
Temporary easements are just for regrading the roadway and blending on to the property, reseeding grass and
reconstruction of driveway aprons and some parking lots entries. There will be a few neighborhood meetings
for information on individual properties and easement acquisition in late summer/fall.
The Board thanked Ms. Domigan and she exited the meeting.
===PAGE 4===
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. AIM Warrant Articles
9 - FY16 Budget Adjustment
18 - FY17 Solid Waste Enterprise Fund
27 - Authorize Cell Tower Lease
28 - Replacement of Existing Artificial Turf Field
30 - Transfer of Brooks House from School Committee to BOS
31 - Transfer of T.C. Passios Elementary from School Committee to BOS
44 - Curbside Yard Waste Pick Up
45 - Lunenburg Water District Study Committee
Article #45 (Lunenburg Water District Study Committee) was discussed first. Mark Bursch, Water
Commissioner, asked who sponsored this article. Mr. Toale stated the Selectmen placed the article on the
warrant. Mr. Bursch asked why? What is the intent of the article? Mr. Alonzo stated he brought it forward
because the water district is a separate municipal entity that has separate elections and meetings that for the
most part goes under the radar of most townspeople. For the purpose of public involvement, participation,
awareness, visibility, voting participation, voter franchisement, and representation, he believed it would be
better served under the Town because visibility issues would be resolved. There would be one place where
information could be obtained for all town services. All the election and town meeting days would be the same.
Mr. Bursch asked what benefits this would give the members of the Lunenburg Water District. Mr. Toale
reminded all that the article only calls for a study committee. Mr. Toale believed the intent of the article was to
get a feeling from the townspeople if this would be something they would want to consider.
Mr. Bursch stated the commissioners are fiscally responsible and DEP compliant. They currently work with the
Fire and Police Departments, DPW, Planning Board and Town Manager flawlessly. There have been no
precedents that he can see where a municipality takes over a water district or merged with one without conflict.
He personally did not see a need for a study. Since 1939 they have been fiscally responsible. The members have
an efficient means to communicate and participate in district business. They have a responsive, professional
staff that works well with the district members and the Town professionals. The Water Commissioners and its
professional staff do not support this article in any way, shape or form.
Ms. Bertram asked if there was a cost associated with this article and if so, was it in the budget. Ms. Lafleur
stated it did not. Mr. Toale stated it was his understanding this would be voluntary fact-finding committee with
no funding. Ms. Luck stated we are just looking at the issue to see if it makes sense to continue as is or place
the water district under the umbrella of the Town. She asked how many members attended the water district
annual meeting. Mr. Ebersole stated there were eighty-two members who voted at the annual election and
around twenty who attended the annual meeting. They chose officers, voted on the annual budget, authorized
temporary borrowing and the borrowing for the new maintenance garage. Mr. Bursch stated they authorized
borrowing $1.4 million for the garage.
Mr. Toale stated he attended that meeting and wanted to remind all that this article was in no way an attempt to
discredit anyone or to say the water district isn't doing a fine job. It is just to see if there is a better way and to
look at the pluses and minuses of whether the town would like us to do that study. Mr. Bursch added there
weren't as many people there as at the Town meeting but it went much quicker than town meeting because they
are focusing on water.
Mr. Alonzo asked if there was a quorum requirement for their annual meeting. Mr. Bursch replied no. Mr.
Alonzo stated he thought last year it was just between ten and fifteen people that voted to increase the district.
That was his point, stating the need for full member participation. Mr. Bursch stated if you look at the efficiency
of our meetings, it's just about water. He saw additional layers with the water district coming under the town.
The people who want to talk about water come to our meetings. Change at some point is going to come at a
cost. Further discussion ensued about notices and election times. Ms. Luck asked why you wouldn't be willing
or interested at looking at it. She added maybe it would be to your advantage and asked how narrow-minded can
you be?
Ms. Bertram stated she did believe one reason this was brought up was the vote taken last year by the members
to expand the district. At that time there wasn't as much communication as there is now. She wanted to applaud
===PAGE 5===
the commissioners for making some changes in how they notify members. The annual meeting notice was
published in the newspaper. It was advertised on Facebook, and on the water district website. She stated she
disagreed with this article because she did not believe they had enough information to make a decision. She did
not believe it would be a seamless transition. There are costs associated with absorbing another district. Ms.
Bertram stated the decisions that are made for the water district are paid for by members of the water district.
As a paying customer she did not want people who are not in the district to make decisions that affect her.
Mr. Ebersole stated he supported the study committee because water is a Lunenburg resource. He was
concerned with the fact that the Water Commissioners are negotiating an Intermunicipal Agreement with the
Town of Lancaster to provide water for economic development. He was concerned that Shirley is talking about
putting a well in the same aquifer. He didn't know the amount of water that Lunenburg is going to need in the
future. He believed that as a water taker, this is better for the whole purposes of protecting Lunenburg water.
He thought the Town of Lunenburg should be voting if the water should go to Lancaster not just the Water
District. He stated the study committee will raise any concerns or may come up with a recommendation to keep
it separate or they may come up with something in between.
Mr. Alonzo stated the intent of this is not to be adversarial. The article only commits to a study committee. He
hoped they could work in communion with the Water District. He did not see any difference between this and
the Sewer Commission. The townspeople will decide at the town meeting.
John Esposito, Water Commissioner, stated he did not believe that Mr. Alonzo didn't know anything about the
annual meeting. It was posted all over town. He then addressed Ms. Luck stating that she can't understand why
the commissioners don't want a study. Why have a study to try to take over the Water District when it is an
absolute perfectly run department? What do the Selectmen know about running a water district?
Ms. Luck stated they don't know anything about running it and they don't need to know. They are just
wondering if it would be a good idea for the water district to move under the umbrella of the town as it would
be if they were establishing a water district out of the gate today. They just want to take a look at the issues.
What would be good or bad about it? They would like some volunteers to put their heads together and
investigate the issue.
Mr. Esposito asked what would be good about it. You must have some idea, you want to take it over. Ms. Luck
corrected him stating they just want to take a look. They don't want to take it over. She added she was
flabbergasted that the thought of looking at something is so objectionable. It's like you are afraid of the answer.
Mr. Esposito stated he was not afraid of anything. We are just wondering why the Selectman want to take over
the water district which is a perfectly run entity since 1939. You want to step in in and put in under the umbrella
of the town.
Mr. Alonzo stated he was sure it was well run, but not perfectly run because nothing is perfectly run. Mr.
Esposito replied they have not gotten any complaints from anybody. Mr. Alonzo also objected to the wording
the Selectmen are "taking over." He stated we are asking the townspeople if they want the water district to be
part of the town. There is not any power play that you (Mr. Esposito) keep presenting. Mr. Esposito stated he
completely disagreed with what the Board is trying to do.
Ms. Lafleur reported Article 27 and 28 had to do with the replacement of existing artificial turf field which is on
the school complex. The Parks Commission is putting forward both of these articles. The Board asked the Parks
Commission years ago if they would look at a funding mechanism for the replacement of the existing artificial
turf field because it was coming to the end of its existing life and there was no funding to replace it. The Parks
Commission has looked at this item and we think we have a viable solution for the funding. Article 27
authorizes a cell tower lease. This lease will be part of the funding scenario. There is an existing 60 foot high
lighting tower adjacent to this field. We would be looking for authorization to replace this light pole with a cell
tower and there is a funding stream that comes with that. She invited Facilities Director John Londa to explain
further. Mr. Londa reported he did receive multiple proposals and he was recommending the Verizon proposal
after reviewing all of them. The funding stream would be $30,000 annually with a 3% annual escalator.
Monthly payments would commence once a building permit is issued. The current pole would be replaced with
a seventy foot monopole with the antenna array on the top. The original lighting array from the old pole would
be placed on it so it could continue to light the field. The initial term of the contract would be ten years with an
option of four additional five year terms coming to a total of thirty years. If Verizon chooses not to renew after
===PAGE 6===
ten years, they will replace the monopole with a sixty foot light tower. The School Committee has voted to
support this article. The article authorizes the long term lease and allows an easement for utilities access to the
pole. The cell tower will require a special permit application which has not been filed to date. The first ten years
would generate revenue of $343,000. Ms. Luck asked if the Town doesn't vote to approve the replacement turf
field where would the cell tower revenues be placed. Ms. Lafleur stated it would be placed in the General Fund.
Mr. Ebersole recommended the Board of Selectmen be the authority that enters into the lease agreement. Ms.
Bertram agreed.
DP W Director Rodriquenz and Athletic Director Peter McCauliff came to the podium regarding Article 28.
Mr. Rodriquenz reported they have worked on a rate schedule for user fees for the fields. Mr. McCauliff
clarified this would be for replacement of the artificial turf field and resurfacing of the surrounding track as they
were both installed at the same time eleven years ago. The school through the athletic budget will contribute
$25,000 to this replacement plan. Lunenburg Youth Soccer Association will contribute $15,000. The Lunenburg
Bengals Association will contribute $7,500 which brings the total contributions to $77,500 annually, including
the cell tower revenue, to achieve the goal of paying for the field/track over its lifetime. The field has issues
due to age. The artificial turf fibers have worn down to the bottom of the surface. Numerous seams have been
repaired over the past eleven years and are now unrepairable.
Ms. Bertram asked if it will be replaced with the same type of material. Mr. McCauliff stated the track will be
refurbished with the same material and that will make it thicker and better. The artificial turf field material has
advanced several generations beyond what they had previously. The life expectancy is the same as the current
one, about eight years. But they had gotten around eleven years out of the current field. He did expect to get a
longer life expectancy from what he has seen. It is a different system; a dual fiber system versus the current
crumb rubber material. Recent developments in the artificial turf industry are new systems that have simulated
blades of grass supported by an infill material so the "grass" does not compact. This system also has a pad under
the field which allows for a shorter pile on the surface. The infill material is EPDM (Ethylene Propylene Diene
Monomer). This should survive through the life of the field and make the next replacement less expensive and a
safer product.
Ms. Bertram asked if the revenue stream being generated for this new field will be expected to supplement the
next field in another ten years. He replied yes and they will also look at other sources of revenue such as user
fees. Also with the addition of other fields there will be less usage of that one field. Ms. Bertram asked if there
were other groups that could contribute to the revenue stream. Mr. McCauliff replied yes. Once the replacement
field is paid for the user fees and agreements will be banked to go toward the next field.
Ms. Luck stated at the school committee meeting she attended there were safety concerns expressed regarding
the crumb rubber material. Why would we not go back to grass? Mr. McCauliff stated they were not using
crumb rubber, which comes from recycled automobile tires; that was being removed. The EPDM infill does not
have the chemicals associated with crumb rubber. EPDM was developed a few years ago as an alternative to
crumb rubber and there are no adverse reports regarding its use to date. Ms. Luck inquired about the turf
material getting too hot in the summer. Mr. McCauliff stated he has never had to wet the turf to cool it in any
season. He does ensure the athletes are hydrated. Ms. Luck inquired about the material having to be replaced
every three years in order to prevent concussions. Mr. McCauliff stated the company comes out twice a year
and cleans it with a machine to remove any loose pellets and then respreads them. The maintenance is $1500
per year and comes from his budget.
Mr. Ebersole stated the original financing proposed by the Town Manager was over twelve years based on
income that was less than what was described this evening. He recommended that a funding plan to match the
revenue as closely as possible to shorten the term of the borrowing be created so that it more closely matches
the warranty and the ability to build up funds for the future. Ms. Bertram agreed. Ms. Lafleur stated she thought
that was a good recommendation and as with any borrowing the terms are agreed upon by the Town Treasurer
and the Board at the time that they do the borrowing. Mr. Alonzo thanked all the parties involved with this
project to come up with a feasible funding plan. He was glad to see the town take this step. Mr. Toale as a
Capital Planning Committee member added to Mr. Alonzo's thanks and thought it was a good solution and
supported it wholeheartedly. Mr. Ebersole also supported both articles adding there may need to be an
amendment to the article wording at town meeting regarding the Selectmen doing the lease negotiations and
making the motion to borrow the funding.
===PAGE 7===
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 27 and 28 with the Board of Selectmen negotiating the lease
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 against
Ms. Lafleur stated Articles 30 and 31 are requests to authorize the transfer of school properties from the School
Committee to the Board of Selectmen. Article 30 is for Brooks House disposition and Article 31 is for T.C.
Passios for general municipal purposes. Currently, the Brooks House is used for an office for the Facilities
Director and some rental space for The Lunenburg Ledger. The rental fee roughly covers the cost of operating
that building. She proposed going forward to continue the same arrangement in this transition period until the
market analysis. In terms of the T.C. Passios, she identified the current uses of each of the spaces. FLLAC
currently rents the back wing of the building; they would like to continue in that space for an additional year
and are willing to increase their rent to fully cover their cost of using that part of the building.
Most of the building is occupied by Lunenburg Public Schools administrative offices as well as extended day
care, the special education Achieve program and there is one classroom occupied by P.A.C.C.
P.A.C.C. is interested in additional space. They may be interested in renting an additional classroom for the
same fee as they are paying for the other classroom. She presented proposed costs for operating the building in
FY 2017. Utilities costs are just under $50,000, building maintenance costs are $6,100, maintenance supplies
cost $8,500 and labor is just under $70,000. There is a full-time custodian that is assigned to that building.
Going forward we either could continue with a full-time custodian or we would make some other arrangement.
But the cost would be about the same. The current custodian will be needed in the new school building.
We are trying to figure out whether we need a town/school employee or a contracted service. The total
operational costs are projected at $134,328. FLLAC has agreed to an annual rental fee of $95,000 for the same
space. If they need to provide their own custodian, adjustments will need to be made. We are also looking to
charge rents to three other entities; $15,000 per year to Lunenburg Public Schools, $20,000 for extended day
program, and P.A.C.C. rental at $10,000 per year, if they rent the additional space (they currently pay $6,000).
That would leave us with a reserve of just under $6,000 in case of unanticipated expenses. There's also one
item, a reinspection expense of $2,750 once every three years. It was just done this current year. This brings just
under $10,000 for unanticipated costs. The building is 63 years old. If the roof falls in, that is not covered but
general maintenance should be covered. There is not a long term scenario but it will work while we figure out
what we are going to do with the building.
Ms. Lafleur stated this would be a new building for our facilities department. The School Facilities Director
would still be overseeing the building for the next couple of years. Mr. Ebersole stated the heat comes from the
Passios School to the old high school; does the demolition include the underground steam pipes? Mr. Londa
stated all the disconnections will be made at the Passios School. The heating plant is at the Passios and will stay
there. Mr. Ebersole asked about the parcel plan, will it be the plan we will be accepting as land. Ms. Lafleur
stated she and legal counsel put the attached map together for general reference. It could change a little. Lot A
for the Passios would be approximately 4.1 acres and Lot B for Brooks House would be approximately 1.1
acres.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 30 and 31
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafluer reported on Article 8 that authorizes payment of prior year bills. There are none presently. Article 9
is the FY 2016 budget adjustment article. Typically we are trying to account for an ice and snow deficit that we
try to carry forward. Since we didn't have that this year, we are in a much better position. She presented the
proposed changes to the budget. The first is a deficit of $60,000 in Legal Expenses. This is due primarily to our
two big lawsuits with Hollis Hills and O'Brien Homes. We have spent $73,000 on the O' Brien Homes case out
of our $111,000 budget. The second item is the Wiring Inspector, this comes up every year. His compensation is
based on a percentage of the permit fees collected. We have to estimate annually what we expect to receive for
revenue. Electrical permits are higher than we expected, so this is a deficit in the appropriation. But we have
revenue to make the $10,000 adjustment to pay out to the Wiring Inspector. The last adjustment is to the Salary
Reserve account. We need to add $15,000 to fund the settlement for the Fire Collective Bargaining Contract for
FY'15 and FY'16 and for the settlement on the Police Chief's contract. She also added in the $10,000 for the
===PAGE 8===
market analysis of the municipal buildings since the funding is available in this budget year. A total of $95,000
of adjustments for Article 9 is required. There are two sources for the funding of Article 9. The Reserve Fund
has around $87,000 in it. We would be looking to take $85,000 from there. Unemployment Compensation has
$10,000 in it so we would use the entire amount.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 9
2'd. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
There are still no contract settlements on Article 12, the DPW collective bargaining agreement and on Article
13, IBPO, Police Officers bargaining agreements.
The last remaining article to consider is Article 18, the FY 2017 Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Fund. Ms.
Lafleur kept this one aside because there was a contract dispute with Casella Waste over their interest in
increasing a service fee. She did not believe they had the ability to increase. They billed us in January, February
and March with the increase. We did not pay it. In April they did not bill us the increased amount, so she
believes that dispute is resolved. The current year budget is $265,000. Ms. Lafleur would like to bump that up
to $275,000 in case there is an increase of users of the program. This is fully funded through the Pay as You
Throw program.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 18 in the amount of $275,000
2°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Funding for Pavement Management Plan-Article 26
Ms. Lafleur moved to discussion of the sewer betterment district roads. The Board had a request from a Rennie
Street resident recently for consideration of Pratt Street, Rennie Street, Lakeview Avenue, Cross Road, Pine
Grove Road and Pleasant View Avenue. She requested that the paving of these roads come from this pavement
management plan rather than betterment because those residents would be paying by both betterment and debt
exclusion and this did not seem fair. Ms. Lafleur found the costs of paving Pine Grove Road, Lakeview Avenue
and Pleasant View Avenue were already contained in the $4 million pavement management plan. In the
pavement management plan that was updated last fall, it was assumed re-pavement of Pratt Street, Rennie Street
and Cross Road would be paid for in the betterment. At the time the plan was put together we knew we were
going to do the betterment but not the debt exclusion for the pavement management plan. Rennie and Cross
Roads are classified as local roads and have been included in the $4 million pavement management plan.
However, Pratt Street is classified as a collector road. Pratt Street needs to be paid for separately. She proposed
either paying for Pratt Street out of Chapter 90 or the existing fiscal 2017 authorization. Mr. Toale commended
the creative solution for the request.
Ms. Lafleur stated the second question would be how we would fund the $4 million debt exclusion for the
pavement management plan. She was not proposing anything new this evening. She noted we have the same
five scenarios that the Board had already looked at that would finance this over a period of seven to twelve
years. The annual impact for the average homeowner over the term would be anywhere from $2.57 to $139 per
year. Ms. Luck inquired about keeping the debt payments more even over the term. Ms. Lafleur explained that
the Town needs to comply with legal requirements and pay a certain amount off at certain times during the
borrowing term.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2™: P. Bertram
To borrow according to the scenario 1.1 schedule for the pavement management plan Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole asked if the pavement management plan was on the town website. Ms. Lafleur believed it was.
She cautioned that even though certain roads are listed on the schedule, the timing of the plan is subject to
change due to extenuating circumstances such as storm water drainage installation etc. Discussion about
coordinating with other local and state agencies while working on the roads ensued.
Ms. Lafleur referred the Board to the motion sheet for town meeting. There will be a meeting tomorrow with
Town Counsel, Town Moderator, Town Clerk, Town Accountant and herself to review the motions for
accurac•
===PAGE 9===
Town Manager Report: Ms. Lafleur presented the 2015 Annual Report to the Board and stated it was also on
the town website for viewing as well. There will be copies of the report available at town meeting for the first
time in five years. She thanked Executive Assistant Elaine Peterson for spearheading this and having it ready in
a timely manner.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Mr. Toale read Donald Bowen's resignation letter from the Zoning Board of Appeals effective April 26, 2016.
Mr. Bowen served thirty years and found it educational and rewarding. He enjoyed working with a great group
of people. In closing, Mr. Bowen added that he enjoyed his friendships on the Zoning Board and thanked Lisa
Normandin for being a great and loyal administrative assistant.
Mr. Toale acknowledged his length of service to the town and appreciated Mr. Bowen's contributions. Mr.
Ebersole echoed that with the fact that Mr. Bowen was a wealth of information; he always made sure he had
visited the site beforehand and talked to the proponents and opponents. Ms. Bertram stated when she worked for
the Board of Health; she shared an office with the ZBA Administrative Assistant and got to know Mr. Bowen
very well. His commitment and dedication to being a ZBA member was very apparent. He always knew what
the issues were beforehand. She wished him well. Mr. Alonzo agreed with all the sentiments already expressed.
He added Mr. Bowen was passionate about knowing all the rules of the ZBA and serving. We need more people
like him to come forward and serve on committees.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: R. Ebersole
To accept Donald Bowen's resignation from Zoning Board of Appeals effective April 26, 2016
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale announced the next Board meeting was May 10'" but he hoped to see everybody at town meeting on
May 7*.
There was no further public comment.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:41 p.m.
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Canensm Peterson
. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
