===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SAMIR AIR
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
November 22, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Paula Bertram, Member and Phyllis Luck, Member
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting opened at 6:30 p.m. Mr. Toale announced the Board needed to enter Executive Session to conduct
strategy in preparation for contract negotiations for Town Manager.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session according to M.G.L. C. 30, 821 to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for
negotiations with non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract
negotiations with non-union personnel (Town Manager Contract)
Vote: Ms. Bertram -aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
******
***********ExEcutive Session Minutes reSprate******************************
The meeting commenced with the Pledge of Allegiance at 7:10 p.m.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reported she has attended multiple workshops concerning storm water. One ongoing issue is the
proper use of salt, sand and various pretreatments to reduce to cost of road maintenance. MassDOT is offering
workshops on Snow and Ice Operations in the next few weeks and she intends to attend one. She distributed
fliers on the workshops to the other Board members.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, commented on the November 28, 2016 Special Town Meeting Warrant,
Article 7 that amends Article XV of the Town's bylaw entitled' Salary Administration Plan." She noted the
Personnel Committee meeting agendas going back to January 2016 do not list any reference to the action
requested in the STM warrant article. She also noted the absence of Personnel Committee Minutes on the town
website.
Loxi Calmes, Lunenburg School Superintendent, wanted to extend on behalf of all of their students, staff and
the community, heartfelt thanks for all the many blessings in their lives, living in this community and the
beautiful new building that so many citizens have supported. She also wanted to inform everyone that
tomorrow morning at 9:30 a.m. they will dedicating the Jane Doyle Playground at the Turkey Hill Elementary
School. Also on December 1s' the tree lighting at the gazebo will be taking place. Refreshments are being sold
by the Cub Scouts.
APPOINTMENTS
Salvation Army Tollbooth Fundraiser Request
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, presented to request to hold a tollbooth fundraiser on December 10 from
9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the center of town for the Salvation Army. Money collected stays in the local
community abd goes to food banks, the Angel Tree Program and families in need. He introduced Annette who
is an envoy for the Salvation Army. She reported today they delivered 250 Thanksgiving baskets and turkeys to
people in Fitchburg, Leominster and Lunenburg. She stated they appreciate all the support from all the
communities and hope to continue serving.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: P. Bertram
2": P. Luck
To approve the Salvation Army toll booth fundraiser on December 10* from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. MacDonald mentioned the Salvation Army has taken over the emergency disaster services from the Red
Cross. We are also taking our Canteen out at night to help the homeless and shut-ins, If anyone knows of
anyone in need, please contact Annette at the Salvation Army. He thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Change Orders for Middle/High School Project
Supt. Calmes reviewed the school budget revision requests based on change orders and some line item transfers.
She reported the original amount before the construction contingency changes was $4,170,774. The remaining
amount after change orders is $2,982,048. There will be money remaining after the project ends.
Change Order #14 includes adding cabinet unit heaters on the second floor in Area B, totaling $15,834. Also
added was an outlet for a digital screen in the weight room in the amount of $888. Convectors in locker rooms
were relocated due to accessibility issues ($3,680) Ploor finish changes around the control booth in the main
mechanical and electrical rooms were done ($1401) and a boulder wall around the concession stand retaining
wall was installed ($10,039) Totaling $31,842.00
Change Order #15 reworks the wood wall cap around the auditorium wing walls for added railing ($12,244);
furnish and install alternate fin tube radiator covers around A-B and B-D connectors ($3,835); provide elevator
operator for owner furniture delivery due to delays caused by the Verizon strike ($6,632) and over
excavation, crushed stone import and added foundation drainage ($2021) Totaling $24,732.
Change Order #16 addresses post occupancy changes; athletic field resizing ($25,619), owner requested MB
and TB changes ($13,535), Stair #2 open riser infill panels ($3,574), added glass around Athletic Director's
office ($2,227), casework and flag holder additions ($15,419) added wall clocks ($4,240), added signage in
various locations ($5,526) Totaling $70,140.00
Change Order #17 Added a Radio Repeater System for Police Department ($34,437) and Added Auditorium
Wheelchair Seating Rails ($3,632) Totaling $38,069
Change Order #18 added plantings around Oak Avenue property line ($6,415) and added roof walk-off mats
($15,366) Totaling $21,781
Change Order #20 is an Other Project Transfer Budget Revision Request in the amount of $6000. for additional
commissioning of HRU units (air cooling)
Change Order #21 was for additional cabinets in the amount of $1530.00
Change Order #22 was due to architect's amendment #11 for resizing the athletic field in the amount of $1794.
All of these have been processed through the School Committee.
Motion: R.Ebersole
21: P. Bertram
To authorize the Chair to sign the change orders as presented by Supt. Calmes
Ms. Luck asked Supt. Calmes if she anticipated more contingency items. Ms. Calmes stated they are about four
days away from substantial completion of Phase 2, so at this point in time nothing that she is aware of.
Vote: All in Favor
2. Motion Sheet for Special Town Meeting
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, all sums of
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2017 Budget, under Article 15 of the May 7,
2016 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 1. I move the Town vote to raise and appropriate the sum of $189,139 and adjust the transfer from
the Student Transportation Offset Receipt Fund from $31,623.00 to $-0- as follows: add to Line 13, Interest
Temporary Loans, the sum of $1,184; add to Line 4, Liability Insurance, the sum of $8,876; add to Line 5,
Workers Compensation, the sum of $2,430; add to Line 13, Reserve Fund, the sum of $120,407; add to Line 23,
Town Accountant, the sum of $1,042; add to Line 61, General Highway Maintenance, the sum of $40,200; add
===PAGE 3===
to Line 64, Vehicle Maintenance - Highway, the sum of $15,000; and deduct from Line 79, School Department,
the sum of $31,623; to amend the amounts voted under Article 15 of the May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting
and Article 1 of the August 22, 2016 Special Town Meeting
After reviewing Article 1 and noting a transfer into the Reserve Fund in the amount of $120,047, Ms. Bertram
expressed concern about $100,000 being encumbered last year from the pavement management plan to pay for
unplanned additional design for the Summer Street project. This will impact the pavement plan as it was
originally presented. She asked if there was a portion that should be placed back in the pavement plan. It was
suggested to get the impact of this from the DPW Director. Mr. Ebersole suggested making a recommendation
at town meeting.
Ms. Luck will make the motion.
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen, pursuant to M. G. L, Chapter
61B, to raise, appropriate, or transfer from available funds or borrow a sum of money in order to purchase
property located at 200 Reservoir Road and known as the Estate of Vera R. Barney shown on a July 2016 plan
recorded with Worcester Northern District Registry of Deeds at Plan Book 507, Plan 25, shown as five
numbered lots and consisting of 20.36 acres, more or less; or take any other action relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION (Town is not interested in purchasing the property)
Article 2. I move the Town vote to pass over Article 2.
Ms. Bertram will make the motion.
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to fund the first year of the FY17, FY18 & FY19 Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated
July 1, 2016 - June 30, 2019 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO; or take any other action relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 3. I move the Town vote to transfer from Article 15 of the May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting -
Line 13A, Salary Reserve, the sum of $34,378; and transfer from Article 15 of the May 7, 2016 Annual Town
Meeting - Line 46, Radio Watch, the sum of $13,400; and transfer to Article 15, of the May 7, 2016 Annual
Town Meeting - Line 39, Police Department, the sum of $47,778; to fund the first year of the FY17, FY18 &
FY19 Police Officers Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2016 - June 30, 2019 with IBPO Local
353, AFL-CIO.
Mr. Alonzo will make the motion.
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to create a special purpose stabilization fund pursuant to M.G.L. c.
44 § 5B, entitled "Town Building Stabilization Fund," for the purpose of funding the building, remodeling,
purchasing, leasing or demolishing of municipal buildings. Revenues from the sale of the properties listed in
Article 5 shall be placed in this account and used for this purpose; or take any other action relative thereto
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 4. I move the Town vote to create a special purpose stabilization fund pursuant to M.G.L. c. 44 § 5B,
entitled "Town Building Stabilization Fund," for the purpose of funding the building, remodeling, purchasing,
leasing or demolishing of municipal buildings.
Mr. Ebersole will make the motion.
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to identify and/or re-identify the following listed land and/or
buildings situated thereon as surplus; to transfer the care, custody and control of the land and/or buildings
described below from the Board or Boards having custody of said properties held for the purposes for which
they are currently held to the Board of Selectmen for general municipal purposes and the purpose of
conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest in the following parcels of
town-owned land or any portion thereon, or to lease any of the properties or any portion thereof, on such terms
===PAGE 4===
and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deems to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any and
all agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and any portion thereof
and to authorize and/or reauthorize
the Board of Selectmen to sell and/or lease the parcels and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any
manner said parcels and/or buildings situated and/or take any legal action necessary to empower the Board of
Selectmen to effectuate the sale, lease, subdivision and/or transfer of said land and buildings situated thereon;
and to deposit any revenues generated from the sale, lease and/or transfer into the special revenue account
created in Article 4, or take any other action relative thereto.
(This article requires a 2/3 majority vote.)
Ritter Memorial Building; Assessors' Map 071, Lot 074
Town Hall; Assessors' Map 060, Lot 005
Primary School, Assessors' Map 071, Lot 076
Brooks House, Assessors' Map 060, Lot 055
T. C. Passios School, Assessors' Map 060, Lot 055
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 5. I move the Town vote to identify and/or re-identify the following listed land and/or buildings
situated thereon as surplus; to transfer the care, custody and control of the land and/or buildings described
below from the Board or Boards having custody of said properties held for the purposes for which they are
currently held to the Board of Selectmen for general municipal purposes and the purpose of conveyance, and to
authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest in the following parcels of town-owned land or
any portion thereon, or to lease any of the properties or any portion thereof, on such terms and conditions as the
Board of Selectmen deems to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any and all agreements and
documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and any portion thereof and to authorize
and/or reauthorize the Board of Selectmen to sell and/or lease the parcels and/or buildings situated thereon,
and/or subdivide in any manner said parcels and/or buildings situated and/or take any legal action necessary to
empower the Board of Selectmen to effectuate the sale, lease, subdivision and/or transfer of said land and
buildings situated thereon; and to deposit any revenues generated from the sale, lease and/or transfer into the
special revenue account created in Article 4. (This article requires a 2/3 majority vote.)
Ritter Memorial Building; Assessors' Map 071, Lot 074
Town Hall; Assessors' Map 060, Lot 005
Primary School, Assessors' Map 071, Lot 076
Brooks House, Assessors' Map 060, Lot 055
T. C. Passios School, Assessors' Map 060, Lot 055
Mr. Ebersole and Ms. Bertram were opposed to the wording as presented believing it gave too much power not
only to this Board but possibly future Boards. Mr. Toale stated the Building Reuse Committee met last night
and they could not come up with acceptable alternative wording for the article. Discussion ensued on the
wording and future impact.
Mr. Toale will make the motion.
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $35,000 from the Sale of Cemetery lots
account to be used for the care, improvement and embellishment of the Cemeteries; or take any other action
relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 6. I move the Town vote to appropriate the sum of $35,000 from the Sale of Cemetery lots account
to be used for the care, improvement and embellishment of the Cemeteries
Ms. Luck will make the motion.
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XV of the Town's Bylaw entitled "Salary
Administration Plan" of the Town of Lunenburg as follows: the Public Access Cable Committee Coordinator
position be moved from Grade 8 to Grade 10, the Grade 8 position be retitled "Public Access Cable Committee
===PAGE 5===
Assistant"; the position of "Public Access Cable Committee Manager" be added and assigned to Grade 11; that
"Building Inspector" be retitled "Building Commissioner"; the Land Use Director position moved to Grade 16
and the contract positions of Fire Chief and Town Accountant/Financial Director be added to Grade 16; that the
current position of Police Chief be assigned as Grade 18; or take any other action relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 7. I move the Town vote to amend Article XV of the Town's Bylaw entitled "Salary Administration
Plan" of the Town of Lunenburg as follows: the Public Access Cable Committee Coordinator position be
moved from Grade 8 to Grade 10, the Grade 8 position be retitled "Public Access Cable Committee Assistant";
the position of "Public Access Cable Committee Manager" be added and assigned to Grade 11; that "Building
Inspector" be retitled "Building Commissioner"; the Land Use Director position moved to Grade 16 and the
contract positions of Fire Chief and Town Accountant/Financial Director be added to Grade 16; that the current
position of Police Chief be assigned as Grade 18.
Ms. Bertram wanted to respond to this since there was public comment about this article earlier in the evening.
She asked if there was anything from PACC or the Personnel Committee concerning this. Land Use Director
Burney reported he couldn't explain why Personnel Committee minutes are not posted. The reason for this
article is it a result of data research from other communities.
Finance Director Brochu reported there was not going to be a financial impact from this article other than the
PACC Coordinator pay. Contracted personnel would not be impacted. The Board requested more information.
Mr. Toale stated the Personnel Committee had lost their quorum early in the year and in the absence of the
quorum the former Town Manager had suggested this action. Since the appointment of Mr. MacDonald to the
Personnel Committee, they have met and ratified this. An unknown audience person asked if the position is
created doesn't it have to be funded? The answer was only if it was intended to be filled. Ms. Brochu read
aloud a memo to the Board of Selectmen concerning the PACC Coordinator and bringing the position in line
with the same grade as other coordinators as well as the other recommendations listed above.
Ms. Bertram will make the motion.
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to amend Article XV of the Town's Bylaw entitled "Salary
Administration Plan" of the Town of Lunenburg as follows: to replace the Fiscal Year 2017 Salary
Administration Plan salary schedule with the proposed salary schedule and use the proposed salary schedule to
calculate the FY18 Salary Administration Plan salary schedule which includes the 2% COLA approved at the
May 2016 Annual Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 8. I move the Town vote to amend Article XV of the Town's Bylaw entitled "Salary Administration
Plan" of the Town of Lunenburg as follows: to replace the Fiscal Year 2017 Salary Administration Plan salary
schedule with the proposed salary schedule and use the proposed salary schedule to calculate the FY18 Salary
Administration Plan salary schedule which includes the 2% COLA approved at the May 2016 Annual Town
Meeting.
Ms. Brochu stated this does not have a financial impact for fiscal year 2017. Mr. Ebersole stated going forward
if there is a COLA included the grid should be presented at the same time.
Mr. Alonzo will make the motion.
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate from Public, Educational and Governmental Access
and Cable Related Fund Revenues, the sum of $110,142.36 to supplement the amounts voted under Article 25
of the May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting to fund the FY17 Public, Educational and Governmental Access
Committee operating budget; or take any other action relative thereto.
===PAGE 6===
SUGGESTED MOTION
ARTICLE 9. I move the Town vote to appropriate from Public, Educational and Governmental Access and
Cable Related Fund Revenues, the sum of $110,142.36 to supplement the amounts voted under Article 25 of the
May 7, 2016 Annual Town Meeting to fund the FY17 Public, Educational and Governmental Access
Committee operating budget.
Mr. Ebersole will make the motion.
3. Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed Accounts Payable warrants in the amount of $2,789,918.53 and $574,060.46; a Payroll
warrant in the amount of $6560.00 and a School Payroll warrant in the amount of $4677.88.
Minutes of October 25 and November 1, 2016 were approved and signed.
Ms. Luck requested an agenda discussion on hiring a consultant to provide stormwater guidance prior to paving
roads. Ms. Bertram agreed and suggested having a workshop on paving, the Complete Streets program as well
as an update on the MS4 permit.
4. Town Manager Transition Plan
Mr. Toale reported the Board is negotiating a contract for a permanent Town Manager. That person has to give
notice in their town and we need someone to be Acting Town Manager. He suggested Land Use Director Adam
Burney. Ms. Bertram asked if the Planning Board was aware of this as it could affect their work. Mr. Burney
stated no. He believed with the finite period of time involved that this is a reasonable solution and did not think
there would be a significant impact on his work with them. Mr. Ebersole noted Mr. Burney is also Assistant
Town Manager.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Luck
To appoint Adam Burney as Acting Town Manager until such time the current candidate accepts the
contract and begins in Lunenburg
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Bertram asked Ms. Brochu to assist the Board with the FY 2018 budget process during the transition
period. Ms. Brochu stated they have to get the budget packages out and she will put a preliminary report
together.
Resignation as Wiring Inspector effective December 31, 2016- James Sharkey
Mr. Toale read the resignation aloud.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^: P. Bertram
To accept the resignation effective December 31, 2016 for James Sharkey
Ms. Bertram suggested contacting the person Mr. Sharkey suggested as his replacement to see if there is any
interest and to schedule his appointment if so. Mr. Ebersole also suggested getting input from the Building
Commissioner and Land Use Director.
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee discussed the contingency items discussed earlier this evening. The
Storm Water Task Force met and reviewed what they are going to discuss with their consultant on December
". Mr. Ebersole reported at the Sewer Commission meeting, DPW Director Rodriquenz gave a presentation on
the various mechanical impacts of the sewer system and grease traps.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee met last night. They will be available at Special Town Meeting
next week. Capital Planning Committee meets on November 29# and will be joined by its newest member,
Karin Menard. She was appointed by the Town Moderator per the Charter.
The Board did not see the need to meet before the Special Town Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Troy Daniels, 94 Main Street, came in because the Board approved the Salvation Army toll booth fundraiser.
He wanted to know if there was criteria that the Board uses for these requests. He stated as a gay man he has
===PAGE 7===
issues with organizations that attack his community at large. He asked at what point do we draw the line for
government sanctioned fundraising? As a resident he found this troublesome.
Ms. Luck stated she did not think of the Salvation Army in that way, but of all the good they do and all the
people that they help. Mr. Ebersole suggested googling a search on GLBT discrimination. Ms. Bertram stated
she would do that and wasn't aware of any conflict. She stated she has seen the good work they do and will
educate herself on that. Ms. Luck thanked him for bringing it to their attention.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
2"°: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaineh Pitisan
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
