===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & HILED
DANI: 2007
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
December 27, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and
Acting Town Manager Adam Burney
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none this evening.
Mr. Toale announced there was a hearing scheduled for 7:00 p.m., but the licensee was not present yet so the
Board addressed minutes and warrants first.
The Board approved and signed Minutes of November 15, November 22 and December 6, 2016.
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $99,003.57; a Payroll Warrant in the amount
of 794,530.87 and a Payroll Deductions warrant in the amount of $249,708.80.
Kabob-e-Licious Alcohol License #00048-RS-0636 Hearing RE: Failure to pay Municipal Fees
Mr. Toale announced the hearing scheduled for 7:00 P.M. December 27, 2016 for failure to pay municipal fees,
specifically sewer fees amounting to approximately $3,416.15. The licensee was notified via certified letter of
the hearing and was given the opportunity to make a written payment agreement with the Collector/Treasurer
office. Mr. Toale opened the hearing noting the licensee was not present. He asked for comments from the
Board
Mr. Ebersole stated his concern was with providing due notice to the licensee, return receipt of due notice
delivered to the Town and the history over the last year of failure to comply with requirements, he was willing
to work with them if they were working with the Town. But until such time he was prepared to not renew the
alcohol license for Kabob-e-licious. Ms. Bertram agreed wholeheartedly with those statements. There has been
notification to the license holder of the outstanding fees and at the last meeting Mr. Bertram did note this fact
and urged the license holder to make arrangements with the Collector/Treasurer or the Sewer Commission or
that the license would be at stake. She has been informed in writing. The Board concurred.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To not renew the Kabob-e-licious alcohol license #00048-RS-0636 which would be effective January 1,
2017 due to failure to pay municipal fees and violation of the Town bylaws and state law
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale -aye
Mr. Burney stated the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission will be notified.
There were no action file issues.
Mir. Toale informed the Board the January 3" meeting had no business scheduled at this time. The next Board
meeting will be January 10"
===PAGE 2===
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:06 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaich Petewar
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
MAN 1: 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
2nd: R.Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
