===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 9, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member, Phyllis
Luck, Member and Town Manager Kerry Lafleur
The meeting opened at 6:00 p.m. Mr. Toale stated the following reason for entering Executive Session: M.G.L.
C. 30a, §21; To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have
a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares. (Unitil
and IBPO Contract) Mr. Toale added the PEC agreement as well.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°°: T. Alonzo
To enter Executive Session for the stated reason
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale- aye, Ms. Bertram -aye
********************************Executive Minutes are Separate******************************
The meeting reopened following Executive Session adjournment with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale announced the last day and hour to register to vote for the Thursday, September 8th State Primary
Election is Friday, August 19# between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. at the Town Clerk's office.
Absentee ballots are available at the Town Clerk office. Office hours are Monday and Wednesday 8:00 a.m. to
4:00 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday, 8:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. They are closed on Friday.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo announced the Boys and Girls Club are holding their Annual 'Are We There Yet 5K Color Run' on
Sunday, August 28th at 10:00 a.m. Registration opens at 9:00 a.m. or you can preregister on their website at
http://bgcluboflunenburg.org. It will begin and end at 15 Memorial Drive. There will be a free shirt for anyone
who preregisters. A barbeque will follow after the race.
Ms. Luck expressed her appreciation for the Lunenburg Farmers' Market which occurs every Sunday from 10
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. She encouraged everyone to check it out. She also thanked the Friends of the Lunenburg
Public Library for providing passes to various museums. The Lions Pancake Breakfast is August 10* from 8:00
a.m. to 11:00 a.m. at Eagle House Senior Center.
Mr. Alonzo also expressed appreciation for the town concert season which ended last night. He thanked all
involved in the events.
Bob Pease, 11 Wintergreen Court, suggested the talent bank form which is online be made as a fillable pdf so
one can fill it out before printing and submitting it.
APPOINTMENTS
Alan Herget, 79 Beachview Road, presented to be appointed Constable. Mr. Herget stated he has been in law
enforcement for a long time. He currently works for the Massachusetts Trial Court system. A background check
was conducted by the Lunenburg Police Department as part of the application process.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd. T. Alonzo
To appoint Alan Herget as Constable
John Baker, Constable, spoke in favor of Mr. Herget as he has known him for several years through his work at
Fitchburg State College and the court system.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale congratulated Mr. Herget. Mr. Herget thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Election Officers:
Ms. Lafleur noted Executive Assistant Peterson's memo regarding the annual appointment of election officers.
"According to M.G.L. Chapter 54, §12, "The Board of Selectmen of every town shall annually, not earlier that
July fifteenth nor later that August fifteenth, appoint as election officers for each voting place or precinct,
except as provided in §24, one warden, one deputy warden, one clerk, one deputy clerk, two inspectors and two
deputy inspectors, who shall be enrolled voters in the commonwealth....in the event the Board of Selectmen fail
to appoint such election officers on or before August fifteenth, the Board of Registrars shall forthwith appoint
said officers. " Mr. Ebersole noted that neither the Democratic nor the Republican Town Committees had
provided a list of nominees.
Ms. Lafleur stated the list provided is all reappointments from last year:
Warden: Janice P. Carrier (R);
Deputy Warden: Michael Gale (R),
Clerks: Kathleen M. Pliska (D) and Darlene E. Steele (D),
Inspectors: Ellen Aubuchon (D) and B. Ellen Gale (R);
Deputy Inspectors: Ernest Aubuchon (D) and Anne Shattuck (R)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To appoint the election officers as listed in the memo
2": P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
Disclosure by Non-Elected Municipal Employee of Financial Interest- Bob Pease/Conservation
Commission
Mr. Pease stated he filed three forms after taking the ethics training for his appointment to the Conservation
Commission. He filed one as a member of Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. and has a financial interest. He also
filed for Conservation regulation revisions as his property abuts the lake and any revisions to the regulations
could affect his residence. However if any regulations affect more than 10% of the population you don't have to
file. He filed anyway as this has been past practice. The last form was for trail use. He is not a member of the
Lunenburg Snow Riders Snowmobile Club but makes donations of money and time and attends some of their
meetings. Ms. Luck thanked Mr. Pease for all his efforts for the Town and Town land.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d: T. Alonzo
That the Board determines that there is no conflict and Mr. Pease may participate in administration and
revision of the Conservation Commission regulations
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: P. Bertram
2'd: T. Alonzo
That Mr. Pease may participate in matters involving Hickory Hills Lake while serving as a Conservation
Commissioner
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole recommended in the case of Mr. Pease coming before the Conservation Commission as a
landowner that he recuse himself from any vote involving his property. Mr. Pease acknowledged this was
appropriate and thanked the Board.
August 22, 2016 Special Town Meeting Articles Review
Ms. Lafleur presented details for an adjustment to the fiscal 2017 budget based on the final disposition of the
state's budget. There is a net surplus in state revenue in the amount of $114,733. She requested increasing the
school budget line by $36,740 because funding from a kindergarten grant has ended.
Ms. Lafleur recommended placing the remaining $77,993 in the reserve fund until it can be transferred to the
stabilization fund.
===PAGE 3===
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 1
2": T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur reported Article 2 is a request to fund the first year of the Laborer's International Union of North
America, Public Employees Local Union 39 (DPW) agreement. Both negotiating parties have come to
agreement and have ratified the contract. Changes to the agreement include a cost of living increase of 1.5%
per year of the 3 year contract, an increase in clothing/uniform allowance of $350.00 per year, additional
language in the contract beneficial to the employer including management rights, probationary period and
conditions of employment. The estimated cost to fund the first year of the contract which is actually fiscal year
2016 is approximately $6,100. Funding has been placed in the salary reserve account.
Motion: L. Alonzo P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 2
2™: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 3 is a bargaining agreement request concerning the International Brotherhood of Police Officers
Local 353, AFL-CIO. There is currently a tentative agreement with the union. Ms. Lafleur expected it would be
ready for town meeting.
Article 4 will have to be passed over due to a typographical error in the printed mailed warrant. It will be
included on the next Town meeting warrant.
Articles 5 and 6 concern rooftop solar projects on the new Middle/High School and DPW buildings. Article 5 is
the power purchase and net metering credits agreement and article 6 is a PILOT agreement. The power
purchase agreement is not 100% completed. The final draft is with the developer. Mr. Ebersole stated he still
would like to see what the solar rooftop project would look like before voting.
Article 7 authorizes the Board to enter into a 30 year agreement with Borrego Solar Systems, Inc. for purchase
of power and associated net metering credits from privately owned solar photovoltaic facilities. The agreement
is not completed yet. The only variables on the above three articles (5, 6, 7) will be the cost and escalation.
Land Use Director Adam Burney presented on the Planning Board articles. Article 8 and 9 correct
typographical errors. Article 10 - 14 revolve around the wording of Article 10. The Planning Board is looking to
strike the Whalom Overlay District (WOD) from the zoning bylaw. This is the section of the protective bylaw
that allowed for the creation of Emerald Place. Last fall there was an application for 22 units to be placed in the
triangle across from the Town beach. This was a dense design and the Planning Board did not believe this was
appropriate for that area and the abutting neighborhood. There was a dispute between the developer and the
property owner and the application was withdrawn. The property owner considered going forward with a new
project and asked for an interpretation letter from the Zoning Enforcement Officer which added additional
information. The Planning Board in reviewing that letter and in discussing the WOD merits as it exists felt that
it was in the Town's best interest to remove the bylaw as it lacked some specificity. As part of the public
hearing on the zoning article and the discussion, the property owner felt aggrieved by having development
rights taken away from him by the removal of the district. The Planning Board discussed creating a new WOD
bylaw and working over the next few months to craft the district that would be more inclusive in the allowed
uses and the mixture of uses with input from the residents of the area. There is some disagreement between the
Planning Board and the Zoning Enforcement Officer as to the ramifications of the removal of the WOD. Mr.
Burney has contacted Town Counsel for guidance but has not heard back to date. The issue at hand is that the
Zoning Enforcement Officer feels that having one property owner being the only beneficiary of the
development benefits of the removal of this bylaw may create a situation of "spot zoning". Mr. Burney did not
agree. There is no current application so the Planning Board felt this was a good time to remove it and work on
an alternative in time for annual town meeting. The subsequent zoning warrant articles are just a cleansing of
the remainder of the protective bylaw and the zoning map of references to the Whalom Overlay District. Ms.
Bertram stated it was important to get a ruling from Town Counsel before the Special Town Meeting in order to
avoid a potential heated debate on town meeting floor. There is also a question on the density allowed in the
overlay district as to how many units per acre are allowed
Mr. Ebersole asked for clarification regarding the commercial land on Electric Avenue and if that land is under
the special permit for Emerald Place. Mr. Burney stated the Emerald Place special permit was a compilation of
===PAGE 4===
parcels under common ownership that was approved as "site specific" and there was some unit calculation. The
Emerald Place people were in to speak to the Building Commissioner and they have to reassess their density
calculations. In the 2006 special permit there is language that reserves one acre of the 6 acre parcel on Electric
Avenue for commercial use. 3.7 acres of that parcel are in the WOD, the remainder of that is zoned Residence
A. 2.7 acres was used for density calculation for the Emerald Place development. That is protected under the
special permit. Whether the WOD exists or not, there is an active special permit that remains valid as long as
development proceeds in a reasonable manner. Mr. Burney believed Emerald Place made some internal
decisions regarding the commercial parcel without recognizing the language in the 2006 special permit. He was
not at their meeting with the Building Commissioner but his understanding was that Emerald Place needs to
reassess what they have on paper and what the special permit says. They have several options which the
Building Commissioner presented to them. Further discussion about spot zoning ensued. Ms. Lafleur stated
several weeks ago Town Counsel had reviewed this article regarding the spot zoning question and he tended to
agree with Mr. Burney and the Planning Board. She had recommended he pass his opinion on to the Building
Commissioner.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Articles 8 & 9
2°°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Discussion ensued on how to proceed on the Whalom Overlay District articles before and during Special Town
Meeting. The Board thanked Mr. Burney.
Ms. Lafleur stated Article 15 authorizes a boundary line agreement with Elaine Mroz's Chestnut Street property
and abutting town property, Marshall Park. The agreement is still being drafted but will be ready in time for
town meeting
Motion: P. Bertram
2'°: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 15
Mr. Ebersole stated he would be speaking with the Town Moderator to move this article to follow article 3.
Vote: All in Favor
Article 16 requests the town authorize a 10% local match towards the purchase of an agricultural preservation
restriction approved by MDAR for Lanni Orchards located at 292 Chase Road. The cost for the town will be
$58,000.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 16
2"d:P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
The Board decided to meet at 6:00 p.m. on August 22"° to wrap up any loose ends before the town meeting.
Earth Removal Permit Renewals
Ms. Lafleur reported all earth removal applications are complete, taxes are current and the Building
Commissioner has inspected the sites. His report is attached to the permit applications.
She read the permits submitted for renewal:
#1 Ralph Montouri Construction Co.; 186 Massachusetts Avenue; 23.5 acres,
#54 Powell Stone & Gravel Co, Inc.; 151 Leominster-Shirley Road; 11.36 acres,
#32 Raymond A. Powell Jr.; to the rear of 395 Goodrich Street; 16 acres,
#14 P.J. Keating Co.; westerly side of Fort Pond Road, adjacent to Lancaster town line; 8.377 acres, owned by
Mildred Marble and leased to applicant,
#15 P.J. Keating Co,; Parcel 1, lying northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road., westerly of Reservoir Road,
on both sides of the Boston & Maine Railroad; 165 acres,
#16 P.J. Keating Co.; Parcel 11, lying northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road, easterly of Reservoir Road, on
both sides of the Boston and Maine Railroad and both sides of Round Road; 170 acres,
#17 P.J. Keating Co.; Parcel 111, lying southerly of Leominster- Shirley Road, easterly of Fort Pond Road; 180
acres,
#18 P.J. Keating Co.; Parcel IV, lying southerly of Leominster- Shirley Road, westerly of Fort Pond Road, 6.8
===PAGE 5===
acres,
#19 P.J. Keating Co.; Parcel V, lying easterly of Shirley Reservoir Road and northerly of Boston and Maine
Railroad and abutting the Shirley town line; 22 acres,
#27 P.J. Keating Co.; in the very southeast corner of Lunenburg, 57 acres of an 84 acres parcel formerly owned
by Edward Credit
#28 P.J. Keating Co.; westerly side of Reservoir Road near Round Road; 6.6 acres,
#29 P.J. Keating Co.; westerly side of Reservoir Road, south and near Goodrich Street; 12.5 acres,
#30 P.J. Keating Co.; in the southeast corner of Lunenburg, bordered on the north by Leominster-Shirley Road,
on the east by Shirley town line, being the same parcel formerly owned by Edward Credit; 28 acres,
#42 P.J. Keating Co.; southerly side of Leominster-Shirley Road, easterly of the Boston and Maine Railroad
near the Lancaster/Leominster town line; 30 acres
Motion: T. Alonzo
2^°: P. Bertram
To approve the earth removal permits as presented
Mr. Ebersole stated he has forwarded articles regarding the Town of Uxbridge and their issues with gravel pits
being filled with contaminated fill to the Land Use Director and the Town Manager. He encouraged the Board
to include the process on how to close these pits when reviewing the bylaw for amendment.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur exited the meeting.
Discussion of Town Manager Salary Range
Mr. Toale stated the purpose of this discussion is for the posting for the Town Manager. He stated Ms. Lafleur's
starting pay nine years ago was approximately $110,000 and is currently at $130,000 which includes her merit
pay. Mr. Alonzo suggested starting at $110,000 and ending at $130,000. Mr. Toale stated he would be willing to
go up to $140,000 to broaden the pool of candidates. Mr. Ebersole stated many job postings state salary is based
on experience and qualifications. A point was made to advertise a certain range so those reading the posting
would know whether they were actually interested in applying.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: T. Alonzo
To set the salary range for the Town Manager from $110,000 to $140,000
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lafleur reentered the meeting.
Request to Approve FY2016 Chapter 44, Section 33B Transfers
This item was rescheduled for the August 23d meeting.
Request Comcast Performance Information
Cable Advisory Chair Alonzo requested permission to request performance information from Comcast due to
the renewal of the cable license coming up in 2017.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To authorize Tom Alonzo to request performance information from Comcast
2': P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed the September 8, 2016 State Primary election warrants. They signed an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $45,589.07 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $477,609.48.
Action File Issues: Mr. Alonzo inquired about the status of the larger size pay as you throw trash bags. Ms.
Lafleur stated she did have the prices; it just has not been presented yet.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee has a goals workshop meeting tomorrow at the Middle/High School at
3:00 p.m. Ms. Luck attended a steering committee meeting earlier today of the Central MA Regional
Stormwater Coalition. They are preparing for their annual meeting in Holden on September 20. They are
surveying members on their needs. There will also be a workshop in Millbury in October. There was a
presentation on PeopleGIS by Ken Flanders and an update on a $50,000 604B grant awarded to the Central
Mass Regional Planning Commission that Central MA Regional Stormwater Coalition is participating in.
===PAGE 6===
There was discussion of a statewide stormwater coalition meeting on September 27 at the Worcester DEP
office.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission met last Wednesday. The Woodlands was seeking information
on what they can and can't do to improve the shoreline and to provide lake access as well as kayak/canoe
access. There was a proposed notice of field change for the Lunenburg High School turf field. This was
approved by the commission.
The rest of the evening focused on enforcement issues. The 101 Pleasant Street property Notice of Intent was
denied at their previous meeting and fines had been set at $600 per day. The engineer for 101 Pleasant
expressed dismay stating he was awaiting information from the Conservation Commission on the wetlands
delineation plan he had submitted and he was not aware that they were going to take action. The engineer will
have to resubmit another NOI. He indicated the property owner planned to remediate the 225 Pleasant Street
town property. They are willing to do the work or pay a contractor that does the work. Ms. Bertram requested
the enfgineer contact Ms. Lafleur and Land Use Director Burney. A remediation plan for the town property is
due by August 17"
• The town may need to request an extension.
Ms. Lafleur reported Mr. Burney drafted a remediation plan for the town property. It was shared with the
abutter's engineer. Due to vacations a meeting will not occur until the 22nd.
• The remediation plan will need to
be reviewed by Conservation before anything is started. Further discussion on what needs to be done next
ensued
Ms. Bertram reported at the MPO meeting the Summer Street project remained in the 2017-2018 TIP.
She reported a recent Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) from the U.S. Department of Transportation
(US DOT) has the potential to significantly impact the MPO planning process for the region and its member
communities. MRPC is writing a letter opposing this.
Ms. Bertram reached out to MRPC Regional Planner Brian Doherty concerning the GIS stormwater tracking.
MIKPC 1s looking tor teedback trom communities on this. Any input should be sent as soon as possible
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets August 29"i
. Finance Committee meets August 11"
". School
Building Committee meets tomorrow at 6:30 p.m.
Mr. Ebersole reported Sewer Commission is meeting tonight and discussing infiltration/inflow/reduction.
They are in the last phases of calculating betterments from the recent sewer installation.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse meets August 15'h
'. No report for Capital Planning. There is no report from
the Town Manager this evening.
Mr. Toale announced the next meeting is August 16" which will not be televised. It is a brainstorming
workshop with board and committee members on improving communication between boards and growing the
volunteer base.
Public Comment:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, commented on the proposed elimination of the Whalom overlay district and
the legal opinion provided. He did not think there was enough time between now and Special Town meeting to
figure out what is best for the town regarding Emerald Place.
Ms. Lafleur stated the Planning Board has recently asked for a written opinion from town counsel on leasing
versus ownership at Emerald Place. She added there was never any indication in the approval of that project that
required it to be ownership occupied even though it was presented and intended that way. Further discussion
ensued on what was remembered at the time.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2nd. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Caine m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
