===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 1 1 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
September 20, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member
and Interim Town Manager David Marciello
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member
The meeting opened at 7:00 P.M. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was none this evening.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Legal Counsel Response Time
The Board discussed occasions that their legal counsel, KP Law, has been slow to respond to ongoing issues
when they were time sensitive. Review of traffic rules and regulations has taken over a year, The point was
made that even though they have several specialty lawyers, what good is it if the response is not timely? It was
suggested to get requests for proposals for general counsel from other firms. The Board requested an update on
where KP Law is with the ongoing cases they are handling.
Peddler's License -Nicole Richard d/b/a Solar City
Ms. Richard presented to request a peddler's license for selling Solar City. She stated she started working for
Solar City about two months ago. She lives in Pepperell. Ms. Richard plans to work from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
and she does not plan on doing this during the winter hours. She will be checking in with the Police Department
on where she is on a daily basis.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2ºd: T. Alonzo
To approve the Peddler's license for Noelle Richard
Vote: All in Favor
Change of Manager License #063600039B & H Corporation d/b/a Mickey Shea's
Heidi Kane introduced herself stating she has been in the food and beverage business for twenty years and
would be the new manager for Mickey Shea's, if approved. She worked at Slattery's in Leominster as the
host/manager for eleven years and also worked for the family catering business.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the change of manager to Heidi Kane for Mickey Shea's
2": R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Kane thanked the Board and exited the meeting with owner, Robert Herrick.
Pay As You Throw (PAYT) trash bags
Mr. Toale noted this was a continuation of a previous discussion. Mr. Alonzo stated he was in favor of a larger
bag for bulkier items that wouldn't fit into the smaller size. Ms. Luck was concerned that with a bigger bag the
weight limit of thirty pounds would be exceeded. Suggestion was made to have "not to exceed thirty pounds"
on the bags. Another suggestion was to track how many bags are not picked up due to exceeding the weight
limit. The Board will continue this discussion before January.
===PAGE 2===
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
There were no minutes for approval this evening. The Board approved an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $139,560.40, a payroll warrant in the amount of $747,772.16 and a payroll deductions warrant in
the amount of $153,094.02.
Mr. Marciello reported Unitil has lifted the moratorium on the two circuits and are now taking applications for
solar installations in the order they were received. Mr. Toale read the draft letter, composed by Facilities
Director Londa, aloud
"The purpose of this letter is to request an update on the progress of upgrading the two circuits that serve the Town of
Lunenburg that have had a moratorium for interconnection of distributed generation. We appreciate Unitil making this a
priority so that Lunenburg citizens will be able to connect their home solar projects as well as the two Town projects with
Solect Energy Development, Inc.
With the changes coming to solar incentives, it is important for the Town of Lunenburg to bring its projects to closure
this calendar year to take advantage of these favorable incentives. This update will allow us to keep the Lunenburg
citizens that are considering solar projects advised of the expected completion of this work.
The two Town projects will continue to be advanced as much as possible in the interim. They do need completed
interconnection agreements in order to be added to the Massachusetts System of Assurances for Net Metering Eligibility
System (Mass ACA). Any assistance that you can provide to Solect Energy Development on our behalf to complete the
applications would be greatly appreciated."
Motion: T. Alonzo
To accept this letter to Unitil and authorize the Chair to sign it on behalf of the Board
2^: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck attended the MART meeting on August 30*h
. The main discussion was on the memorandum of
understanding sent to all Councils on Aging regarding the use of MART vans, reporting and insurance.
MART is requesting the Towns to take over the insurance for their MART vans due to the increase of accidents
and MART's insurance rates increasing. Ms. Luck noted a large attendance of communities due to MIIA stating
they would not want to carry the vans under their policy. There is a follow up meeting at MARI on September
22"d that she, Nancy Forest, COA Director Doherty and Mr. Marciello will be attending.
The School Committee met on August 24" and September 7h.
'. They have established a Lifelong Learning
Advisory Commission and want to develop an Adult Education program at the new Middle/High School.
They will present a report in May 2017. The Superintendent is researching adding another preschool section to
the existing program. She is also looking at adding another kindergarten class due to 25-26 students being in the
existing class. There are 1655 students (87 additional than previously) enrolled in the public schools. Another
bus will be needed at the cost of $60,000 to accommodate the additional students. Facilities Director Londa
presented his capital plan. They meet again tomorrow night.
Mr. Marciello and Ms. Luck attended the annual meeting of the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition
this morning. The coalition is planning another MS4 training for members the week of October 17i
They anticipate placing the video of the last training on the website soon. Stormwater Task Force member Sarah
Cammer attended the last one and stated it was a good presentation. The coalition voted on the bylaws and
asked that member communities appoint two designees; a BOS/Town administration member and a technical
staff person. Ms. Luck was elected to the steering committee. Thursday night the Storm Water Task Force will
be reviewing the scope of services submittals as well as issues that arose at the coalition meeting.
Mr. Alonzo reported the School Building Committee met last Wednesday. Certain parts of the project are being
closed out and a full accounting is being performed. Some of the retention funds that were held for vendors are
being released. The Town will be getting an $80,000 rebate on unused steel and a $200,000 rebate on the
asbestos removal as it was not as involved as previously thought. On the expenditure side, there was a change
order of $38,069, $34,400 of that is for radio repeaters for the Police Department. The rest was spent on railings
in the auditorium near a handicapped accessible chair. There was also approval for additional furnishings in the
amount of $9,100.00 but that change order was not ready. The official ribbon cutting and open house is
===PAGE 3===
scheduled for Saturday, October 22'd at 1:00 p.m. More details will follow. Finance Committee meets this
Thursday and Cable Advisory Committee meets in October once PACC finalizes their business plan.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Board of Health awarded a loan through the septic system replacement program for
1455 Massachusetts Avenue. They reviewed another application this week.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee met last night and agreed to proceed with two Requests for
Proposals; one for each of the four municipal buildings and the other for all four municipal buildings in one
package for an inclusive town center proposal. Land Use Director Burney and Mr. Marciello will be assisting in
that effort. RRG, Inc. will perform an assessment on the buildings which will comply with the M.G.L
requirement to proceed with the RFP. Mr. Marciello will get recertified and we will then put out a request for
proposals. Capital Planning met this afternoon. They will begin the cycle this year with the long range 10-20
year capital spending and then zero in as they get closer to the budget cycle for FY'18 capital needs.
The Town Manager Search Committee is beginning their interviews next week. They will be making
recommendations for finalists by October 11"
Town Manager Report:
Mr. Marciello presented an inventory of town properties. He noted future meetings that he will be attending.
Z% Marciello reported the violation letter to Kabob-e-licious was band delivered by a constable on September
' He added the office has since been notified by the Assistant Treasurer that a check from Kabob-e-licious
for grease trap non-compliance had been returned unpaid. He read the email from Ms. Deming "I received an
NSF notice for the $400.00 check that we took in from Kabob-e-licious on 9/8/16, so I will be doing that
reversal today and mailing out the NSF letter to them." Mr. Alonzo stated he liked the format of Mr.
Marciello's report. He added the town should get the payment from Kabob-e-licious as soon as possible. The
Board asked Mr. Marciello to follow up on this matter and report back to them.
Mr. Toale reported their next meeting is October 4"
There was no public comment.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2"d: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 7:42 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
