===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Sill P
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 17, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
Not present: Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman and Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck announced the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lions Club is holding a pancake breakfast on Sunday, May
29t from 7:00- 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House Senior Center. There is a suggested donation of $5.00 for adults
and $3.00 for children with a cap of $20.00 per family. Following the Memorial Day service ceremonies at 9:30
a.m., there will be coffee and pastry available at Eagle House.
The Lions Club will be holding their annual spring tollbooth fundraiser on Saturday from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. They
Will also be collecting used car seats, clothing, linens, curtains, etc. at the Boys and Girls Club during the
Uptown Stroll. They will have a tent set up. Donations can be left in a box on the Teen Center porch anytime
between now and May 21St
Mr. Toale announced polls will be open at T.C. Passios for the Annual Town Election on Saturday from 7 a.m.
to 5 p.m.
He wanted to remind everyone that Saturday is also the day of the Uptown Stroll from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. It
involves four public buildings in the center: Eagle House Senior Center, Public Library, Boys and Girls Club
Teen Center and Lunenburg Historical Society. There will be activities going on in those buildings throughout
the day.
Mr. Toale stated there will be a volunteer booth for town committees/boards set up at the Historical Society
during the Uptown Stroll. Anyone interested in finding out more about any of the boards should come by.
Talent bank forms shall be available to fill out.
APPOINTMENT
Lunenburg High School Athletic Hall of Fame
Darlene Steele, 1234 Mass. Avenue, Chairperson of the Lunenburg Hall of Fame, presented tonight to request a
permanent location for their (2) 4' x 8' trophy cases as they have been informed that there is not sufficient
space in the new high school for them. While searching for a new accessible and visible public location for
them, they thought of the I.C. Passios Building. They believed the lobby would serve as a suitable location for
their inductee plaques. They currently have 30 individual inductee plaques and 16 others. They have contacted a
moving company who will either move the cases to a new location or pack the contents to be placed into
storage. Ms. Bertram asked if they were provided a reason why they could not move them to the new school.
Ms. Steele stated they were told there would be no place for them in the new school. Ms. Bertram stated she did
not have a problem with storing them and eventually displaying them at TC. Passios Building. She added given
they don't know the fate of that building yet, she was not sure making them a permanent display would make a
lot of sense. Mr. Toale stated the current status is that the Selectmen are pursuing a potential plan to convert the
Passios Building to a Town Hall so he was also reluctant to make a long term commitment.
Richard Brockelman, 56 Cross Street, referred to the photos he distributed to the Board. He stated he measured
the glassed-in display cabinet at T.C. Passios and they should be able to store their plaques in there for now.
The five current ones from this year will not fit. Ms. Bertram stated she was disappointed to hear that they could
not find room in the new school for such an important part of athletics. Ms. Steele added they were informed by
the athletic director that there is space in one case to display only the current inductees in the high school with a
===PAGE 2===
perpetual plaque that will have the past inductees information on it. But they still don't know the size of that
space. Mr. Toale stated he agreed the most logical place was the high school but he also thought the Historical
Society might be able to display some. Mr. Brockelman said he was familiar with the Historical Society and
did not believe they would have room for the cases as they exist right now. He believed there was enough room
in both display cases to take them through year 2025. Ms. Bertram stated she did not have a problem with
temporary storage but thought they should still seek a permanent location for everything. Ms. Steele asked if
there was any space at the Passios to store the trophy cases. Ms. Lafleur stated she assumed there was some
storage space in the building. Ms. Steele will let Ms. Lafleur know when they are going to move everything so
she could coordinate a room.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to join Central MA Regional Stormwater Coalition (continued)
Mr. Toale referred the Board to the intermunicipal agreement. Ms. Bertram stated she felt this was a good
idea and it would benefit the Town.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°°: P. Luck
To enter into the agreement with the Central MA Regional Stormwater Coalition
Discussion: Mr. Toale stated he did not find anything objectionable in the agreement but wanted to
reiterate that they should encourage surrounding towns to join as well and encourage Central MA to
allow their surrounding towns to also join. Ms. Bertram agreed.
Vote: All in Favor
2. Request to adopt Montachusett Regional Natural Hazard Mitigation Plan 2015 Update
Ms. Lafleur stated she did not expect the Board to adopt this tonight. She did want to advise the Board that
MRPC has advised the town that FEMA Region 1 has completed its review of the plan for the jurisdictions in
our area and found them approvable pending adoption. They provided us a copy of the full report which is
around 200 pages. Ms. Bertram wanted to review it before voting on it. Ms. Lafleur will provide a link to the
document for viewing and this will be placed on an agenda in early June.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Ratify Town Manager Appointment of John M. Welch III as Heavy Equipment Operator, DPW
Ms. Lafluer reported her appointment fills the last opening at DPW. She did meet with Mr. Welch a couple of
weeks ago. He has quite a bit of experience with trucks and plowing as well as maintenance work.
Motion: P. Bertram
2'': P. Luck
To ratify the appointment of John Welch, Illas heavy equipment operator at DPW Vote: All in Favor
2. Paul Doherty, Associate ZBA Member, to position of ZBA Member-term to expire 6/30/2017
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d P. Luck
To appoint Paul Doherty to Zoning Board of Appeals with a term to expire June 30, 2017
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of May 3, 2016 were approved. An accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,249,901.85, an
accounts payable warrant in the amount of $263,872.70, a payroll warrant in the amount of $720,191.64, a
payroll warrant in the amount of $764.27 and a payroll deduction warrant in the amount of $151,193.12 were
signed.
Mr. Toale presented the Memorial Day resolution that was discussed last week for signatures.
Motion: P. Bertram
To sign the Memorial Day resolution
2": P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the Zoning Board of Appeals approved Peter Kelly's request for a proposed addition to the
existing building at 36 Summer Street. The School Committee will be meeting tomorrow. The Storm Water
Task Force did not have a quorum for its May 12" meeting. Ed Himlin, Executive Director of the MA
===PAGE 3===
Watershed Coalition attended and presented a proposal to assist the task force. The task force will meet again
on May 26# to discuss further.
Mr. Toale wanted to thank the people who attended town meeting and approved the Capital Plan on behalf of
the Capital Planning Committee. He also wanted to thank them for approving the market analysis on behalf of
the Building Reuse Committee.
Town Manager Report:
101 Pleasant Street: Ms. Lafleur requested Land Use Director Adam Burney provide an update. Mr. Burney
reported he and Conservation Agent Matt Marro have met with MA DEP, Army Corps of Engineers, and
Kinder Morgan and determined the owner of 101 Pleasant Street was in fact the cause of alterations on Kinder
Morgan's property and the 225 Pleasant Street town property. Kinder Morgan was able to provide a 2007
existing conditions plan detailing the elevations and the extent of the wetlands in the alteration area for
comparison to the current conditions.
The Conservation Commission, as part of their Enforcement Order, has requested the 101 Pleasant Street and
190 Electric Avenue property owner have his wetlands scientist/engineer use the 2007 existing conditions plan
to assess the violations and prepare a replication/restoration plan for the town property as well. The engineer has
indicated he is willing to do the work but the property owner has not committed the funds. Ms. Bertram asked
if the Town has communicated with the property owner directly. Mr. Burney suggested he would follow up and
find out if anything has been sent in writing from the Conservation Commission. Ms. Bertram believed
correspondence should come directly from the Board of Selectmen. Ms. Lafleur stated the only notification
they have provided to the property owner was a cease and desist order.
Mr. Toale asked if the Town had responded to the Conservation Commission regarding the Town's enforcement
order. Mr. Burney stated no. Further discussion ensued about how to remediate the Town property.
Ms. Bertram suggested sending a letter to the 101 Pleasant Street property owner outlining the circumstances of
the town property and that the Town has received an enforcement order as a result of alleged work performed
on his property; noting that since he has to remediate the violations on his property, at the same time he can do
the same on the town property. She suggested requesting an extension from the Conservation Commission for
additional time for the remediation on the Town property. Mr. Burney will work with Ms. Lafleur on the tasks.
Greg Bittner, 129 Pleasant Street, presented a document that indicated the owner of 101 Pleasant Street was not
licensed by the state to operate the equipment he was using on his property.
Boys & Girls Club Request to use Parking Lot
Ms. Lafleur reported this issue arose more than a month ago where there was an evening the Teen Center
parking lot was closed off with cones again. It has come up several times over the years. Ms. Lafleur met with
the Director, the Chair of their Board as well as Boys and Girls Club Board member Tom Alonzo. A request
was made by the Teen Center Director for exclusive use of that parking lot from 3 - 5 p.m., Monday through
Friday.
Ms. Lafleur suggested using the lower parking lot instead, leaving the municipal parking lot available for use
during nighttime meetings. The Council on Aging had discussed this at their meeting as they share that parking
lot. They sent a letter supporting the Teen Center's use of their parking lot for safety reasons and the lower lot
for municipal parking. Ms. Lafleur stated at this point she did not see any solution other than letting them use
their parking lot due to their limited space. Ms. Bertram appreciated the work the Teen Center does but the town
has limited parking in the center. She stated she was opposed to exclusive use of the municipal parking lot for
the Teen Center from 3 - 5 p.m., especially on nights the Town Hall is open. She stated they need to find a
different solution. Mr. Toale stated clearly the town has parking space problems. He believed the ultimate result
is to find a new Town Hall with accessible parking spots. Further discussion ensued. Suggestion was made to
advise employees not to park in front of Town Hall and to use the lower parking lot. Another suggestion was
made to inform those who run tollbooth fundraisers not to park in the Town Hall spots while running the
tollbooth. Ms. Bertram suggested posting no parking signs from 3- 5 p.m. Monday through Friday in the
municipal lot in front of the Teen Center.
===PAGE 4===
MIlA Credits
Ms. Lafleur reported Massachusett Interlocal Insurance Association (MIIA) has announced the distribution of
participation credits to their members. The Town will receive $8,497 in participation credits. The Town will
also receive a 4% credit for early payment in the amount of $7910.16 and will receive $7,262.29 in other
estimated rewards credits bringing the total in credits to $23,669.45.
PAYT bags discussion will be continued to another meeting.
Ms. Lafleur presented some information on health insurance such as current costs for individual and family
coverage, costs of plans by employee groups etc. She will be using this to start her meeting with the Public
Employee Committee tomorrow.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Greg Bittner suggested designating another handicapped parking spot in front of Town Hall and posting a two
hour parking limit in front of Town Hall to eliminate employees parking there. He asked if the Teen Center has
access to the gym at Passios for the winter time. Mr. Toale stated another group uses it but he does not know the
schedule. He added there is not enough supervision from the Teen Center to cover that activity regardless.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:21 p.m.
2nd.P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
