===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
I-M.
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 1: 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
December 20, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and
Acting Town Manager Adam Burney
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
There was no Public Comment or Announcements.
APPOINTMENTS
Victory Distributors, LLC d/b/a Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388 Change of Manager
and Change of Officers for Alcohol license #00016-PK-0636
Jennifer Moore, the new manager on record presented for the request. Ms. Moore reported she has been in the
store for about eight weeks. She has worked in other Hannafords, Gardner and Leominster.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To approve the Change of Manager to Jennifer Moore and the Change of Officers as submitted for
Victory Distributors, LLC d/b/a Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Moore thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. License Renewal (cont.)
Mr. Burney presented a license renewal for Whalom Gas, 1 Whalom Road, for a common victualer and
automatic amusement devices (2 video games).
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the license renewals for Whalom Gas
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board approved and signed November 8, 2016 Minutes. The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in
the amount of $163,183.75; a voided Payroll Warrant in the amount of -$939.46, a reissued Payroll Warrant in
the amount of $927.45 and a School Construction warrant in the amount of $437,259.62
Ms. Luck requested a list of roads that were already paved and a list of streets to be paved in 2017 for the
upcoming storm water workshop. Ms. Bertram requested an overview of improvements on the various paving
projects that fit in with the Complete Streets Program. Mr. Ebersole stated he believed the Complete Streets
process was to get funding for planning to figure out what that is. The Board has not requested the DPW
Director to identify what streets would fit that up to this point. Ms. Bertram stated we need some idea of what
improvements can be made in order to meet the requirements of the program. MRPC is willing to assist
communities with the Complete Streets Program. Mr. Burney will contact Mr. Rodriquenz. The Board decided
to hold this workshop on February 14'h
Mr. Toale reported the Town received nine responses to the REP for legal services. He suggested February 28h
for review of them. Mr. Ebersole suggested starting at 6:00 p.m. Mr. Burney suggested booking a room at the
===PAGE 2===
school for presentation purposes. Mr. Ebersole requested reviewing use of town property and setting a policy.
Another suggestion was to review the policy and procedures in entirety in March or April 2017.
Discussion about the budget process ensued.
Update on 2013 and 2015 DCR Recreational Trails Program Grant Update and Request to Dedicate
Multi-Purpose Bridge over Mulpus Brook
Tom Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road, presented a report on the Lunenburg Snow Riders Club trail work.
He began with the 2013 Recreational Trails Program (RTP) grant amounting to $24,259. The RTP grant is
issued through the Department of Recreation and Conservation (DCR) and is collected through a federal gas
tax. The club completed erosion mitigation on the Cowdry Lot parcel, specifically Old Tote Road and Muskrat
Swamp Trail areas. They also built a handicapped viewing station and a kiosk at the request of the Conservation
Commission at the Harold Harley Site. They purchased trail grooming equipment. The club created a connector
trail between the Cowdrey lot and the small town forest. One remaining task on the 2013 grant is to install
gravel for trail maintenance and install drainage on the large town forest trails.
The 2015 RTP grant in the amount of $34,799 is almost entirely dedicated to the Lane Property off Holman
Street. The club constructed a parking lot at the Lane Property, built five footbridges along Mulpus Brook and
Proctor and Ramsden have all been instrumental in donating equipment and time.
A multi-purpose bridge over the Mulpus was constructed. This bridge is big enough to get machines across for
maintenance and access out to the town forest.
Peter Charpentier, who passed away this year, was an outdoorsman, very active and a club member. Mr.
Bertram stated they would like to have this multi-purpose bridge dedicated to Peter. He reported the
Conservation Commission voted at their December 7' meeting to endorse the dedication. Mr. Bertram was
seeking a proclamation issued from this Board.
Mr. Ebersole thanked all the people who have been working on the town properties. He is in full support of the
proposed proclamation. Mr. Toale congratulated all the Snow Riders and volunteers for all their work.
Mr. Toale read the proclamation aloud:
WHEREAS The Town of Lunenburg has Conservation Land dedicated to activities
such as bird watching, cross country skiing, snowshoeing, hiking,
nature study, photography and other passive recreational uses and
WHEREAS Volunteers are a valuable resource on which the Town depends and
appreciates for the upkeep and maintenance of many trails going over
the Conservation Land as well as installation of bridges and
WHEREAS Peter Charpentier, a lifelong resident of Lunenburg, passionate hiker and
outdoorsman, contributed many volunteer hours towards the Conservation
Land and
WHEREAS The Lunenburg Conservation Commission are the caretakers and stewards of
the Lane Conservation Land and voted at their December 7, 2016 meeting to
dedicate the Mulpus Brook Multi-Purpose Bridge in memory of Peter
Charpentier, who passed away on August 17th
NOW, THEREFORE, It is fitting that the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen do hereby
proclaim that we honor the memory and celebrate the life of Peter Charpentier, an
exceptional individual, and ratifies the Conservation Commission Vote to dedicate the
bridge on this day, December 20, 2016.
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Ebersole motioned to approve the proclamation and Ms. Bertram seconded. Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Bertram stated there would be a dedication at the bridge in the spring. He extended an invitation to the
Board to attend. Mr. Bertram thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Visioning Steering Committee met last night. They are working on a strategic
framework and will be seeking community input. It is the first of three phases that will result in the creation of a
district strategic plan which will then inform the school improvement plan going forward. The next meeting is
January 9". The Storm Water Task Force's next meeting on January 12'* is an educational workshop. Ms. Luck
attended a Baystate Roads workshop in Hadley; Getting the Most Out of Your Snow and Ice Operations.
The program was presented by a retired DPW Director from Heath who claimed you can avoid the use of sand
by properly pretreating with salt. This avoids sand buildup in catch basins.
The Zoning Board of Appeals has a January 11* hearing scheduled for a request to demolish a dwelling and
rebuild at 55 Spring Street, on Lake Shirley. ZBA member Ray Beal has submitted his resignation. ZBA will
reorganize their Board at the next meeting.
Ms. Bertram reported Montachusett Planning Organization (MPO) met on December 14*.
. There was an
amendment to the 2017- 2021Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) concerning the transit element.
Details are on the MRPC website. There was a presentation on regional population projections. Interestingly,
one method predicted a population decrease, while the other predicted an increase in Lunenburg. There will be
$2 million dollars available in next year's TIP because a project has fallen off the list. She believed Chase Road
was a good candidate for the funding as it was shovel ready. Discussion on Summer Street construction did
come up. Sara Bradbury, Mass DOT District 3, reported the 100% design has been received and is under
review. The Wachusett Station (commuter rail) located in Fitchburg is now fully operational. The grand
opening ceremony is postponed because of cold weather. There is a shuttle between Gardner Center and the
station. Parking design for Ayer is being worked on. There will be a 200 parking space garage. Mass
Development and its businesses are discussing how to provide transportation from outlying areas to Devens.
The Dedicated Local Technical Assistance Grant will be available this year. Finally they are looking to assist
communities interested in ecotourism projects.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Library is working on updating its policies and looking at using trust funds to
purchase books. The Sewer Commission is working on updating their rules and regulations, particularly with
Mr. Toale reported the Building Reuse Committee met and reviewed input received from the November Special
Town Meeting and to plan their next steps. They voted to revise the RFP plan to create one (four building) RFP;
using the Primary School, Brooks House, Town Hall and Ritter Memorial Building as revenue creators to fund
the renovation of the T.C. Passios Building for use as a municipal building. They are also considering a separate
REP that includes all five buildings to create a town center concept as long as it encompasses a municipal office
building. They would like to accomplish this in time for the 2017 Annual Town Meeting.
He noted he shared with the Reuse Committee there is a request in the Capital Plan to scrape, remove lead paint
and repair and paint Town Hall. The estimated cost is $87,750.
Mr. Burney reported Ray Beal has resigned from ZBA and there are two associates currently sitting in on their
meetings that could fill the vacancy. He will approach the associates to see if there is interest.
The Fire Department, through the Chief, is looking at applications for the Staffing for Adequate Fire and
lever More Responsi Son this is can in ator. a bri, the is a rosa 24 hours craniary to paramedic
Board to broach the subject of cannabis cultivation in Lunenburg for distribution to registered medical
dispensaries and potentially retail distributors.
Resignation: Ray Beal from Zoning Board of Appeals effective December 31, 2016. (revd. 12/19/2016)
Mr. Toale read Mr. Beal's resignation letter aloud.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2"°: P. Bertram
To accept Ray Beal's resignation from Zoning Board of Appeals effective December 31, 2016
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Toale stated a brief license hearing is scheduled for December 27. The next meeting after that is January
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Ebersole stated he wanted the Board to review the earth removal bylaw to address permitting and filling in.
A lot has changed since the bylaw was written in the 1960's.
Mr. Toale wanted to wish everyone a Merry Christmas, Happy Hannukah and a safe holiday season, as well as
A Happy New Year.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:13 p.m.
2nd: REbersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 1: 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
