===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Executive Session Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 2, 2016
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck,
Member; Paula Bertram, Member
Others in attendance: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 8:44 p.m.
Ms. Lafleur reviewed proposed changes to the DPW union contract for fiscal years '16 - 18 concerning management
rights; bulletining and filling positions; the probation period being extended to twelve months; just cause reasons for
dismissal; conditions of employment; unused sick leave; changes to the Christmas holiday; a 1.5% wage increase each
year; clothing allowance increase and housekeeping changes to the contract.
The financial impact for the fiscal year 2016 COLA is estimated at $6,082.13. The first year of the contract has to be
authorized at town meeting. The COLA cost for fiscal year 2017 is $15,314.27.
Motion:R. Ebersole
2nd: T. Alonzo
To ratify the DPW contract as presented subject to the union approval
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Bertram-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Ms. Lafleur updated the Board on the negotiations concerning the International Brotherhood of Police Officers (IBPO)
Local 353, AFL-CIO contract. She presented research on base salary pay/steps in similar communities as well as the cost
to the town for various scenarios. She requested feedback from the Board. Discussion ensued.
Ms. Bertram exited the meeting before the discussion of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employee (AFSCME) contract negotiations.
Ms. Lafleur reported AFSCME has a provision in their contract for buying back sick leave. The current liability for sick
leave buyback on the books is around $95,000. Most of the sick leave buyback involved is with this union. The buyback
provision states that the town can buy back up to 20% of the liability for each benefit level. The employee can request that
the town buy back an additional amount. $55,000 has been reserved for buy back subject to Board approval. There are
employees that are eligible for 40% to 100% based on their years of services. Ms. Lafleur has identified what their current
balance is and what their maximum buy out is because some have accrued more sick leave time than their maximum buy
back. This can still be used as sick leave. The town would be buying their time at their current rate to lessen the town's
liability. Ms. Lafleur wants to double check with labor counsel on the provision.
Motion:T.Alonzo
To adjourn from Executive Session
2nd: R. Ebersole
Vote: Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The meeting adjourned at 10:35 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainch Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
