===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
defa
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
Minutes
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 10, 2016
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula
Bertram, Member, Phyllis Luck, Member
Others in attendance: Kerry Lafleur, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 6:00 p.m. Mr. Toale stated the reason for meeting in Executive Session.
"Chapter 30A, § 21A (9), to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair so
declares, to review IBPO Local 453 AFL-CIO and Public Employee Committee Negotiations."
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd, P. Luck
To enter Executive Session and upon adjournment to enter into Open Session
Vote: Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
*********
*****************Executive Session Minutes Are Separate********************
The meeting was called to order at 7:08 p.m.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck stated May 11" is National School Nurse Day, She thanked the Lunenburg School Nurses for all they
do for the children of Lunenburg. Mr. Alonzo wanted to remind everyone that Saturday, May 21 is the day of
the Uptown Stroll from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. It involves four public buildings in the center: Eagle House
Senior Center, Public Library, Boys and Girls Club Teen Center and Lunenburg Historical Society. There will
be activities going on in those buildings throughout the day. Uptown Strollers will be issued a "Stroll Passport,
"which if checked off at each of the buildings, you will be entered into a raffle at the end of the day. The raffle
is for a gift basket donated by Eagle House Supporters that will contain 10 gift certificates from area businesses.
Mr. Alonzo announced with deep sadness the passing of Jean Hobbs. She was a mainstay in this town for many
years. He read excerpts from her obituary aloud. He wanted to thank her for her service and her family for
sharing her with us. Mr. Ebersole noted her daughter has every single news column she wrote for the town.
Mr. Toale stated there will be a volunteer booth for town committees/boards set up at the Historical Society
during the Uptown Stroll. Anyone interested in finding out more about any of the boards should come by.
Talent bank forms shall be available to fill out. He also has a call out to members of committees to take a shift
to give information about their committee to any interested people. May 215 is also Election Day for
Lunenburg. Polls are open at the T.C. Passios Building from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Absentee ballots are
available until Noon on May 19# at the Town Clerk office.
Tomorrow is the Lunenburg Turkey Hill pancake breakfast at Eagle House Senior Center from 8:00-11:00 AM
The price is $2 per person for pancakes, sausage, tater crowns, fruit, pastry, juice and coffee. Take out is
available.
Pole Petition Public Hearing for Oak Avenue
Mr. Toale read the pole petition hearing notice:
To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are hereby notified
that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2"d Floor, in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room,
Lunenburg, MA, on Tuesday, May 10, 2016 at 7:00 PM upon petition of VERIZON NEW ENGLAND INC. and UNITIL
===PAGE 2===
PITCHBURG GAS & ELECTRIC for permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such
other fixtures as may be necessary to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon,
along, across, or under the following public ways of said Town:
Location: Oak Avenue: Place one (1) jointly owned pole numbered T.10 ¼ 11A on the northwesterly side of Oak Avenue
at a point approximately five hundred and ninety-five feet southwesterly from the center line on Northfield Road.
Verizon representative Bill Oz came forward in regards to the pole petition. He stated there is new construction
on Oak Avenue and the span between pole 11 and pole 12 is so long that the cables sag between them. This is a
petition to place a pole mid-span to alleviate that situation. Mr. Ebersole stated he drove by that site and noticed
that cable was propped up by a branch. Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Oz if he knew where the new driveways were
going in relation to the pole placement. He said he personally has not but the engineer should be touching base
with the developer. Mr. Toale asked for public comment; there was none.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2id: P. Bertram
To approve the pole petition as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Tollbooth Fundraiser request- Boys and Girls Club- May 14"
Mark Souza presented for the tollbooth request. They are looking for approval for their tollbooth fundraiser for
this Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nª. P. Bertram
To approve the request for the tollbooth fundraiser this Saturday between 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. and to
note the special conditions listed on the request form
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Souza thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Memorial Day Resolution
Mr. Toale wanted to have a discussion in advance of the day. The planning group is arranging to have their
ceremony on Sunday, May 29'* at 9:30 a.m. at Veterans Memorial Park. They are still pulling together the
program. He would like to create a resolution declaring Sunday, May 29 as the day of observance in Lunenburg
and that the flags will be lowered to half-staff at the ceremony and remaining at half-staff throughout Monday,
May 30*
. The Board will sign it at their next meeting.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'': P. Bertram
To create a resolution for Memorial Day
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale also invited a Board member to read the resolution at the ceremony on the 29". Ms. Bertram asked if
all of the flags flown in town are properly illuminated. If they are not, arrangements should be made to have
them illuminated or taken down before daily. Ms. Lafleur will follow up on this matter.
2. Request to Join Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force recently discussed joining this coalition at one of their
meetings. She has been at presentations given by this coalition and has been impressed by their work. She
referred to a presentation given by them on April 15, 2015 on "What's Next" and read aloud the
accomplishments the group has achieved. They included developing a partnership with Mass DEP, USEPA,
DCR and other groups, serving as a role model for four other new coalitions in MA, providing a forum for
collaboration between towns, submitting comment on the 2014 draft MA Ms4 permitting and more.
They are also working with towns to help understand actual expenditures for a stormwater program and project
into a new permit, spending one on one time to help towns to get what they need most out of the coalition,
providing ideas about how to fund stormwater programs and working with the EPA to identify grants
appropriate for their work. They are currently limiting the coalition to 30 member communities. They just
received a $50,000 MAEPA grant to help comply with upcoming federal requirements for managing
stormwater. It will used for training and technical assistance for the member communities. The task force
believes the coalition's assistance would be very helpful since the task force is just getting started and they are
===PAGE 3===
comprised of volunteers not engineers. She also presented a copy of the intermunicipal agreement with the
coalition and noted the agreement if signed would become effective on July 1, 2016 and runs through 2020.
The annual membership fee is $4,000.
Ms. Bertram stated it was a great idea but noted looking at the map of the member communities that none of
them border Lunenburg. Under the section "Who We Are", it states as neighbors, our 30 communities share
stormwater systems, surface water resources and the need to endure the long-term protection of these resources.
Lunenburg has resources to protect as well. Her hope would be if Lunenburg does join, they could encourage
some of their neighbor communities to join as well. She asked if the member limit was in fact just 30
communities. Ms. Bertram added it was important the town look at stormwater as a regional issue.
Mr. Toale stated he was thinking similar to Ms. Bertram as this is more of a central MA regional group. He
asked if we should try to get a north central group organized or should we lobby for our neighbors to be able to
join at some time in the future? Ms. Luck stated there was a group in Lowell but they were not at the caliber of
the Central MA Regional Stormwater Coalition. She thought their resources would be helpful even if just for
one year. Mr. Alonzo noted that Lunenburg was only one town away from the member group similar to
Harwick being one town away from the central group. He thought they would have good information to share.
Mr. Ebersole added there is a clause to withdraw from the coalition with a 60 day notice if there is another
regional group that would make more sense to join. Ms. Lafleur reported there is $40,000 in the budget this year
and $50,000 for fiscal 2017 for stormwater activities. The Board took no action as they wanted to review the
agreement. They will review again at the May 17 meeting.
Facilities Director John Londa presented an update on a project that has been in development for about two
years. Last June he applied for a Department of Energy Resource grant to hire a solar technical advisor. The
grant awarded $12,500 to bring on an advisor. Robert W. Patterson & Associates of Arlington, MA was
selected. They put together a Request for Proposals (RFP) and advertised it in February 2016. He received two
proposals for placing solar equipment on the Lunenburg middle/high school roof and the DPW garage roof. One
bid was from Solect Energy Development LLC and the other was from Ecasolar. Solect Energy is the preferred
bidder with more favorable pricing. Both projects were contingent on using SREC II (solar renewable energy
credits). Solect Energy proposed placing a 361 kilowatt system on the new middle/high school and a 35 kilowatt
system on the new DPW garage. It would be a 20 year contract for the middle/high school at 8.3 cents/kw hour
and 13.5 cents/kw hour for the DPW, both at fixed rates. They guaranteed 85% of their performance; 400 kw
hours for the middle/high school and 35,000 kw hours for the DPW garage. It was determined that it will
require 850,000 kw/year for the middle/high school and around 35,000 kw/year to run the DPW garage.
Also included is a lease payment of $1000/month for the middle/high school; there was no lease payment for
the DP W. Annual savings would be $62,080 for the middle/high school and $3,472 for the DPW garage.
He recommended sending a letter to Solect Energy informing them that they were awarded the bid and request a
copy of their proposed lease. He stated one thing they need to get resolved was that the Board had informed
special town meeting that even though they were authorized to enter into long-term alternative energy power
purchase agreements, they would return to town meeting to inform the voters. He proposed that they resolve
that hurdle. Additionally the School Committee wanted to be kept informed on the project and were concerned
about the location and appearance of the panels on the new buildings. Solect Energy will be placing the conduit
going to the flat rooves that affords over 13,000 square feet for solar panel space. Mr. Londa believed the
School Committee was concerned about whether the panels should be visible or not. Mr. Londa stated they
would probably rediscuss this issue after town election. All of this hinges on the developer finishing the work
before the end of the calendar year due to the SREC II time limit.
Mr. Alonzo asked about the school roof warranty being affected by placing solar panels on them. Mr. Londa
stated flat rooves have a polyvinyl chloride membrane on them and they come with requirements that the
vendor has to meet, he provided those requirements in the RFP. The solar panel vendor has to warranty the roof
for two years from the completion of the project. On the flat roof, the panels would not penetrate the roof, they
would be ballistered.
Mir. Toale asked if the Board were to bring forward the agreement at a fall special town meeting, would there be
enough time to execute the project. Mr. Londa did not believe so. Discussion ensued what was actually said at
===PAGE 4===
town meeting to the voters concerning long-term contracts. The meeting recording will be reviewed for what
was actually said. It was suggested to hold a public hearing for the voters to be informed of the project.
The Board thought this was a great project and thanked Mr. Londa for his work. He exited the meeting.
3. License Application Processing Cost
Ms. Lafleur reported that Executive Assistant Peterson had provided an analysis of what tasks and time is
involved in processing a license. Ms. Lafleur proposed reexamining annual license fees and charging a fee for a
transfer. Transfers require the same amount of and sometimes even more time as new applications. She will
bring this back to the Board in the beginning of June.
4. Proclamation Signatures for Eagle Scout Ceremonies
The Board signed two proclamations for upcoming Eagle Scout ceremonies.
5. Annual Town Meeting Follow up
Mr. Ebersole wanted to thank everyone who came out and stayed for the entire town meeting so a quorum could
be maintained. Mr. Toale wanted to thank Town Manager Lafleur and her staff for coordinating the annual town
meeting. It was a very efficient meeting. Mr. Ebersole appreciated that amendments made on town meeting
floor were shown on the screen for all to view.
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $99,851.72. The Board signed the 4* Quarter
Water Commitment of FY 2016 in the amount of $8,791.20.
Action File: Ms. Bertram stated she would like to resolve the parking lot situation at the Teen Center. Tonight
she went to pull in to the parking lot and it was blocked off with cones. At 6:00 p.m. at night we have such
limited parking in the center that we cannot to afford to lose all those parking spaces. Ms. Lafleur stated she
would have something for the Board by their next meeting. There has been discussion between the Senior
Center and the Boys and Girls Club but she was waiting until after town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo asked about the larger size trash bags status for the Pay As You Throw program. Ms. Lafleur stated
that would also be on the next agenda. She will look at the contract to see if there is a weight limit in the
contract.
7. Committee Reports
Mr. Ebersole reported he had no reports other than the Sewer Commission is meeting tonight. Mr. Alonzo
reported School Building Committee and Cable Advisory will meet in June. Finance Committee meets this
Thursday. Ms. Bertram reported the Planning Board continues to work on their bylaws. They talked about the
site plan component. They are planning to forward a draft to the Board of Selectmen, the engineers they work
with on a regular basis and peer review engineers. They are hoping to hold a public hearing in June.
Planning Board member Allison reported the Town of Acton has a sidewalk fund. If there is a subdivision in a
remote location where the sidewalks don't connect to anything, sometimes a waiver is granted. They still collect
the funding for the sidewalks and deposit it into the fund for sidewalks in areas that are walkable elsewhere.
The Planning Board is going to research the concept further. The next bylaw change they are looking at would
be the use table. They did endorse the changes on the Unitil plan which was the addition of the storm scepter
that Conservation Commission had requested.
The Conservation Commission met and discussed 101 Pleasant Street. The engineer had returned for guidance
on the remediation. There will be another site visit. She requested an update from Ms. Lafleur on the town side.
Ms. Lafleur stated she had asked Land Use Director Burney to be prepared to present an update to the Board
following town meeting. She will have an update for the next meeting. Ms. Bertram stated Kinder Morgan also
wants remediation because it affects their property. The property owner at 171 Lancaster Road came in due to
an enforcement order. There is a drainage issue and they will be working with DPW to alleviate that.
The property owner at 338 Sunset Lane also appeared in response to an enforcement order for a wall. The
commission is looking at ways to remediate that with the owner.
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on May 4*.
. High School teacher Mary Foyle presented a
community service learning project that is planned for next year. She would like to present it to the Board of
Selectmen to get feedback on opportunities the seniors could use for community service work. There is
movement on eliminating bus fees by offering adult education classes. This could cover the $30,000 for bus
fees. The Storm Water Task Force is working on a potential 319 Nonpoint Source grant application which is
due June 1st
• They reached out to the Hickory Hills Lake Management Association to see if they are interested
in working on Mulpus Brook above the lake that runs through the town forest. They have also reached out to the
Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation to see if they would like to work together to make improvements in the
watershed to reduce nutrient loading of the lake. The grant offers up to $600,000 but it requires a 40% match,
half in cash, half in kind
The task force is conducting a small scale cleanup of the area where Route 70 and Leominster-Shirley Road
meet on Saturday morning. DPW Director Rodriquenz thought that was an area that needed the most attention.
DPW will provide bags and gloves for the cleanup crew. They hope this is the beginning of a much larger effort
and that they can learn from this experience. They are seeking volunteers. Their next meeting is Thursday, May
Ms. Bertram noted that the outlet leaving Hickory Hills is the issue due to high water temperatures. There are
different creative options to try to decrease the temperature. Ms. Bertram stated she had looked at the 319 grant
application and did not see a request for a cash match, only an in kind contribution. Ms. Luck noted the chances
of getting a grant awarded if a cash match is indicated.
Mr. Toale reported Capital Planning's recommendations were approved at annual town meeting. They agreed to
meet to continue discussion for the future. Building Reuse Committee also received approval for the market
analysis at town meeting.
Town Manager Report-
Ms. Lafleur reported the town had been notified on March 29th of a proposed acquisition by MDAR of Lanni
Orchards for agricultural preservation restriction. The state has done an appraisal and we awaiting that. She
explained the town is expected to make a match of 5% or 10% depending on certain factors. More information
will be coming at a later date.
Mr. Toale stated their next meeting will be May 17th
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:24 p.m.
2": P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
