===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Of 1s fit
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
October 25, 2016
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member and
Phyllis Luck, Member
Not present: Interim Town Manager David Marciello
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale thanked the Sewer Commission for moving their meeting to the Department of Public Works this
evening so this meeting could be televised.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who came out for the ribbon cutting ceremony at the new Middle/High school.
He thanked Mr. Toale and Mr. Mackin, Superintendent Calmes, Representative Tsongas and Representative
Benson for their comments. Mr. Toale noted the three excellent student speakers also.
Mr. Toale announced Eagle House Senior Center is holding a flu shot clinic on October 27" between 9:00 and
11:00 a,m. Anyone over six months of age can get a shot. Please bring your health insurance card. This is only
for basic flu shots.
John Baker, 53 Chase Road, who has experience in the court system spoke against voting in favor of Question 4
on the election ballot.
APPOINTMENT
Mr. Toale asked Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, to come forward regarding his request to be appointed to
the Personnel Committee. Town Moderator Tim Murphy has submitted a letter of recommendation for Mr.
MacDonald to be appointed.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'': T. Alonzo
To appoint Dave MacDonald to the Personnel Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2019
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. MacDonald thanked the Board and urged residents to volunteer on committees. Mr. Toale stated there were
two more vacancies on the Personnel Committee. There is also a vacancy in the member at large seat on Capital
Planning. The Board is seeking representatives to serve on behalf of the Board on Montachusett Regional
Planning Commission (MRPC) and the Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee (MJTC).
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. MART Proposal/Memorandum of Understanding regarding van transportation (continued)
COA Director Sue Doherty presented to answer questions regarding the MART van service in Lunenburg.
She reported she has been working with Ms. Luck and Interim Town Manager Marciello on this item. They
have come up with some good ideas and possible scenarios. They have compared keeping the MART service,
with some enhancements, run by the Town to MART providing the service to residents. One idea is to have a
driving consultant work with the drivers. There is also a defensive driving track in West Boylston for training
with the MART van and another in North Andover. She stated other towns are in the same situation interested
in coming to Lunenburg to participate. MART has offered to come to Lunenburg to train the drivers on using a
tablet to report their daily inspections. She stated they did a comparison of both the Town and MART costs for
===PAGE 2===
providing the transportation services. Discussion ensued on the pros and cons of both services. Issues include
time and availability of service, auto liability and workers' compensation, Medicare, and dispatch costs.
Ms. Doherty stated she wanted to make it clear that all the unreported incidents cited by MART were not under
her supervision; these incidents occurred before her COA Director appointment. She stated there have been a
couple of incidents since she was appointed and they were addressed immediately with the Town Manager and
MART. She stated we want to keep the service in town. Mr. Ebersole asked if she was the drivers' supervisor.
She stated she was. He asked if the drivers' driving records were checked periodically. She stated this was
discussed in her conversation with Mr. Marciello and Ms. Luck. Mr. Alonzo asked why we should keep the
service. Ms. Doherty cited the familiarity of the drivers and their personal service provided to the clients as well
as personalized attention to their needs.
Terri Burchfield, Pinance Committee Chair, asked what would be different from the current budget that would
go through June 2017. Ms. Doherty stated nothing other than the extra driver training ($350 for two drivers).
Ms. Burchfield asked for clarification on the contract wording regarding the hiring of drivers. Further
discussion about the COA budget and the Town costs for the MART van operation ensued
COA Chair Pete Lincoln stated he has been involved with the Council on Aging for ten years. He stated we
care about each other and we have a huge number of volunteers. The MART service that we provide is
personal. He believed the small financial difference between MART operating the service versus the Town
providing it outweighs the personal service we provide. Ms. Bertram suggested during next year's COA budget
process that the Town look at what the cost is of incorporating the driver training courses.
Motion: P. Bertram
2'°: T. Alonzo
To authorize Chairman Toale to sign the MART agreement and keep the service as is
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Council on Aging Director and COA Chair for coming forward with the information.
Mr. Toale agreed and thanked Ms. Luck for pulling all the information together.
Vote: All in Favor
2. Close the Special Town Meeting Warrant
Motion: T. Alonzo
To close the Special Town Meeting Warrant
2"%.P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
3. Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles Review
Mr. Toale directed the Board to the draft warrant. Article 1 is to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY'2017 Budget. He stated Accountant
Brochu reported new growth has been submitted to the Department of Revenue in the amount of $487,955,
which represents an increase of $187,955 more than the original estimate of $300,000. This could be applied
toward the Summer Street construction project costs. A memo noted that former Town Manager Lafleur had
encumbered $196,000 at the end of last fiscal year in anticipation of the additional costs for Summer Street. Mr.
Toale asked where we want that surplus to go. This will be discussed at a later time.
Article 2 is a placeholder for purchasing property on 200 Reservoir Road consisting of approximately 20 acres
that is being taken out of Chapter 61B. Mr. Toale stated we have yet to hear from the pertinent boards of any
interest. A fair market appraisal costing $10,000 - $12,000 would be needed to be done for the Town. Mr.
Ebersole asked that the following wording "pursuant to Chapter 61B" and "raise, appropriate or transfer from
available funds" be added.
Article 3 funds the first year of the Police Union contract, there is no additional cost for the first year.
Article 4 establishes a special account to place any funds raised from sale of the buildings listed in Article 5.
Article 5 identifies the buildings and/or land to be declared surplus and gives the Board custody of them as well
as authority to sell or lease them. Ms. Bertram expressed concerns on the wording of Article 5. Discussion
ensued and the following questions were asked; can we declare as surplus buildings we are currently using?
How do deed restrictions on buildings such as the Ritter Memorial Building affect sales?
Mr. Toale stated the Building Reuse Committee's intent is to go to a future annual town meeting with a plan for
the buildings that includes both cost and revenue streams. Mr. Alonzo asked are there obstacles that prevent us
from doing an RFP without declaring these buildings as surplus. Mr. Ebersole asked can we have a vote to
authorize the Building Reuse Committee to issue a Request for Proposals for sale or use of the properties
===PAGE 3===
subject to coming back to Town Meeting. It was noted the old Primary School has already been declared
surplus and the T.C. Passios Building and the Brooks House were already turned over to the Board's custody at
previous town meetings.
Article 6 appropriates $35,000 from the sale of cemetery lots account to be used for care, improvement and
embellishment of the cemeteries. This was mistakenly deleted from the Special Town Meeting warrant in
August.
Articles 7 and 8 amend the salary administration plan per recommendation of the Personnel Committee and the
former Town Manager. Article / reorganizes some position grades, adds one new position and changes
Building Inspector to Building Commissioner. There is no financial impact of these changes.
Article 8 replaces the FY17 salary schedule with a proposed salary schedule to come in line with a previously
approved 2% COLA. Suggestion was made to spell out the acronyms in all the articles.
Article 9 amends the Public Access Cable budget by increasing it by $110,142.36.
Finance Committee Chair Burchfield stated their public hearing for the Special Town Meeting will be on
November 10th
4. Solar Agreements
Lunenburg School Facilities Director John Londa presented terms for the solar net metering agreement with
Clean Footprint, LLC. It is a twenty year contract commencing after the commercial operation date which is
estimated to be June 31, 2017; to purchase solar net metering credits generated by a solar facility in Fitchburg.
The sale price is $.1375 per net metering credit and has a 2% annual escalator. The credits would be applied
towards the Middle/High School and the Public Safety Building electricity accounts. It is expected to save the
Town $.65 per kilowatt hour and there is an estimated savings of $49,754 the first year. Some risks due to
default were discussed
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^°. P. Bertram
To approve the solar net metering agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and Clean Footprint LUC
Mr. Alonzo asked if Town Counsel had reviewed the agreement. Mr. Londa confirmed.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale asked Mr. Londa where we stand with the other solar agreements. Mr. Londa reported they have
reached a consensus on the terms for the Solect Energy LLC contract but they have not received a final clean
copy yet. He covered some risks on not having the construction substantially complete before January 8, 2017
such as the rate increasing two additional cents.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"°: R. Ebersole
To sign the contract as outlined by Mr. Londa
Mr. Alonzo stated he was not in favor of signing a contract without a clean copy approved by Town Counsel.
He also expressed concerns that the construction would not be completed in time. Discussion ensued whether to
proceed or not.
Ms. Bertram amended her motion to authorize the Interim Town Manger to execute the contract pending
approval from Town Counsel; Mr. Ebersole accepted that change and seconded
Vote: Ms. Bertram- aye, Mr. Toale- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Luck - aye, Mr. Alonzo- no
5. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes of October 11, 2016 were approved. There were no warrants or action file issues.
6. Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on October 19"; there was a presentation of a collaborative effort
of grades kindergarten through twelve teachers to realign the history/social studies curriculum to streamline the
content for more effective learning. Master teacher Anna Keegan facilitated the task force and the project took
over two years to complete and cost $19,360 over two fiscal years. It was communicated at that meeting that
there are 38 students attending charter schools, not 58 as stated at the October 18'h meeting during public
comment. The cost per student is approximately $11,650. There are approximately 50 students who opt for
===PAGE 4===
school choice outside of Lunenburg to attend neighboring schools; the cost per student is $5,000. Forty-seven
students not residing in Lunenburg choose to attend the Lunenburg Schools.
The Storm Water Task Force meets October 27"
. The Mass Watershed Coalition is hosting a workshop on
Friday, November 18", "Stormwater for Towns, Save Money, Save Lakes, Save Streams." Ms. Luck will be
attending. There is also a Central Mass Regional Watershed Coalition workshop in Millbury on October 28"
as well as the Stormwater Financial Forum on November 15" and 16t*
The Zoning Board of Appeals will hold a public hearing for Asian Imperial Garden's request to expand their
parking lot as well as hearing the petition of a homeowner at 172 Leominster Road to live in an existing
building on site while constructing a new home.
Ms. Bertram reported the Montachusett Planning Organization (MPO) met on October 19". There is $2.6
million available for FY17 and there are a couple of different ways to address that. Currently there is $1.1
million in the TIP for Summer Street for FY17 and $8.8 million allotted for FY18. One option is to add
additional funding to the Summer Street construction project to total $3.7 million in FY17 and adjust FY18 to
$6.1 million. MRPC Transportation Director Brad Harris presented a $2.3 million proposal for resurfacing work
on Route 202 in Winchendon. This is a brand new project and is not on the TIP. The Chair suggested putting
the funding out for all communities to provide additional comment. Arthur Frost of MASSDOT presented an
update on the Summer Street project. Ms. Bertram was able to add additional information based on VHB
consultant Domigan's October 18 presentation. There was some concern related to obtaining six easements
from the MBTA in time. This tends to be a long involved process. They requested to find out who is the contact
The Planning Board met and one item discussed was the Complete Streets Program. There were concerns about
the Town's ability to meet the objectives in the program as well as the cost. Some other options were discussed.
It will be discussed again. The Planning Board supported Asian Imperial Garden's request to expand their
parking lot. They also discussed their meeting schedule and they will be meeting either before or after the
Monday holidays in December 2016 and January 2017.
The Conservation Commission met on October 19*. There is a groundbreaking at 123 Hollis Road which is a
butterfly habitat on November 5 at 10:00 a.m. The Lunenburg Snow Riders came in under public comment
and updated the status of the Lane Property. Three of the five foot bridges have been completed and they will be
working on the multi-use bridge soon. The Snow Riders would like to name this bridge after Peter Charpentier.
He was a valued, hard-working member of the club and an avid hiker who passed away this year. There was a
Request for Determination of Applicability hearing by Andrew Pratt for 44 Pine Acres Road for construction of
a deck within the buffer zone. There was a request to modify a detention basin at 554 Lancaster Avenue by
Sunshine Nominee Trust. The original plan was a round basin; now they are proposing to put in a long trench.
Concerns about maintenance were raised as it is adjacent to the roadway. This hearing was continued to
November 2d due to other questions that arose. Ms. Bertram would like some feedback from the DPW Director
concerning the proposed modification and the Town's possible responsibility to address this. Another item
discussed was the demolition and rebuild of a single family home at 37 Burrage Street. This was continued to
November 16" because the property owner has not complied with the demolition delay bylaw. A public
hearing for Hickory Hill landowners' Notice of Intent for a comprehensive update of the lake management plan
was held. This was continued to November 2"° while waiting for a DEP site number to be issued.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee is working towards the warrant article for Special Town Meeting
in November. The Capital Planning Committee is still seeking its "at large" member.
7. Town Manager Report
Mr. Toale stated Mr. Marciello emailed his report to the Board members. Some Board members did not receive
it so it will be deferred until the next meeting
8. Town Manager Interview Schedule Discussion
The Board will interview all three candidates on November 8t*.
• Answers to questions will be reviewed as well.
The candidates will make a presentation on economic development on the 15"h.
'. The Board members discussed
who will ask which questions. Each member chose four questions. Mr. Toale will send a list showing who is
asking each question.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Toale reported on November 1% this Board is holding the tax classification hearing before the interviews
and on November 8" it will have to authorize temporary financing for the pavement management plan. Both
meetings on the 8t and 15"h will be starting at 6:00 p.m. Mr. Alonzo stated he would not be present for the
meeting on November 22'd
Public Comment:
Mr. Ebersole reported there were several people who told him about people speeding and ways to slow traffic
down. He recommended they notify the Police Chief. It could be done via the Complete Streets program.
Mr. Ebersole asked about the status of 225 Pleasant Street. Ms. Bertram stated the meeting went so late that she
did not get to see the entire agenda but will follow up on that.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:14 p.m.
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Clavie m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
