===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting commenced at 9:11 p.m.
Executive Session I. M.G.L. c. 30 §21, Reason #2; to conduct contract negotiations with non-union
personnel, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position,
and the Chair declares so. (Town Manager)
Executive Session II. M.G.L. c.30A, §21, Reason #3; To discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position
and the Chair declares so. (Professional Firefighters DFFM Local 4358A and AFSCME Council 93,
Municipal Employees Union contract negotiations)
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session and adjourn immediately following
Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Ms. Bertram -aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye, Mr. Toale- aye
Ms. Bertram stated she would be recusing herself from Session II when the AFSCME negotiations discussion
occurs. Ms. Lemieux exited the meeting.
Mr. Toale stated Ms. Lemieux's performance review schedule and salary increases need to be discussed. It's
time for her performance review and we never had a discussion concerning salary increases. He had informed
Attorney Terry what the Board generally agreed on in August in terms of the performance review process and
setting goals and he had asked him to give some thought to how to make those two items line up.
Attorney Terry suggested considering a timeline that runs consistently with the Board's election cycle rather
than the fiscal year so Lemieux would have the benefit of board members who have worked with her
participating in her evaluation. It was noted this Board historically had completed performance evaluations
before the first week in May with pay increases being effective July 1.
!. Terry stated there are many contracts'
wording that leaves it up to the Board's discretion as far as scheduling the performance reviews but also reflects
the reality of the financial circumstances. Procedurally a lot of people look back at the past six months and build
something into the process.
Discussion ensued about wording in the contract regarding who participates in the evaluation and when it would
be done. It was determined the review process needs to be started now to be delivered in January 2018 and
another evaluation completed prior to the 2018 May election. The review period should be changed from
January to May going forward with the pay increase effective July 1s!. Terry suggested extending the contract to
June 2020 instead of January 2020. Suggestion was made to give a bonus now and renegotiate the contract
effective July 1% for the next three years (from July 2018 to June 2021).
Mr. Toale stated he would send out the performance review form with a January date but it needs to be
completed in December. Further discussion about how the rating system ensued. Mr. Toale noted when the
original contract discussion began the Board missed defining sick and personal days. Terry advised sticking
with the Salary Administration plan guidelines for those unless Ms. Lemieux differs.
===PAGE 2===
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
JUN 05 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
