===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Je batten
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 0 2 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
July 18, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member; Damon McQuaid, Member and Town Manager
Heather Lemieux.
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member
Note: Ms. Bertram participated remotely for the Planning Board appointment.
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Sharon Jordan, 77 Burrage Street, Democratic Town Committee Chairperson, invited all to a presentation on
Single Payer/Medicare for All, presented by Dr. Jackie Kane, who is a member of a group called Mass Care-
Massachusetts Campaign for Single Payer Health Care. It will occur on July 30* at 2:00 p.m. at the Public
Library.
Police Chief Marino stated because of the time of year, the town gets quite a few wild animal calls. The animal
control policy states that neither the Animal Control Officer nor the Police Department are allowed to relocate
wild animals. However, a recent call came in from residents who had a goose on their property and wanted it
gone because they were having a function in their backyard the next day. The ACO and her husband went to the
scene and shooed the goose away. A few days later, the ACO called the Chief and reported somone had called
because they found a porcupine in the road and they thought it was sick. Ms. Comeau requested the Chief
accompany her because the person who called was somewhat intimidating. They took the porcupine back to the
Police Station because it appeared dead. Because Kathy is Kathy, she would not let me euthanize the porcupine.
Thank God we did not because there was nothing wrong with it. We were able to release it back in to the wild.
He stated the ACO will go out on these calls, no matter what. He read aloud a letter from someone regarding a
snapping turtle being run over, stating the ACO went above and beyond and they were grateful for her coming
out on the call.
Joint Appointment by Board of Selectmen & Board of Health to Board of Health vacancy
Board of Health Chairman George Emond reported they have opened their meeting. Members David Passios
and Paul Fortin were also present. He noted applicant Warren Mayhew Jr. had been attending their meetings
over the last three months.
Another candidate, Robert Verge, 315 Arbor Street, submitted a talent bank form. Mr. Mayhew, Flat Hill Road,
introduced himself stating he moved to Lunenburg in September 2015. He has been a paramedic for 25 years.
He applied to the Board of Health back in 2016. Ms. Schnepf contacted him when the vacancy arose.
Mr. Ebersole asked if he would run for reelection next May if appointed. Mr. Mayhew responded yes.
Mr. Verge stated he has been a resident since 1997. He is a pharmacist and is certified to administer
vaccinations. He was on the Conservation Commission and Chairman for many years. He is familiar with septic
systems. Mr. Ebersole asked if he would run for reelection next May if appointed. Mr. Verge replied yes.
David Passios stated there had been attempts to contact Mr. Verge over the past few weeks and there had been
no repsonse. He was concerned about his availability for meetings. Mr. Verge stated he initially filled out the
talent bank form and hadn't been checking his email regularly but once he did see a message, he responded. Mr.
Emond nominated Mr. Mayhew for the BOH vacancy. It was seconded by another member.
===PAGE 2===
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated he wanted to nominate Mr. Verge. Mr. Ebersole noted a citizen
doesn't have the ability to nominate during a joint meeting; only the voting members of the Board of Health and
Board of Selectmen. Mr. Rodgers stated this doesn't seem very constitutional or participative.
Mr. Toale called for a vote on the nomination of Mayhew and both boards voted unanimously in favor. The
Board of Health adjourned their meeting at 7:20 p.m.
Mr. Toale encouraged Mr. Verge to continue his interest in the town and to keep them in mind if there is
something else he would like to participate in.
Board of Registrars (Democratic Town Committee Nominee)- Karen Kemp
Democratic Town Committee Chair Sharon Jordan thanked Ms. Lemiuex and Ms. Peterson for informing her of
the need to appoint and to participate in the process. The committee would like to nominate Karen Kemp who
has been doing this job admirably for 30 years.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^: P. Luck
To nominate Karen Kemp for the Deomcratic Party position on the Board of Registrars with a term to
expire March 30, 2021
Vote: All in Favor
Town Clockwinders- Joseph Dettenrieder and John Lynch
Motion: R. Ebersole
To appoint Joseph Dettenrieider and John Lynch as Town Clockwinders with term to expire June 30,
2018
2nd. P. Lack
Vote: All in Favor
Personnel Committee- Mutual appointment w/Town Moderator -Susan Andrews
Mr. Toale reported this is a mutual appointment of the Town Moderator and the Board of Selectmen.
He invited Susan Andrews up to introduce herself. Ms. Andrews, 91 Horizon Island Road, has lived in
Lunenburg for twenty years and just recently retired from a personnel professional position of 45 years. Town
Moderator Tim Murphy has met with Ms. Andrews and recommended her to the Personnel Committee
appointment.
Motion: J. Toale
2'°: R. Ebersole
To appoint Susan Andrews to the Personnel Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2020
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Appointments
Reserve Police Officers- Whitney Mansfield and Gage Russell
Police Chief Marino was recommending the appointment of Whitney Mansfield, a graduate of Lunenburg High
School, currently enrolled at Fitchburg State University 4 + 1 Program, Masters plus Police Academy
Certificate. This is a new program at FSU.
He was also recommending Gage Russell, a graduate of Wachusett Regional High School, holding a Bachelor
of Science, Criminal Justice degree from Worcester State University and currently working as a dispatcher for
the Town of Leicester. Both Russell and Mansfield completed the Municipal Police Training Committee (345
½ hours) Reserve Intermittent Police Academy in West Boylston.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Luck
To ratify the Town Manager appointments of Whitney Mansfield and Gage Russell as Reserve Police
Officers
Vote: All in Favor
Applause resounded through the room.
Seasonal Lifeguard - Ethan Gengler
Motion: R. Ebersole
To ratify the appointment of Ethan Gengler as seasonal lifeguard
2nd. P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Animal Control Officer Reappointment Discussion
Mr. Toale stated tonight's posted agenda indicates an Executive Session under Reason #1 to discuss the
reputation, character, physical conditions or mental health, rather than professional competence, of an
individual, or discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges against a public officer, employee,
===PAGE 3===
staff member or individual. (Animal Control Officer). Due to the nature of the discussion that will revolve
more around procedural process and that Ms. Comeau has requested it be in open session, the Board will not
enter into Executive Session. This is a June 13, 2017 agenda item follow up relative to the annual appointment
of the ACO and the request to have the ACO in to have a discussion about how particular calls were handled.
Mr. Ebersole thanked Ms. Lemieux for clarifying this; his intention for the discussion was to be more
procedural. He had comments on the reporting procedure. The ACO reports to the Police Chief and we receive
quarterly reports from the ACO from the dispatch log. It's important calls be recorded with the Police
Department because if an owner is not taking care of their animal, that needs to be logged at the Police
Department for legal purposes. On reviewing the ACO report, this is a report from the dispatch log but is not
necessarily the complete report of the ACO. There are several situations where there was a complaint, the ACO
was notified and nothing further is reported in the log. There needs to be a follow up process. We continue to
have an incorrect understanding of the town bylaw regarding dogs that are not leashed. We do not have a leash
law; we have a restrain law. "A dog is considered to be a public nuisance... when it is permitted to run at large
and unrestrained on property other than its owner's. " Looking through the report, there are four instances of a
Howard Street property owner and the ACO reported they let their dog run free and that nothing should be
done. This is not a correct interpretation.
Regarding wild animals, Mr. Ebersole agreed with Marino as far as healthy animals; neither the ACO nor the
Police are expected to respond to these calls. What is the policy, when do we respond to sick or injured wild
animals? Then closing the loop on these log entries so that I would know that this situation has been properly
handled.
Chief Marino stated with respect to the open-ended comments in the dispatch log, I am going to take some of
the responsibility for that. There is a training issue involved here. We try to get a follow-up comment on almost
every log entry; that doesn't happen all the time. There has been some disconnect, but that is a piece of the
problem. Secondly, people have to understand, Ms. Comeau is not in a patrol car driving around 24 hours or
even 8 hours a day. She gets a call at her house from dispatch. I recently found her home phone number online
again, so people are still calling her house. They need to call dispatch and dispatch will call her. She writes
down where she has to go and if she needs a police officer, she lets them know. When she clears the call, she is
supposed to call in and report what she did. That is not always logged in for whatever reason; we have been
trying to deal with that. This is not just happening on ACO calls. When I come in in the morning, I have to hunt
down the officer who was on duty and find out what happened. We are working on some changes with respect
to dispatch to help with these issues. It's easy for officers to get back in the car and call in and report and they
are supposed to put that in the log. Ms. Comeau doesn't have that luxury. The vehicle she's driving barely runs
and that's going to become an issue. The Town Manager and I are working on trying to resolve the animal
control issue with respect to regionalizing and obtaining money to build a facility. In the interim, Ms. Comeau
wants to stay. The only resolution right now is to get her radio communications. With respect to wild animals, it
they are sick or injured, of course we go out. Sometimes we know they are sick and we have to euthanize them.
Further discussion ensued about possible solutions.
Mr. Toale opened up the meeting to other comments. Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, noted the wrong number
on the town website for Ms. Comeau. She asked what is the money situation? Maybe we need to put this on
town meeting. She suggested providing information to the citizens and letting them know what is needed. Ms.
Lemieux stated we have grant funding for a feasibility study and design of an animal control regional facility.
Once that is completed, we will know the construction cost.
Chief Marino stated Ms. Comeau is providing many services at no cost to the town and we will have to pay for
all that when we regionalize. We need a facility, a kennel, etc. The animal control policy is posted on the
website for everyone to view. It lays out all the responsibilities of the Police and ACO. He welcomed any
suggestions from the public.
Jessica Fellows, who had run over a large snapping turtle with her car recently relayed her story. She stated
after numerous calls to several agencies, she received a call from Ms. Comeau. Ms. Comeau came out and
calmed me down. Fellows noticed when she came to the scene, she did not have proper equipment. She called
me days after to report on the turtle's progress. She didn't have to do that, but she did.
===PAGE 4===
Chris Comeau, 819 West Street, stated this happens year after year after year. We have to come to these
meetings to explain about a leash law versus a restraint law versus what my mother (Ms. Comeau) is supposed
to do versus what she is not supposed to do. She's been doing this since 1977 and she is still here doing it now.
I think she is doing the right job. As far as the restraint law goes, you can read it and interpret it any way that
you want. That is part of the problem because any dog that is out that you want to deem nuisance because it out
on their property or in the street, now what you are doing is trying to take a restraint law and turn it into a leash
law. The leash law has been proposed to Lunenburg three or four times over the years. The problem with that is
you have to be able to fund it. Now you are trying to go regional. There's a lot involved and a big chunk of
money here. If you have to pay for all the dogs you are going to pick up under a leash law, you will not be able
to afford it. Maybe you need to address the wording of the restraint law further and clarify some things because
the whole idea behind the restraint law is that it gave latitude to the Police and the ACO to decide what animal
was a nuisance. If it becomes a bigger issue then it comes to the Board of Selectmen to decide if that animal
was a nuisance and the Board over the years has had to make that determination.
You also ask why this ends up on your agenda twice a year; because someone when it becomes reappointment
time decides they want to complain that the job that's being done is not good enough. You can't make
everybody in this town happy. The reason this is coming up all the time is because someone didn't like the
answer that they got. It's a reappointment; if you don't want her, it takes a majority vote; say no, we don't want
you. From what I saw last time this was discussed at a meeting, it was one person that had an issue. If the rest of
everybody who has to come in and you have to go through all of this. If you have issues and a Selectman is
being called, then call those issues out at your meeting, address it at a meeting or address it with her boss. It
should have nothing to do with the appointment procedure. That is the issue I have, that is something that
should be handled at your level with the Chief in a discussion; or you call her in and have a discussion with her.
This is why you keep seeing this come up. You need to put a stop to it; it doesn't have to be unanimous but if
you have a majority, vote.
Dave Rodgers, 81 Highland Street, stated he would like to refocus this because the verbiage that he read
regarding this hearing, was concerning the character, the integrity, the physical and mental condition and he did
not understand how we can go so far askew because we certainly haven't talked about that. He also wanted to
thank Veterinarian Fallon. People have no idea what kind of services he and his Dad and the practice have given
to the town, day and night. You folks are about to open up Pandora's box. You have no idea what it is going to
cost to do it and maintain it adequately.
Priscilla DesChamps from the Pat Brody Shelter wanted to relate their relationship with Ms. Comeau. I have
known her over thirty years and we work hand in hand with the cats. She will call us and we take cats in to the
shelter and have them fixed and so forth and adopt them out. Animal rescuing is a calling. The welfare of the
animal comes first over the opinions of people. She related her work with feral cat control. The shelter does
have funds to donate for a situation like this (referring to the lack of a radio in the ACO vehicle). We would be
willing to donate $500 towards a radio.
Joan Hoyt, 39 Kilburn Street, has known Ms. Comeau for 29 years and has tremendous respect for her. She
loves animals, a lot of times more than people. Following up on Mr. Comeau's and Mr. Rodgers' remarks, if
this meeting was to discuss the ethics, integrity and honesty of Ms. Comeau, she felt very confident in saying
that she would get the highest marks from anyone that she knows. She's doing a tremendous job, much of it
volunteering. She and Wayne (Ms. Comeau's husband) are out all hours of the day and night spending their
own money. It's too bad that this keeps coming up every year because the Chief has come up with some very
good ideas to improve documentation. It's great that we are looking at funding. One of the best things the Board
of Selectmen can do right now is to acknowledge Ms. Comeau and thank her for everything she has done for
years and really support her. I know if it were me, it would feel like a big slap in the face to me. I hope you do
something so this doesn't keep coming up once a year. Applause resounded through the room.
Mr. Toale clarified that the Executive Session agenda listing is a requirement of Open Meeting Law and what it
was intended to do was if this discussion ventured into those listed reasons, we would need to go into Executive
Session for the purpose of protecting the individual. It was never our intent to question Ms. Comeau's integrity
or anything else.
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: D. McQuaid
===PAGE 5===
To reappoint Kathy Comeau as Animal Control Officer with a term to expire June 30, 2018
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 opposed (Ebersole)
Applause resounded through the room.
Joint Appointment by Board of Selectmen & Planning Board to Planning Board vacancy
Planning Board Chairman Greg Bittner called their meeting to order. Also present were Ken Chenis, David
Prokowiew and Matt Allison.
Mr. Toale announced Paula Bertram was participating remotely by telephone due to significant geographic
distance. He stated this mutual appointment is to fill the vacancy on the Planning Board until the next election.
There are two applicants for the position. Both submitted talent bank forms and responded to questions
submitted by the Planning Board and Board of Selectmen. Kate Adams and Michael-Ray Jeffreys met with the
Planning Board and answered their questions.
Kate Adams, Williams Drive, stated she grew up in town and has lived her slightly over thirty years. She has
always been interested in civic involvement and volunteerism. She has always been active with the town,
especially with the school. She became more active in town government beginning in January, starting to
attend meetings as an advocator, then more interested in being involved. On May 10" she launched a write-in
campaign for Selectman. She wants to understand and follow what is happening in her town and find a way to
contribute. She started attending Planning Board meetings in the spring and following their review of their
bylaws, a proposed car wash, the monopole and evolving issues. Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. Adams if appointed,
would she would be running for Planning Board at the next election. She stated if she is not a Planning Board
member, she can't predict what she would do. If it is a good fit for her and them, then yes.
Michael-Ray Jeffreys thanked the boards for inviting him in and for asking thoughtful and provocative
questions. He is a business owner, property manager and a home improvement contractor. He joined the Army
Reserve in 1999 at the age of 17. From then until now he has committed his life to service and our common
defense. He stated, to reference our military creed, I am an American soldier, a warrior and a member of a team.
I serve the people of the United States and I live the Army values. I will always place the mission first. I hope to
continue this service to our town. Thank you for your consideration.
Mr. Ebersole asked Mr. Jeffreys if appointed, would he would be running for Planning Board at the next
election. He responded at the Planning Board meeting he had stated he wasn't sure. For clarification, this year
he did intend to run for Planning Board. Unfortunately, his father passed away in March and it consumed him.
It is his intention to offer his services to this town for the foreseeable future. He stated he would be running for
election to the Planning Board
Mr. Toale opened up the opportunity for further questions. He referred to the question "What role should the
Planning Board play in economic development?"
Ms. Adams stated a lot of what the Planning Board deals with is outside development coming in and in some
ways you can't control who wants to come here. She thought the whole town could work as a place to be
attractive for people to come. It's not just the Planning Board, it's the entire town of boards and committees
looking for ways and what sort of Master Plan it wants and what direction it wants to head in together.
She added as a brand new member of something either one of us is the probably the least qualified to answer
these complex questions.
Mr. Jeffreys responded the Planning Board is responsible for working in the community to develop and revise a
Master Plan and M.G.L. c.41, § 81D requires the Master Plan to have an "economic development element
which identifies policies and strategies for the expansion or stabilization of the local economic base and the
promotion of employment opportunities." Our town charter states in section 3-10 (b) that the Planning Board
shall make careful studies of the resources, possibilities and needs of the town and shall make plans for the
development of the town. He believed the Planning Board's role in economic development is defined; its
members should consistently offer viable short-range and long-range solutions to the legislative body, in the
form of proposed and revised bylaws that advance the strategic planning for the town. The board is expected to
routinely assess whether current zoning and regulatory processes promote the desired economic effect. The
===PAGE 6===
board should be proactive in following regional population and transportation trends, understand needs within
neighborhoods in town and purpose to enhance the quality of life throughout town through the effective use of
land. I think that when contractors and developers go before a Planning Board to get approval for a project, they
make assessments on whether or not a community is business-friendly. I think the Planning Board members
who review proposals in advance; come to board meetings with prepared questions, concerns and
recommendations; and who treat all people with professionalism and respect, help promote the economic
development of town.
Mr. Ebersole noted the term for Planning Board is five years due to such long-term issues that we would expect
a long-term commitment. Mr. McQuaid stated this is going to be a tough decision not only because you are both
good candidates but because it's tough for anyone to be qualified for Planning Board right out of the gate. It's
more or less having a personality that is going to work and be willing to learn and do what's best for the town.
Whichever way we vote tonight, I encourage you to pursue another avenue and to volunteer for the town any
way you see fit. Ms. Luck agreed and stated we are very fortunate to have two great candidates. Ms. Bertram
echoed Ms. Luck and encouraged whoever does not get appointed to pursue some role in town government. She
appreciated them both coming forward and believed both would be an asset.
Ms. Adams wanted to reiterate in terms of commitment, in preparation of doing this, she has spent hours and
hours attending meetings, often times being the only one in the audience. I got involved in things like whether
or not we should still have monuments. I don't think I explained enough how in seeing myself volunteering for
this, I prepared by putting myself in that position and following specific agenda items; not just saying what my
vision or plan is, but what I've already done. What I've done is follow their bylaw review so if I did have the
good fortune of being chosen I can be an active contributor as immediately as possible. This is not a whim, I
began preparing for this before the election.
Mr. Toale asked for closing comments. Mr. Jeffreys thanked the board as our leaders of the community and the
Planning Board noting that we all have had to commit a significant amount of time to this process. He thanked
them for the opportunity. He also thanked Ms. Adams. He was appreciative and grateful that this experience
with her has been pleasant.
Mr. Toale explained the voting process going forward. He will accept a nomination for the Planning Board
position and he will accept other nominations assuming they are seconded. We will then vote and the majority
vote gets the seat. Each member gets one vote. He asked if the Planning Board has a recommendation for
appointment. They did not.
Motion: K. Chenis
2nd. M. Allison
To nominate Kate Adams
Motion: G. Bittner
To nominate Mr. Jeffreys
2nd
• D. Prokowiew
Roll call vote for Ms. Adams
Vote: K. Chenis-aye, M. Allison-aye, D. McQuaid-aye, P. Bertram -aye (4 In Favor)
Roll call vote for Mr. Jeffreys
Vote: D. Prokowiew-aye, G. Bittner- aye, P. Luck-aye, R. Ebersole-aye, J. Toale- aye (5 in Favor)
Mr. Toale congratulated Mr. Jeffreys and advised him to be sworn in before the Town Clerk. He asked Ms.
Adams to continue her interest in town government.
Motion: K. Chenis
To adjourn the Planning Board meeting.
2nd: D. Prokowiew
Vote All in Favor
The Planning Board adjourned their meeting at 8:41 p.m.
Ms. Bertram exited the meeting at 8:42 p.m.
Council on Aging Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Program
Council on Aging Director Sue Doherty presented on the SNAPOutreach/Application Assistance Partner
Reimbursement Project. This is the former Food Stamp program. The Department of Elder Affairs and the
===PAGE 7===
Department of Transitional Assistance (DTA) are working to increase the quality of applications submitted to
DTA, reduce staff time, help eligible clients navigate the application process and secure food assistance access
to SNAP benefits. They are seeking Councils on Aging to become third party partners to lessen the burden on
their agencies. SNAP Outreach receives federal funds as reimbursement for allowable SNAP activities as well
as training and technical assistance to ensure project outcomes are met. Ms. Doherty applied for and received
$11,700 towards fiscal year 2019. Ms. Doherty, Faith Anderson and Amanda Koeck will be trained on the
program this September. Mr. Toale asked if the program funding ended, what would be the cost to the town.
Ms. Doherty stated staffing would be mostly affected. This is not a grant program but a reimbursement
program. You need to apply annually for it. The Board and Town Manager thanked Ms. Doherty for her work.
Amend Paul Doherty's ZBA Associate appointment to Zoning Board of Appeals Member-term expires
6/30/2022
This is to amend the appointment from associate to Zoning Board of Appeals member and the term to 2022.
Motion: R. Ebersole
20: P. Luck
To amend Paul Doherty's previous appointment of associate to ZBA member and the term to expire June
30, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
Review of Board of Selectmen Policies and Procedures and Vote to Adopt/Amend Policies and Procedure
Ms. Lemieux reported the version received has all the edits that were discussed at the workshop held on July 11
as well as additional personnel policies at the end of the document.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"°: P. Luck
To adopt the policies as amended and to include the five policies that are also in the employee handbook
Discussion:
Ms. Luck noted some minor typographical errors and will provide them to Ms. Lemiuex. Mr. Ebersole
amended his motion to add "subject to correction of typographical errors identified" Ms. Luck seconded
the amended motion.
Ms. Luck referred to Section 2.01 Access to Town Counsel, she stated the policy was contradictory to
what we are trying to accomplish with the new town counsel. Ms. Lemieux stated it is important that the
Town Manager is aware of all legal matters being discussed. Further discussion ensued.
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Luck
To approve the proposed policies for the employee handbook as submitted, noting there is work being
done on other policies (FMLA, Sexual Harassment, Protected Class Harassment, Alcohol and Drug
Testing for Employees with Commercial Drivers License (CDL), Social Media, Parental Leave, Domestic
Violence Leave, Workplace Violence, Drug Free Workplace, ADA, Conflict of Interest, Standards of
Conduct
Vote: All in Favor
Discussion on Painting of the Town Hall
Ms. Lemiuex reported with the project coming up, she has put together a bid proposal package and sent it to the
DPW Director for review. Prior to going out to bid she wanted to have this discussion as it may be potentially
important to townspeople. She has reached out to the Historical Commission and the Historical Society for
feedback on the paint color. Mr. McQuaid provided some background on the last time the Town Hall was
painted and how the color was chosen. According to testing it was the color it is presently. That is what he
would stick with personally. Mr. Ebersole stated the windows were often painted a different color than white.
What period do you pick from history? The Board welcomed feedback on the color. It was decided to wait until
the next meeting.
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board approved minutes of June 6, June 13, June 20, 2017. The Board signed accounts payable warrants in
the amounts of $1,437,897.63; $142,158; $5228.76 and $391,151.04. There were two proclamations to be
signed for a retiring employee and an outgoing Lions Club President.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Toale reported he was signing budget revision request #23 for the projector mounting stabilization bars for
the school. The work has been completed and the bill has been paid.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Luck
To sign budget revision request #23
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole suggested going forward on these budget revisions request items, we should be
made known of it before we sign the warrant. That is the opportunity to not approve the payment. We
want to have a dialogue before the work is done.
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports
Mr. McQuaid reported most of the Planning Board meeting was interviewing the candidates. They also talked
about some bylaw changes and what they would like to bring to a special town meeting versus an annual town
meeting
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee reached a Memorandum of Understanding with the paraprofessionals
and cafeteria workers at their June 21°t meeting. The Storm Water Task Force did not have a quorum on June
22nd
, but we did not know that ahead of time. Matt Allison and I met with two of the consultants and discussed
their accomplishments to date. The MS4 permit has been postponed until July 1, 2018. The current permit stays
in place until then. A new date for the Notice of Intent to be filed which was originally September 29 has not
been rescheduled
Ms. Luck attended the Worcester County Selectmen's Association meeting on June 15. They sent a letter to the
State Senate and House asking that the Right of First Refusal timeline of agricultural land be expanded from
120 to 180 days. Dracut and Chelmsford have just passed stormwater utilities; she is going to reach out and find
out how they did so. The Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition steering committee met on June 26t
Ms. Luck and Adam Burney attended the meeting. They discussed how the MS4 permit has been consolidated
with the New Hampshire appeal.
Mr. Toale reported the Finance Committee met on the 13t.
• They discussed debt limit percentages. The purpose
of the guidelines is to be very conservative. They meet again in August.
Town Manager Report
Ms. Lemieux reported the DPW Director received quotes on the Town Hall mold abatement project in the
basement that will include the removal of wood flooring, wallboard, insulation and non-load bearing framing.
Any remaining exposed building materials with mold growth will be treated, HEPA vacuumed, cleaned and
HEPA vacuumed again. After cleaning all the areas, it will be encapsulated with a clear paint. The approximate
cost will be $46,000. The Finance Committee approved a reserve fund transfer of $29,993 in June to
supplement funding the DPW had remaining in their budget to cover the cost, The contractor has been contacted
and work will commence this summer. After this phase of the project is done, we will have a company come in
and collect air samples for evidence of mold spores to make sure all the mold has been abated. Following that,
the DPW will need to install a sump pump and cover the foundation walls and floor with a plastic membrane
and install a commercial dehumidifier that will be connected to the sump pump. We will continue from there to
identify what resources we need to complete the project.
The Treasurer/Collector is proceeding with the public auction of six foreclosed properties; 1162 Mass Ave,
425 W. Townsend Road, 485 Townsend Harbor Road, 98 Youngs Road, 360 West Street, and 1263 Mass Ave.
Property owners will be notified according to Massachusetts General Law. The Town has accepted a proposal
for auctioneer services from Sullivan and Sullivan Auctioneers and the auction date will be August 29** at 1:00
p.m.
MRPC reached out to its members for submitting a regional application through the Department of Energy
Resources for technical assistance funding. Lunenburg has been included in this grant application and if
awarded it would provide us the technical assistance to apply for competitive funding for the next round of
Green Communities. It would also assist for grant administration that would include reporting, which is very
time consuming.
The IT Director, Executive Assistant and I will be setting up computer tablets for each of the Board members
that will eliminate the need for paper at our meetings. We will provide a document sharing solution that will
enable Ms. Peterson to upload the agenda and any related documents to an account that is associated with each
===PAGE 9===
of your tablets. In order to help the process, if you would identify anything you would like in paper format
versus just electronically in advance.
Mr. Toale reported the Board's next two meetings are August 1 and 8. Another workshop meeting will occur on
August 15.
Public Comment: Mr. Ebersole asked Ms. Lemieux to check when the Planning Board will take up the
marijuana bylaw. There was no further public comment.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 9:17 p.m.
2nd: REbersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Pelets on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
