===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
JASE lit
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 05 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
March 21, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room, with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; and Town Manager Heather Lemieux
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Toale announced the town caucus occurred last night. There are two vacancies on the Sewer Commission.
If anyone is interested in running, please contact the Town Clerk office. There are also vacancies on appointed
boards. Anyone interested in serving as a volunteer should contact the Board of Selectmen office.
Town Manager Hires:
Head Accounting Clerk
Ms. Lemieux reported this was due to Ms. Stewart retiring. The position was posted internally for five days;
there was one applicant, Lynne Klaft, who currently is the Assistant Town Clerk. Finance Director Brochu and
Ms. Lemieux interviewed her and they are recommending her for the part-time position.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To ratify the appointment of Ms. Klaft as Head Accounting Clerk
Vote: All in Favor
COA Mart Van Driver
Ms. Lemieux reported Council on Aging Director Sue Doherty, who is present tonight, had advertised for the
opening last fall and two people had applied. One applicant has since withdrawn his application. Ms. Doherty
is recommending hiring Mr. Cote. He will receive all necessary training through MART along with "Skid
School" training paid by the Council on Aging.
Motion: R. Ebersole
znd: P. Bertram
To ratify the appointment of Eugene Cote as COA MART van driver
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board approved and signed minutes of February 28 and March 7, 2017. They signed an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $555,309.23, a payroll warrant in the amount of $706,480.46, a payroll warrant in the
amount of $718,674.39 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $158,399.06.
There were no committee reports or action file issues. Mr. Toale did mention the town building RFPs are due by
Friday and any responses received will be opened in Town Hall at noon. Building Reuse Committee will meet
next Monday night to talk about their next steps.
Mr. Toale announced the Finance Committee public hearing for the FY2018 budget is this Thursday night at
7:00 p.m. here in Town Hall.
Ms. Lemieux reported Facilities Director Londa has responded to the Board's request to amend the net metering
credit distribution to town/school electricity accounts. This item will be placed on the April 4*' agenda.
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram asked about the snow and ice deficit budget being adjusted since the last snow storm. Ms. Lemieux
stated she had already done so. Ms. Bertram announced she will not be attending the April 11' meeting.
Mr. Toale stated their next meeting will be April 4*
There was no further public comment.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 7:10 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2"°: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
