===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 02 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
April 4, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room, with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 6:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck thanked Town caucus for her nomination as Selectman for a second term. It has been her honor to
serve the citizens of Lunenburg for the past three years. She has thoroughly enjoyed working with her fellow
Board members and admires each one's commitment and their tireless efforts on Lunenburg's behalf. She
thanked them. She hoped to be able to sit in their company for the next three years. She added she has learned a
great deal from attending school committee meetings, working with the Storm Water Task Force, MART, the
Council on Aging and the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition. Town personnel have been very kind to
the new kid on the block and she thanked them also. A municipality has so many moving parts and there is so
much work to be done. It has been a wonderful learning experience and she hoped to continue it for another
three years.
Mr. Toale announced the last day to register to vote in the 2017 Annual Town Meeting and Town Election,
(Saturday, May 6" and Saturday, May 20) is Tuesday, April 18, 2017 at the Town Clerk's Office, 17 Main
Street from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
A Memorial Day ceremony is being planned for Monday, May 29t at 10:00 a.m. at Veterans Park. Anyone who
would like to volunteer should contact the Board of Selectmen office at 978-928-4144.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review of draft Annual Town Meeting articles
Ms. Lemieux reported there were initially 49 warrant articles. Some can be removed due to various reasons,
such as not being needed or not a local acceptance requirement. She noted the "Consent Calendar" is not
present as all the current revolving accounts have been combined into one chart under Article 2.
Article 1 is to see if the Town will vote to hear/accept the regular written reports of the Town Officers and
Committees.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 1: to hear reports of Town officers and committees
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole asked if the limits on the revolving accounts were the same. Ms. Brochu stated the Ambulance
billing amount was increased.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d.P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 2; approval of existing revolving accounts
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 3 is a new Storm Water Task Force revolving fund to take in monies from sale of
rainwater barrels and compost bins with a limit of $5000 per year.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 3 to establish a Storm Water Task force revolving account
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Bertram asked if the DPW would be administering this account. Ms. Luck reported they store and sell the
items and turnover the money collected.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 4 is another new revolving fund in which to deposit collected gas/plumbing and
electrical inspection fees, not to exceed $46,000 per year. Historically the electric account has been over-
expended annually. These inspection fees have been removed from the appropriation and placed into the
revolving account and 82.5% (wiring) and 80% (gas/plumbing) of fees collected will be paid to the inspectors.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 4; establishing a new revolving account for electric/gas/plumbing fees
Vote: All in Favor
Article 5 addresses prior fiscal year expenses. $21,410.96 will be transferred from Free Cash due to a teacher
being on active military duty over five years and Town-side retirement deductions that need to be paid into the
retirement system based on what he would have been earning if he was teaching.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 5; prior year expenses
2nd. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 6 amends the following FY'2017 budget appropriations:
• Line #
Appropriation
interest - Temporary Loans
Health Insurance
-13
Reserve Fund
17
Unemployment Expense
[Annual Audit
21
:Town Manager Salary
49
Wiring Inspector
53
•Animal Control
70
Snow Removal
74
75
:Counci on Aging
Veteran's Benefits
Article
5/6/17 ATM - FY17 Budget Adjustments
Reason for Adjustment
Short Term Interest On Sewer Ban Issued Dec 2016
Not As Many Changes In Overall Enrollment
No Pending Commitments
No Open Claims
Monies For OPE Funding Consultant Not Used
Short Term Vacancy in Position/Replacemet of Former Employee
Increased Permit Activity
Care/Custody Of Pit Bulls Pending Court Case
Snow Removal Cost Above Existing Appropriation
Changes In Reimbursements Received From MART
Not As Many Benefit Eligible Appicants
Amended Appropriation 1118.06
1,184.00
1,907,185.00
c en
127,993.00
10,000.00
46,500.00
127,500.00
20,000.00
40,000,00 |
en es
275,000.00
111,945.00
99,275.00
Subtotal FY17 Omnibus Budget Adi|!
2,766,582.00
5/6/17 ATM Adi.
150,00
(31,100.00)
(98,000,00)
(8,000.00)
(1,750.00)
(7,000.00)
11,000.00
10,600.00
166,000.00
3,100.00
(45,000.00)
Amended Appropriation
1,334.00
1,876,085.00
29,993.00
2,000.00
44,750.00
120,500.00
31,000.00
50.600.00
441,000.00
115,045.00
54.275.00
2,766,582.00
Ms. Lemieux noted the snow removal amount has increased to an estimated $177,776. Anything over the
$166,000 will be paid by interdepartmental transfers.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 6; FY 17 budget adjustments amounting to $177,776
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux requested Article 7 which funds the FY17 PACC budget be removed as it is not needed.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d:P. Bertram
To remove Article 7 which amends the FY'17 PACC budget from the ATM warrant Vote: All in Favor
Article 8 funds the FY'2018 Capital Plan. Capital Planning Committee has requested $633,317. Ms. Lemieux
reported initially funding was coming from Free Cash, but we will now be able to raise and appropriate more
than half of that and provide the remainder from Free Cash. There are some other warrant articles that will using
Free Cash so there is a recommendation to close out a portion of this year's Certified Free Cash so it can be
made available for next fiscal year's Free Cash. Ms. Lemieux directed the Board to a breakdown of their
request.
===PAGE 3===
CIP
Tracker
Priority
Item
Cost
Cumulative
Cost
FM16-09
1
FM17-10
DPW16-07
FD16-14
PD16-10
PD16-13
LPS16-19
1
1
1
1
1
1
Senior Center Painting
Town Hall Painting
Fuel Tank - DPW Building
Playground Project
GMC Dump Truck
Command Car
Tasers (8)
Police Vehicles (2) cars
Turkey Hill Asbestos
Police Fingerprint System
$
$
us er
$
$
18,300 $
87,750
110,000
12,000
$
$
53,767
60,000
$
10,500
111,000
145,000
$
25,000
18,300
106,050
216,050
228,050
281,817
341,817
352,317
463,317
608,317
633,317
Motion: R.Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 8; funding the FY2018 Capital Plan
2": P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 9 funds the FY2018 Omnibus Budget. Ms. Bertram suggested including funding for land maintenance
for the Conservation Commission properties in the future. Ms. Lemieux stated it would be addressed in next
year's budget.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 9 (the FY'2018 omnibus budget)
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 10 places funding in the Stabilization Fund in the amount of $84,523 from Free Cash.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 10
2°°: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 11 creates a Special Purpose Stabilization Account and transfers $200,000 from Free Cash for future
large capital requests, specifically vehicles/equipment.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 11
2°°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 12 creates an OPEB (Other Post-Employment Benefits) Trust Fund and transfers funds into it.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"°: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 12 that creates an OPEB Trust Fund
Vote: All in Favor
Article 13 raises and appropriates funding for the FY2018 Sewer Enterprise Fund. The Sewer Commission will
be finalizing the monetary amount at their meeting tonight.
Motion: REbersole
To make a recommendation at Town Meeting on Article 13
2™: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 14 transfers a sum of money into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund
Motion: R. Ebersole
To make a recommendation for the article transferring funding into the Reserve Capacity Stabilization
Fund at Town Meeting
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 15, 16 and 17 can be removed from the warrant as they will be addressed within
the motion for the budget.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To remove Articles 15, 16 and 17 from the Town Meeting Warrant
20°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 4===
Article 18 creates a Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund for Sewer and transfers funding into it.
Motion: P. Bertram
To make a recommendation on the CRSF at Town Meeting
2nd: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 19 funds the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY2018 in the amount of $292,000.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 19 that funds the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund
Vote: All in Favor
Article 20 funds the Water Dept./Water Enterprise Fund for FY' 2018 in the amount of $25,000 from Water
Enterprise Revenues.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 20 that funds the Water Dept./Water Enterprise Fund for FY'2018 in
the amount of $25,000
Vote: All in Favor
Article 21 funds Public Educational Government (PEG) Access and cable related fund revenues in the amount
of $162,800 for the 2018 operating budget and capital budget.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of the PEG Access operating budget
2"°: R.Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 22 appropriates $84,200 from the Sale of Cemetery lots account to be used for care and improvement
and embellishment of the Town cemeteries. Ms. Bertram asked for an accounting of the use of the funds.
Motion: REbersole
2nd: P.Bertram
To make a recommendation at town meeting on Article 22
Vote: All in Favor
Article 23 appropriates all or a portion of the net premium paid to the Town upon the sale of the Town's
$2,580,000 General Obligation Municipal Purpose Loan of 2017 Bonds dated January 25, 2017, to pay costs of
the capital projects financed by such bonds and to reduce the amount authorized to be borrowed for such
projects by a like amount, and/or to reserve all or a portion of the net premium to be appropriated for future
capital projects. Ms. Brochu reported the bond was issued in January 2017 for a portion of the Pavement
Management Plan, the artificial turf field and a small portion of the sewer project. We netted all the costs
against the premium and this is what is left after all costs are paid. This article will apply $25,678.25 of the
premium to the Pavement Management project, $10,000 of turf field surplus amount will be applied to that
project; this will reduce the borrowing on those two items in the same amounts. Also, $6,350.40 remaining
from the turf field will be placed in a special revenue fund and those monies can be used to fund future capital.
Motion: REbersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To recommend appropriation of the net premium as detailed
Vote: All in Favor
Article 24 rescinds the sum of $223,915, the remaining borrowing authorization, from Article 15 of the May 3,
2014 Annual Town Meeting for the purchase of the Lane Property.
Motion: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 24 rescinding the remaining borrowing authorization for the Lane
Property
2^d: R.Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 25 amends Article XV of the Town's bylaw entitled "Salary Administration Plan" of the Town of
Lunenburg as follows: the position of Board Clerk/Secretary be added and assigned Grade 6.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: R.Ebersole
To make a recommendation at Town Meeting on amending the Salary Administration Plan
Vote: All in Favor
Article 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 are related to the municipal buildings: T.C. Passios, Ritter Building, Brooks
House, Town Hall and the old Primary School; and transfers the care, custody, and control of the land and/or
===PAGE 5===
buildings from the Board of Selectmen for general municipal purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general
municipal purposes and for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey a fee
simple interest or any portion thereon, or to lease the property, on such terms and conditions as the Board of
Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any and all agreements and documents to
effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and any portion thereof and to authorize and /or reauthorize
the Board of Selectmen to sell and /or lease the parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any
manner said parcels and/or buildings situated and /or take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale,
Icase, subdivision, and/or transfer of said land and buildings situated thereon.
Mr. Toale reported the Building Reuse Committee met last night and they believe they have completed their
charge. The committee recommends the use of T.C. Passios as a municipal office building and community
center; proposes placing these town meeting warrant articles on the municipal buildings as "surplus"
designation to generate further discussion and marketing of them and determining the funding for the move to
Passios. The municipal consolidation is now a Town Manager task. There are several reasons for that; we are
about to lose one of the major tenants in T.C. Passios and revenue will decrease, the committee members terms
are ending and will not be serving past June 30* and they believe the execution would be more of a municipal
operation. We would drop the T.C. Passios article and make a general presentation on the buildings at annual
town meeting.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To make a recommendation on the articles concerning the municipal buildings at town meeting
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 31 authorizes the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and enter into a payments in lieu of tax agreement
("PILOT") pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L., Chapter 59, Section 38H (b), and Chapter 164, Section 1, or
any other enabling authority, between the Town and Nexamp, Inc. or its successors or assigns, for real property
and /or personal property attributable to solar photovoltaic facilities to be installed and operated in the Town of
Lunenburg on land located at Northfield Road and as shown on Assessor's Map 97, Parcel 90 for a term of 20
years and on such terms and conditions and for such consideration as the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate
and further to authorize the Board of Selectmen to take such action as may be necessary to carry out the vote
taken hereunder. This proposal is scheduled for presentation later this evening.
Motion: P. Bertram
To make a recommendation at town meeting on the PILOT
2": REbersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 32 accepts the provisions of MGL Chapter 90, Section 20A½ for the designation or appointment of a
parking clerk. Ms. Lemieux reported the Town had accepted Section 20 previously.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 32 for designation of parking clerk
2°°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 33 accepts the provisions of MG Chapter 40, Section 21 but it is being researched by Town counsel and
needs to be removed or replaced with a bylaw change; local acceptance is not needed.
Motion: REbersole
To remove this article from the ATM warrant
2°d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 34 accepts the provisions Chapter 40, Section 58 of the General Laws to impose a "municipal charges
lien" on real property for unpaid Sewer Connection fees, Sewer Reserve Capacity fees, Sewer Reconnection
fees and Sewer Grease Trap permit fees owed the Town, in the manner as provided for by MGL Chapter 40,
Section 58, which lien may include any related charges, penalties, or fees, including interest relating to the
unpaid fees, and all costs to record said liens) in the appropriate Registry of Deeds.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 34 regarding municipal charges lien for Sewer Dept. fees
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 35 and 36 are not needed as they do not need local acceptance.
===PAGE 6===
Motion: R. Ebersole
To remove Article 35 and 36 from the ATM warrant
znd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 37 amends Article II, Section 16(a) and (b) of the General Bylaws of the Town by inserting the bold text
and deleting the strikethrough text as follows:
(a) The tax collector or other municipal official responsible for records of all Town taxes municipal taxes,
assessments, betterments and other municipal charges, hereinafter referred to as the tax collector, shall annually,
and may periodically, furnish to each department, board, commission or division, hereinafter referred to as the
provisions of MGL c.40 Section 21D or with respect to any activity, event or other matter which is the
subject of such license or permit and which activity, event or matter is carried out or exercised or is to be
carried out or exercised on or about real estate whose owner has neglected or refused to pay any local
taxes, fees, assessments, betterments, or any other municipal charges, for not less than a twelve month
period for a period of days, and that such party has not filed in good faith a pending application for an
abatement of such tax or a pending petition before the appellate tax board.
(b) The licensing authority may deny, revoke or suspend any license or permit, including renewals and
transfers of any party whose name appears on said list furnished to the licensing authority from the tax collector
or with respect to any activity, event or other matter which is the subject of such license or permit and
which activity, event or matter is carried out or exercised or is to be carried out or exercised on or about
real estate owned by any party whose name appears on said list furnished to the licensing authority from
the tax collector; provided, however, that written notice is given to the party and the tax collector, as required
by applicable provisions of law, and the party is given a hearing, to be held not earlier than fourteen days after
said notice. Said list shall be prima facie evidence for denial, revocation or suspension of said license or permit
to any party. The tax collector shall have the right to intervene in any hearing conducted with respect to such
license denial, revocation or suspension. Any findings made by the licensing authority with respect to such
denial, revocation or suspension shall be made only for the purposes of such proceeding and shall not be
relevant to or introduced in any other proceeding at law, except for any appeal from such license denial,
revocation or suspension. Any license or permit denied, suspended or revoked under this section shall not be
reissued or renewed until the licensing authority receives a certificate issued by the tax collector that the party is
in good standing with respect to any and all local taxes, fees, assessments, betterments or other municipal
charges payable to the Town as of the date of issuance of said certificate.
Ms. Lemieux reported the existing bylaw states anything delinquent over 12 months warrants denying, revoking
or suspending a license. The Municipal Modernization Act changes the time period to be less. Town counsel
suggested 90 days but it is at the Board's discretion.
Motion: REbersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of the article regarding delinquent taxpayers and licensing and to set the time
period at 60 days
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported local acceptance is not required for Article 38, so she recommended removing it from the
warrant.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To remove Article 38 from the town meeting warrant
2°°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 39 accepts provisions of MGL c. 60 section 2, to provide for abatement if the tax collector is satisfied
that an unpaid tax on land committed to the collector was assessed on a valuation insufficient to meet the
charges of collection, or if any other committed tax is unpaid and less than $25.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Article 39
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 40 does not need local acceptance so should be removed from the warrant.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To remove Article 40 from the town meeting warrant
2"°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Article 41 amends the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.0, General Provisions Affecting All Districts, by deleting
Section 6.2 Lot Monuments as denoted by the strikethrough as written, and further to amend the Table of
Contents to remove said section; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
(Board of Selectmen will make recommendation at Town Meeting) (Finance Committee reports no direct
financial impact
6.2 Lot Monuments
6.2.1 No building permit shall be approved for a new dwelling unit until existing permanent or new permanent
monuments, a minimum of thirty (30) inches in length, have been installed defining a lot.
Article 42 amends the Zoning Bylaw, Section 6.4, Driveways And Entrances by adding 6.4.3.e). 11 by inserting
the bold text as follows:
11. Not more than two (2) primary dwellings may maintain one (1) common entrance and/or driveway.
Said driveway shall be located through the frontage or access strip of both lots equally, including lots with
reduced fifty (50) percent frontage. Such driveway should be permitted only after issuance of a building
permit and shall relate to the design and construction standards as for 6.4.3.a), 6.4.3.c), and 6.4.7.a)
a. Such driveway shall not provide potential access to lots not shown on an accepted plan.
b. If such a common driveway cannot be located as determined above, a determination may be made by
the Planning Board and Building Official for other acceptable locations.
Motion: P. Bertram
To make a recommendation at town meeting on Article 41 and 42
2^d: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Article 43 amends the Zoning Bylaw, to add Section 4.18 Temporary Moratorium on the Sale and Distribution
of Recreational Marijuana and amends the Table of Contents to insert Section 4.18 Temporary Moratorium
Motion: P. Bertram
To make a recommendation at town meeting on Article 43
2°°: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Article 44 amends the Town Bylaws to address typographical errors, corrections, repeal of obsolete bylaws and
for the enumeration of Articles.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^d: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 44 amending Town Bylaws
Mr. Ebersole suggested we need to have clear items that people can see what we are actually changing. Ms.
Luck asked who determines what is obsolete. Mr. Ebersole noted we have bylaws that either repeat or
contradict our Charter. The Charter supersedes our bylaws. The Bylaw Review Committee has identified those
items. Further discussion about the article ensued.
Mr. Ebersole amended his motion
To make a recommendation on Articles 44 and 45 at town meeting
2™': P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported Articles 46, 47, 48 and 49 all relate to the codification of the Town bylaws and zoning
bylaws. There is a redline version of these that is about 300 pages long available and is on file with the Town
Clerk.
===PAGE 8===
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend approval of Articles 46-49
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
2. MRPC Traffic Count Location Recommendations
DP W Director Rodriquenz presented his recommendations for proposed traffic count locations. He had
previously recommended them for the intersection of Northfield Road and Oak Avenue and the intersection of
Northfield Road and Main Street. One other spot would be Pleasant Street off Route 2A.
The Planning Board also recommended Oak Ave. at Northfield Road, as well as Northfield Road at Chase
Road, The Lane at Mass. Ave, Whalom Road between Lesure Ave. and Pratt St., Whalom Road at Youngs
Road and Whalom Road at Graham Street.
Ms. Lemieux stated MRC is allowing five locations per municipality. Ms. Bertram reported MRPC/MPO
announced they do have availability for more. David Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he attended the Planning
Board meeting recently and one of their concerns is these counts are traditionally done during the summer, so it
does not count school traffic. He suggested requesting the Oak Ave location count be done in spring or fall.
The DP W Director's recommendations were preferred if only some can be done.
APPOINTMENT
Nexamp Solar Project, 994 Northfield Road
Chris Clark of Nexamp reported they are in the process of installing a ground-mounted solar project at 994
Northfield Road. He was here to inquire about a PILOT agreement with the Town. The project is a portion of a
90+ acre parcel to the north of Northfield Road, adjacent to Settler's Golf Course. There is minimal abutter
impact. The project capacity is 2.0 to 5.0 MW AC and a system impact study is being conducted with Unitil.
Final size will be determined at the site. Permitting is anticipated for late spring and early summer of 2017; they
will be meeting with Conservation Commission and Planning Board. He was here tonight to request
consideration of a warrant article for a PILOT for the Annual Town Meeting in May. Discussion on appearance,
energy supply benefits for the Town, the PILOT agreement and the wording of the warrant article ensued. Ms.
Lemiuex stated the Board would not make a recommendation tonight but requested Nexamp make a brief
presentation at Town Meeting. The Board thanked Mr. Clark and he exited the meeting.
Net Metering Credits Distribution Recommendations
John Londa, Facilities Director, returned with amended recommendations for a 50/50 split for the Clean
Footprint net metering project; 3% Senior Center, 3% Streetlights, 27% Town Hall, 7% Town Garage, 11%
Public Library, 17% Primary School, 16% Turkey Hill Elementary School and 17% to Lunenburg Middle/High
School. Sewer Department (pump stations), T.C. Passios and Brooks House and all of the small town accounts
are not receiving any net metering distribution. He noted the distribution can be revised every six months. He
reported the Green Community Task Force's next grant submission could be seeking funding for the Public
Safety Building for interior LED lighting and possibly street lights.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d: R. Ebersole
To approve the distribution recommendations presented by John Londa
Mr. Toale thanked Mr. Londa for revising the credits distribution.
Vote: All in Favor
Summer Street Project Status Update
Trish Domigan of Vanasse Hangen Brustlin (VHB) presented an update of the Summer Street construction
project status. They will be submitting a final design plan to MassDOT on April 14"
" The project advertisement
was scheduled for August but they have been asked to move it up to June. The design fee for Lunenburg is
$545,271.57 out of the total of $741,280.09. The construction cost is a little shy of $10 million. We have been
in touch with District 3 to to make sure our numbers match with MPO's TIP amount. This does not include
construction phase services. Ms. Bertram requested some amount so the town could provide the construction
been helping out and they have been going out to meet the residents and business owners on Summer Street.
An appraiser has been hired and and determined temporary and permanent easements amounting to $30,910,
===PAGE 9===
except for MBTA property. Written offers are the next step; certified letters have been sent to those affected.
They have 30 days to respond. This Board would vote to award damages to property owners, record the taking
plans and written instrument, sometime in May. Another letter will be sent to the affected property owners
notifying them of the acquisition and award of damage. The order of taking/plans will then be recorded at the
Land Registry. Payments will be issued to property owners and the ROW sent to MassDOT for review and
approval. Everything should be done in June for the advertisement.
MBTA casements are different. Three temporary and two permanent are required. The license application for
the temporary easements was sent in January 2017 and there is a 60 day review period. There is a $25,000 (plus
$5,000 application) fee for MBTA permanent easements. Ms. Domigan reported she has been talking to the real
estate people at MBTA and they recommended using a Use and Occupancy license for permanent easements to
streamline the process. It's an annual license agreement and the Town will pay the MBTA $1,000 annually for
perpetuity. Ms. Domigan suggested talking to our state delegates and asking them to request the fee be waived
by MBTA. The Board suggested Ms. Lemieux contact Representative Benson about requesting the waiver. Mr.
Rodriquenz recommended getting the permitting going as soon as possible. Mr. Ebersole suggested asking
Town Counsel to add wording that allows being able to apply for the permanent easemant at a later date. The
Board thanked Ms.Domigan for coming in tonight.
Ms. Bertram exited the meeting at 7:58 p.m.
3. Signatures for Agreement between Town and IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO
Motion: R.Ebersole
To sign the agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and the International Brotherhood of Police
Officers Local 353, AFL-CIO effective July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2019
2'd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed March 14 and March 21, 2017 minutes. The Board signed the May 20, 2017 Annual Election
warrant for posting. They signed a $100,361.51 accounts payable warrant; a $531,246.30 payroll deductions
warrant and a payroll warrant in the amount of $754,971.19.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force (SWTF) met on March 9th. There was discussion on the filing of
the Ms4 permit due on April 30th.
. DPW Director Rodriquenz reported Weston and Sampson had assisted with
the filing of the permit report in prior years for around $2200 per filing. He recommended that Mike Clark
(Design Consultants, Inc.) and Ed Himlan (MA Watershed Coalition) complete the final filing under the
original Ms4 permit. Mr. Clark stated they could file for less than $2200. They also discussed the potential
stormwater remediation needs associated with the Pavement Management Plan. Rodriquenz explained why he
feels mapping the locations of the Town's stormwater system including catch basins, drainage, manholes, pipes
and culverts to provide a complete picture of the system is essential for the planning and management of the
accelerated pavement management plan. Mr. Clark presented a proposal for three tasks; project coordination
and management, mapping and stormwater consulting for $42,300. The SWTF voted to move forward with this
work. Public education, outreach and public participation were discussed. They meet again on April 15t* and
will continue discussion on minimal control measure requirements and construction site, stormwater control
program, stormwater management and new development and redevelopment. These will call for some bylaw
changes which will involve the Conservation Commission and Planning Board.
Town Manager Report:
IT Grant Submission:
Ms. Lemieux submitted a grant application under the IT Grant in the amount of $111,500 for E-permitting
software, training and devices for field services. She and Land Use Director Burney will be meeting with the
pertinent department heads to discuss their needs, concerns and ideas for a potential migration to the software if
we are awarded the grant.
===PAGE 10===
DLTA Grant Submissions:
Ms. Lemieux submitted two District Local Technical Assistance grant applications to MRPC. One to inventory
all brownfields, vacant and underutilized properties and the other to facilitate meetings between the business
community, appropriate town officials and recreational groups to foster growth of our existing businesses,
recreation and attract new businesses and tourism.
Building Commissioner Position
The position is being advertised in the Metro West Building Officials Association, the MA Federation of
Building Officials and MA Building Commissioners and Inspectors Association. They expire on April 24 and
are no cost to the Town.
Assistant Town Clerk Position
This is currently being advertised in -house per the collective bargaining agreement for 5 days which epxires
April 6th
". We will proceed with outside advertising if there are no qualified internal applicants.
Other Follow Up Items:
At the April 11' meeting, the Board will have a followup discussion on the results of the reference checks for
Town Counsel and a tabulation of how the Board members rated each firm on their non-price proposal. The
Board will meet with the four finalists again on April 18 starting at 6 p.m. to hear presentations on their price
proposals.
DW Director Rodriquenz, Land Use Director Burney, Mr. Toale and Ms. Lemieux met last week to discuss
the proposed policy for Complete Streets and will be bringing this to the Board on April 11".
The Treasurer/Tax Collector and Ms. Lemieux will be preparing to continue the Tax Title and Foreclosure
discussion with the Board on March 7' to be followed up at the first or second Selectmen's meeting in May.
Appointment- Animal Inspector and Alternate Animal Inspector - Kathy Comeau and
Mike Fallon, D.V.M.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Animal Inspector position is the only appointment this evening. For information only,
Dr. Fallon is an alternate in case Ms. Comeau is not available.
Motion: P. Luck
2"': J. Toale
To appoint Kathy Comeau as Animal Inspector Vote: 2 in favor (Luck, Toale); 1 opposed (Ebersole)
Storm Water Task Force Resignation
Mr. Toale read Sarah Cammer's letter of resignation aloud. Mr. Toale thanked her for her service on the SWTF.
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule for the Board.
There was no further Public Comment at this time.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2°°: P. Luck
To enter Executive Session to conduct strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body
and the Chair declares so. (Professional Firefighters Local 4358A; AFSCME Council 93, Municipal
Employees Union; Pending litigation) and to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations
with non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining session or contract negotiations with non-
union personnel (Finance Director contract) Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale -aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:09 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
