===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 5 2017
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Public Safety Building, Police Department Conference Room
655 Massachusetts Avenue
August 1, 2017
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman (4:45 p.m.); Paula Bertram,
Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member; Damon McQuaid, Member
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Police Chief James Marino; Morgan Leger, Lunenburg
Ledger.
The meeting commenced at 4:03 p.m.
Traffic Rules and Orders:
As a follow-up to the Board of Selectmen meeting on June 20%,
the Board wished to discuss the roads identified
as off street parking or no parking with the Police Chief and perform a site visit if necessary.
Police Chief J. Marino started the conversation off by stating the MassDOT Uniform Traffic Code is used for
Traffic Rules and Orders for cities and towns and the version in front of the Board is based on the Uniform
Traffic Code with alterations. The Board and the Chief discussed the stop signs at private developments, like
Walmart, and that stop signs typically go before the Board of Selectmen to be approved per Chapter 90, Sec. 18,
which makes them enforceable. The locations with stop signs on private property include Walmart, Asian
Imperial, Woodlands, Tri-Town, Stone Farm, and Emerald Place. The Board asked that the Land Use Director
provide a list of possible properties that have stop signs that could be made legal. The Board requested the
Chief work with the Land Use Director to incorporate stop signs on private developments into the review
process, whether it be through regulations, by-law, etc. The Board inquired if Planning Board approved a stop
sign as part of an approved plan, is it legal and is the sign on private or public right of way?
Discussion on the illegal stop sign at Turkey Hill that is supposed to be a yield sign but the Town should go
through the process to make it a legal stop sign.
The Board asked the Chief to locate the places within the document where the Rules and Orders say there is a
sign on a street or no parking sign is supposed to be but there currently is no signage. The Chief stated he is
currently reviewing all the no parking locations; the Board asked that all roads that should have no parking be
included. The Police Chief will include the Fire Chief in reviewing places where no parking signs should be.
The Board and Chief discussed parking on roads like Whalom and Lancaster Road. The law is if it is not
obstructing a lane, then the vehicle would be allowed to park on the side of the road.
There was discussion on the fines referenced in the Traffic Rules and Orders and as defined by Massachusetts
General Law. All agreed that a chart to reference would make it easier for users.
The Board and the Chief discussed thickly settled areas and acceptance of the new law that would change the
speed limit from 30 mph to 25 mph.
Selectman Ebersole offered to work with Chief Marino on creating a map with roads that there currently is no
parking allowed, including the width of the road.
The Board's scheduled site visit to the no parking areas will wait until a map is produced. The Chief will make
===PAGE 2===
the agreed upon changes and he will present a revised draft at a future meeting that includes stop sign locations
that are town owned as well.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
Respectfully submitted,
Tell lemap
Heather R. Lemieux
Town Manager
znd. R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
