===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
of alito
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 19 2007
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
June 20, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member, Damon McQuaid, Member
Not present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux.
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck reported there has been a postponement of the MS4 stormwater permit. More information is
forthcoming.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, reported on behalf of The Salvation Army, This past Sunday, their
emergency disaster unit was summoned to a fire in Fitchburg. There were multiple families displaced as a
result. One elderly woman had four Pomeranian dogs with her and was very distraught about losing her home
and her pets' home. After speaking to Police Chief Marino, a call was made to Lunenburg Animal Control
Officer, Kathy Comeau, who came down and assured the woman that her animals would be cared for until she
gets back on her feet. MacDonald wanted to thank Ms. Comeau and Police Chief Marino for coordinating that
effort. Chief Marino followed up by commending Ms. Comeau's actions on that day.
David Passios, Board of Health member, reported they signed off on the Unifier Festival permit. He was
disturbed that an unknown Holman Street couple showed up after the posted discussion time on the Board of
Health agenda and was rude, boisterous and yelling.
Ratification of Town Manager Appointments
1) Principal Account Clerk- Susan Murchie
Mr. Toale read the appointment.
Motion: P. Bertram
2^d: R. Ebersole
To ratify the appointment of Susan Murchie to principal account clerk effective July 5, 2017
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale read the following appointments.
2) Seasonal Beach Coordinator- Genevieve Nass
3) Seasonal Lifeguards- Catherine Keefer, Lynn Major, Cheryl Shaw, Elizabeth Simeone
Motion: R. Ebersole
To ratify the appointments as listed effective immediately
2nd. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
4) Public Safety Coordinator- Amanda Moore
Ms. Bertram recused herself from ratifying this appointment, as Ms. Moore was her daughter.
Ms. Moore will be replacing Linda Carrier who will be retiring after 31 years.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'd: D. McQuaid
To ratify the appointment of Amanda Moore as Public Safety Coordinator effective July 17, 2017
Vote: Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
===PAGE 2===
Traffic Rules & Regulations
The Board, Police Chief Marino and Legal Counsel Joel Bard reviewed the Traffic Rules and Regulations.
• Article 1, Definitions, add "handicapped placard" to Section 1-7 and remove "plate", under
Handicapped Parking Space.
• Add definition for " Department."
• Sections should be renumbered
• Under Section 1-14 Roadway, a typographical correction was made to change "or" to "of."
• Under Section 1-28, Vehicles, the word "for" will be removed after "their."
Discussion about private roads ensued and then turned to parking meters versus parking stations. There are no
parking meters in Lunenburg currently. It was suggested to leave wording as is for now.
• Under Article III, add all fines into one separate section rather than in each section.
• Add the definition of DPW Director and remove Supt. of Streets to Definitions and change it in 3-4, (a.)
• Remove "in each block" from 3-4, (b).
• Under Section 3-5 Signals, Signals and Marking Prohibited... in the first line, change "curb making" to
"curb marking" and remove the comma after "purports." In the same paragraph, change wording to read
"The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to order the removal of every such prohibited sign."
• Under Article V. (d) sparsely settled "district" will be changed to sparsely settled "area."
• Under Section 5-1, add colon at end of first paragraph.
Discussion ensued on 5-1, sections (d) and (f) and their interpretations. More wordsmithing will be needed.
• Section 5-5 No Parking During Snow Emergency, change "Dept. of Public Works" to "DPW Director."
Further discussion ensued about where people will park in the event of a snow emergency.
• Section 5-9 Taxicab Stands, to remove the words "within a business district.
• Section 5-10 Handicapped Parking, to remove "plate" and add "placard."
• Article VI, Section 6-2, suggestion was made to create a generic section for rotaries, rather than specify
the one rotary by street names, in case the town has more than one in the future, and list any rotaries at
the end.
• Under Article VII, Section 7-1, 7-2, 7-3, remove fines wording and create a separate fines schedule.
• 7-7 had a typographical error, "nor-real" that should read "normal."
• Article IX Penalties and Repeals, Sections 9-1(a)(b) need more clarification and refine the section into a
chart format.
Discussion ensued about C. 90, §20A½ and placing acceptance of it on next town meeting in order to raise
fines. All the schedules need to be verified for accuracy and need, regarding signs etc.
Chief Marino has the final document that is to be updated and then to return to Board of Selectmen for review
of the next draft.
Discussion turned to stop signs on private property/ways and the legality of enforcing them. Is a stop sign a
requirement of a special permit or some town action?
Chief Marino will present. Mr. Toale thanked Chief Marino and Attorney Bard.
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $375,575.26. The Board approved minutes of
May 23, 2017. Mr. Toale presented thank you letters to outgoing volunteers for signatures.
He announced their next meeting is July 11; a non-televised workshop on Board of Selectmen policies.
Ms. Luck wondered if the newly appointed legal counsel could provide office hours at least twice a month in
the beginning so Board Chairs can meet with them. The Board will have that conversation with them.
Public Comment:
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, asked why the Town Beach access was opened to non-residents because it is
such a safe and friendly environment there. She suggested maybe focus should have been reaching out to
Lunenburg residents more.
Regarding the traffic rules section on parking, she thought travel should be prioritized above parking because
they are not there for parking but travel.
===PAGE 3===
An unidentified person had an observation about the recent Planning Board meeting regarding the cell tower
installation at the middle/high school field. There was no one there in opposition. He was sure someone in town
was opposed to it but they just don't know what is happening. Mr. Ebersole noted the Planning Board is a
separate elected Board and they did advertise the legally required public notice. If you read The Lunenburg
Ledger, Conservation Commission and Planning Board hearings are advertised there. We did have the town
meeting vote to approve it and some people did speak against it there.
Mr. McQuaid stated besides advertising it, you have to get people to care about it too. In the beginning, not after
the fact because that contributes to people thinking something underhanded was done. There needs to be a
change in the culture.
Motion:R. Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting at 9:34 p.m.
2"d. D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine In Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
