===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced tonight's main agenda is a workshop. He noted the Special Town Meeting warrant front
cover mailed to residents lists the meeting date as being on Monday, November 28, 2017. The meeting is
actually on Tuesday, November 28 at 7:00 p.m. in the Middle/High School Auditorium. The actual warrant
inside that mailer lists the correct date and time.
Ms. Luck announced the Lunenburg High School Marching Band will be playing at the school at 6:30 p.m. and
6:45 p.m. before the Special Town Meeting on November 28th. Check-in for the meeting begins at 6:30 p.m.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, asked if there was a functioning electronic sign at the end of the Public Safety
Building. It was confirmed there was.
Town Manager Report
Announcement of Ratification of Collective Bargaining Agreement with AFSME (current business):
The contract that was ratified by both the Municipal Employees Bargaining Unit and the Town, through the
Board of Selectmen, is for a three year agreement from July 1, 2017 until June 30, 2020. The main provisions
of the agreement are as follows:
• Wages: A 2% Cost of Living Adjustment for each fiscal year of the agreement. Elimination of a
previous clause for a 1% signing bonus for years 2 and 3 of the agreement;
• Longevity: Changed longevity payments from a percentage of annual pay to a flat dollar payment for
years of service.
• Inclusion of a new provision regarding a 30 day probationary period for employees that have been
promoted to a new position and in the event the Town removes the employee during the promotional
probationary period, the employee may return to their prior position;
• Provides clarification and statutory updates to certain articles within the agreement.
This goes to the Special Town Meeting for approval to fund the first year of the contract. The total for year one
of the contract is $13,746.45, which will come out of the Salary Reserve Line Item in the current year's budget
that was approved at the Annual Town Meeting.
Town Facilities Walking Tour and Charrette:
• Walking Tour: On Saturday, December 2"d at 10 a.m. the public is invited to join the Board to take a
tour of the five town buildings that have been the focus of our town facilities discussion (Town Hall,
Ritter Memorial Building, old Primary School, the Brooks House, and the TC Passios). Participants will
be asked to sign a waiver and release of liability form if accessing certain areas, particularly the old
Primary School. Also, as a disclaimer, not all areas of the buildings will be handicapped accessible.
First Charrette: The first of a series of charrettes on Town Facilities will be held on Thursday,
December 7"' and will be an opportunity to break out in smaller groups to discuss a set of topics and
then report to the larger group with their ideas on that topic. Selectman McQuaid had previously
===PAGE 2===
answering questions and working with fox Painting on ensuring this job went smoothly given that we needed to
keep the building open to the public throughout the project. To reiterate statements made by the DPW Director,
the paint will last the Town 5-10 years but the underlying conditions of the building will need to be addressed
next time it gets painted and that includes replacing all the clapboard and sheathing. Overall, the building looks
much better and the paint will keep the clapboard protected for the meantime, and the contractor replaced a vast
amount of rotted clapboard and sheathing.
DLTA "Promoting the Local Economy" Grant:
MRPC will present their report and recommendations to the Board at a meeting in December, which I am
recommending we combine with the Economic Development workshop on December 12"
!. We will invite all
interested stakeholders and advertise on the Town website, send e-mails to the participants of the previous
meetings on this topic, and advertise in the paper once the date is confirmed. The plan is to apply for the next
round of DLTA funding in December once that is announced but will continue this process with meetings with
the business community and the public to keep the momentum going. At the last meeting with the businesses
we discussed having the next workshop as an opportunity to invite a representative from the Townsend
Chamber of Commerce and others that can provide feedback on what has worked in their community. The next
workshop will be held in January.
Conservation Commission Habitat Maintenance and Environmental Management Project:
As part of a multi-year habitat maintenance and environmental management project, the Conservation
Commission used New England Forestry Consultants, Inc. to put together the bid specifications for a timber
harvesting plan for the Small Town Forest on Mulpus Road. A high bid of $41,429.36 was received and
awarded to Blanchflower Logging, Inc. and after paying New England Forestry Consultants their consulting fee
for project management services, the balance of the proceeds will be deposited into the Timber Revolving
Account. As a result, you will see timber being removed from this area. The Commission is coordinating with
the DPW to minimize any interruption in the public use of Mulpus Road. The point of contact for this project
will be Conservation Administrator Matt Marro.
Green Communities Update:
The Green Communities Task Force will be submitting their annual report to the Department of Energy
Resources by mid-December that encapsulates the energy savings the Town has achieved through the energy
efficiency projects paid for with Green Communities funding using the identified criteria set forth by DOER.
The Task Force met on November 8 with MRPC Principal Planner Karen Chapman to discuss the technical
assistance Ms. Chapman will provide in applying for the next round of Green Communities funding and
discussed the potential projects that would achieve the most energy savings for the Town. The possible projects
would target energy savings at the Town Hall, the Public Safety Building, the Ritter Memorial Building, and
Turkey Hill Elementary School. The next step in the process will be an energy audit conducted by an energy
consultant. Since the November 8" meeting, Ms. Chapman has contacted Unitil and is in the process of setting
up one of their contracted energy assessment consultants to perform a free energy audit at the Town Hall, Public
Safety Building, and the Ritter Memorial. Ms. Chapman will contact the Town once possible audit dates are
known. The Task Force will meet again on January 17" and will need to have an application prepared to submit
for the competitive funding by March 2018.
===PAGE 3===
Tuesday, November 28" Special Town Meeting at 7 p.m. at the MS/AS Auditorium to vote.
Chase Road/Route 13 Project: Bids were received for this project and the low bidder was P.J. Albert, Inc, of
Fitchburg, MA. The award date is typically 45 days after the bid opening and the Notice to Proceed is typically
around 21 days after that.
Summer Street Project: Bids are due on December 12*h
OLD BUSINESS:
Earth Removal Permits:
Building Commissioner Garry Rhodes reported on the status of the parcels permitted for earth removal.
He went through all the old earth removal permit records and reviewed back to the original issue dates. He
visited every site and met with the owners. They were all invited to this meeting tonight.
1) Permit #1- Ralph Montouri Construction Company, 186 Massachusetts Avenue, 23.5 acres more or
less
Commissioner Rhodes reported this permit was taken out around 60 years ago. It is identified as the property
located on the Assessors' map. There were several changes to the site; a flea market and greenhouse have been
added. There is still an area of about ¼ acre that is semi-active. They are just using the material around the
property to fill potholes. He did not recommend renewing this permit. He stated no restoration plan is needed as
it is mostly covered with grass which is a suitable cover. The grade is level but he did note there was some
standing water on the site. Conservation Administrator Marro will be requested to visit the site for any wetland
issues prior to a closure plan being requested
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd. D. McQuaid
To not renew Earth Removal permit #1 for Ralph Montouri Construction Co.
Vote: All in Favor
It was suggested to revise the closure standards at a future workshop.
2) Powell Sand & Gravel Permits #32 and #54
Permit #32- to the rear of 395 Goodrich Street containing 16 acres, more or less, owned by applicant.
Commissioner Rhodes stated all the material has been removed except for about an acre. Where they have been
removing it is a flat area; it has not been restored in any form. He recommended renewing but requesting a
closure plan for the 15 acres where material has been removed. The Powell's had indicated to him that this area
is adjacent to where they have horses and would like to possibly loam and seed it and either use it for pasture or
hay fields. That would be for the Board to consider.
Permit #54- 151 Leominster-Shirley Road
Commissioner Rhodes reported this permit was granted towards the back of the property where the store/office
building is currently located. The Planning Board issued a Special Permit in conjunction with a site plan for
part of this property. The Planning Board incorporated a closure plan in the special permit. All the material has
been removed and he did not recommend the permit be extended. However, they have not been consistent with
the Planning Board conditions. If the Board agrees, the permit should not be renewed. Rhodes is willing to work
with Powell Sand and Gravel to redirect them back to the Planning Board for an amendment of their site plan
and special permit to make it consistent with what they have actually done.
===PAGE 4===
3) P. J. Keating Company (11 permits)
Commissioner Rhodes stated theirs are the most complicated because they are not tied to map and parcel
numbers. He recommended a several step approach; to renew all the permits for one year with conditions:
• All earth removal permits be renewed until August 31, 2018 with stipulations,
• An engineering report/plan shall be submitted to the Board of Selectmen by P. J. Keating for each
permit site which shall include any material remaining to be removed and a closure plan for each site,
• All earth removal permits will be identified by a map and parcel number,
• Wherever there are adjacent parcels, those sites shall be merged into one permit.
Moe Langlois, Operations Manager for P.J. Keating, thanked Mr. Rhodes for assisting them in deciphering the
process. We concur with his suggestions and should the Board approve it, we will abide by it.
Motion: P. Bertram
2n: P. Luck
To approve an extension until August 31, 2018 for the 11 earth removal permits to P. J. Keating
Company with the stipulation that during that period that they work with the Building Commissioner to
review all the permits and make adjustments as appropriate by combining permits and parcels; that they
provide a full engineering report as requested by the Commissioner as well as a closure plan for all the
parcels that will no longer be utilized for earth removal
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $512,063.76.
The Board moved from the stage to the floor to begin their workshop. The Board was joined by DPW Director
Jack Rodriquenz and Park Commissioners Dennis Mannone, Karin Menard and Pete McCauliff; School
Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes, Facilities Director John Londa, School Committee members Heather Sroka,
Chair, Wendy Bertrand, Dawn-Marie Ayles, Meredith Weiss and Jim LaVeck. Also present was Karen Brochu,
Finance Director.
TOWN FACILITIES AND GROUNDS WORKSHOP
1. Report from Parks Commission and DPW Director on status of Town Parks, Fields & Town
Beach including long term maintenance.
DPW Director Rodriquenz reported on Marshall Park first; lack of parking has been an issue there for years.
We had Whitman and Bingham survey the property which established the property lines. We are now asking
them to overlay that survey with any areas they believe could be incorporated as parking areas from the
entrance of Route 2A to Chestnut Street. Rodriquenz is working with Chief Marino to integrate with any plans
they have for individual parking areas and to integrate that into a traffic plan as well.
We have established a turf maintenance plan for all three fields. We have also completed the back stop
configuration to avoid private property damage and possible litigation. Netting will be installed in the Spring of
2018. Scheduling and charging user fees continue to be a challenge. We also monitor the unscheduled use of the
field. Negotiations continue with the School Department on the turf field. Once this is complete, negotiations
will begin with the School Department on the use of Marshall Park; which is used for Junior Varsity baseball
and softball. They have not been charged any fees up until this point.
===PAGE 5===
kids trom the project and the project from stray balls also.
Wallis Park-There is an article on the Special Town Meeting warrant for this park. $12,000 was appropriated
through the 2017 Capital Plan for the playground area, but a citizen's petition is requesting an additional
$25,000 towards that project. They have not provided any further information to the Parks Commission or Mr.
Rodriquenz regarding their plans. If they want to keep the basketball court over there it will need to be
resurtaced. We also would like to repair or replace the fencing.
Town Beach - we refurbish the sand there annually. Conservation Commission is working with us on how to
spread the sand. There will be a request on the Capital Plan to repair the roof and walls of the beach building.
We also have to address the park and town liability of the playground area to the left facing the lake which has
no access through the building but has gated access. We have to examine who is going to supervise that area.
Vision for the future- one thing on the wish list- the development of fields adjacent to the capped landfill off
Youngs Road; it is a wide open area and fairly level. Water and sewer goes right up to the gate. We are in need
of fields with the expansion of different sports such as lacrosse, etc. We will develop a plan and bring it back to
you. There is a piece of property off of Route 2A that has been proposed for marijuana production. The
contractor has for years offered that land to the town in exchange for material adjacent to the capped landfill
with a plan to leave it in a particular configuration. Ms. Bertram stated the issue of the land swap has been
before this Board; one hurdle we encountered was a change of use because of the year long operation of the
earth removal. It would have to be taken out of conservation restriction. She asked if Town Counsel would look
at that issue. Rodriquenz deferred to the Park Commission regarding user fees.
Park Commissioner Karin Menard reported the primary focus at the town beach this year was to add the
positions of lifeguards and beach coordinator to the Salary Administration Plan (SAP). We had to create job
descriptions and submit for approval to the Personnel Committee. There is a warrant article on the Special
Town Meeting to add these positions to the SAP and hopefully we will see approval. We are also working
Slowly to make the beach a selt-sustaining enterprise. This year we increased the beach pass fee for families
from $20 to $50. The fees had not been increased in over ten years. We sold 128 family passes and opened it up
to nonresidents this year; we sold 15 of those. We sold 2 single passes and 9 senior passes. Menard would like
to see those numbers increase. Swimming lessons were also offered and we raised the prices this year; this will
more digitized. We also need to automate the sign up process for using the fields. Fees collected for user fees
go into a dedicated revolving fund. Discussion about the town beach playground and accessibility to it as well
as its condition ensued.
Ms. Menard met with Town Accountant Brochu last week to look at revenue and expenses. Rodriquenz noted
we don't have solid numbers on what it takes to maintain the fields, such as fertilizing grass, etc. We need to
document them. A review of the user fees for other fields was given. Commissioner Mannone stated a lot of
these regulations and permits have not been looked at for awhile, so we are systematically going through them.
Now that we need to schedule these fields tighter and people are paying for the use, they want to make sure they
have a field. A lot of maintenance etc. over the years was done in kind by organizations rather than paying a
user fee. Now we need to do regular maintenance on these fields and are trying to organize all the information
for the future and will adjust user fees accordingly. Discussion about developing a Capital Plan for the parks
ensued.
===PAGE 6===
Director when they had issues they could not resolve. We got twelve years out of the tracks whose hitespans
were predicted to be eight years. Due to their condition, it was relatively inexpensive to resurface the track and
replace the turf which was completed last year. Since the new installation we have worked to get the MOA; the
biggest stumbling block was finding what the original agreement was. Currently we are close to reaching an
agreement and ready to present within a meeting or two, to the School Committee to consider.
Superintendent Calmes stated she had sent over an informational packet showing the history of trying to work
together to form that agreement. It dates back to 2002 when the School Committee voted to designate that
property as recreation for purposes of obtaining a grant. Around the same time period the Track and Field
Association had asked the Parks Commission if they would schedule and maintain that property. There was
never a formalization of how that was going to work. In 2009 that confusion prompted us to say, let's get
something in place, and we presented a draft that was rejected by the Parks Commission. In 2011 we got closure
on that. After reviewing this whole history everything sat there until we needed to replace the artificial turf and
then with everybody sitting around this table actually supporting this plan and the youth organizations as well
saying we're interested in making sure this continues; and the bond was passed as well as a plan to pay for that.
We articulated that in a memorandum to the Board of Selectmen, the Bengals have memorialized that in a letter
as well. The annual payment amounts to $47,500; that portion is memorialized in letters between the School
Committee and the Board of Selectmen as well as the Bengals and the Board of Selectmen. Then there is the
proposal for the rest of the funding coming from the cell tower. Mr. Londa told her they have done borings at
this point and Director Rodriquenz and the Planning Board are involved in that. So what was put together then
was to pay the bond. She clarified there is no MOA currently, only a draft.
Ms. Menard stated the Parks Commission is working on an MOA and we are hoping there is going to be very
little back and forth between them and the School Committee. Mannone stated it's the town whether it is the
school or parks. We are looking at scheduling and maintenance and how to coordinate with the high school and
youth groups. Mr. McCauliff has done an excellent job managing that aspect. We don't have any full-time
people to do that. We need sombody to do maintenance on a daily basis. Having gone through all the issues
over the past year and understanding more on the turf side, we have changed the memorandum quite a bit. The
section he would like to see improved was that the town youth groups still have representation to use the field
and track area and that there is some sort of scheduling. If there is an issue they would come back to the Parks
Commission so we could discuss with the school and come to an understanding.
Ms. Calmes stated it goes back to the issue of policy and governance around the property that is still owned and
under the responsibility of the School Committee. Part of the MOA has always been an acknowledgment that
School Committee policies are there and we also agree this is all about the folks sharing this wonderful resource
that has been provided by the taxpayers. We actually have long standing policy that articulates how that is
accomplished in terms of adult/youth groups as well as school groups. Where other organizations and/or
commissions are trying to create this basis of policy to operate from, the School Committee has this history of
having that and refreshing it on a regular basis. So to respond to the concern about everybody having access, the
School Committee policy actually speaks to that as well.
Question was asked how long will the new turf field be expected to last? McCauliff stated looking at the
maintenance that wasn't done on the previous field and that we have already ended one year of use of the field;
we brought in a company and they removed debris and replaced the pellets where they should be. That is what
did not happen with the first field. There are only two things that affect the field, sunlight and usage. We have
no control over sunlight, but I have budgeted for two annual visits from the company to service the field. He
===PAGE 7===
School Committee member Wendy Bertrand acknowledged the hard work of the Parks Commission and the
School Committee for their efforts to come together for this conversation as well as the Board of Selectmen.
She was under the assumption that we were meeting about a status update of the MOA. It was not our
understanding this was going to be an extended conversation about the turf field and the Parks Commission. It
has been very difficult for us with all the meetings we have to attend, to commit to this time and not get to the
agenda item. Mr. Toale invited them to participate in the discussion. Ms. Bertram stated she appreciated the
work that the Park Commission and the School Committee has done also. She added she has made it very clear
from the beginning that she wanted to have an in depth discussion certainly not just a status update so she
apologized that she asked these questions. School Committee Chair Sroka stated she believed the agenda items
were too long. A School Committee member stated they would prefer to reschedule.
Mr. Toale stated on the suggestion of the School Committee, I suggest we hold off on the discussion although it
is important. Ms. Bertram stated discussing agenda item # 3 was relevant to making decisions on warrant
articles at the Special Town Meeting next week. Ms. Calmes stated Mr. Londa is prepared to give a
presentation. This was presented to the School Committee at one of their meetings and is available on youtube
dated October 16th. The School Committee members exited the meeting. The Board thanked them for coming.
3. Board of Selectmen and School Committee discussion on the long term strategic plan for Turkey
Hill Elementary School, options for relocating school district central offices, and co-locating
offices at TC Passios after renovations for consolidated municipal offices at that building.
Mr. Londa reported Turkey Hill Elementary School was constructed in 1968/1969. It is a 68,261 square foot
building. It is currently being used for grades 3-5. Over the years the roof has been replaced ('96-98) and the
boiler plant was replaced in 2003. A solar photovoltaic system was installed in 2010. We are almost at the 50
year mark for the building; this is when you start asking should you renovate or replace. We have done some
limited work there. There are single pane windows in the building and asbestos floor tiles remaining in most of
the classrooms and on the second floor hallways. We have replaced flooring in the administrative areas, first
floor classrooms and four classrooms over the last couple of years. We have been getting access to all the
plumbing shut off valves as they began failing. The electrical system is inadequate and is nearing the end of its
lifespan. We have been working on abating spray on asbestos fireproofing; that continues to be a major element
in the capital plan. We need to be able to get access through the ceilings to all the electrical and plumbing that is
up there.
Regarding ADA compliance, we have no fully compliant restrooms. We have done the best we have to get them
as close as we can to code. We also have areas we don't have access to with lifts such as the girls locker room,
the stage and the music room. We have a ramp in the music room but it is too steep for current code. The
building does not have a sprinkler system and the fire alarm system does not meet current code. We have a
limited number of smoke detectors throughout the building. Air conditioning capability is very limited in the
building; only in the Principal's office and one classroom. The windows do not accomodate air conditioners and
there is no ductwork for ventilation. We know we have some envelope issues with the fascias on the first floor
and we have some lintels that show signs of moving around in the minigym and the former shop areas.
Regarding HVAC, all our equipment is operational; it is old and operates on the old pneumatic controls. We are
still able to get parts for it. For the Capital Plan submission, asbestos abatement continues to be our highest
priority in the district and that continues over a number of years. We still want to take care of classrooms on the
===PAGE 8===
own the panels and we would remove them at our cost.
Option 2 would be to look at a renovation of the school, as early as 2029, you could couple the roof with that
renovation. The building was built to accommodate adding additional classrooms. If you add another 30 feet
you can add four more classrooms and go down the other end and add another four classrooms.
Option 3 would be a total replacement and locations would have to be sorted out. Renovations are less costly.
New construction obviously gives you a better outcome. Where would we put the new building, probably on an
athletic field, demolish the old building and then replace the athletic field as we have in the past.
Options for relocating school district central offices: Mr. Londa reported in 2014 we started looking at what
our options were for the Passios. What would we do if we had to move? Turkey Hill seemed to fit our needs the
best as we knew grades were being reduced; classrooms that were near the main entry way that were grouped
together on the first floor and would be able to support this. Discussion ensued on what space is needed and
space options in different buildings. It was suggested to compose a list of offices/programs that were not
included in the Tappe Space Needs study and what would be needed. Ms. Lemieux noted when the space needs
assessment was updated recently, she worked with Supt. Calmes and the amount of area needed was upgraded
to 3600 square feet. This includes professional services, school district central offices, HR Business Manager
office, Database Manager office, Food Service Manager office, IT office and ACE services.
Mr. McQuaid thanked Mr. Londa for the good job he does taking care of Turkey Hill Middle School and the
T.C. Passios Building as well while under his control.
Ms. Lemieux reported Selectman Ebersole, who was not present this evening, had some comments; in regards
to the Parks discussion he would not like to see it go to a 100% user fee system for parks and recreation. The
Town should support it with a combination of tax revenues, user fees and grants and other funds, just as we
support other services such as our Senior Center. We need to work their needs into the Capital Plan, we tend to
only focus on vehicles and buildings.
4. Next steps for Board of Selectmen, Parks Commission, Town Manager, School Committee &
Superintendent
This will be discussed more at a later date.
There was no further Public Comment. The Board thanked everyone for coming in this evening.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°°: P. Luck
To enter Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30A, §21, Reason # 3; To discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining
position and the Chair declares so, not to return to open session. (Professional Firefighters PPFM Local
4358A Contract Negotiations)
Vote; Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Ms. Bertram-aye, Mr. Toale- aye
***********************Executive Session Minutes reparate***************************
The meeting adjourned at 9:33 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
===PAGE 9===

