===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Attorney Joel Bard of KP Law, PC; Lunenburg Planning Board members Greg Bittner, Matthew
Allison, Ken Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys
The meeting commenced at 6:34 p.m.
Mr. Toale read aloud the reason for entering Executive Session.
Executive Session M.G.L. c.30A, 821; To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or
litigation, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining or litigating
positions, and the Chair declares so. (O'Brien Homes, Inc. et al. v. Planning Board for the Town of
Lunenburg, Land Court Docket Nos. 13 MISC 477878 through 13 MISC 477887)
Attorney Bard corrected to the "Town of Lunenburg v. O'Brien Homes, Inc."
Motion: B. Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting would have a
detrimental effect of the government's litigating position and the Chair declares so
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Bertram- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale - aye
Planning Board Chairman Bittner announced the reason for entering Executive Session.
Motion: D. Prokowiew
2nd. K. Chenis
To enter Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting would have a
detrimental effect of the government's litigating position and the Chair declares so and to not return to
open meeting
Vote: Mr. Allison-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Prokowiew-aye, Mr. Bittner-aye, Mr. Chenis- aye
Mr. Ebersole amended his motion to state they would adjourn from Executive Session and not return to
the open meeting. Seconded by Ms. Bertram
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Bertram- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale - aye
Attorney Bard reported the Planning Board has denied ten different subdivision plans from O'Brien Homes in
an attempt to try to have them comply with zoning bylaw section 5.6 which says you cannot subdivide greater
than 25 acres without certain conditions. This was appealed by O'Brien Homes and there was a trial in January/
February 2016 and we are still awaiting the judge's decision. Six months later we were shown photographs that
O'Brien had largely built out the subdivision and brought it down to Howard Street. There was some discussion
on what could be done. There is a Planning Board subdivision rule and regulation that says you can't build a
subdivision or do any work in preparation unless you have an approved subdivision. We went to court and
asked for a court ordered injunction. The land court judge denied the request for an injunction on his theory that
clearing 100+ feet of right of way, grading etc. was not preparation for the subdivision. K P Law recommended
an appeal on the grounds that the judge was incorrect as a matter of law. The appeals court agreed with us but
said there was a contested issue of fact, namely did O'Brien Hones do this with the intention of simply creating
these 100 foot wide roads so he could go in and do his testing? Mr. Bard stated what is scheduled for next week
is a two day trial to determine whether O'Brien is being misleading or if he graded 100 feet of roadway just to
===PAGE 2===
minimum of two town representatives visit the site before and after work is done. Several changes to the draft
agreement were discussed, specifically notice and timing of site inspections and reasons for approving and
denying work.
Discussion ensued again on other possible outcomes if the trial is canceled and both parties come to agreement
as well as possible decisions by the court if going to trial. A straw poll was taken on which direction to go.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To not approve the settlement agreement and proceed with the lawsuit
Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck- nay, Mr. Toale- aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To not approve the settlement agreement and proceed with the lawsuit
Mr. Allison- aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr. Prokowiew-aye, Mr. Chenis- nay, Mr. Bittner-aye
2n: D. Prokowiew
Motion: R. Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Bertram- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale -aye
2"°: P. Bertram
Motion: K. Chenis
2"°: M. Allison
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Mr. Allison-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Prokowiew-aye, Mr. Bittner-aye, Mr. Chenis-aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:06 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
