===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 3 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 22, 2017
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Phyllis
Luck, Member; Damon McQuaid, Member
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Bertram read a statement. "I would like to make a statement regarding the workshop held last week and the
unsubstantiated claims and rumors that are running rampant on Facebook. Personally, I think that the workshop last week
was a productive and thoughtful session and I truly appreciate the input and involvement of all the people that attended.
It's unfortunate that the meeting was not televised and moving forward I hope that any discussion involving the plan for
municipal buildings is televised. One of the first questions that I had regarding the potential reuse of the Passios as a
Town Hall was what is the reasoning behind the proposal, what is it we are trying to fix? And I learned that the reasons
are many:
1. There is significant work that needs to be done at the Town Hall and the Ritter
a. Town Hall Needs:
i. Mold Remediation
ii. HVAC Repairs
iii. Window Replacement
iv. File Storage - Files had to be moved out of the dirt floor basement because of mold/water
damage. The files located in the attic have to be moved because of their weight.
b. Ritter Needs:
1. HVAC Replacement
ii. Windows Replacement
c. Parking for Town Hall continues to be a problem.
d. There are no sprinkler systems in either the Town Hall or the Ritter
2. The cost of maintaining our existing buildings, just from a utilities perspective. We currently pay:
a. Over $41,000 for the Town Hall
b. Almost $30,000 for the Ritter
c. Almost $62,000 for the Passios
3. Currently the Passios is vacant except for the few offices in use by the Superintendent and her staff. The
estimated best case for utility cost for this nearly vacant building is nearly $48,000. Using money from the
building revolving fund we can cover this for another year, but after that it will impact the Town's budget.
4. Does it make sense to leave this building vacant or to tear it down? It is in the best shape of all of our buildings
based on the Tappe study which is available on the website and I encourage everyone to read it. Do we want it to
end up like the old Primary?
5. There are many advantages of converting the TCP to municipal use or mixed use:
a. All departments under one roof
b. Savings on maintenance and utility costs
c. Possible consolidation of services between school/municipal
d. ADA compliance
e. Parking
f. Fire Protection
===PAGE 2===
And many others. More data needs to be collected on the potential cost of this proposal and the cost of a feasibility study
is being explored for action by Town Meeting.
Damon McQuaid, as a volunteer, presented a couple of sketches at the meeting showing a possible layout at the Passios
for school and town offices and a conceptual sketch of a possible layout for the old primary site. It was made very clear it
was conceptual only and just to give an idea of how the land could be utilized. No decisions were made regarding what to
do with the site; or the Ritter. When the issue of the old primary being a 40R was raised, we all agreed that more research
was needed on this issue and possible re-zoning may be needed. There was no plan presented for affordable housing -
this is an unsubstantiated, unproductive rumor. At the meeting we unanimously agreed that public involvement on the
future of all municipal buildings is needed. We intend to schedule charrettes, conduct a survey, publish as much
information as possible on the website and use various media outlets. We are not operating in a vacuum and want the
public's input. I would encourage everyone to attend the meetings and provide input. Facebook is a great tool to reach
people and share information, but please before making allegations and putting out misinformation that leads to
speculation and rumors; check your facts and most importantly get involved."
Mr. McQuaid thanked Ms. Bertram as he had read through the conversations and was troubled by what was
said. It is hurtful to have people think there is some kind of conspiracy or that we have developers lined up to
get these buildings, especially as a volunteer that has spent so much time on it.
Ms. Bertram stated we welcome your involvement and we are trying to do what we think is best and present it
to you as a community. She encouraged everyone to get involved
Mr. Toale agreed with Ms. Bertram. We agreed as a Board to have workshops, if it would be helpful to televise
them; I have no objection at all. He did caution that sometimes they are working with spreadsheets or
wordsmithing documents and it is difficult for the viewer to follow along.
Mr. Ebersole added when it is preliminary information, that is not the time to get things up on the screen but as
we get more fully developed and before we make decisions, then it is appropriate to set up in advance to be
shown.
Mr. Ebersole read a resolution that the Massachusetts General Court as well as Governor Baker and Lt.
Governor Polito issued as a proclamation addressing neo-Nazism, white supremacy and white nationalism hate
organizations, "strongly denouncing and opposing the totalitarian impulses, violence, xenophobic biases, and
bigoted ideologies that are promoted by white nationalists and neo-Nazis,"
Katey Adams, 42 Williams Drive, did not appreciate anyone implying because she was at the workshop that she
was involved in the negative comments on Facebook. Ms. Bertram stated her comments were not directed at
Ms. Adams. She believed the fate of the buildings should not be up to the Board and it should be up to the
townspeople.
Ms. Adams stated if we move the offices to Passios, her biggest concern would be by moving everything there
you are leaving the town center; there will no purpose to have a municipal existence in town center. If you read
the Building Reuse Committee minutes and you watch the November 2016 Town Meeting, there has indeed
been plans and meetings with developers. Passios needs significant work; there is most likely asbestos in the
building. If you put Town Hall there, you are bringing the entire community into a school campus. In terms of
the Tappe study, it was a space needs study. Regarding the figures being put out for the buildings; we talked
about how expensive the Town Hall is, but did not say it generates $32,000 of revenue per year, which makes it
a lot less expensive to run than is being presented. We are focusing on building costs. Some people are
interested in is the heart of our community and the historic value of buildings. What is the value of open space
for a community to come together? All we are talking about is the cost of renovations. She alleged she has not
been appointed because if her voice isn't part of what you want to hear, you don't want to be a part of it.
Ms. Bertram stated she did vote to appoint Ms. Adams and when you talk about us having an agenda; that is
insulting. I am elected to make decisions based on facts. I did not take into account the $32,000 and I should
have. However, I have been looking at the facts. I mentioned at that workshop that I lived in Pepperell and a
town field would be a wonderful thing. I have not made up my mind definitively. She appreciated Ms. Adams'
passion but with that there needs to be a mutual respect.
Mr. McQuaid noted as the Building Reuse Committee minutes recorder, the only times they met with a
developer which was very few, was to receive input on what could possibly work in town center, what
somebody could be interested in. It is a reuse committee to look at the buildings to see what the potential is. Mr.
===PAGE 3===
Toale stated there would be a time and a place to talk about this item. There are a lot of facts that were worked
on by a committee for four years that are being misinterpreted both tonight and on Facebook.
Earth Removal Permit Renewals:
Vote to renew permits and possible vote to not renew inactive sites and request closure plans
Ms. Lemieux stated this is a follow up from a previous meeting. A letter was sent to all the earth removal permit
holders informing them of this meeting and discussion. Land Use Director Adam Burney noted some permits
may be questionable whether they are doing activity or not and the deadline to renew the permits is coming up.
He recommended allotting a shorter term than one year to facilitate not taking their permit away, but allowing
them to present any evidence that they are or are not removing and to extend the conversation into September or
October. That way you are not running up against effectively taking their permit away and requiring them to go
through the application process again. He suggested three months.
Betty Jane Montouri, representing her mother for the 186 Massachusetts Avenue site, stated they take some out
in the fall for the greenhouse and in early spring to fix the flea market and more for the greenhouse. We do use
it, just not as much as we used to. Discussion ensued on how to determine what parts of each parcel are active
or inactive. It was suggested site visits may be needed.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To renew permit # 1 until November 30, 2017 with the understanding that if the term is extended for the
full term the applicant does not need to reapply or pay another fee
Vote: All in Favor
Moe Langlois, Operations Manager for P. J. Keating Company, stated the permit renewal process this year
caught them off guard. They are struggling with the fact that the permits don't have parcel numbers attached to
them. Our properties although appearing dormant, have reserves that can be excavated. We are respectively
asking to renew all of our permits which allows us to truly locate which ones they are, create action plans to
either excavate further or come up with a closure plan by the end of the permit term.
Discussion ensued and the Board was more comfortable with the 90 day term, at which point they could extend
another 90 days or allot the full term. Mr. Langlois stated although they received the letter and were aware of
the meeting; they were not informed of the sites Building Commissioner Rhodes considered inactive. Ms.
Bertram stated they could provide a list to them from the Building Inspector.
Motion: R. Ebersole
20°: P. Bertram
To renew permits #14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 27, 28 29, 30, 42 until November 30, 2017 with the understanding
that if the term is extended for the full term the applicant does not need to reapply or pay another fee
Discussion: Ms. Luck noted Leominster-Shirley Road is very dusty. Mr. Langlois stated they have extended
their hours on the water truck on their property to mitigate dust. Last year they paved additional aprons to give
them opportunity to clean the truck wheels before entering Route 70. They have been watering up to the road
and at times have watered across the road. They have received complaints from neighbors saying they shouldn't
be watering the road so they are unsure of where their boundaries are. Can the town provide guidance on what
is allowable? The Board will need to research that further.
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R. Ebersole
2: P. Bertram
To renew permits # 32 and 54 until November 30, 2017 with the understanding that if the term is
extended for the full term the applicant does not need to reapply or pay another fee Vote: All in Favor
A follow up letter will be sent to all permit owners. The Board will review the closure recommendations
presented by Mr. Burney as well.
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request- Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg on 9/9/2017
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Avenue, and Board member of the Boys and Girls Club, reported they would like
to be on Lancaster Avenue during the Fair. He stated he checked with Police Chief Marino and he did not see
any safety issues as there will be a police detail on duty. We will be parked on the edge of the road from 11:00
a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
===PAGE 4===
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To approve the request for the tollbooth fundraiser
Ms. Bertram stated the DPW Director does have some concerns. Discussion ensued about the traffic pattern.
Ms. Lemieux stated we are still waiting on waiver forms. Mr. Alonzo stated he would get them to the office.
Mr. Toale asked Lisa Normandin if the Lions' Club had any input regarding the tollbooth request. Ms.
Normandin stated she just found out about the request and would need to run it by the fair committee.
We have free parking and admission. Mr. Alonzo stated we will make it clear that it is a voluntary toll; we will
tell volunteers that you can't approach anyone and can only stand there with the buckets. We just want to go
where the traffic is.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Board. Mr. Ebersole suggested revisiting the tollbooth policy regarding reasons for
denial.
One Day Special License and Weekday Entertainment License at the Stillman Country Fair for
Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club
President Lisa Normandin stated she filled out both application forms as requested. Everyone that is going to be
serving is TIPS certified. Police, Fire and Public Works have knowledge of the event and there will be a
meeting the Wednesday before the event to address any last minute details.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the one day alcoholic beverage license and the weekday entertainment license for the
Lunenburg Family Lions Club for September 9, 2017
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole asked if we require liquor liability for the license. Ms. Lemieux stated our policy does
not require it. It will need to be addressed for the future.
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
Lions Club Request for Signage on Town Property
Ms. Normandin stated she did not speak to the DPW Director regarding this request. There was an email from
Director Rodriquenz stating it would not be a problem and the DPW would install them. He just wanted to
know where they would be going to avoid sign congestion.
Motion: P. Bertram
2^d: P. Luck
To approve the signage request from the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club with the provision
that they work with the DPW Director
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole suggested a policy for signage requests from non-profit groups.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Normandin thanked the Board.
Vote on Color to Repaint Town Hall
Ms. Lemieux reported at the August 8th meeting, we discussed the survey that solicited input on what color the
Town Hall should be painted and to be included in the bid package. The survey generated around 600 responses
with 85.33% choosing white. Under the comment section many people commented painting the Town Hall
white with black trim, shutters and detail black would look the best. Her recommendation was the
same so as to make the architectural details stand out.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"d: R. Ebersole
To paint Town Hall white with black shutters and detail
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid asked how much detail is being painted black.
Ms. Bertram amended her motion to just black shutters and doors. Mr. Ebersole seconded the motion.
Mr. McQuaid stated he was glad we reached out for public comment, but did note we went with the popular
vote over what is historical. Further discussion ensued on the color.
Vote: All in Favor
Follow-up on the PAYT Extra Large Bag, Cost for Heavier grade large bag and Survey Results
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Lemieux reported at the August 8th meeting the Board had requested a residents' survey on potential
changes to the PAYT trash bags which included adding a 40 gallon extra large trash bag, increasing the
thickness of the large bag to 1.75 mil and changing from a twist tie to a drawstring.
She presented the survey results which was a 50-50 split between making no changes (37.47%), other changes
not listed (17.43%) and adding an extra large bag (15.63%), increasing the thickness of the large bag (27.45%)
or both (21.04%). 74% of the respondents would like the bags to be drawstring.
Other items the Board asked for additional information on was the amount of additional plastic these bag
changes would require and how many Waste Zero clients have a bag larger than 30 gallons. An extra large bag
would require 33% more plastic than the current large bag and increase the mil to 1.75 which would be 16.5%
more plastic. Waste Zero has three communities that offer bags larger than 30 gallons. Taunton sells a 35 gallon
bag only, Ayer sells a 15 gallon bag (20% of sales), a 33 gallon bag (54% of sales) and a 40 gallon bag (26% of
sales). Gloucester sells a 15 gallon (15% of sales) and 35 gallon (85% of sales).
Based on the results she recommended adding the extra large bag as a pilot, increasing the thickness of the bag
and making the bags drawstring style. Purchasing the minimum order of 50 cases of extra large bags will allow
us to see the demand for this size bag and the ability to discontinue it after all are sold based on usage. This
would not be included in the Waste Zero contract agreement and would be an additional 4-6 cents charge per
bag if included in the retail distribution program; bringing the cost per bag to $4.04/ $4.06 per bag or $20.20-
$20.30 per roll. Increasing the thickness of the large bags will increase the price by 1 cent per bag and change
the pricing for a roll of bags from $12.75 to $12.80/roll. There is no added cost for changing from twist ties to
drawstring. Ms. Luck asked when we pay trash hauling charges. Ms. Lemieux stated on a monthly basis.
Discussion ensued on the total cost of ordering extra large bags
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To accept Town Manager's recommendation for the PAYT bags
Vote: Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram -aye, Ms. Luck- nay, Mr. McQuaid-aye
I-Mobile Lease Agreement for Town Hall
Another follow up from the August 8th meeting, Ms. Lemieux looked into signing a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with T-Mobile and solicited feedback from other communities on the industry standard
for communications lease agreement term lengths. Legal Counsel believed it was unlikely T-Mobile would sign
a MOU but an alternative could be the Board grant them a Use and Occupancy license for up to one year that
would allow them to continue use of the Town Hall clock tower for their equipment in exchange for paying the
current lease payment pending a new long-term lease.
Previously, the Board signed a 1-year lease with Verizon in April 2017. Northampton signed a 20 year lease in
2011 and will be putting out a Request for Proposals (RFP) for another property for a 20 year lease. Halifax has
a 20 year lease in five year increments. She recommended granting a Use and Occupancy license to T-Mobile
for the current lease payment amount pending approval at fall Town Meeting for a 20 year lease agreement with
an additional five year extension and awarded to the responsible high bidder as determined through a RFP
process. It was suggested to award five year increments due to possible inflation.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": D. McQuaid
To accept the Town Manager's recommendation
Discussion: Ms. Bertram and Ms. Luck preferred a 10 year lease. Ms. Lemieux reported the Board has
authority to issue up to a ten year agreement; we would have to go to Town Meeting for a twenty year term.
Mr. Ebersole amended his motion to a Use and Occupancy license to T-Mobile pending approval at fall
town meeting for a ten year lease with three five year extensions
2id: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Evaluation form and FY 2018 goals for the Board and Town Manager
Mr. Toale referred the Board to the draft Town Manager Performance Evaluation form. Rather than the
previous point system of rating, it was changed to "exceeds expectations", "meets expectations" and "needs
improvement." Discussion ensued on the rating system.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Luck
===PAGE 6===
To accept the Town Manager Performance Evaluation form as presented including goals and objectives
as review with the understanding that we have a to do list of coming back to see how we are actually
going to determine compensation adjustments
Discussion: Ms. Bertram was not in favor as she believed the numeric rating was important. Mr. Ebersole
added if we have a divergence of "meets, exceeds, does not meet," in the board ratings, that needs to be
included in the composite review. Mr. Toale was willing to take input on how that best gets discussed and
expressed. It was also noted on the second (6.) Schedule workshop to discuss the evaluation process, compile
information to improve future evaluations and discuss agreed upon goals and objectives for the Selectmen and
Town Manager. This would be done by the Chair.
Vote: Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram -nay, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye
Mr. Toale stated there is more work to be done on the Selectmen goals. Discussion ensued about the staff
effectiveness and supervisory oversight and direction sections and how to implement them. Ms. Lemieux
encouraged each Board member to meet with her individually.
Salary Reserve Transfer
Due to the new contract for Finance Director/Town Accountant Karen Brochu, a reserve transfer of $15,492.80
was requested from Salary Reserve 11322-578000 to Finance Director/Town Accountant Salary 11351-511000
and $480.00 from Salary Reserve 11322-578000 to Finance Director/Town Accountant Cell Phone Stipend
11351-519011. Chairman Toale signed the transfer request.
Minutes/ Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $279,944.75, a payroll warrant in the amount of
$606,312.28 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $118,883.13
The Board approved minutes of August 1, 2017.
Ms. Luck noted that this month's Legal Counsel's office hours were booked. Have the hours been expanded in
this initial phase of switching over? Ms. Lemieux reminded Ms. Luck it was going to be an action item to bring
before this Board. It was suggested to observe to see if there was a further need for more hours.
Committee Reports
Mr. McQuaid reported the Planning Board is holding a public hearing for an application for construction of a 6
MW large-scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installation at 994 Northfield Road by William Gustus. The
meeting is August 28th at 6:35 p.m. at Town Hall. Capital Planning had their first meeting on August 15*
Town Manager gave a status update of FY2018 projects. The next meeting is September 5th at 5:30 p.m. Mr.
McQuaid is the Capital Planning Committee Chairman.
Ms. Luck reported School Committee discussed the Capital Planning process and set goals for School
Superintendent Calmes for 2017- 2018. They are holding a meeting tomorrow evening and will appoint their
Charter Review Committee representatives. The Zoning Board of Appeals is considering the application of
Robert Barry, 191 Cross Road, to install a 23.04 K W ground-mounted solar array on an 8.2 acre site at the same
address. The Storm Water Task Force meets on the 24*
". Ms. Luck attended the Central MA Regional
Stormwater Coalition Steering Committee meeting. They are planning workshops to benefit members. The next
Steering Committee meeting will be October 3"d. The annual meeting will be November 16" and they are
hoping town managers will attend. Ms. Luck and Ms. Lemieux met with Bruno Fischer of MART regarding the
low ridership on the shuttle van.
Ms. Bertram reported Cable Advisory Committee continues to negotiate with Comcast on the cable license.
Their next meeting is September 7th
Mr. Ebersole reported the Sewer Commission reorganized on August 15th
. Joe Anderson is Chairman, Carl
Luck is Vice Chairman and Joan Pease is Clerk.
Town Manager Report
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town Hall basement mold abatement has begun and is about 50% completed.
===PAGE 7===
The cost is about $47,000 for that portion of the project. Ms. Bertram asked about the attic. Ms. Lemieux stated
the bird waste was cleaned up at the cost of around $7,000. All the stored records need to be moved out. She is
recommending they be stored at the Passios Building.
Treasurer/Collector Mallari has provided an updated list of tax title properties and there are a total of 48
properties as of August 14, compared to 64 in May, due to owners either paying their outstanding taxes or
entering into a tax payment agreement.
After presentations from two e-permitting software companies, Viewpoint and Permit Eyes, and a cost proposal
from a third, we have decided to proceed with Viewpoint. Their demonstration was superior and the ease of use
by the staff and outside users of the software was evident in contrast with Permit Eyes. Land Use Director
Adam Burney is finalizing the services that Viewpoint will provide and we hope to begin training in the fall
with a soft integration in January 2018 and going live with external users in early spring. Training of all internal
users and ease of use with the software is a primary goal in order to see this successfully utilized and create
as smooth a transition as possible. Ms. Bertram asked if the land use departments attended this presentation.
Ms. Lemieux stated they were all invited but only the Building Department was represented. Ms. Bertram
asked what was the annual cost for the software. Ms. Lemieux stated approximately $32,000. There will be
technology fees charged per user to alleviate that cost.
Ms. Lemieux announced the foreclosure auction for the five vacant town-owned properties will be August 29"
at 1:00 p.m. in the Bilotta meeting room at Town Hall.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS
Election Officers: the following officers are up for reappointment:
Warden: Janice P. Carrier (R); Deputy Warden: Michael Gale (R)
Clerks: Kathleen M. Pliska(D) and Darlene E. Steele (D),
Inspectors: Ellen Aubuchon (D) and B. Ellen Gale (R);
Inspectors: Ellen Aubuchon (D) and B. Ellen Gale (R);
Motion: R. Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To reappoint the following election officers: Warden: Janice P. Carrier (R); Deputy Warden: Michael Gale
(R) Clerks: Kathleen M. Pliska(D) and Darlene E. Steele (D), Inspectors: Ellen Aubuchon (D) and B. Ellen Gale
(R); Inspectors: Ellen Aubuchon (D) and B. Ellen Gale (R)
Vote: All in Favor
Charter Review Committee
The following have been selected by their committees or Town Moderator Murphy for the Charter Review Committee:
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale and Bob Ebersole
Planning Board: Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Finance Committee: Terri Burchfield and Mark Erickson
Town Moderator: Milree Keeling and Steven Archambault
School Committee: no recommendations to date
Motion:R. Ebersole
To ratify the Charter Review Committee appointments as listed
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole will organize the first meeting.
MRPC Alternate/ MJTC Appointee- Michael- Ray Jeffreys
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. D. McQuaid
To appoint Michael Ray Jeffreys as the MRPC Alternate and MJTC Representative Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale reported the next Selectmen meetings are September Sth
', a September 12 workshop on economic
development and September 19"
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Julia Callahan, 24 Beal Street, stated she came to begin participating in local government, to listen to and
witness its operation first hand. She is very interested in the town center future and is disheartened at what she
===PAGE 8===
witnessed tonight. It seems that any opposition to the current plan to move town offices to Passios is being
belittled and silenced. Perhaps you can let us know when and where we can have our voices heard openly and
respectively.
Ms. Bertram stated everyone has a right to debate and their opinion. She believed it needs to be done
respectfully and appreciates the passion of all of the people that have commented. All she is asking is rather
than viewing the Board as the enemy, that we work together. Her goal is to involve the town but to do so in an
exchange of ideas and she is in favor of a lot of the ideas on town space, of preserving green space. To be seen
as having a hidden agenda or as holding a workshop being a secretive way to do things; she has been on this
board almost twelve years. We have always had workshops. As a citizen and as you do, I have a right to
comment on that.
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, returned to the podium and alleged she was slandered during her sticker
write- in election campaign. Mr. Toale ended public comment:
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^: P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session pursuant to G.L.c. 30A, §21, to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, (i)
Town of Lunenburg v. Alleva, Worcester Housing Court Docket No. 16H85CV000812, (ii.) Cronin et al.
v. Town of Lunenburg Zoning Board of Appeals, Appeals Court Docket No. 2017-P-0099, (iii.) O'Brien
Homes Inc. et al. v. Planning Board for the Town of Lunenburg, Land Court Docket Nos. 13 MISC
477878 -13 MISC 477887, (iv) Town of Lunenburg v. Unitil, if an open meeting may have detrimental
effect on the government's bargaining or litigating positions, and to adjourn immediately afterwards.
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Bertram- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting was adjourned at 9:13 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
