===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Not present: Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Bertram reminded all about the dedication ceremony in memory of Peter Charpentier on October 28'h
at 11:30 a.m. Participants should meet at the Lane Property parking lot on Holman Street at 11:00 a.m. Please
RSVP to Ms. Bertram at pbertram@lunenburgonline.com or go to the Facebook page for the Lunenburg Snow
Riders and RSVP. There will be a light lunch served afterwards.
Tom Alonzo, Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club Board Member, reminded all about Shrieks and Krieks at the
club on Memorial Drive this Saturday from 5:30- 9:30 p.m. and the Rockin' Auction Fundraiser will be on
Saturday, November 18th
at 7:00 p.m. at the Eagles Club on Litchfield Street in Leominster.
Ms. Bertram wanted to remind all about the meeting, Promoting the Local Economy, for town residents on
Monday, November 6" at 7:00 p.m. at Town Hall.
Town Manager Report
Disturbances to Newly Paved Roads Policy and Outreach by DPW Director
The DP W Director provided examples of letters his office has mailed to residents/businesses to inform them of
roadways to be paved, specific to their neighborhood. These letters were delivered via mail or left at their door.
Now that the policy is in place the DPW Director plans to enhance these communications with additional
notification including creating a Town-wide postcard type of mailing with a picture of a newly paved road and
information (links) on the opposite side of the postcard directing them to the policy, an article in the Lunenburg
Ledger, an insert in the tax bills and will contact PACC to see about putting links to the new policy and
pavement plan on the news scroll. The policy is now on our website, both on the homepage and on the
Public works page. The DW Director will be recommending a fee schedule at the November 7th meeting and
once approved, this will be included in the information that residents/businesses receive as well.
842R Chase Road:
Town Counsel has reviewed and provided two alternatives regarding the request by Mr. McKhann to donate the
23 acre parcel which abuts the Large Town Forest and the Lane Property. Attorney Costa's review provided the
option under MGL Chapter 40 Section &C for the Conservation Commission to receive the donation as a gift of
real property, with the approval of the Selectmen. In regards to the outstanding taxes on the property, it would
either require a town meeting vote to abate the taxes or the Commission could pay the property owner the same
sum as the outstanding taxes due. This would not require a town meeting vote as long as the property had a
clean title prior to closing. The alternatives identified by Town Counsel have been forwarded on to members of
the Conservation Commission, Open Space member Brandon Kibbe, and the Land Use Director. An article for
the abatement of the taxes can be placed on the town meeting warrant and tabled if the alternative means of
purchasing the property is deemed more appropriate.
Motion: P. Bertram
2'd. D. McQuaid
To add an article to the Special Town Meeting warrant on 842R Chase Road to abate the taxes in
relationship to a gift of the property to the Conservation Commission
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
North Central Massachusetts Development Corporation (NCDC) Economic Development Council
meeting:
On Thursday I attended an Economic Development Council meeting at North Central Massachusetts Chamber
of Commerce and the featured speaker was Jonathan Berk of Patronicity. Mr. Berk discussed
MassDevelopment's Commonwealth Places Grant Program which allows municipalities and non-profits to run
crowdfunding campaigns to improve low to moderate income communities in Massachusetts. These
"placemaking" or public space improvement initiatives set a goal to raise and if achieved, receive a matching
grant amount from MassDevelopment. Some examples of projects they have funded are "The Corner Spot" in
Ashland which created a pop-up retail space and town square, Maybarton Community Garden in Clinton, East
Main Street Pocket Park in Orange, and rehabilitation of an old gas station that was purchased by a non-profit
and then made into an indoor Farmers Market. Many of these projects start with grassroots efforts to revitalize a
neighborhood and this made me think of Wallis Park. I have reached out to Chris Letarte, the sponsor of the
citizen's petition to appropriate additional funds for Wallis Park to see if this could be a potential project under
this program.
Announcements:
DLTA Business Town Partnership Grant:
Reminder that the next workshop to discuss promoting local business is on Monday, November 6th at 7 p.m. in
the Town Hall. Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room. This will be to hear from residents about their ideas about the
business community and what types of business they would like to see. The next scheduled business workshop
meeting will be on Monday, November 13th at 9:30 a.m. in the Town Hall Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room.
Town Counsel Office Hours:
Town Counsel will hold office hours on Monday, October 30th from 2-6 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Goals
• Identify desire for and type of Economic Development for Lunenburg
• Develop an Infrastructure Plan (including Roads, Buildings and Equipment)
• Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Outreach
2. Calendar Schedule for Town Facilities Meetings
Mr. Toale reported he and Ms. Lemieux have reviewed future agendas. A large amount of time will be devoted
to a town facilities and grounds workshop. Mr. McQuaid expanded on how community involvement and
charrettes can be used effectively. Further discussion ensued on what needs to be done before special town
meeting and continuing the topic following it.
3. 2030 Massachusetts Ave: Chapter 61B Right of First Refusal
Ms. Lemieux stated this is a continuation of moving forward following the Board voting to exercise their Right
of First Refusal at the October 17" meeting. After reviewing with Town Counsel and according to section 9 of
MGL Chapter 61B, due to no purchase and sale and purchase agreement being in place, the Town would have
===PAGE 3===
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion of Special Town Meeting Articles
Karen Brochu, Finance Director, was present to answer any questions regarding the warrant articles. A question
came up regarding the revolving fund for maintenance of the artificial turf field. Will there be any extra funds
other than towards paying the bond on the field in the revolving fund? Ms. Brochu stated she did not believe
there would be. There is a twelve year bond on the turf field and the school has committed $40,000. The
Lunenburg Bengals have committed $7,500. Those fees would be deposited into this revolving fund. The only
other revenue she is aware of is the cell tower lease; this is a general fund receipt but it could be used to offset
the debt service. The debt service payments we have right now are right around $75,000 annually for twelve
years. Ms. Bertram asked if there are other rental fees collected, would those funds accumulate in the fund for
future use like maintenance. Ms. Brochu stated yes.
Discussion about the ownership of and who is responsible for maintenance of the artificial turf field ensued.
There will be a joint meeting with the Parks Commission and the School Committee regarding these issues on
November 21$t
Mis. Bertram asked about the other warrant article (#7) that accepts the provisions of MGL c. 40, § 3, which
allows any funds collected for the rental or lease of any municipal property or buildings to remain in it. Ms.
Brochu stated anything over $10,000 at year's end would revert to the general fund, but it never does go over
that amount. Discussion ensued about other park properties and their maintenance needs as well. The Board will
make all their recommendations for warrant articles on town meeting floor.
Quarterly Financial Report
Ms. Brochu reported on the 1st
quarter of fiscal year 2018. 27% of estimated revenues were collected through
September 30, 2017. Depending on the votes at the Special Town Meeting in November, these numbers will
change in the second quarter. We have collected 18.80% of the estimated FY18 local receipts. All other local
receipt estimates are at or near where they should be at this time. We have collected 25.44% of our tax levy; this
includes $151,425.98 in tax lien revenue and 24.84% of our state aid estimate.
On the expenditure side, we have encumbered/expended 30.8% of budgeted expenditures as of September 30,
2017. We have surpluses in both liability insurance and workers compensation due to lower than budgeted rate
increases. She noted that expenditure estimates will be adjusted based on changes in new growth and state aid
prior to the submittal of the FY18 Tax Recap and will be reflected in the next quarterly update.
The Board thanked Ms. Brochu for her report.
2. Worcester County Selectmen's Association - Voting Member/Alternate Voting Member designee
Motion: P. Bertram
2":D. McQuaid
To appoint Jamie Toale as the voting member of the Worcester County Selectmen's Association and
Phyllis Luck as the alternate voting member
Vote: All in Favor
3.Board of Selectmen (BOS) representative for Finance Committee Appointing Committee
Motion: P. Bertram
2'd: P. Luck
To appoint Jamie Toale as the BOS representative for the Finance Committee Appointing Committee
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 4===
Road. The bylaw required u acres and the property owner only had an 8.2 acre parcel.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission met last week. There is a need to survey the meets and bounds
at 842R Chase Road. Open Space Committee member Brandon Kibbe volunteered to do the survey. Can he do
that? Ms. Lemieux stated it would be a decision of the town. Three sides abut town property boundaries.
The pollinator habitat on Hollis Road was mowed by a donation of time and equipment from Alpha Snow
Control of Lunenburg. Jeremy Spring who is going for his Eagle Scout badge, presented a project proposal for
conservation land on Pleasant Street. He is proposing to move a large rock to the side and create signage and
possibly a map depending on what Conservation wants. He would like to repair and paint the gate, expand and
level the parking lot, remove trash and add benches in commemoration of Zachary Quinn. The Commission was
very pleased with the proposal. He plans to start in the spring of 2018 and to do a site walk on October 28t to
take a look at it.
The solar proposal on Northfield Road was reviewed. The driveway has been moved away from the wetlands.
They are proposing to transplant trees over 4" in diameter rather than just removing them. They have increased
the buffer zone to 200 feet from the abutters. They did send a revised plan to the Department of Environmental
Protection who came back with some comments and they have satisfied those. It is now 5.8 megawatts, down
from 5.9 with slightly less amount of panels. Conservation was amenable to the revised plan but still wanted a
construction phase schedule. They want to review the construction schedule before issuing the final approval, so
it was continued to the next meeting. The property owners are seriously considering placing a conservation
restriction on the remainder of the land; a little over 31 acres. It would be for passive and active recreation.
They did reserve the right to expand the golf course one or two more holes. Conservation issued several
negative determinations and talked to others about violations.
Mr. Toale reported the Charter Review Committee will meet on the 25 in the Ritter Building at 7:00 p.m. and
Finance Committee has their public hearing on the Special Town Meeting articles on November 9t
He reported this Board will be meeting on the 25' briefly to sign the Special Town Meeting warrant.
He reviewed the November meeting schedule and reminded all of the Special Town meeting on November 28th
PUBLIC COMMENT
Katey Adams, 70 Williams Drive, noted there was some demolition data in the Tappe Space Needs Study data.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting
2'°: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Clairem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
