===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
January 10, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member and
Acting Town Manager Adam Burney
Not present: Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced the Lions Club Pancake Breakfast is tomorrow from 8-11 a.m. at the Eagle House Senior
Center. Cost is $2 per person. Take-out is available.
There is a member at large position vacancy on the Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Off Committee. Anyone
with tax knowledge is an added plus but this is not necessary to fill the position. If you are interested in serving
please submit a talent bank form to the Board of Selectmen office. Forms are in Town Hall or on the website.
John Baker, 53 Chase Road, presented to express opposition to any kind of a marijuana store being opened in
Lunenburg following the passing of Question #4.
Sue Doherty, Council on Aging Director, came in to clarify the Sand for Seniors Program. This was started by
Outreach Coordinator Faith Anderson about three or four years ago. The purpose was to provide 5 gallon
buckets of sand to elders aged 60 years and older and disabled people who find it difficult to get out and sand
their driveways and walkways. This is being done in conjunction with the Fire Department which received a
grant for smoke/carbon monoxide detectors. They deliver the sand and while there inspect the detectors to make
sure they are in working order. The grant will pay for new detectors for those in need. This program does not
replace the public access sand suspension at Public Works. She stated if you can't get out and get your sand,
contact the Senior Center. Anyone looking for sand can contact all local sand and gravel businesses.
APPOINTMENTS
Cannabis Cultivation Discussion
Brian Striar of Striar Development Corporation and Four Daughters Compassionate Care appeared about a
proposal for a cannabis cultivation project. Mr. Striar primarily a real estate developer, was awarded a license
in Sharon in June 2016 to construct a 31,000 square foot building and medical marijuana dispensary.
He stated he is exploring constructing a greenhouse for marijuana cultivation in Lunenburg and was seeking
feedback from the Board. The project would be a 200,000-400,000 square foot greenhouse with a 30,000
square feet warehouse for processing and storage.
Ms. Bertram asked if the facility would be for cultivation of medical or recreational marijuana. Mr. Briar stated
he would prefer to do both. She asked if the processing would include edibles. He stated there would be a
processing element in the warehouse for drying, curing and processing/packaging for edibles and for shipping to
other locations.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the Town medical dispensary bylaw allows for something of this size and is it just for
medical use. Mr. Burney stated according to section 4.1642, cultivation and/or agricultural processing is
allowed in all districts by right if the applicant is eligible for protection under section 4.13(b), the agricultural
===PAGE 2===
exemption under the town bylaw and M.G.L. c. 40A § 3. Any cultivation in a building requires a special permit
for the construction of the indoor facility. He can grow the marijuana outside without a special permit.
Mr. Alonzo asked since the Town has no bylaw to address Question #4, can the Board limit where those
medical and recreational products go from the Town's perspective.
Mr. Burney stated due to the language of the law, no special permitting for retail sales can be instituted. He did
not believe there is any way to regulate where the products go. Mr. Alonzo asked Mr, Striar if he had any
experience in growing. He replied he did not but he has hired professionals from California. Mr. Striar stated he
did not want to lock himself into just medical marijuana. He stated if Lunenburg was not interested in this, he
will go away. He stated this project could potentially employ 50-100 people if they are able to build it out to
the maximum capacity of 400,000 square feet. We would offer $1.00 per square foot to the Town annually for
allowing him to do the project. He stated he was trying to get out ahead of the opportunity. There's going to be
a lot of tax money and benefits. Mr. Alonzo stated because the town doesn't have anything in place he would
be hesitant to move forward. But if Mr. Striar wanted to go forward with just cultivation he would not be
opposed to it.
Mr. Ebersole asked if warehouse processing is allowed under our current bylaw. Mr. Burney stated the bylaw
states agricultural cultivation and processing; he would have to do further research on the definition of
agricultural processing. Mr. Ebersole stated he was fine with the cultivation part under the current bylaw but
was concerned about the warehouse and when it turns into an industrial use in a residential area.
Ms. Bertram stated she wasn't opposed to the cultivation and drying as well but is concerned about the
processing type and equipment being operated in a residential area.
Mr. Toale stated as a Right to Farm community he was excited in a way about it as a cultivation opportunity.
He was concerned about unintended consequences. He was supportive of the cultivation aspect.
Mr. Alonzo stated he took Mr. Striar's offer of a revenue source seriously. Mr. Striar stated it was an offer.
He could show the Board more information on the processing aspect, but he was willing to take that off the
table tonight. He would want a warehouse structure to process the removal of plant material, drying, curing and
packaging to move to the next facility.
Ms. Bertram asked if he was willing to enter a host community agreement. Mr. Striar stated absolutely but
would want to keep it out of medical marijuana/Dept. of Public Health jurisdiction and just let the Town decide
what they want. Ms. Bertram asked what would be the Selectmen's role in this. Mr. Burney stated the Board is
the representative of the town. Mr. Burney added if down the road there is a medical marijuana aspect of this,
the DPH would be looking for the Town's endorsement. Mr. Striar appreciated the Board listening to him and
asked how to proceed. Mr. Burney suggested formalizing the plan or a draft before going to the Planning Board.
Mr. Striar thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Application for a Common Victualer License for Kabob-e-Licious, 165 Main Street
Owner Tarrnum (Seema) Williams presented on behalf of the license application. Mr. Burney stated all
fiduciary issues have been cleared up. The office did receive an application for a Bring Your Own Bottle/Carry
In permit earlier today but due to posting requirements was unable to schedule this for tonight.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"°: P. Bertram
To approve the common vietualer license for Kabob-e-licious
Mr. Toale asked Ms. Williams if she was applying for the BYOB permit in place of an alcohol license.
She stated yes until pursuing the alcohol license.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Williams thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. New Public Records Law -effective Jan. 1, 2017- Records Access Officers) designation discussion
Mr. Burney stated the new law requires the Town appoint a Records Access Officer and most towns are
appointing additional records officers for Police Department and Fire Department due to confidentiality.
He stated in general Town Clerks are being appointed. Ms. Bertram asked if Mr. Burney had discussed this
with Town Clerk Herrick. He stated he has not. Ms. Bertram asked if this board can bestow the title on
an elected official and what if they do not want that title. The Board requested a discussion with the Town
===PAGE 3===
Clerk be initiated first as a courtesy. The discussion was continued until the next meeting. Further discussion
ensued about who should be the records access officers) and their duties. It was noted the law denotes the
municipal clerk as the RAO. Mr. Burney will contact the Fire and Police Chiefs to get a recommendation for
their departments.
Minutes of December 13, December 20 and December 27, 2016 were approved.
APPOINTMENTS: Acting Town Manager Appointments:
Inspector of Wires - John Biery, 15 Crescent Road, Lunenburg
Assistant Inspector of Wires- David Stone, 83 Arbor Street
Mr. Burney reported as of December 31st, Jim Sharkey had resigned as Wiring Inspector. Mr. Burney has
appointed John (Jack) Biery on recommendation of the Building Commissioner. He also appointed David Stone
as Assistant Wiring Inspector on the recommendations of Mr. Biery and Mr. Sauvageau.
Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $2,183,295.86; a Payroll warrant in the
amount of $735,875.18 and a Payroll Deductions warrant in the amount of $514,699.55.
Mr. Toale stated he had received a note from the attorney handling the Unitil ice storm case. He would like to
meet in Executive Session with the Board. The Board will schedule a session.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission met on January 4"*. Forester Gary Gouldrup reported on the
forest stewardship plan he is preparing for the Lane Property, the large and small town forests, the Cowdry lot
and Robbs Hill. He requested a list of goals from the Commission such as recreation, timber harvesting,
wildlife management, etc. There was a lengthy discussion about hunting. There were a couple of enforcement
orders discussed; one was at 338 Sunset Lane for unauthorized work done within the buffer zone. The
individual will be fined $300 per day. A stone wall has to be removed and a remediation plan submitted. If the
work is completed by February 1st
, they will consider suspending the fine.
Another enforcement order was for 675 Reservoir Road. The engineer was there to discuss remediation. They
implemented a fine of $7200.00.
Planning Board met last night. There was public hearing on 691 Chase Road for the construction and operation
of two street hockey rinks. The discussion last night addressed one rink as it is a phased project. Site plan details
were discussed. There was also a hearing on 5 & 9 Electric Avenue for Asian Imperial Restaurant for
construction of a building addition and an elevated parking lot. Personally Ms. Bertram expressed concerns
about groundwater recharge. There was also discussion about the Complete Streets program. The Planning
Board is interested further discussion of this. A hearing for 274 Prospect Street is scheduled for January 23ra
Town Counsel will be present for that. MPO meets again on January 25'h
Mr. Alonzo reported School Building Committee meets tomorrow. There is not much left to discuss as the
project winds down. Anything not yet completed is due to weather and will be completed in the spring. Finance
Mr. Burney referred the Board to the Animal Control Officer quarterly report. He thanked the board for giving
him the opportunity to serve the Town as Acting Town Manager as tonight was his last meeting. The Board
thanked him for filling in. Mr. Toale announced next Tuesday new Town Manager Heather Lemieux will be
starting in Lunenburg. Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone involved; the Town Manager search committee and all the
employees who made sure that we kept government going while we did the search. The Board concurred.
===PAGE 4===
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Ebersole asked if the solar project for the school had been started. Mr. Alonzo stated he was there today and
work on the roof had begun.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:21 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2'': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
......
