===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
August 15, 2017
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Phyllis
Luck, Member; Damon McQuaid, Member
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, suggested more speed limit signage by the town beach at Prospect Street.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated he continues to hear rumblings about maintenance issues at the Public
Safety Building. Regarding the town center, he requested something be done with the old garage and suggested
calling DEP for assistance. Mr. Toale stated it is unused and he would like to see it used but the gas station is
not town property and it would take a lot to make it town property or enforce any cleanup.
Workshop: Town Buildings/Current and Future Use
Mr. Toale asked the Board if they had any ideas on what they would like to accomplish this evening. Ms.
Bertram would like to see specific identified tasks. She was not opposed to the use of the T.C. Passios Building
as a Town Hall, however there needs to be more planning and town support. She asked for the reasoning behind
the proposal. Have we outgrown our present space, do we want all town offices under the same roof, is it
maintenance costs of existing buildings, is it is cost benefit analysis? What is it that we are trying to fix? One of
the biggest things she believed to be lacking is public involvement and awareness.
Mr. McQuaid agreed and would like to see a schedule of public involvement through public meetings or
charrettes, design visioning. Ms. Luck stated public meetings aren't enough, outreach is needed. Ms. Bertram
suggested website surveys and notices in the local paper. She would have loved to see tonight's workshop
televised as it would be a great start.
Mr. Ebersole stated he was on the committee when Town Hall was renovated. Thirty years later, the Passios and
old Primary School buildings are empty. He believed there was a benefit of having town offices in the same
building, communication-wise and for helping residents navigate government. We also need to plan for the
future and additional services. He expressed concerned with buildings that are under used such as the Ritter
Building. Let's come up with all the data and what is needed and our options.
Mr. Toale stated looking at the five buildings that are being discussed, there are three components.
Originally in December of 2013 we formed a committee and asked them to determine some options and make
suggestions on we could co-locate all the municipal offices. Is that still something we want to do?
The second is there are five buildings in play and any buildings we don't use for municipal use we run the risk
of them being vacant. Their fate would end up similar to the old Primary School which is unusable. The third is
how we get townspeople's support to proceed and financial support. He suggested revisiting the facts and
decisions they have made over the last four years to see if they are still valid and if we can still use them as
working assumptions.
Ms. Lemieux listed the five buildings involved: Passios, old Primary School, Brooks House, Town Hall and
Ritter Building. She looked at the number of employees, square footage and lot sizes as well as total operational
costs broken down by maintenance and utilities.
Total operational costs for the buildings for the past fiscal year were: Town Hall ($41,084.37), Ritter Building
($27,987.32), Brooks House ($6,713.21), Passios ($61,917.00) and the old Primary School ($0.00).
Maintenance costs were: Town Hall ($15,334.41), Ritter ($13,766.59), Brooks ($0.00), Passios ($21,903.00),
old Primary School ($0.00). Town Hall currently needs the following: mold remediation, HVAC repairs,
===PAGE 2===
window replacement, more parking and a records storage area. As far as the attic, there are too many records up
there and they need to be removed due to excess weight.
Ritter Building needs HVAC repairs and window replacement. The Brooks House will have a decrease in costs
for the upcoming year as one tenant is moving out. We have received $6,000 in revenue from The Lunenburg
Ledger and net metering credits for electricity cost.
Passios Building's costs are projected at $61,917. at the worst case scenario for this year; the best case scenario
is approximately $48,000. In FY17, the cost to operate was $83,239.46 with FFLAC, Extended Day,PACC and
the Superintendent's Offices. We received $99,712 in rent, an overall revenue gain of $16,473. FFLAC and
Extended Day Care will be moving out of the building. Funds and expenses for the Passios come out of a
Special Revenue Fund set up for that building. The ending balance for last year was $56,607. Total anticipated
revenue for FY18 is approximately $44,770.
Ms. Lemieux presented the conceptual program summary from the Tappe Architects' building assessment and
space needs study for square footage needs for town offices. Discussion ensued about future space needs.
Mr. McQuaid presented a slide showing the actual square footage being used in the Passios, Town Hall, Ritter
Building and the old Primary School. He presented his concept for Passios that created an open office
environment with shared meeting and storage spaces. The rest of the building could be used by PACC for their
studio space and other groups and community activities. It would be 4000 square feet smaller than the Tappe
study. Ms. Adams stated she did not think the community was ready for this plan.
Ms. Bertram noted in the Tappe study all of the cost models are based on limited information. Tappe reported a
more thorough analysis of the condition of the existing buildings along with more detailed design and scope of
any proposed modifications would be required before developing a more accurate budget. We have to decide it
this makes the most sense and to identify what the problems are. We see deterioration of buildings such as the
old Primary School and we have the Passios Building which is basically empty and we don't want that to
happen to that. She noted Mr. Ebersole addressed the consolidated services and the benefits for residents. She
wasn't sure we have outgrown the existing space, she hasn't heard that. Ms. Lemieux talked about the
maintenance costs of existing buildings. We have sort of identified the catalyst for this and we need to agree on
that. We need to agree this is what we think makes the most sense. We need to identify the real cost. How do we
do that, a Request for Proposal (RFP)? We would need to do a more thorough study with a more detailed design
Mr. Ebersole stated we need to look at all options and we need to have a discussion with the public and
ourselves on whether it makes sense to go to Passios. Then, if we do, what would it cost?
Ms. Bertram asked do we agree as a Board that consolidating all municipal offices is the option that makes the
most sense.
Mr. McQuaid stated using Passios made the most sense for town offices. If we agree, we need an architect to do
real drawings for the actual cost. Mr. Ebersole asked what do we do with the other buildings. We have a lot of
unknowns. Ms. Bertram suggested going to the firms that took out RFP packets and finding out why they did
not respond.
Mr. McQuaid stated we still have vacant buildings and need to do something with them. He suggested holding a
charrette with the townspeople with a vision on what we would like to see there and do some semblance of pre-
permitting. He presented a slide showing a mixed use concept for the old Primary School with commercial
space and housing. It would include open space and parking areas. Ms. Adams expressed concerns about
turning public property over to private use.
Rebecca Lantry, 251 West Street, stated the old Primary School is designated as Chapter 40R. This means it can
be a multi-story development. The designation remains with the property. We need to be very clear what we are
selling and where the control is. It was suggested to review the zoning for the Old Primary School.
Ms. Bertram stated one of her concerns is the existing plan for the Turkey Hill Elementary School. There are
significant repairs needed. We need to look at the timeline for those repairs and the associated cost and the plan
to address it.
Further discussion ensued about zoning in the village district as it relates to reuse of the present buildings.
Mr. Ebersole suggested getting accurate figures such as maintenance documentation for the existing town
buildings, as well as replacement of HVAC systems etc. before the next town meeting with two or three
charrettes beforehand.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Lemieux will research the square footage needs and identify the cost of repair of the existing buildings.
She reached out to the one person who showed up at the RFP opening and they stated they weren't able to
obtain funding in such a short time frame for a project. There was the assumption that we would have to go
back to town meeting for approval and they were not willing to go through all of the steps and go to town
meeting to have it denied.
Mr. Ebersole stated he was ready to move forward. He asked the Board members what they need to move to the
next step. Ms. Bertram stated consolidating the municipal offices at the Passios building is the most preferred
option and she would support that. Mr. McQuaid stated the Passios is the way to go not only for getting
everyone under one roof but also for collaboration, transparency and making a place that is approachable for
people. Ms. Luck stated when she looks at the landscape of municipal buildings clearly Passios makes the most
sense. Ms. Bertram stated we have to identify and estimate the repair costs and identify maintenance costs. All
that information is only going to strengthen our argument. We need to have a conversation with the School
Committee on their long-term plans.
Motion: P. Bertram
That the Board moves forward with the concept of consolidating all town offices under one roof at the
Passios Building
2": D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale stated one issue is how to fund this proposal. Ms. Bertram asked about the RFP process for a design
and the cost associated with that. Do we go to town meeting this year with a request to fund the RFP?
Ms. Lemieux presented a debt schedule projection created by Finance Director Brochu for a $5 million bond.
Ms. Bertram stated she did not want to lose momentum on this and suggested if another workshop were
scheduled, that it be televised. Mr. Loale thanked Mr. McQuaid tor his conceptual work
The Board will continue this at the August 22"d meeting while discussing their goals. Ms. Lemieux will have
more information and a timetable for the September 19* meeting. Ms. Lemieux will research the school
strategic plan and future plans for Turkey Hill Elementary School. Ms. Bertram stated it is important to talk
about the other town buildings too.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $70,151.14.
Mr. Toale reviewed their upcoming meeting schedule. On August 22 they will be reviewing the Selectmen's
goals, Town Manager goals and the evaluation form/process. There is a regular meeting scheduled for
September 5'
. The September 12 meeting will be a workshop on economic development.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
The question was asked if someone wanted to bid on one of the buildings, what is involved. Ms. Lemieux stated
the person who attended the bid opening was interested in an urban redevelopment project.
Maureen Martin, 54 Longwood Drive, wanted the Board to consider 40R for those buildings. She was very
concerned about what kind of housing would go into the town center.
Lois Lewis, 389 Sunny Hill Road, stated she did not like having all the municipal offices at the Passios. What
happens with our other municipal buildings and does that work to a detriment; if we can't sell them, then what
then? We also have the Village District and the Architectural Preservation District. Is this going to be extended
to the Passios School or are we just going to do what we want there? She did not want to see Town Hall be
abandoned
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, wanted to commend the Board stating this is one of the best meetings he has
been to in a long time. The number one issue is to make sure that we plan for the future and a big part of that is
parking. From his standpoint as a resident, he would ask what are you doing, who is it going to impact and what
is it going to cost? In terms of the total debt for the town, this is the only way we can look at this. In terms of
RFPs, if we are going to do this, he wanted to know what is going to happen to this building, what is going to
happen to the other buildings? How can we sit here and sell this place (Town Hall) when Damon says it is going
to fall down and there are real issues. He felt the same way about the other buildings; we've got to sell this as a
total package. There are ways of getting around the 40R status. He encouraged the Board to talk to the Finance
Committee.
===PAGE 4===
Rebecca Lantry stated she understood how they want to go forward but was concerned about what is left
behind. Look at the old Primary School. She did not want to see the center of town have a bunch of ghost
buildings that cannot be sold because they have not been maintained.
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, stated she was concerned with this whole process because from the very
beginning you talk about what you need to sell and she didn't understand from a municipal perspective why we
have to sell. She did not think we have to sell our municipal land for economic development. She believed
Passios should be torn down and we could rebuild another school there. It's not our town center. She sees the
town hall as a meeting house. We will lose our municipal identity.
Cathy Clark, 275 Cross Road, wanted to echo Mr. Rodgers. It's crazy to sell off Town Hall. The school is
busting at the seams. That concerns her. Adding on to the Ritter Building could be done.
Amory Phelps, 123 Leominster Road, asked if the Town is going to vote on this. She recommended letting the
townspeople know what you want to do before doing all this work.
Ms. Bertram stated that is what we trying to do. In order to let the townspeople decide what they want, we need
to have facts on the cost of doing nothing. There are significant parking issues in the town center. We have to
do something. Based on the information we have, those all have a price tag. We will make all this data available
to people. Mr. McQuaid urged those present to go to the town website and read the Tappe space needs study.
Ms. Bertram urged people to look at the existing conditions in the study because they have a price tag attached.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting at 9:35 p.m.
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Claim Ritesen
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
