===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Not present: Paula Bertram, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 6:30 p.m.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Katey Adams, 70 Williams Drive, asked what number the citizens' petition for the moratorium on the sale of
the municipal buildings was and if it would be moved. Ms. Lemieux stated it will be article #11 and it will
remain that number.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
1. Discussion of Special Town Meeting Articles
Mr. Toale reported the Special Town Meeting warrant closed at 5:00 p.m. earlier today. Article 10 was voted to
be added by this Board on October 23'd
. Mr. Toale read the article aloud:
To see if the Town will vote to accept a deed in lieu of foreclosure to property known as and numbered 842 Chase Road, more
specifically identified in the Assessor's records at Map 13, Parcel 013-0001, such property to be held in the care, custody and
control of the Conservation Commission for conservation purposes, and to thereby treat as having been paid real estate taxes
and other municipal charges and liens on said property, all in accordance with M.G.L. Chapter 60, § 77C; or take any action
relative thereto.
Mr. Ebersole stated he had asked Town Counsel what the implications were of moving the stormwater bylaws
from zoning to general bylaws. His concern was that if you move them out of zoning and into general bylaws
was that previously if someone wanted to appeal under zoning; it would go to the Building Commissioner and
then the Zoning Board of Appeals. That process is no longer there once it becomes a general bylaw. You would
have to go to Superior Court. Ms. Lemieux has forwarded this on to Land Use Director Adam Burney for more
information. The other thing to consider is whatever zoning was in place before this is accepted would be
grandfathered; whereas the grandfathering may or may not be in place under the general bylaws. He believed
there needed to be more discussion.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To sign the November 28, 2017 Special Town Meeting Warrant as presented
2"d. P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed minutes of October 3, 2017. The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of
$486,280.22. The Board signed the November 28, 2017 Special Town Meeting warrant for posting.
Town Manager Appointment - Senior Center Outreach Worker
Ms. Lemieux requested the Board ratify her appointment of Pauline Roy to Senior Center Outreach Worker due
to a retirement. The
Motion:R. Ebersole
To ratify the appointment of Pauline Roy as Senior Center Outreach Worker with an effective date of
December 5, 2017
2nd.P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
