===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
January 24, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town
Manager Heather Lemieux
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reported burning permits are available through May 18. They can be obtained by going to the Fire
Department section on the town website.
Mr. Ebersole stated he and other people from Lunenburg attended the Women's March in Boston on Saturday.
It was quite a spectacular event. He stated we need to work together in this country and hoped that some of the
things that came up at that event will help.
Katie Adams, 45 Williams Drive, commented on student safety and the recently proposed marijuana greenhouse
project. Ms. Adams stated she holds a Doctorate in Pharmacy and is a registered pharmacist. She has been a
stay at home mom for the past ten years. She stated Massachusetts has legalized marijuana but we need to
remember it is a drug with side effects and consequences. She did not think we should allow a marijuana farm a
quarter of a mile from our new school. Regarding school security, she did attend the School Committee
meeting last week and expressed concerns about the lack of surveillance cameras at the two elementary schools.
The schools are planning on installing cameras at both locations. As a parent, she would like to see a school
resource police officer in the schools. She requested additional funding to provide for this position. Mr. Toale
stated this is the time of year when we put budgets together. It is a good time to be reviewing this and he
appreciated Ms. Adams coming in.
APPOINTMENTS
7:05 PM Mr. Toale stated the pole petitions from last week's meeting were continued to tonight but the
representative was not present. He opened the hearing for the pole petition on Northfield Road.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To continue the hearing to February 14 at 7:05 p.m.
2°°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the Strategic Framework Steering Committee meeting was postoned to February 6 due to
the weather. The School Committee met on January 18" and during public comment two parents expressed
concerns about the need for camera surveillance at the two elementary schools. Superintendent Calmes stated
she would be moving the request to Capital Planning. There was a presentation on the preschool program and
one on a donation of a field house to be attached to the refreshment stand to be named in honor of deceased
student A.J. Robbins. The committee has given a provisional approval to the project and anticipates a formal
approval when the project is further along. They requested monthly updates on the plan. The committee
discussed the budget; Supt. Calmes stated the FY18 budget will reflect a $1,172,864 increase over FY17 with a
total budget of $19,628,762. The Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition steering committee meeting was
postponed today to February due to the weather.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory Committee met and reviewed the Public Access Cable Committee's
proposed business plan to be presented during negotiations for the renewal of the Comcast cable contract.
The public hearing will most likely be in mid-May. Finance Committee meets in two weeks.
Regarding the School Building Committee, there have been some drainage issues reported in the students'
school parking lot. There is not much to be done to resolve this until winter is over. There were also some
problems with some of the smart boards. They are working with the manufacturer on this.
Mr. Toale reported Capital Planning met this afternoon and created an initial prioritization of all the requests.
He noted the school did move the surveillance cameras request to this year. The next step is to present their
recommendations to the Town Manager and Finance Committee.
Mr. Toale opened the pole petition hearing for Burrage Street at 7:15 p.m.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To continue the pole petition for Burrage Street to February 14* at 7:15 p.m.
Mr. Toale requested the time be amended to 7:10 p.m. Mr. Ebersole amended.
2nd: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
There were no minutes for approval. The Board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $726,019.98; a
payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $160,394.54; a Middle/High School construction warrant in the
amount of $732,083.42 and an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $629,014.82.
Action file issue: Ms. Luck asked about Town Manager performance reviews and updating the form before it is
needed again. Mr. Toale stated the Board should review their goals at the same time. This will be addressed at a
future workshop meeting.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lemieux reported she has met with the Fire and Police Chiefs, the DPW Director, Land Use Director,
Town Accountant and the Treasurer/Collector. She has also met with representatives of MIIA, the Town's
insurance company, John DiNapoli from Unitil, some residents who needed assistance and attended two Capital
Planning meetings. On a more informal note she has spoken with town employees and department heads in
order to introduce herself. She has also spoken with Joel Bard of KP Law and Marc Terry of Mirick and
O'Connell to be briefed on pending legal cases. She will meet with them in person at a later date. Tomorrow. she
will be attending an admin board meeting at the Devens Regional Dispatch Center and will tour the facility.
She will attend the pancake breakfast at the Senior Center on February 8" as well as the Council on Aging
meeting on February 14th
Ms. Lemieux and Executive Assistant Peterson attended the MMA meeting in Boston this weekend. Ms.
Lemieux attended the Labor Law Update and District Management of Your Downtown Revitalization Effort
workshops. The latter focused on creating a vibrant downtown and on three case studies of business
improvement districts in Amherst, Taunton and Beverly. It created a public/private quasi-partnership to sustain
that development.
Ms. Lemieux has received one FY18 budget request so far and the deadline for submittal is Thursday, January
'. She will be meeting with that department tomorrow and she plans on blocking off time next week to meet
with all the departments to review their budgets.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town received eight responses to the Legal Services Request for Proposals. She
offered to create a list of questions in preparation for the February 28"h meeting when the Board will see 10
minute presentations from each firm. She asked the Board members to submit any questions to her to compile
by the next meeting. Further discussion about the interview format ensued.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Police Union Memorandum of Understanding was received by her today and it just
requires one more signature from Attorney Terry. She reported free cash should be certified by the MA Dept. of
Revenue by the end of the week.
Ms. Lemieux reported she received a resignation effective February 6 from the Building Commissioner on
Monday. She will be working with Land Use Director Burney on filling the position.
===PAGE 3===
7:30 PM Class Il Auto Dealer License Renewal Request; Nuttings Body & Frame Co.
The licensee was not present for the renewal request. The Board read a memo from Executive Asst. Peterson on
why the renewal was late. Mi. Alonzo stated given the reason, he was willing to allow the late renewal but was
disappointed the applicant did not appear this evening. Mr. Ebersole added if this happens in the future the
Board would expect the applicant to appear before the Board.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": R.Ebersole
To approve the renewal of the Class II Auto Dealer License for Nutting Frame and Body Co.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux continued with her Town Manager report, specifically on the Community Compact Program.
This Best Practice Program is a voluntary, mutual agreement between the Town and the Administration
(Commonwealth). In a best practice compact, a community will agree to implement at least one best practice
that they select from a variety of areas. Applications to enter into the Community Compact program are
accepted on a rolling basis. It would be preferable to enter into the Community Compact by February 15* as
that would make the town eligible for the IT Grant that is due April 15. A community can choose up to three
best practices. After reviewing a variety of things in Town and the ideas that align best with the Board's goals,
she suggested the creation of an economic development plan, completion of a Brownfields inventory so the
community is aware of all abandoned and underutilized properties, conducting site assessments to determine the
nature and extent of a contamination and developing a plan of action or regionalization of animal control
services. The Town would over a two year period implement the best practices they selected.
Ms. Luck suggested implementing stormwater management measures so that land use regulations help promote
infiltration, control flooding and reduce pollution since we are already working on that. She also suggested
addressing filtration and inflow to reduce unintended storm and wastewater in the system and the cost of
treating it. Mr. Ebersole stated other than the abandoned gas station in the center of town, he was not aware of
any other brownfields. Mr. Toale stated preparing a capital improvement plan that reflects the community's
needs caught his eye. Further discussion ensued.
Ms. Lemieux moved on to the Efficiency and Regionalization Grant Program. The town can apply for one
individual application (an efficiency measure) and participate in one multi-jurisdictional application
(regionalization of a service or other collaborative effort). She stated a need that has been identified as a
possible application under this program is a permitting software that would be utilized by all applicable town
departments (Planning, Building, Conservation, Sewer, Highway, Board of Health, Board of Selectmen, etc).
This would streamline the process, all departments would be able to view the application. Every parcel in town
would be able to be identified. For an individual application efficiency measure, grant funding goes up to
$100,000, which is the approximate cost of the implementation of that software.
For the multi-jurisdictional application, grant funding goes up to $200,000. The Town could choose to submit
an application for the regionalization of Animal Control Services. The advantage of applying for Regional
Animal Control under this grant program instead of the Best Practice program is that awards can be up to
$200,000 and the Town could be eligible for the first year's costs, building of a new kennel, and possibly a new
Animal Control vehicle. Fitchburg would be the lead community with Lunenburg. Townsend is also interested
in participating.
Motion:R. Ebersole
2nd: T. Alonzo
That the Board provides a letter of support for both applications to the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
After discussion, the Board added prioritizing best practices for the Community Compact to the February 7"
agenda.
7:45 PM Jeff Smith - Cemetery Commission/DPW Regulations
Mr. Smith did not appear for his appointment. Ms. Lemieux stated Mr. Smith has concerns about accessibility
to the cemetery and some public safety concerns. He has attended multiple Cemetery Commission meetings,
met with the Town Manager and Police Chief Marino. The Board asked to reschedule Mr. Smith for another
night.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule for the Board.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was no further comment.
Mr. Toale read the Executive Session reason aloud.
EXECUTIVE SESSION M.G.L.c.30A §21; To discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and the Chair declares
so. (Unitil Ice Storm)
Motion:R. Ebersole
2"°: T. Alonzo
To enter into Executive Session and adjourn afterwards
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned at 7:53 p.m.
***********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate*******************************
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem Piterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
