===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
81J410 Ant
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
February 14, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town
Manager Heather Lemieux
By remote participation: Paula Bertram, Member
Others present: Finance Committee members, Terri Burchfield, John Henshaw, George Martin
Capital Planning members: Damon McQuaid, Karin Menard
Town Accountant Karen Brochu
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale announced Ms. Bertram has requested to participate remotely by telephone due to physical illness
this evening. He telephoned her and welcomed her to the meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck congratulated Turkey Hill Lions Club President Lisa Normandin who received a Lion's Club
prestigious award at their annual meeting last Saturday. Mr. Alonzo lauded the DPW crew for keeping the
roads clear through the successive snowstorms and public safety personnel for keeping everyone informed.
Mr. Toale read the following announcement from the Town Clerk office:
In anticipation of the Annual Town Election on Saturday, May 20, 2017, the Citizens Party Caucus will be held on
Monday, March 20, 2017 at the Turkey Hill Elementary School; 129 Northfield Road at 7:00 P.M. Anyone interested in
running for office should attend the Caucus, and if nominated, will be placed on the ballot. Those who are not nominated
that evening may pick up nomination papers from the Town Clerk's Office. Those papers must be returned to the Town
Clerk with a minimum of 42 valid voter signatures on or before Thursday, March 31, 2017 at 4:00 P.M.
Offices to be filled are (2) SELECTMAN FOR 3 YEARS; (2) BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER FOR 3 YEARS;
ASSESSOR FOR 3 YEARS; (2) SEWER COMMISSIONER FOR 3 YEARS; (1) SEWER COMMISSIONER FOR 1
YEAR; (2) SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER FOR 3 YEARS; PARK COMMISSIONER FOR 3 YEARS;
COMMISSIONER OF TRUST FUNDS FOR 3 YEARS; CEMETERY COMMISSIONER FOR 3 YEARS; (2)
LIBRARY TRUSTEE FOR 3 YEARS AND PLANNING BOARD MEMBER FOR 5 YEARS.
Annual Town Census should have been returned to the Town Clerk by now; if you did not receive a census form, please
contact the Town Clerk at 978-582-4130 or stop by the office at 17 Main Street and fill one out. Lastly, the 2017 dog
licenses are due April 1" and will be available by the middle of February.
7:05 PM Pole Petition (continued) Northfield Road
Unitil Representative Jim Dee was present for the pole petition. He noted the revised plan with the driveways
indicated on it. He stated 2 mid-span poles would be installed 1405 feet from West Townsend Road; one pole
would serve 1048 and 1054 Northfield Road and the other would serve 1034 Northfield Road. Mr. Ebersole
noted the poles would not be in the owners' driveways.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2n°: T. Alonzo
To approve the two pole locations Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms.
Bertram - aye, Mr. Toale-aye
7:10 PM Pole Petition (continued) Burrage Street
Mr. Dee stated this pole would serve 331 Burrage Street and a common drive to a second lot.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d. T. Alonzo
===PAGE 2===
To approve the pole location Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram -
aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Finance Committee Chair Terri Burchfield called the Finance Committee meeting to order, stating a quorum
was present.
Capital Planning Presentation to Finance Committee and Board of Selectmen
Capital Planning Chair Toale stated the committee is composed of Heather Sroka (School Committee Rep.),
Karin Menard (Clerk/Member at Large), John Henshaw (Finance Committee Rep.), Damon McQuaid (Planning
Board Rep.) and himself.
Under Facilities Maintenance there is a request for painting Town Hall amounting to $87,750 and one for
painting the Senior Center for $18,300. A request to remove underground fuel tanks at the DPW totalled
$110,000, another for Building Automation at the Public Safety Building was for $15,250 and a request to paint
the Teen Center amounted to $16,750.
The Capital Planning Committee is recommending the Senior Center and Town Hall painting and the fuel tank
removal totalling $216,050.
Mr. Toale reported under Department of Public Works there is a playground replacement request for $12,000, a
GMC dump truck in the amount of $53,767 and a Ford pick-up truck in the amount of $43,124.
Capital Planning is recommending the playground project and the GMC dump truck totalling $65,767.00
Under the Fire Department, there are requests for a replacement Command Car totalling $60,000, replacing
Engine 4 totalling $615,000 and Ladder 1 totalling $890,000. Capital Planning is recommending purchasing the
Command Car at $60,000.
Under Police Department, requests are for eight tasers totalling $10,500, (2) police cars totalling $111,000, an
All Terrain Vehicle in the amount of $17,000 and Riot Gear totalling $20,000. Capital Planning is
recommending the tasers and police vehicles totalling $121,500.
Under School Department, there are requests for asbestos removal at Turkey Hill Elementary School in the
amount of $145,000 and a school surveillance system amounting to $52,370. Mr. Toale reported we have heard
since the intial request for the surveillance system that the school may have an alternative on how to pay for
that. Capital Planning recommends the asbestos removal at $145,000.
Under Technology, requests are for a Police fingerprinting system amounting to $25,000; town-related
computers amounting to $10,000 and school-related computers amounting to $36,000. Capital Planning is
recommending the finger printing system in the amount of $25,000.
All requests totalled $2,349,111. The FY2018 recommended capital expenses total $633,317.00
Additional recommendations from the committee are to move smaller items into the operating budgets of the
individual departments to allow for trade offs; to allot available cash over Capital Planning recommendations to
a reserve fund for bigger items in future years and to continue to explore financing options.
Ms. Bertam asked Mr. Toale to expand on the other option that the school may have for purchasing the
surveillance system. School Superintendent Loxi Calmes reported that at the last school committee meeting,
Facilities Director Londa had reported the school budget had a surplus in the line for natural gas account due to
renegotiations on the rate.
Ms. Bertram asked about the Technology requests, typically in the past these were funded through the Capital
Plan to ensure coordination of technology and making sure it fit in the IT network. If departments are working
on their own, how are we going to ensure the compatibility with the network? Ms. Lemieux reported that in the
preliminary budget tonight you will see it in the IT operating budget.
Ms. Bertram asked what is the Building Automation for in the Public Safety building. Mr. Toale stated it was
for computerized control of lighting, heating, etc.
===PAGE 3===
Finance Committee Chair Burchfield asked if the operating budget included the $46,300 for computers in the
technology budget and if it included both school and the town. Ms. Lemiuex stated it did but only included the
$10,000 on the Town side. The $36,000 would go into the school budget. Finance Committee Vice Chair Mark
Erickson asked was there any attempt to prioritize the second priority items for the future. Mr. Toale stated if
we had any funding above the $633,317, we will set up a reserve fund; for the big items we would require
special financing.
Town Manager Fiscal Year 2018 Preliminary Budget Presentation
Ms. Lemieux stated this budget was a challenge to put together in such a short time. She thanked the department
heads for their cooperation. She stated there are some disclaimers and a number of assumptions in this
recommended budget that will be firmed up as we get closer to Annual Town Meeting such as state
assessments, insurance renewals, state aid, free cash estimate when certified, some budgets not submitted yet,
the Monty Tech assessment and the FY'17 ice and snow deficit spending. The goal in preparing this
recommendation was to create a balanced budget that reflected a minimum of level services with certain above
level service expenditures. Those reflect the Town's need for increased public safety services. The
recommendation covers all contractual salary increases, as well as employees covered under the salary
administration plan. It meets the Town's financial policies including maintaining a minimum amount of 5% in
stabilization and is a balanced budget based on the use of recurring revenues for operating costs. One of the
challenges we face is the state aid figure; right now we only have the Governor's proposal for state aid.
On the expenditure side, the liability, workers compensation, police/fire injured on duty insurance coverage
figures are all estimates given by our insurance providers. The budgets that were not received by the deadline
were level funded.
Revenue sources include property tax, state aid, local receipts and other revenues totalling an estimated
$39,850,595. Ms. Lemieux noted that under State Aid, the Smart Growth 40S amount was kept in the budget
but this number may have to be removed from revenue and expenditure if not awarded. Free cash will not be
used for the operating budget but will be used to offset capital items, the contribution to Other Post
Employment Benefits (OPEB) with the balance to be placed in a special purpose stabilization fund.
Expenditures are a reflection of the cost of providing a level of services to residents of all ages in the
community, to visitors travelling and doing business in Town and maintaining and improving our facilities. As a
town we provide services to students, provide health and human services to senior citizens and Veterans,
recreational services and public safety to all. The focus is how we provide these services not on the number of
employees we have. The balance is to provide the best level of services within our available resources.
Expenditures include departments, retirement assessment, non-appropriated costs such as cherry sheet offset
charges, allowance for abatements, tax title and state and county charges. Also included is the Sewer Enterprise,
solid waste disposal services and cable access. All of which are offset by sewer betterments, bad fees or
Comcast subscriber fees. The capital requests and other warrant articles that have a financial impact also have to
be included on the expenditure side but are proposed to be offset by free cash.
The above level services requests we have received this year include the following:
$31,000 for general government for services to recruit new growth costs, small claims court costs and to
increase the band width for data backup,
$228,000 for Police Department request to hire three additional police officers;
$575,000 for Fire Department request to hire six full-time Firefighter/EMTs and their training costs;
$38,000 for Dispatch weekend coverage;
$36,000 for DPW for a mechanic's assistant;
$9,000 for the Council on Aging Outreach Worker pay versus grant funding;
$3,000 for Library reclassification and an additional three hours for one staff person
$1.1 million for the Lunenburg Public Schools to fund the Superintendent's/School Committee recommended
budget.
===PAGE 4===
Right now for Annual Town Meeting warrant articles we have the Capital Planning Committee's
recommendations amounting to $633,317. Ms. Lemieux is recommending to proceed with the priority 1 capital
requests to be funded with free cash and using the balance to be used for any general fund articles, placing
$100,000 into the OPEB trust fund and depositing the balance into a stabilization fund account that will fund
future capital items.
Other FY2018 Expenditures include Non-Discretionary Debt Service and Unclassified such as Insurance
estimates. There is an estimated 10% increase for Police/Fire Injured on Duty and Workers' Compensation;
5% increase in General Liability and 6% increase in health insurance renewal. We should receive final figures
by mid March/early April. The largest percentage of our health insurance costs is due to retirees; this is on a
calendar basis and we used the same increases as last year.
Less Discretionary and Discretionary Expenditures include one additional police officer and one additional
firefighter/emt, increased training for Fire and Police, additional funding in the Assessors' and Tax Collector's
budgets that will increase personal property new growth and recoup uncollected taxes; funding in Information
Technology to increase the bandwidth to ensure offsite backup and move hardware updates to the operating
budget from the capital budget; $50,000 for pavement management and includes the recommended school
budget. Finance Committee will be reviewing these in more depth at their meetings.
Ms. Lemieux presented a five year tax rate impact on an average single family home's assessed value with and
without debt exclusions.
Conclusions: This budget fully funds all contractual obligations, is balanced based on recurring revenues for
operating costs and maintains level services with two additional employees. The recommended budget does not
fully meet service needs as recommended by department heads and includes the Governor's proposal for state
aid.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Finance Committee will begin a detailed review of the FY'18 budget on February
. The House Ways and Means Budget will be received by the end of April and the Senate Budget will be
received by the end of May, so we will not have final figures for Annual Town Meeting on May 6"
Finance Committee members Erickson and Burchfield thanked Town Manager Lemieux for her presentation.
Further discussion ensued on the stabilization accounts and the budget. Mr. Toale also thanked the Town
Manager for pulling this budget together in such a short time.
The Finance Committee adjourned their meeting.
Approval of Requests for Proposals for Town Building - Building Reuse Committee
Mr. Toale reported the committee has an aggressive schedule to get the Requests for Proposal on the Town
Buildings out. The first step is to discuss the wording on the RFPs themselves. Mr. Toale wanted to thank Land
Use Director Burney and Ms. Lemieux on their work on the RFPs. Ms. Bertram expressed concern about the
availability of parking at the old Primary School, She reminded the Board about the Lunenburg Historical
Society coming to a meeting and expressing concerns about the need for parking spaces. Discussion ensued
about options. Ms. Bertram asked about a Selectmen serving on the Building Reuse evaluation committee. Mr.
Ebersole volunteered to serve. Ms. Bertram also sent out some grammatical errors that need to be corrected.
Motion:T. Alonzo
2'': R. Ebersole
To approve the RFPs as submitted with grammatical corrections and to add one Seletmen member to the
committee Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Discussion on Legal Counsel Presentations
Ms. Lemieux reminded the Board that the presentations will be on February 28". Nine firms have responded.
Eight firms can make the 28" but Joel Bard of KP Law has informed Ms. Peterson that he cannot make that
date. He has requested an alternative date and seeking feedback from the Board. The Board requested another
KP Law representative appear on the 28" Mr. Toale stated this meeting will be taped by Public Access.
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
There were no minutes for approval. The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of
$47,167.34, an Accounts Payable in the amount of $229,698.08 and a Payroll warrant in the amount of
===PAGE 5===
$765,437.48. There were no action file issues.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported most meetings have been postponed due to the snowstorms. School Committee meets
tomorrow and Storm Water Task Force meets on the 23'd.
• She will be attending the steering committee of the
Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition tomorrow morning.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets on the 27";, Finance Committee is meeting Thursday and hearing
from Land Use and Council on Aging on their budgets. School Building Committee met on Wednesday and did
not have much business other than signing invoices. The new smart boards that were malfunctioning were
doing so due to vibrations. Additional bracing will be attempted to correct this. Other items need to wait until
spring.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Library Trustees continue to update their policies, specifically use of their public
room as well as children in the library without parental presence.
Sewer Commission continues working on inflow and infiltration and grease trap compliance. Ms. Bertram
reported MPO is meeting tomorrow and will be voting on the TIP amendment which includes funding for Chase
Road. She requested a letter of support be sent to MRPC in advance of the meeting.
Ms. Luck requested a future agenda item address a policy for opening up road surfaces.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lemieux attended a Council on Aging meeting and one item discussed was the Lunenburg Stroll. The
purpose of this event was to bring more visitors to Lunenburg specifically the Senior Center, Teen Center,
Historical Society and Library as well as local businesses. The Council on Aging is looking for support from
this Board as well as more volunteers. Before they proceed they want to ensure there will be more involvement
in the event. Ms. Lemieux volunteered to work with the various groups as she thought it was a good event to
continue.
She moved on to the Request for Proposals for Town counsel. After reviewing the RFPs in more detail she
found a number of the critical questions are addressed in their proposals. Questions may be limited to follow-up
questions regarding the RFP. She will be sending the Board a list of questions that they might want to ask in
addition to the ones outlined in the RFP before going on vacation.
Ms. Lemieux reported Adam Burney will be Acting Town Manager in her absence for the week of February
She congratulated Fire Chief Sullivan and the Fire Department on being awarded a State Student Awareness for
Fire Education (SAFE) grant in the amount of $3,951.00 and a Senior SAFE grant in the amount of $2,596.00.
Mr. Toale stated the Town is seeking volunteers to help out with the Memorial Day Committee ceremonies.
Anyone interested should call the Board of Selectmen office with their contact information.
He reported there would not be a quorum for the February 21" meeting. Available board members will need
to come in on next Tuesday to sign the payroll and accounts payable warrants.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo wanted to thank Ms. Bertram for being the first Selectman to participate in the remote participation
process of tonight's meeting.
Motion: T.Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting at 8:31 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Toale-aye
2"d: R. Ebersole
Respectfully submitted,
Claim Beleron
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
