===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
that
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 0 7 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 2, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room, with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk;
Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux.
Not present: Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo announced the May 18' 7:00 p.m. public hearing for the renewal of the Comcast cable license
renewal. Mr. Toale announced Annual Town Meeting is this Saturday at the Middle/High School at 9:00 a.m.
Memorial Day Observance will be Monday, May 29 at 10:00 a.m. at Veterans' Memorial Park, weather
permitting. If it rains, they will move inside the Senior Center.
Mr. Toale announced he attended a regional firefighter training exercise at Devens at the invitation of the Fire
Chief Sullivan. The topic was building collapses. He commended them for staying abreast of these topics.
DPW Director Rodriquenz stated he wanted to take the opportunity on behalf of the DPW family to thank Mr.
Alonzo for his years of dedicated service to the Town. Mr. Alonzo thanked him.
Katie Adams, 25 Williams Drive, stated she is opposed to Annual Town Meeting Articles 22-25. She believed
they were undemocratic as they will take away the townspeople's ability to vote on what will be some big
decisions on historic municipal space.
7:05 PM Entertainment License - 300 Holman Street; Jason Cohen d/b/a Forest Dance
Applicant Jason Cohen presented with Production Manager Gregory Jones. Mr. Cohen stated they are in their
fourth year of the Unifier Roots Gathering. They have created an LLC and plan on purchasing land in Tolland,
Massachusetts but because nothing is under a contract yet, they need to find a location for this year. The
property owner, Mr. Massey, 300 Holman Street has granted premission for them to use his land. Unifier brings
together educators and artists; a combination yoga festival, sacred world music festival and a dance festival. It
is also a live art show, place for interfaith ceremony, Permaculture, sculptural works and circus arts. It is a place
to care for the land and to eat organic food and to be inspired and to inspire our children and elders.
We are looking at a smaller gathering of a core group of people. Mr. Jones presented a video showing some of
the events from previous gatherings. Mr. Cohen stated there has been concern expressed about the event. He
noted there is a lot prayer and ceremony at the gathering with no alcohol or drugs. They eat organic food and
support local farmers. They compost all of their food. They also have programming for children.
Green River Festival. What distinguishes this event from others is this is an 8 to 80 age type of event, very
unique and family oriented.
Ms. Bertram stated she would like to hear from the Police and Fire Chiefs. She was concerned about the number
of attendees and possible sanitation issues; mainly a potable water supply for sanitation washing. Also the
potential parking concerns and fire access. She asked have you contacted the Board of Health yet and are all of
the vendors you have contacted licensed through Nashoba Associated Boards of Health? She wanted to know
about the event times, any noise ordinance and to make sure this event addresses past concerns from abutters
about camping on the Holman Street property.
Mr. Cohen stated they do have Tolland Board of Health inspector Valerie Byrd's contact information and her
contact information for a reference. All of their vendors are SafeServ certified and have individual liability
===PAGE 2===
coverage. Ms. Bertram reiterated that her understanding was that they need to be licensed so he would have to
check with the Nashoba Board of Health.
As far as parking, two acres are planned to accommodate that. There is a space for emergency vehicles to access.
They are waiving the fee for Thursday to encourage participants to come early and alleviate some of the traffic
flow. They are prepared to hire a traffic detail for Friday and Sunday. Mr. Jones stated they are providing a
portasam with water for handwashing and there will also be a water buffalo for water for other uses. Ms.
Bertram noted those portasams also need to be permitted. Mr. Jones acknowledged that. Mr. Cohen stated we
are not having a big bonfire, we have a small fire with three foot lengths of wood and it is monitored the entire
time. It is located in a place surrounded by water on three sides.
Darren Massey stated his property has 140 acres. There are eight acres of open fields. Mr. Massey stated as the
property owner he is ensuring his property is safe for the event and he has done due diligence in checking on the
applicant's past events and references as he wants to remain in good standing with the Town.
Ms. Luck asked how much land was dedicated for the event. Mr. Cohen stated five acres. He added they used
Google Earth to find a location for the stage that will not affect abutters and they are setting up a hotline that
people can call into if they do hear noise so speakers could be adjusted accordingly. Camping will be on the
west side of Mulpus Brook away from the conservation land. No swimming will be allowed in the pond and
people will be asked to sign agreeing to not do so.
Chief Marino did have public safety concerns with such a large group of attendees. He was also concerned
about parking. Mr. Cohen stated they will have parking attendants with walkie talkies and orange safety vests.
He asked if people were coming or going during the event. Mr. Jones stated some come for one day but the
majority come for the weekend. Mr. Cohen stated they are capping attendance at 500. People start coming in
Thursday afternoon but no events occur with a sound system speaker until Friday except some announcements.
Chief Marino stated another concern is vehicles coming in and out on Chase Road especially on Sunday. Mr.
Cohen stated people leave on different times on Sunday and some will leave on Monday morning. Chief Marino
stated he would probably require some type of police presence with respect to the traffic. They would need to
go over a traffic plan. Another concern was noise levels between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. He added if there is a
noise complaint we have to come down and this could increase service calls on the weekend. We may require a
detail officer to address those concerns. Mr. Jones stated because there are so many things going on there could
be a small percentage of people in front of the stage.
Mr. Toale recommended delaying a decision until May 16" so they can meet with the appropriate departments
to work out the finer details. Mr. Toale welcomed any public comment on this topic. Bill Kenerson from South
Row Road stated he and his wife have both attended the Unifier Gathering in Tolland. He went for the day and
she went for the weekend. He stated he has never attended such a well-organized event with so many respectful
people. The place was spotless and people were very friendly. Staff was attentive to make sure everything was
going well. Betsy Kenerson attended the festival. She is a nurse and was impressed by the cleanliness. It is an
incredible event for all; a beautiful spiritual family event.
Ms. Bertram agreed with Mr. Toale on not being ready to make a decision tonight. She requested feedback from
the two Chiefs, Conservation Commission, Board of Health and the Land Use Director. Mr. Alonzo stated he
was not certain as to what they are applying for as a weekday entertainment license. These usually are single
day events. We need to look at what our authority is and what is the landowners' authority, public safety
notwithstanding. As far as our licensing goes, this type of event has never happened before in town. Do we have
the authority to offer these licenses for what they are seeking? Also, what is the Town's and the property
owner's insurance liability? Mr. Cohen stated he already has spoken to Executive Assistant Peterson regarding
the insurance coverage and we definitely have to protect ourselves as well. We have already named the Town of
Lunenburg on our coverage. Mr. Jones stated every town's entertainment license is never precise to any event
and you almost have to make them original for each event.
Land Use Director Burney stated the entertainment license falls under the Board of Selectmen and this is
something zoning would not concern itself with because it's not a use of the land but rather an event on the
land. We have checked with legal counsel and it's a one time event. There is a commercial component to this
that warrants a license. Mr. Cohen wanted to mention that they are applying for non-profit status as a 5010 3.
Mr. Toale suggested coming back on the 16 after talking to the pertinent departments. Mr. Jones stated this
event is open to the public. Ms. Luck asked about waste removal. Mr. Cohen stated they have staff that handle
===PAGE 3===
that. We recycle to seperate all the materials and compost the garbage. We like to leave theland cleaner than
how we found it. The Board thanked them for coming this evening.
Police Association Car Show
Police Chief Jim Marino presented on behalf of the Lunenburg Police Relief Association to hold a Cruise Night
on Wednesday, June 14, 2017 (rain date June 21) from 4 - 8 p.m. on Memorial Drive. We have checked with
the School Department, the Council on Aging and the Teen Center and asked if they would be opposed to this
event on Memorial Drive. We have invited members of the antique/classic/ hot rod car community. The
purpose is to invite as many of the local businesses to come and promote their services in the center of town.
Some of the local auto dealers will display new cars. We will have food vendors. We want to see how it goes
and if it takes off to do something bigger next year. Mr. Alonzo asked if he talked to some of the local
residents. Chief Marino stated he was waiting to get permission first. People would park at the school.
We will have a local DJ playing music. A police officer (name unknown) stated he checked with the school and
there are no events scheduled that night. We will direct traffic to enter through the school on Mass. Ave. and
park there.
Motion: P. Bertram
2'd: T. Alonzo
To approve the Cruise Night event on June 14* with a raindate of June 21 from 4 - 8 p.m. with the
stipulation the residents have no objections to the road being closed during that time Vote: All in Favor
Annual Town Meeting Warrant
Articles 22-25
Mr. Toale reported the four articles grant to the Board of Selectmen care, custody and control of the four
municipal buildings for general municipal purposes and for the purpose of conveyance. The four properties are
the Ritter Building, Town Hall, old Primary School and Brooks House. The warrants add the words
"conveyance." The Building Reuse Committee feels very strongly that our ability as a town to market,
negotiate, utilize buildings that are or may become surplus is enhanced by the ability of people who are
responsible for that and who have a knowledge of all the associated data to be able to make that decision. That
does not preclude in any way from involving the town; having public and marketing sessions, charrettes, etc.
The Building Reuse Committee believes the Selectmen should have the ability to convey these properties if it
becomes appropriate. The reason for revisiting it tonight prior to town meeting is the concern that not enough
safeguards were in place.
Building Reuse Committee member Damon McQuaid, 49 Brookview Terrace, reviewed the Village District and
Architectural Preservation District (APD) bylaws as they pertain to the articles and the center of town. He stated
the goal is not to take this out of the hands of townspeople. Town Meeting floor is a difficult place to design by
committee what the residents want to see in the center of the town. The Planning Board and Architectural
Preservation District Commission (APDC) would be the appropriate boards that decide that initially and get
peoples' feedback on what they want rather than at the mad rush of Town Meeting floor.
The Village Center bylaw uses allowed are retail with a maximum 5,000 square feet floor area, professional
office space, personal services, artist space, restaurant, bed and breakfast, mixed use containing less that 5,000
square feet per individual proposed use, and civic uses.
Uses allowed by Special Permit are single and two-family homes, multi-family homes, apartment complexes,
movie house/theater(two screens maximum), liquor stores, outdoor markets subject to applicable licensing
requirements, private clubs, drive through use for banks, retail use greater than 5,000 square feet and uses
allowed by right with a floor area greater that 5,000 square feet included in a multiple commercial use or mixed
use development.
Special criteria provisions, prohibited uses and design standards were reviewed. He stated they spent over a year
and a half holding public hearings, charrettes and doing research with the Historical Commission and Historical
Society as to what's appropriate in the town center. Site design includes interior streets, walkways, and access,
parking and loading areas, sidewalks, landscaping and street furniture.
Moving on to the APD bylaw, he stated this is a second level of protection. Design standards are under "binding
review" currently. This commission will be reviewing any demolition or alteration of a historic building in the
center of town as well as any materials that are going to be used on the building. Height and proportion, relation
===PAGE 4===
of structures and spaces, shape, scale, directional expression, garages and accessory buildings and materials and
methods of construction will be addressed by the regulations. The APDC will be holding public hearings on
these criteria. He added he didn't see these ATM articles taking away anyone's voice.
Mr. Toale stated the Building Reuse Committee will dissolve at Town Meeting and from that point on whatever
we do/vote, becomes the responsibility of the Town. We propose that each building be taken as a separate
building. Land Use Director Burney reported the APDC has forwarded their draft regulations to Town Counsel
for review. Thay have scheduled a public hearing for those regulations for May 16'
Mr. Alonzo asked if all four buildings were in the Village District and Architectural Preservation District. Mr.
Burney stated yes. Mr. Alonzo stated the old Primary School Building was already conveyed to the Selectmen.
He was initially against doing this initially because the APD guidelines were not ready. He was much more
comfortable with this at this time.
Ms. Bertram thanked Mr. McQuaid for coming forward stating it was helpful to hear. She still had concerns
specific to the Ritter Memorial Building and Town Hall. She wasn't as concerned about the old Primary School
but was about the parking availability for the Historical Society. She believed before they convey that building
they should carve out a parking area for them. Ms. Bertram continued about Town Hall and Ritter Building; we
talked about potentially adding onto this building and modifying it. We talked about the T.C. Passios Building
and dividing it and using for municipal and other rental purposes. However she didn't know if it was ever
presented to the town to get their comments and feedback. Second, she didn't know if an official decision has
been made by this Board and did not know if we have identified the potential cost of that. She would like to
have all of that answered before conveying our municipal buildings.
Mr. Toale stated the plan to consolidate the municipal offices into T.C. Passios was approved by this Board and
at town meeting. The result was that Town Hall and Ritter Building would become under-utilized or vacant. If
we change direction, then Passios becomes excess space. We are most likely losing some of our Passios tenants.
Our proposal that was approved at town meeting was to consolidate into Passios. There is an estimated cost of
$4.7 million, which has no funding currently. We would need around 20,000 to 25,000 square feet which
includes the PACC studio and the only building that can accomodate us is T.C. Passios. The original approved
plan was to demolish one wing of the Passios to make it the size we were looking for and we have since said
maybe we want to wait on that in order to generate rent during the transition period.
Mr. Alonzo noted the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club is outgrowing their building and property and might have
some interest in using Passios also. That would free up the current Teen Center building.
Further discussion ensued about what was approved previously and going forward. Ms. Bertram stated she
would be opposed to Articles 22 and 25 at this point and Article 24 concerning the parking at the old Primary
School. Mr. Toale stated if 24 passes the Board can convey the parking space as they see fit and stated he did
not believe Town Meeting floor was the place to decide such things. Ms. Bertram stated they could agree that
they disagreed. Mr. Toale stated this is a very complex issue with a a lot of data and variables. Our objective
was to broaden our opportunities.
Articles 34-35
Ms. Lemieux reported Mr. Ebersole drafted the bylaw articles handout based on the bylaw review committee's
recommendations.
Article 34:
ARTICLE II TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Add new bolded language to SECTION 1:
SECTION 1. All Boards, standing committees and officers of the Town, shall keep proper records of all their doings and
accounts. The records and vouchers of such boards, committees and officers shall be kept in their respective offices and
shall not be removed therefrom; such records and vouchers shall be open to the inspection of the citizens of the town,
the said records and vouchers remaining under the supervision of the board, committee or officer having charge
thereof.
Minutes of all town boards and committees must be approved in 30 days and periodic review of executive session
quarterly. The minutes of all town boards and committees' meetings shall be filed with the Town Clerk within two (2)
===PAGE 5===
weeks after those minutes are approved by the board, and the minutes of all executive sessions of those boards and
committees shall be filed with the Town Clerk within two (2) weeks of those minutes being made public. Minutes shall
include the material substance of the discussions, including votes, and need not be a verbatim record unless otherwise
required by law.
ARTICLE 35. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town By-laws to address substantive changes to Article II,
Town Administration, Article V, Article VI, Article IX, Article XII, Article XXII, Article XXVI, and Article XXVII; or
take any other action relative thereto.
Discussion about the deadline for minutes ensued. Concern was expressed about the frequency of some
committee's meetings and discouraging volunteers. Also who would enforce this? The Board took no action.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Tax Title and Foreclosure discussion (cont.)
Ms. Lemieux presented an update from the previous discussion in March. A list of 63 tax title properties that
might go to foreclosure or tax lien sale was presented by Treasurer/Collector Mallari.
Ms. Lemieux stated a tax title assignment sale is the sale of tax liens that have gone through the tax-taking
process but have not been foreclosed. Selling the lien does not transfer ownership. Under M.G.L. Chapter 60, §
52, the Treasurer has the authority to assign and transfer tax title(s), individually or bundled to the highest
bidder. At the time of tax title sale, the Town recoups all the delinquent taxes, interest and all associated costs
(legal, recording costs, advertising).
Ms. Lemieux noted the Treasurer/Collector has committed to send a letter to the property owners 30 days in
advance of the sale so they have the opportunity to pay the delinquent taxes. The average minimum cost to
move a property through the Land Court foreclosure process is $3,500. Currently the Town only budgets $8,000
per year for tax title foreclosures (approximately two properties).
Based on the list of properties the Conservation Commission has expressed interest in, it would cost the Town
$56,000 to foreclose, create a deficit of approximately $180,000 in abated taxes and reduction of $1,208,400
from our Tax Levy. Foreclosure can take up to two years in Land Court. The original owner has a one year
redemption period after final court ruling to pay the amount owed on the property. Land Court protects owners
by allowing all available options to set up payment agreements). During the foreclosure process, it is not
accruing the 16% interest. The percentage of Tax Titles that actually end up foreclosed is .2%.
The public auction will attempt to recoup the value of all delinquent taxes and get them back on the tax rolls.
Auctioning off foreclosed properties does not cost the Town money. The auctioneer adds a percentage of the
sale on top of the auctioned price that the buyer is responsible for paying.
Ms. Lemieux stated if a tax title company bought all the delinquent properties, they would bring all the taxes
owed to the Town up to date.
Currently the Town owns four foreclosed properties:
• 1162 Mass Ave.-taxes owed dating back to 1983 = $119,111
• 98 Youngs Road- taxes owed dating back to 1990 = $65,684
• 425 W. Townsend Road -taxes owed dating back to 1993 = $70,114
• 485 Townsend Harbor Road -taxes owed dating back to 1988 = $83,029
Discussion centered on the assessed values of land and ability to recoup taxes owed and to foreclose on some
more valuable properties and sell them off for a profit. It was suggested to hold a workshop on the tax title
property list to divide which should go to foreclosure or to auction. Ms. Lemieux recommended postponing the
traffic rules and regulations workshop scheduled for the 9*h and holding it on this topic. Ms. Lemieux thanked
Ms. Mallari for all her work on this.
CURRENT BUSINESS (CONT.)
Review of Motions on Annual Town Meeting Articles
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Lemieux reviewed the motions for Annual Town Meeting with the Board. She reported Article 1 will be
passed over as there are no reports to be heard. Article 5 requires a majority vote not a 2/3d's. The tentative
amounts for Article 12 and Article 14 are $3,496.90 and $26,500 respectively. DPW Director Rodriquenz will
read Article 18 for the Cemetery Commission. Articles 37 and 39 might be passed over if there are no
substantive changes.
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of April 4 and April 11, 2017 were approved and signed. The Board signed a payroll deductions
warrant in the amount of $517,670.97, a payroll warrant in the amount of $690,311.68 and an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $881,422.04.
The Board signed a thank you letter to the members of the Architectural Preservation District Commission.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on April 26"h. There was a transfer from the surplus in the school
electricity line account of $45,000 to the capital improvement line account to be used for security equipment at
the Primary School. They adopted a school lunch insufficient funds policy against school lunch debts and have
already begun collecting money. They accepted $1600 in donations from Hannaford's and Fitchburg State
University's professors. They meet again tomorrow.
Ms. Luck attended the Central MA Stormwater Coalition Steering Committee meeting on April 24". They are
up to 33 community members and Natick, Fitchburg and Marlborough are joining. There was discussion about
the state taking over the Ms4 permitting. The coalition is not in favor of this because they don't believe the
state will be as stringent as the EPA. Due to the current change in the federal administration, it is still up in the
air. There was discussion around the need for each community to have its own flood plan survey and flood plan
mitigation plan in place and it to be updated every five years. They meet again on June 26 in Auburn.
The Storm Water Task Force met April 27
the Community Compact best practice. They decided on four different items. Land Use Director Burney will be
drafting that recommendation and presenting it following a vote at their next meeting.
Ms. Bertram reported the MPO met on April 19". They are working on the 2018-2022 Transportation
Improvement Plan. They do not have enough projects to meet the available target funding. They are proposing a
special meeting on May 10* at 6:00 p.m. to solicit proposals from member communities. There is a draft plan
out now for public comment. She requested an update on the Chase Road project regarding the project's
potential advertising date prior to the October 1" deadline. There is a draft Critical Urban Freight Corridors out
for public comment.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets on May 15th
', three days before the public hearing on the cable
license renewal. School Building Committee is scheduled to meet on May 10th
. Finance Committee met last
Thursday but he was unable to attend.
Town Manager Report
Ms. Lemieux reported on what's been accomplished and set in motion since she began in January;
FY 2018 Budget, Community Compact Program, Complete Streets Program, Town Counsel Request for
Proposals (RFP) and Sale of Municipal Buildings RFP. She stated she looked forward to making progress on
other projects.
Ms. Lemieux reported the DPW Director contracted a cleaning company for bird waste remediation in the
Town Hall attic. Our office contacted the Secretary of State office to find out what our options are regarding
records in the basement that are beyond repair. As long as we keep a record of permanent records that were
destroyed, we can destroy them. DPW will set up an area in the parking lot at a future date for departments to
determine what is to be destroyed or retained and cleaned. The next step will be to solicit quotes on making the
basement waterproof.
Ms. Lemieux received notification from the Lieutenant Governor's office that the Community Compact signing
will be May 4* at 2:00 p.m. in the Public Library Community Room. This event will be open to the public.
She announced National Grid will be installing a gas pipeline this week from the Whalom area rotary to the
Electric Avenue intersection, turning north on Electric Avenue to the new Unitil Building site. National Grid
===PAGE 7===
will be providing gas service to Unitil because it is outside of the Unitil service area. It is unclear whether area
residents will be able to tie into the gas pipeline.
Mr. Toale announced tonight's Executive Session will be postponed to a later date. The next Board meeting is
Tuesday, May 9". It will not be televised but is open to the public.
There was no public comment other than Mr. Alonzo commending an attendee for sitting through the entire
meeting this evening. Ms. Lemieux asked if the Board needed to meet before the town meeting. A fifteen
minute meeting will be scheduled prior to it.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 10:04 p.m.
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
