===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TECEITEDED
@ MAMAY * 7202017 L
JUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 9, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room, with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux.
Not present: Tom Alonzo, Clerk
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m.
Public Comment:
Ms. Luck informed there is a workshop in Boston on May 23d presented by MCPPO (Massachusetts Certified
Public Purchasing Official Are You a Member of a Public Board or Commission? Know Your Responsibilities.
Ms. Bertram sent an email to DW Director Rodriquenz regarding a special MPO meeting on May 10"* as she
wanted to know if there were any projects he had planned. The MPO is requesting communities to bring
projects) information to discuss the potential of including the projects) in the TIP. Ms. Bertram will be
attending.
Mr. Ebersole stated in the Request for Proposals (RFP) process on the municipal buildings, if the developer had
to put a deposit down, that would be returned if their proposal was not selected; could scare some developers
off. He suggested looking at the RPF process going forward, having them only place a deposit if selected.
Ms. Bertram requested a future agenda item to be what we do now as a result of town meeting; the TC Passios
plan and where we go from here. Mr. Toale suggested adding this as a part of a workshop and including all
municipal buildings so we have a capital plan for maintenance, etc.
Mr. Toale announced he would attending the next Worcester County Selectmen's Association meeting which
will focus on setting Town Manager goals.
Katie Adams, 25 Williams Drive, stated she wanted to come tonight as she was very opposed to Articles 22-25
at the annual town meeting, concerning the sale of town buildings and indicated she wanted to volunteer her
time to a committee or something. She did not believe we had surplus land in our town center and she believed
Building Reuse Committee focused on the buildings but not on the future needs of municipal land. She believed
there was enthusiasm for commercial development. She wanted to see more open space brought back.
Annual Town Meeting Follow Up
Mr. Toale asked if there was any short-term follow up from to the annual town meeting. Ms. Lemieux reported
nothing short term. The municipal buildings will be more of a long term issue.
Tax Title/Foreclosure Workshop
Ms. Bertram stated she had drafted a list off of the Collector's tax title property list with her comments. Ms.
Lemieux reported two properties on the list have entered into payment agreements with Collector Mallari so
they will be removed. Ms. Bertram asked if the town was required to enter into a tax payment agreement with
delinquent taxpayers/property owners. Ms. Lemieux replied yes. She stated Ms. Mallari has made every attempt
===PAGE 2===
to enter into payment agreements with the owners of these properties; making monthly payments and taking
into consideration if they are elderly or need special consideration.
Ms. Bertram stated moving forward we have to prioritize the properties and set a policy. What is the
Selectmen's role in this in comparison to the Tax Collector? Ms. Lemieux stated the tax title role is completely
at the discretion of the Treasurer/Collector by law. Ms. Mallari was looking to make sure the Selectmen and
Conservation Commission were all on the same page and was seeking guidance. The foreclosure procedure to
auction the property is the Selectmen's responsibility. Ms. Bertram stated she has researched all of the
properties and referred to the Sunset Ave. and Hollis Roads parcels as high priority. Looking down the list,
some properties have a low assessed value and in some cases the taxes owed exceed the land value. She
believed it would be better to sell the lien and get rid of those properties. In some other circumstances it may
make sense to look at the potential value of the property. 422 Mulpus Road is valued at $265,300 and taxes
owed are $17,418.10. Ms. Lemieux stated the flip side of not selling those larger ones is that we will end going
through the foreclosure process with them. Mr. Toale stated if there is a huge difference in value, people are
going to pay that off before they let the property go into foreclosure. The tax title experts are efficient at doing
this, they can get it done quickly and get people to pay up and if they don't, they collect the interest until they
pay up.
Mr. Ebersole stated this Board is not in the business to make money off of sale of these properties but in the
business of collecting taxes. He would be more interested in looking at the properties to foreclose on in order to
keep them. Mr. Ebersole stated once we foreclose on any properties with high values that have a building on
them, we would be responsible for maintenance and liability of those buildings. Ms. Bertram stated as soon as
we foreclose on it, we can auction it. Mr. Toale suggested turning over the entire bundle but choosing the ones
we want to keep. Three options to keep in mind: take no action, keep or sell.
Ms. Bertram believed when the Collector sends out letters to these property owners stating we are going to sell
the lien or foreclose on the property, it will force many to pay their taxes. When it doesn't happen, we can
foreclose. Ms. Bertram suggested moving the 250 and 356 Hollis Road and the 422 Mulpus Road properties to
foreclosure. Another property was on 11 Valley Road.
Ms. Bertram moved on to the property list that the Conservation Commission is interested in. The Board
discussed Ruth Street and Flat Hill Road properties because they provide access to Lake Shirley. Questions
arose about obligations and liability if the town owned the land and provided access to Lake Shirley. On 1529
Rear Mass Ave., Mr. Ebersole requested more conservation discussion on this property and wanted to know
what the benefits are and does it affect trails, kayaking, other things like that. Next was 175 Pierce Street, 867
Rear Leominster Road and Braeburn Circle, all are on the back side of Massapoag Pond. There is no road
access to these lands from Lunenburg and they do not appear to be buildable. It was suggested to communicate
with Leominster to see if they have access to the land for possible joint conservation before leaving it on the
list. 408 Lancaster Road abuts the town's Woodruff Property but doesn't add anything to it. 875 Flat Hill Road
is tiny (.23 acres) but could provide access to Lake Shirley for recreational purposes. After discussion, it was
decided to leave it on the list for tax title sale. 512 Mass Ave. abuts Hollis Road. It was decided to leave it on
the list for tax title sale. 224 Townsend Harbor Road abuts the Cowdry Conservation land but has a house on it.
It was decided to leave it on the list for tax title sale. 294 Holman Street abuts the Lane property. It was decided
to leave it on the list for tax title sale. 422 Mulpus Road was discussed again; valued at $265,300 and taxes
owed are $17,418.10. The Board requested more information on this property. 39 Wildwood Drive has 30.5
acres and abuts the Large Town Forest. The Board was interested in this parcel.
213 Island Road (.23 acres) is only valued at $1600.00 but the back taxes are $38,000. The owners are
unknown. 230 Kilburn Street (5.8 acres) is valued at $126,100.00 and taxes owed total $9051.80. This is located
at a problematic intersection. It was suggested to ask the DPW Director about this property and if there is no
interest to keep it on the list. 220 Lancaster Road was kept on the list. 1229 Mass Ave. (Lunenburg Estates) was
a former potential 40B site and could generate substantial revenue, if auctioned.
70 Pleasant St. was discussed next. Conversation went back and forth on whether to foreclose and auction or
keep on the tax title list, if taxes aren't paid off. It was decided to leave it on the list for tax title sale.
===PAGE 3===
Discussion of a policy on tax title property ensued. It was suggested to have the Collector create a policy for tax
title properties, including timing and process. Payment plans and failure to adhere to payment policies should be
included. A realistic budget should be planned for next year for legal fees, collection and advertising.
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $146,360.61. The Board signed the FY 17,
4" Quarter Water Commissioners Warrant and Collector's Commitment in the amount of $6355.68.
Mr. Toale stated their next meeting is May 16".
'. Does the Board want to meet on the 23d for a workshop at 6:00
p.m.? It was decided to have a meeting for setting goals and board reorganization.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Bertram noted the stained ceiling tiles in the HS collaborative meeting have not been fixed yet. Mr.
Ebersole stated he had sent an email to Facilities Director John Londa and it is being scheduled.
The question was asked what will happen to the municipal buildings since the articles failed at town meeting.
All five buildings are in the care and custody of the Selectmen but the only one they can sell is the old Primary
School. Mr. Toale stated the Board will be discussing how to proceed in the near future.
Katie Adams stated she found it ironic that the Board was talking about adding town conservation land while
her passion is to preserve it here. That is how she and some people feel about this town land because some
people may not have horses or snowmobiles or go hiking in the more remote parts of Lunenburg but may want
to have a picnic or play Frisbee on a field. People have suggested the old Primary School lot be a parking lot
for Ritter Building and Historical Society. Could the back of it be a garden or open space; could it be its own
type of conservation land? This is something she would suggest similar to Central Park in New York City.
Ms. Luck noted we have to see what we can afford. Ms. Bertram personally would like to see charrettes on the
buildings. Ms. Adams stated she has found a lot of interested people and the next step is to get them to show up.
She thinks there is a lot of passion about the Town Center.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:36 p.m.
2"d: REbersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
