===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
4U3 02 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
July 11, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Damon McQuaid, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux.
Not present: Phyllis Luck, Member
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
There was no public comment.
1. Update on 101 Pleasant Street
Land Use Director Adam Burney reported the property owner had done some of the initial work to prepare the
site per the Order of Conditions (OOC) that was issued for continued logging and reclamation. Conservation
Administrator Marro, Conservation Chair Bursch and Mr. Burney will be doing a site visit tomorrow and they
have a meeting scheduled with the property owner at 10:00 a,m. tomorrow to follow up on his next steps. Mr.
Burney has spoken to legal counsel about claiming the fines and we will move forward with pursuing that,
giving the property owner one more opportunity to pay them. If he does not pay, a lien can be placed on the
property. The OOC stays with property, even if sold. The Order of Conditions is good for three years.
Discussion ensued about the contractor who did the land restoration not being paid still after nine months by the
property owner.
Ms. Bertram asked about a Certificate of Compliance being issued from the Conservation Commission. Mr.
Burney will follow up on that.
2. Budget Revision Request #23
School Superintendent Calmes has submitted a budget revision request in the amount of $9,600 for projector
mounting stabilization from the contingency fund. Greg Bittner, School Building Committee, reported sixteen
projectors had a problem with shaking during class changes. The developer and manufacturer have never seen
this happen before. They placed a stabilization bar from the ceiling down to each affected projector which fixed
the problem. Mr. Toale asked if this problem was under warranty. Mr. Bittner stated this question was asked but
received blank stares and shrugged shoulders. Question was asked why the town is responsible to pay for it. Ms.
Bertram stated a substantial amount of money was paid for these projectors. I would question why they were
shaking and if it is 18% of the projectors, it is not a small amount of money. Mr. Bittner stated the manufacturer
came out and ran several tests as to a fix for it. We ended up testing four of them in different ways at the cost of
$700. They were installed according to the manufacturer's specifications by the general contractor. The Board
was hesitant to sign the request and discussed further. It was suggested to inquire further. Ms. Bertram asked for
an update on the roof and possible leaking to be placed on a future agenda.
3. Artisan Festival - Sat. July 15"* 10:00 a.m to 5:00 p.m.
Library Director Martha Moore is requesting to close down Memorial Drive to hold the event outside the
Library. Mr. Ebersole noted there are two houses with driveways affected and how is the Library
accommodating them.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Bertram
To approve the temporary closing of Memorial Drive from Mass. Ave to the corner of Memorial Drive
subject to accommodations being made to the two homes abutting the property
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
4. Discussion on Planning Board appointment process and questions for the applicants
Mr. Toale stated the two applicants met with the Planning Board last night and were interviewed by them. He
asked the Board if they would like to ask particular questions or react to presentations by the candidates and
how do we want to handle the actual voting process. It was decided to ask the Planning Board members were
available on August 1 since one Board member will be on vacation on July 18t.
Ms. Bertram stated she would like to ask the candidates the following questions in advance in writing:
What role do you think the Planning Board should play in economic development?
What do you see as important land use issues confronting the Town of Lunenburg?
What things do you look forward to working on?
What would you do if the Planning Board faced a development proposal that meets all of the regulations yet a
large number of citizens appear before the board to stop it?
What do you feel are the most important issues facing the Planning Board and what would be your top three
priorities?
What do you think we should do with future development and redevelopment issues?
What is the Planning Board's role in supporting the existing communities?
Mr. McQuaid asked:
What are the three things you would like to accomplish? If you could only do one of your three, which is the
most important?
Mr. Toale stated following the interview questions, there would be a request for nominations. It needs to be
understood by both Boards that you only have one vote; so if you are not for, you are against.
Mr. Bittner requested the Planning Board be included in the questions when they are sent out to the candidates.
Mr. Toale thanked the Planning Board for sending theirs to this board.
TOWN MANAGER APPOINTMENTS
Assistant Town Clerk- Tina LePage
Board Clerk (for recording Sewer Commission Minutes) -Emily Lehto
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd, P. Bertram
That the Board ratifies the Town Manager appointments as presented
Discussion: Mr. Toale stated he was not in favor of having board clerks. Ms. Bertram agreed and added that it
was an enterprise fund and she did not think this Board had any control over that.
Vote: All in Favor
Board of Selectmen Policies and Procedures Workshop
Ms. Lemieux referred to the latest version of the policies and procedures document and suggested going
through it section by section. She stated it was difficult to ascertain the origin of acceptance of some of these
because they were in different locations. The board has accepted some sections that were not included in the
document that was revised in 2015. Ms. Bertram stated this board had reviewed this document section by
section in 2015 and then she copied, pasted and typed it out. The Board held several workshops. Nothing has
been done since.
The Board and Ms. Lemieux started with ARTICLE I. Section 1.02. Ms. Bertram stated the last line in the first
paragraph did not make any sense.
Section 1.08 Meeting Procedures —Paragraph six will be deleted except for the last line which will be moved to
end of the second paragraph.
Section 1.11 Public Comment- Discussion ensued about process and thinking behind of when and how to
inform affected residents on agenda items.
The Board changed direction to review a draft Financial Policy; Borrowing Limits on Debt Service Costs.
Finance Committee Chair Terri Burchfield stated this came about after the Town was informed by the bond
advisor/company that we were not in compliance with our financial policies because we didn't take the school
debt into account. The only change is to add the excluded debt portion and to set a number for settling the debt.
===PAGE 3===
Debt service costs of debts financed by regular borrowing and by debt exclusion overrides should not exceed 14
percent of the total tax levy at any time. She added it would be good to have an asset inventory which includes
the potential lifespan for future planning. Further discussion ensued on future projects and the impact of the
policy if accepted. This policy will be voted on at the next meeting and will replace Article III. Section 3.01
Borrowing, if approved.
The Board returned to ARTICLE II. OPERATIONAL POLICIES. Mr. Ebersole referred to 2.04 Email Policy
stating this is Open Meeting Law. Ms. Lemieux suggested adding wording to expand on the policy.
The Board reviewed X. Vehicle Accidents and changed the monetary amount to a maximum of $1000.
Ms. Lemieux suggested adding "Payroll Benefits Coordinator" in addition to the Selectmen's office to who
should be notified under Section IV. Registering and Insuring a New Vehicle.
Under Section V. Reimbursement of Work-Related Travel Expenses, "Accounting Department" should be
changed to "Finance Director/Town Accountant." She suggested removing "Drivers Ed Vehicles" from the list
under VII. Assignment of Municipal Vehicles. In the next sentence, the word "or" should be inserted between
School Department Vehicles and Municipal Vehicle assignments and "Town Administrator" should be changed
to "Town Manager."
Under VIII. Rules and Responsibilities, Employees may not operate Municipal Vehicles or Personal Vehicles
being used for work-related travel, under the influence of alcohol, illegal drugs, or any controlled substances
AND Employees are prohibited from possessing open alcohol containers, illegal drugs, or controlled
substances, the word "marijuana" should be added.
Under Section X. Vehicle Accidents, "Accounting Office" should be changed to "Finance Director/Town
Accountant."
Regarding Attachment C, Town "Administrator" should be changed to Town "Manager."
Article III. Section 3.02, B, 1. (d) should be deleted as technology purchases will now be incorporated into the
operating budget.
Under Section 3.04 Stabilization and General Reserve Fund, Section C. General Reserve Account (Fund), C. 1.
The following shall be deleted: "Further, the law limits the General Reserve Fund to an amount not to
exceed five percent of the town's tax levy for the preceding year." Under C. 3. Delete the words "But if,"
Wording will be changed to read, "The law limits the General Reserve Fund to an amount not to exceed five
percent of the Town's tax levy for the preceding year but the policy of the Town is that it should not exceed one
half of one percent of the current omnibus budget for the Town."
Under Article IV. Liquor License, 1. A., replace "License Commission" with "Board of Selectmen."
Under 1.03, (I.) will be deleted as Section 4.02 addresses Bring Your Own Bottle. Section m. will be re-lettered
to 1. Discussion ensued about Section One, 3. (a.) application for a carry in permit shall be made to the Board
at the time of initial or renewal for the common victualer license. It shall be deleted and the section re-lettered.
Regarding Taxicab and Limousine licenses, the question was asked if the Town requires Sexual Offender
Registry Information checks for taxicab licenses. Discussion ensued about performing CORI and SORI checks
on limousine and taxicab drivers. Input from the Police Chief was requested.
Ms. Lemieux noted a new section (4.08) is needed for Sunday Entertainment Licenses as there is only Section
4.07 Weekday (Public Entertainment License. She reported she has spoken with Land Use Director Burney
about a Special Event Permit geared towards events like the recent Unifier Festival.
Ms. Lemieux had requested feedback from DPW Director Rodriquenz and Land Use Director Burney on Article
V. Use of Public Buildings/Public Property, Section 5.02 Road Acceptance. Rodriquenz was okay with the
current protocol and Burney suggested requiring compliance with the Planning Board Rules and Regulations
governing the subdivision of land rather than the Protective Bylaw as all roadway design and construction
standards are included in that document. Several changes were made to the wording.
Ms. Lemieux noted the Board had no written policy on use of Town buildings and property.
Discussion ensued on Article VI. Personnel. Ms. Lemieux suggested creating a separate handbook for employee
policies only. Family and Medical Leave and Sexual Harassment policies were provided by Labor Counsel.
Discussion moved on to Alcohol and Drug Testing for employees with a Commercial Driver License. More
discussion is needed for this policy.
===PAGE 4===
Under Compensatory Time, the word "salaried" was changed to "exempt." There will be some policies that
need to be included in both the Board of Selectmen policies and the employee handbook, such as Family and
Medical Leave.
The Board reviewed the draft Social Media Policy next. Suggestion was made to provide a link back to the
social media policy on the website. Suggestion was made to ask legal to review the CORI Policy.
The question was asked if all the policies apply to employees and appointed/elected officials. Ms. Lemieux
stated no. Once adopted legal should be asked which policies apply to either.
The Board moved on to discussing a tollbooth fundraising policy and criteria. Wording shall be drafted based
on recommendations sent by email.
Other policies suggested are an ADA policy, marijuana in the workplace, general conduct, professional conduct.
and a flag policy. It was suggested to check with other towns to see if they have a flag policy.
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,110,152.00; a payroll warrant in the amount
of $643,536, 77 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $15,531.90.
Ms. Bertram suggested instituting a penalty/suspension for failure to comply with license requirements. It was
decided to make it an action item for legal counsel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Katey Adams, Williams Drive, asked about the process for appointing to the Planning Board vacancy.
Mr. Toale stated one of the members of the Boards would make a nomination for appointment and votes will be
taken.
Motion:D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 9:30 p.m.
2nd. P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Respecttully submitted.
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
