===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 1S 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
June 13, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Paula Bertram, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member, Damon McQuaid, Member and Town Manager
Heather Lemieux.
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club Pancake breakfast at Eagle House Senior Center tomorrow from 8:00 to
11:00 a.m. The price is $2.00 and takeout is available.
Ms. Luck, Mr. Ebersole and Mr. Toale attended the Memorial Ceremony for the Police, Fire and EMTs on
Sunday morning. It was a beautiful and meaningful service.
Mr. Toale announced "Kids and Teens Eat Free", for ages 18 and under on Mondays and Wednesdays from
Noon to 1:00 p.m. June 26 through August 9 in the Library Community Room. This runs in conjunction with
the summer reading program and is sponsored by the Summer Food Service Program and hosted by the Library.
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, spoke about the Town Beach and the sense of community there. She was
concerned about the hiring process. Mr. Ebersole noted the Parks Commission is meeting Thursday, June 15 at
7 p.m. and one agenda item is town beach summer hiring and policies and procedures discussion. He
encouraged her to attend the meeting with her concerns.
Tom Alonzo, 285 Lancaster Rd., Cable Advisory Committee Chair, announced the public hearing held by the
Board of Selectmen this Thursday at 7 p.m. This is to review Comcast's compliance with the cable license
contract. He encouraged residents and town departments to provide input for video services. Cable Advisory
will meet on the 19 and finalize the business plan.
Police Chief Marino thanked the public for their patience during the road construction on Route 2A. He
reminded everyone about Cruise Night tomorrow night on Memorial Drive from 4 to 8 p.m. He hoped to see
everyone there. Mr. Toale stated a volunteer booth would be set up for the town committees and boards.
Appointment of Full-time Police Officer
Chief Marino recommended ratifying the Town Manager appointment of John Morreale Jr. to full-time police
officer. He was selected from a pool of ten applicants through a hiring process that included an application, pre-
screening component and an oral board. Morreale served as a reserve officer with the Lunenburg Police
Department and is a Lunenburg resident. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from U/Mass
Lowell and has completed the Municipal Police Training Committee, Reserve Intermittent Police Academy at
West Boylston.
He will be enrolled in Police Academy in the fall and is working on a waiver issued by the Massachusetts Police
Training Committee prior to attending.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To ratify the appointment of John Morreale Jr. to full-time officer effective July 1, 2017
Vote: All in Favor
Applause resounded for Officer Morreale Jr.
===PAGE 2===
Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) Guidelines
APDC members Richard McGrath, Chair, Jim Laveck, Vice-Chair, Cullen Dwyer and Brian Corcoran,
presented to get feedback, comments and questions from the Board of Selectmen regarding their draft
guidelines and regulations.
Mr. Ebersole commended the commission for their hard work on the guidelines. He stated there is some
wording in the guidelines that the APDC would like to see, but recognize that their jurisdiction doesn't cover
due to the bylaw. They do list what the best practice is for a historic building. Some things like storm windows
paint color and shutters are not required within the bylaw. He stated their first project will portray what will and
will not work and they may need to amend the guidelines as a result.
Ms. Bertram echoed Mr. Ebersole comments. She believed the language for shutters and storm windows was
too strong. Instead of stating, "they should"
', it says "you must" and if you don't have jurisdiction, that language
is incorrect. She asked about temporary buildings and the reference to vehicles under exemptions. Is that
defined elsewhere before you get into exemptions? Mr. Dwyer stated the bylaw lists temporary buildings under
exemptions and states they are subject to time and size limits imposed by the APDC. Ms. Bertram asked what if
I lived in the district and I had a camper blocking my house, what would happen? Mr. Dwyer stated there is no
mechanism for penalties/actions in the bylaw.
Ms. Bertram asked what happens in the event the APDC does not approve a certificate to alter or demolish.
What are the rights of the homeowner? Mr. LaVeck pointed out the bylaw has an appeal procedure in
accordance with the General Laws. Ms. Bertram asked what the timeline is for the application process. Mr.
LaVeck referred to a flow chart in the guidelines stating within 45 days from receiving the application, the
APDC will provide a written finding.
Ms. Bertram noted under Reconsideration/Reapplication, seven days is not a very long timeframe to try to get
together for a meeting and post it. Mr. McQuaid noted there is wording for reconsideration but nothing
addresses the reapplication process. Further discussion ensued about the wording and process.
Ms. Luck asked how many houses are in the APD. The answer was unknown. Mr. McGrath stated no one
attended the public hearing on the guidelines even though it was advertised in the local paper. There is no
funding to mail out individual notices.
Mr. Ebersole suggested sending notices to the affected residences stating this material is available for viewing
at Town Clerk office and Public Library and on the town website.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2^°: P. Bertram
Ivanove to prey do This ernie and Panic L horary the fe age partem f the ordinesly ing.
To move approval of this item until July 18"
meeting
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid cautioned that under Submission Requirements 5(e), on the Application form and
under Authenticity of materials and means of construction, reference is made to methods and means of
construction. Architects typically don't outline means or methods of construction and it could open the Town up
for liability if something failed later on. A contractor or engineer would have to provide that detail. Further
discussion about means of construction ensued. It was suggested to make a "recommendations" section for the
shutters, paint, etc. Mr. Ebersole withdrew his motion. It was decided that the APDC would make the
suggested changes and return. Residents of the APD will be notified when the discussion continues. The Board
will send the points discussed tonight to the APDC.
A.J. Robbins Memorial Foundation Request to waive Middle/High School Field House permit fees
Kim lannacci read a request composed by William Iannacci III who could not atend this evening. The AJ
Robbins Memorial Foundation was established to bring healing, unity and love to Lunenburg in the wake of a
tragedy. On August 27, 2016, A J Robbins was killed as a backseat passenger in a single vehicle accident. He
had just graduated from high school. The foundation was established to build a memorial field house at the high
school right behind the snack shack. The project has been coordinated with the School Superintendent and
School Committee and received final approval on May 24, 2017. Through donated materials, labor and
fundraising the project is ready to break ground and has applied for permitting through the Building
===PAGE 3===
Department. The foundation has 501c (3) status and is requesting the Board waive the building permit fee for
the field house.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: D. McQuaid
To waive the building permit fee for the A.J. Robbins Memorial Field House
It was noted the waiver does not include plumbing and electrical permits.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Iannacci thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Hearing for Kabob-e-licious LLC- Failure to provide Workers compensation
Mark Williams, representing business owner Seema Williams, stated the workers compensation insurance
coverage notification was sent to the Town.
Mr. Toale read a memorandum from Executive Assistant Peterson stating:
"On Monday, June 12" I received an email from Ms. Williams stating she could not make the hearing. She attached a
Notice of Assignment effective June 9. Since I did not see workers compensation listed on it, I contacted the insurance
agent. He explained Kabob-e-licious'
policy has been placed into a "pool" of voluntary insurance companies listed by the
state. The policy must be paid 100% in full due to a low insurance score based on either a low payroll or poor premium
payment record. The agency that opts in to carry the policy then has 30 days to issue the certificate. Even though the
policy is now in effect, the business was not covered for Workers Compensation insurance from April 28 to June 9,
2017."
Ms. Bertram stated communication continues to be an issue with Kabob-e-licious. We had issues with the liquor
license, now we are having issues with the common victualer license after numerous attempts to contact. As a
license holder, the business is responsible for responding to the licensing authority and the failure to do that
continues. This is not okay. There needs to be penalties. Mr. Williams stated he had stepped in to take over that
stuff for the past month. As Assistant Manager, he could make a conscious effort to respond to these issues. Mr.
Ebersole asked if mail is delivered to the business address. Mr. Williams stated yes, 165 Massachusetts Avenue.
Mr. Ebersole asked if there is a way for the Town to be notified if the insurance coverage is not renewed. He
wanted to know if there are any other penalties the Board could impose for the license violation. Ms. Bertram
pointed out all of the attempts to make contact with the licensee takes up staff time. It is a cost to us as a
community and she would like to impose some type of penalty, but she wasn't sure if this was in the Board's
jurisdiction. This is not the first time this has happened with this business.
Mr. Williams stated that is why he is here, to take an active role so this type of thing doesn't happen again. Ms.
Bertram asked him when he took on this role. He stated on May 20th.
• Ms. Bertram asked if he had been in
communication with Ms. Peterson. He stated no, he only met her on one occasion but he was trying to take care
of some other things and he had been out of town for a little bit. He wanted to come back in and make sure we
had coverage, that everything was met. Ms. Bertram asked if you came on board May 20
, why did it take until
tonight for you to come in and talk with us. Obviously, this was an ongoing issue and our staff had to contact
your insurance company. If you took on an active role May 20, here it is June 13, as of yesterday we still hadn't
heard anything and you still didn't have any insurance. If you were going to take an active role, I would think
you would come in and meet with Ms. Peterson and say I am aware of the situation, I'm working on it, and I'm
in touch with the agent. It's a communication problem.
Mr. Williams stated he respected that and he thought the owner was actually there speaking with Ms. Peterson
and I was in contact with her. That's why I am here this evening.
Mr. Toale stated when we posted this hearing, there was no insurance in place and it was my intent tonight to
pull the license due to no insurance coverage. The fact that we find out ten minutes before the meeting is what
has happened before. Mr. Williams stated when he spoke to his insurance agent yesterday they said they were in
contact with someone from Lunenburg. Mr. Toale stated that was yesterday, we posted the meeting last
Thursday and have been in contact since May 2. The hearing was called due to no workers compensation
coverage and therefore the common victualer license is in jeopardy. Ms. Bertram asked if this Board could issue
a fine. Ms. Lemieux did not believe there was a mechanism for that in place. Ms. Bertram stated she did not
know if they could take action at this point but this will be an issue at license renewal time. Failure to
communicate in a professional manner moving forward will lead me to not renew your license. Mr. Williams
stated okay. She encouraged Mr. Williams when he receives a communication, instead of working on it, to
communicate with us that you are working on it because the lack of communication is resulting in time and
===PAGE 4===
effort by our staff which is not appropriate and it should not be costing the taxpayers money to follow up on
your license. It's your responsibility. Mr. Williams stated ok. Mr. Williams thanked the Board and exited the
meeting.
Town Manager/Board of Selectmen Annual Appointments and Reappointments
Ms. Lemieux directed the Board to the two lists of appointments. One list is for appointments made by the
Board and the other is a list of Town Manager appointments. Mr. Ebersole suggested procedurally to read
aloud the names and if someone wants to put a hold on a name to state that.
Animal Control Officer
Kathy Comeau-806 West Street
Mr. Ebersole requested a hold on the appointment.
Architectural Preservation District Commission-term expires June 30, 2020
Jim Laveck- 33 Lancaster Avenue
Cullen Dwyer- 76 Main Street
Agricultural Commission- 3 vears-term expires June 30, 2020
Vacancy
Cable Advisory Committee- term to expire June 30, 2018
Steve Walker-227 Pleasant Street
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.
Paula Bertram- 312 Townsend Harbor Road
Conservation Commission- 3-year terms-term to expire June 30, 2020
Richard Bursch-308 Electric Ave.
Vacancy
CC Associate Members- term expires June 30, 2018
Vacant
Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2018
Lou Franco - 250 Arbor Street
Michael Kidney- 86 Lancaster Ave.
George Martin -522 Burrage Street
Constable- term expires June 30, 2018
Alan Herget-79 Beachview Road
Kevin Rice- 14 Iris Road, Leominster
Stanley R. Young - 108 Arlington St. Fitchburg
Council on Aging- 3 year terms-term expires June 30, 2020
Sarah Grant
Cheryl Moisan
Diane Nowd
Emergency Management Director-term expires June 30, 2018
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan
Finance Committee-term expires June 30, 2020
Jay Simeone-362 Sunset Lane
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer
Heather Lemieux
Historical Commission- 3 year term -expires June 30, 2020
Cullen Dwyer-76 Main St.
MART Advisory Board-term expires June 30, 2018
Phyllis Luck
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee- Selectman or Representative
Vacant
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission - Selectman or Representative
Vacant
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC)-term to expire June 30, 2020
Steve Walker-227 Pleasant Street
Jeffrey Bajko - 14 Charlton Street
===PAGE 5===
Personnel Committee- term expires June 30, 2020
2 Vacancies
Public Weighers- term expires June 30, 2018
Richard Reynolds
Jenniter Oliveira
Britany Woodhouse
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
Jay Vallierre
Michael Reynolds
School Building Committee
Mike Mackin- 26 Cortland Circle
Tom Alonzo - 284 Lancaster Ave.
Senior Citizen Property Taxation Work Off Program- term expires June 30, 2018
Myleen Mallari-Treasurer/Collector
Nancy Forest-Human Resources
Sue Doherty-COA Director
Shelia Craigen- Principal Assessing Clerk
Town Counsel-term expires June 30, 2018
Mirick O'Connell- Personnel
Zoning Board of Appeals Associate - term expires June 30, 2020
Paul Doherty- 214 Townsend Harbor Road
Motion: R.Ebersole
To approve items except for Animal Control Officer
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole asked what the status was for the regional animal control facility. Ms. Lemieux reported we did
receive the grant of $42,000 for the design and an intermunicipal agreement with Townsend. Once she receives
the contract paperwork back from the state, we can go out to bid for the design and begin working on the
intermunicipal agreement. Ms. Bertram asked if the appointment to ACO was for one year. Ms. Lemieux
confirmed. Mr. Toale asked understanding there will be a certain amount of time before this regional facility
process gets going, is there any motion? There was none. Ms. Bertram asked Mr. Ebersole if he had any
specific concerns. She believed the Town has done many improvements to the animal control process over the
last year with calls now going through Dispatch. We are making a shift and I have heard that Ms. Comeau
would love to retire, but right now, we are in a transition state. She added she had no problem making this
appointment for another year. Mr. Ebersole stated he believed the Town should have another dog officer based
on past communications that he has had, regardless of what's going on with regional. Ms. Luck asked if there
are any other prospects. Mr. Ebersole suggested advertising for the position; there have been people who
expressed interest over the past year and a half but nothing has come of it. We would have to actively seek out
people to fill this position. Ms. Bertram stated we would have to also seek out a kennel. Mr. Ebersole suggested
seeking someone who has a kennel or using a kennel somewhere else. He added nothing has been done on this
during the four years he has been on the Board, other than discussion. He is still concerned with the process.
Ms. Lemieux stated a plan would be developed because we have this grant and we will be finalizing the location
for the kennel. Currently we don't have a town kennel on town property. This would be an expense to the
Town if we did take this on right away. We don't have any funds appropriated for that. Mr. Ebersole stated we
already have a process where the current animal control officer has submitted for these funds and that was a
special town meeting transfer for expenditures. So this is not something that is not contemplated. Ms. Bertram
stated she would caution against advertising it as a vacancy. If you feel we need to have a conversation or you
have specific concerns, she believed it needed to be an agenda item and to give the current ACO an opportunity
to come in and have a discussion. Mr. Toale agreed. Mr. Ebersole stated if anyone has issues with the ACO and
they feel comfortable about speaking about it they should come and talk about it. Ms. Bertram asked when the
current term expired. Ms. Lemieux stated June 30, 2017. Mr. Toale asked if the appointment would continue if
===PAGE 6===
we don't make any either way. Ms. Lemieux believed it would, but this Board also has the power to revoke
appointments. The Board moved on to the Town Manager appointments.
TOWN MANAGER APPOINTMENTS FY2018
Interim Building Inspector
Gary Rhodes
Dam Keeper term expires June 30, 2018
Ronald Wilson 701 Reservoir Road
Assistant Dam Keeper- term expires June 30, 2018
Rich Patry 655 Reservoir Road
Forest Warden- term expires June 30, 2018
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan
Fence Viewers- 1 year term
Vacancies
Field Driver- term expires June 30, 2018
Kathleen Comeau -806 West St.
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Gary Williams-34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Richard Kapenas
Pound Keeper- term expires June 30, 2018.
Jean Larkin- 17 Highland Street
Inspector of Weights and Measures-term expires June 30, 2018
Stephen E. Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)
John (Jack) Biery- 15 Crescent Road
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)
David Stone-83 Arbor Street
RACES Control Officer -term expires June 30, 2018
Ralph Swick 113 Townsend Harbor Road
Brian LeBlanc- Asst. Radio Operator- 67 Mulpus Road
Member;
Jeanine Swick- Member- 113 Townsend Harbor Road
Tree Warden-term expires June 30, 2018
Jack Rodriquenz
Veterans' Service Officer
T. J. Blauser
Police Officers/Reserve Police Officers/ Licensing Commission Apents
Chief James P. Marino
Lt. Michael F. Luth
Sgt. Thomas L. Gammel
Sgt. Sean J. Connery
Sgt. Jack A. Hebert
Detective/Sgt. Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
Officer Jonathan J. Broc
Officer Robert D. DiConza
Officer Kayla M. Leger
Officer Joshua M. Mathieu
Officer Bradley McNamara
Officer John Morreale Jr.
Officer Deven O'Brien
Officer Joshua B. Tocci
Officer Sean Zrate
RESERVE OFFICERS
Officer Stanley W. Barney
===PAGE 7===
Officer Benjamin Campbell
Officer Erin K. Considine
Officer Robert R. DaCosta
Officer Jacob Lachance
Officer Meagan B. Landry
Officer Donald A. Letarte
Officer Zachary J. Levasseur
Officer Jonathan G. May
Officer Lisa M. Melnicki
Officer Chad Stateler
Officer John M. Wagner
Mr. Ebersole placed a hold on the Field Driver position.
Shirley Special Police Officers- Ms. Lemieux read the submitted list.
Townsend Special Police Officers- Ms. Lemieux read the submitted list.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Bertram
To ratify Ms. Lemieux's appointments as submitted except for field driver
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole withdrew his hold on field driver and motioned to ratify the field driver appointment.
Vote: All in Favor
Follow-up Discussion on Tax Title Properties
Ms. Lemieux referred to emails from Conservation Administrator Marro concerning three properties: 1529 Rear
Mass Ave., 422 Mulpus Road and 11 Valley Road; Leominster's Chief Assessor concerning Braeburn Circle,
175 Pierce Street and 867 Rear Leominster Road that abuts the Town of Leominster boundaries and Lunenburg
DPW Director Rodriquenz concerning one parcel, which he was not in favor of retaining.
Mr. Ebersole asked about the parcels that abut conservation land in Leominster. He asked is it useable
Leominster land or do they have any plans for that property? Further discussion ensued about these properties.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
To retain 1529 Rear Mass. Ave, 422 Mulpus Road, 11 Rear Valley Road, Braeburn Circle, 175 Pierce
Street, and 867 Rear Leominster Road
Vote: All in Favor
MART Contract Reimbursement Update
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board members to the FY 17 MART Driver Payroll report provided by COA Director
Doherty. In the fall of 2016, without any contractual changes, MART reduced the dispatch reimbursement rate
to 33% of the driver payroll. The Town had been billing MART for 12.5 hours per week for MART Van
dispatch services. At the last MART meeting, officials announced they would continue reimbursement through
fiscal year 2017 for the 12.5 hours. On July 1, 2017, the reimbursement rate for dispatch services will be 33% of
the driver payroll for all member communities. This will create a shortfall of $4,546.98 to the town budget.
COA Director Doherty has earmarked $6,000 for fiscal year 2018 from formula grant funding. This will be a
discussion item when going through the budget process for fiscal year 2019.
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request
The Boys and Girls Club of Lunenburg has requested to hold a tollbooth fundraiser on June 17 in the center of
town.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser on June 17 in the center of town
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $638,212.49, a payroll warrant in the amount of
$745,275.09 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $499,285.90.
===PAGE 8===
Action File: Ms. Bertram asked about the Town beach changes. What role does this Board play in that?
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town beach falls under the Parks Commission and the Town Manager has a role in
the daily operation. Ms. Bertram encouraged Ms. Lemieux to keep the Board apprised of any changes for
informational purposes and the Park Commission to hold a public hearing and to solicit comments from the
public. Ms. Lemieux reported she met with the Parks Commissioners because they wanted a more formal
procedure on the hiring process for the beach. She also worked with the Parks Commissioners and DPW
Director Rodriquenz on position descriptions for beach personnel, which we never had. They also ensured there
were certification requirements listed for those positions. Ms. Lemieux stated they went through the normal
hiring procedure that we have for all other town employment positions. Personnel Committee reviewed the job
descriptions/grading and will be presenting for approval at the next town meeting. The positions were posted
and we received applications. Past practice had been to rehire the previous year's personnel. They will be
interviewing this week for the positions.
Ms. Luck believed sharing information with the public is important. She could not find information about some
events in Lunenburg anywhere and requested providing more information on events as much as possible.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on June 7 and recognized this year's retiring staff. There was an
announcement that the Middle School solar project went on line June 1. They are currently in contract
negotiations with paraprofessionals, custodians and cafeteria staff. There is a proposal to confirm student
residency through property listings when students move between school buildings at grades 3, 6 and 9.
The Storm Water Task Force met on June 8th and continued revising the Ms4 permit Notice of Intent. It will be
finalized on June 22"° with their consultants. The SWTF will appear at a future Board of Selectmen agenda for
further discussion. They are waiting to hear back from the state on how to use the Community Compact grant
funding.
Ms. Luck attended the Council on Aging meeting this morning. Participation and programs were up 26% this
past fiscal year and they believed it was due to the Senior Center being open on Fridays. Friends of Eagle House
donated $9030.00 this fiscal year. Volunteers have contributed 1874 hours this year. COA Director Doherty
attended an informational meeting on a SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) and Food Stamps
grant in the amount of $12,000. Ms. Luck will be attending the Worcester County Selectmen's Association
meeting this Thursday evening; the topic is stormwater.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission met on June 7"
. There were several actions taken for work
within the buffer zone that were approved. There is a car wash and bus parking area proposed at 380, 390 and
400 Electric Avenue; the special permit has already been issued. It was continued until the Planning Board
issues a decision on June 21$t
The 101 Pleasant Street violation fines have never been paid. The question came up whether the Commission
can put a lien on the property. Ms. Lemieux stated the Municipal Modernization Act only affects sewer fees.
The Town would have to be specific on what circumstances merit a lien at a future town meeting. Ms. Bertram
stated the contractor who did the remediation work on town property has not been paid by the violator. Also
part of the land is up for sale. Discussion ensued about collecting fees and liens.
There is an erosion issue at Emerald Place and the owners have not addressed it. A letter to comply or an
enforcement order will be issued. There is also a property on Lancaster Avenue that had an existing order and
they are not complying.
Mr. Toale reported the Finance Committee meets on June 22nd. He and Ms. Luck will alternate on the Council
on Aging meetings.
Town Manager Report
Ms. Lemieux reported all the remaining paper records and some scrap metal in the Town Hall basement has
been removed by staff and DP W personnel. She thanked all involved. DPW Director Rodriquenz is now
contacting disaster recovery companies for cleanup quotes.
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Toale reviewed their upcoming meeting schedule. The cable license public hearing is the 15".
. The meeting
on the 20" is a workshop on traffic rules and regulations and there is no meeting on July 4*.
". The next
workshop meeting is July 11th and the next televised meeting will be July 18th
Public Comment:
Katie Adams spoke again about the town beach hiring process and its timing, stating residents would be
heartbroken if previous staff wasn't at the town beach. Ms. Bertram stated the hiring process should be
consistent town wide. There has to be a process for appointment. She encouraged Ms. Adams to attend a Parks
Commission meeting with her concerns.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"': R. Ebersole
To enter into Executive Session to discuss strategy in preparation for negotiations with non-union
personnel or to conduct contract negotiations with non-union personnel. (Legal Counsel Services) and to
reconvene in open session immediately afterwards
Vote: Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck - aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Ebersole - aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 9:08 p.m.
The meeting reconvened at 9:22 p.m.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Bertram
Pursuant to the Executive Session discussion and the RFP process to see legal counsel services, that we
approve the contract with Mead, Telerman and Costa effective July 1, 2017 with the addition of three
offive hours monthly at Town Hall
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:23 p.m.
2"d: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
