===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 2 : 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
May 23, 2017
The Boad of Sleera me in the Bit Mein Room, Damon Toad, armane and Tober ole, ice
Heather Lemieux.
The meeting commenced at 6:05 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Board Reorganization
Mr. Toale asked if there were any nominations for Chairman. Ms. Luck nominated Mr. Toale for Chair;
seconded by Mr. McQuaid. Vote was unanimously in favor.
Ms. Bertram nominated Mr. Ebersole for Vice Chairman; seconded by Ms. Luck. Vote was unanimously in
favor. Mr. Ebersole nominated Ms. Bertram for Clerk; seconded by Mr. McQuaid. Vote was unanimously in
Mr. Toale asked if there was any public comment from the Board. He congratulated Mr. McQuaid and Ms.
Luck on their election wins.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Eric Short, 502 Holman Street, stated he was disappointed that he wasn't notified of the entertainment license
issued for an event at 300 Holman Street. He requested the license be revoked and redo the process as laid out
in the bylaws. Other Holman Street neighbors are retaining an attorney and are circulating a petition.
Eric Blomgren, 272 Holman Street, stated he was shocked that there wasn't any notification or presentation. He
thought it would be great somewhere else, not in a residential area. Ms. Bertram stated there was due diligence
on behalf of the Board. This item appeared twice on our agendas because we had concerns and questions so it
was continued. We did ask them to go to the Police, Fire, Conservation Commission and the Board of Health
and we got notifications from all those departments. She was curious what section of the Board of Selectmen
policies that he quoted. His response was Section 1.11, Public Comment: The Town Manager will ensure that
persons who will be directly affected by proposed Board discussion or action will be notified by the date and
time of the meeting at which the matter will be discussed or acted upon. Ms. Bertram stated the permit you are
referring to was denied; that was to operate a campground through the Zoning Board of Appeals. Because this is
a one-time event, it did not need to go through the Board of Appeals. They have satisfied the Board of Health
requirements for all their vendors. He then referred to Section 4.07 Weekday (Public Entertainment License);
held on weekdays only. Ms. Bertram stated there is no noise ordinance for specific times, however if there is a
noise complaint, the Police Department will respond. Further discussion ensued on parking and other concerns.
It was suggested to bring this to Town Counsel for guidance and then revisit the license requirements. It was
also requested to ask about the authority of the Board to revoke the license.
A Board of Health member who was present confirmed they only approved this one time event only. Mr. Toale
stated this discussion would most likely be on the June 6" meeting agenda. Ms. Bertram stated she was happy to
address any further concerns around the license, but was not inclined to revoke a license unless new information
changes that or due to a procedural error.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, was concerned about the road opening moratorium procedures/policy;
setting a policy for five years that may have ramifications. He would prefer to see other wording, such as
directive rather than policy.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Ebersole noted the Board's policy does not affect Route 2A. He encouraged Rodgers to make suggestions
to the policy, as it was not approved yet. Discussion about the wording and exceptions ensued.
Goal Setting for Town Manager and Board Members
RECEIVED & FILED
Previous Board Goals:
• Stormwater Management Plan
• Pavement Management Plan
• Traffic Rules & Orders (an upcoming workshop)
• Economic Development
The Board discussed and agreed on the following goals for the next fiscal year:
• Improve Public Satisfaction/Feedback and Public Outreach/Engagement
• Infrastructure & Equipment Plan with a focus on Capital Plan
• Economic Development (needs more defining)
JUN 2 / 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Mr. Ebersole asked do we know what we need for town office space. Mr. Toale stated an estimated 20,000 to
25,000 square feet. The only building that can provide that is the T.C. Passios Building, but there is no final
design. Ms. Bertram stated she wanted feedback from people about the Town's office needs/plans. Mr. Ebersole
suggested a workshop on public buildings and to tour them again. Mr. Toale stated he would work with the
Town Manager to update the building data.
Ms. Lemieux presented her Town Manager Goals:
• Transparent Government: including outreach; ensuring all are informed about town matters; using the
website to engage the public, making it user-friendly, having information in the right places and
including surveys; using a social media community page/newspapers/public access for informational
purposes.
• Budget and Finances: implementing/managing a balanced budget, implementing the auditors'
management letter recommendations with the Finance Director; develop a five year financial forecast,
including a five year capital plan and school capital needs (20 year plan), develop a Tax
Title/Foreclosure Policy and provide a supporting budget; develop an Administrative Financial Policy
and Procedures Manual with Financial Officers; monitor health insurance benefits and identify ways to
control costs (OPEB)
• Business & Economic Development-MRPC/DLTA Grant: promote existing businesses and improve
their opportunity for successful operations, work to eliminate blighted properties to make the town more
attractive to new business. Infrastructure maintenance/upkeep; improve roadways; implement a strategy
to move forward on the future of the town buildings
• Facilities and Energy Efficiency- develop a long-term plan to deal with the town's current
infrastructure, work with the Green Community Task Force to apply for the next round of grant funding
for projects; develop a building maintenance plan that will include repair and maintenance that can be
included in the Capital Plan for large projects; Street Light Purchase Program
• Personnel; create an Employee Handbook; update certain position descriptions including ones that are
not listed in the Salary Administration Plan; work with Personnel Committee to implement employee
performance evaluations; provide professional development opportunities for employees/boards and
committees; provide grant administration: oversee the three Community Compact "Best Practices" to
completion; e-permitting software grant, DLTA grant and the regional animal control shelter design
grant.
Long Term Goals:
• Economic Development; identify priority development areas in town, identify resources for
revitalization of vacant buildings
===PAGE 3===
• Review of Organizational Structure to make recommendations to the FY18 Charter Review Committee
• Work with Land Use Director and Regional Chamber of Commerce and MassDevelopment for
economic development opportunities
Discussion ensued on the above suggestions and strategy going forward.
RECEIVED & FILED
Board of Selectmen Goals:
Improve Public Satisfaction through Outreach/Community Involvement
Development of an Infrastructure Plan
Identify an Economic Development Plan & Tools to Implement
JUN 2 1 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Town Manager Goals
The Board suggested reducing to three or four goals for herself individually and delegating the work out to
pertinent staff and committees. Discussion around the town manager review form ensued.
Workshop Schedule:
Traffic Rules and Regulations - June 20th
Board of Selectmen Policies and Procedures - July 11"
Town Buildings/Town Infrastructure - August 15th
Economic Development (with Planning Board) - September 12"
Board/Committee Goals (with Chairs) - October 10"
Review the Fee Schedule for Temporary Wiring & Plumbing Permits
There is a necessity to set fees for wiring and plumbing for special one-time events. The Interim Building
Inspector has recommended setting the fees for both at $150.00 after discussing with both wiring and plumbing
inspectors. Suggestion was made to look at all fee schedules for the Town at some point.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"': P. Bertram
To set temporary wiring and plumbing fees at $150.00 each
Discussion: David Passios, 56 Whiting Street, found it troubling to place fees after the fact of approving a
permit. Mr. Ebersole stated he would agree if it applied to the entertainment license, but the applicant has not
yet applied for the electrical and wiring permits. Mr. Toale stated this Board approved this license subject to the
applicant adhering to the various department requirements. Mr. Passios repeated that the fees weren't in place
at the time of the Board issuing the license. Ms. Bertram stated we can't ask the town to carry these costs or the
inspectors to work for nothing for a profit-making event. Mr. Passios asked if there is a requirement for a public
hearing on these new fees. Mr. Ebersole replied not if it is listed on the agenda.
Vote: All in Favor
New Date for Cable License Hearing
Motion: P. Bertram
To set a new date for June 15, 2017 for the cable license hearing date
2"d: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $100,804.76.
Action File: Ms. Bertram reported a discussion at the Conservation Commission meeting concerned a
movement going around that wants the Board of Selectmen to approve docks on Lake Shirley as the owner of
the property. She was concerned about that. The title search was unclear on who is the actual owner; we know
we own the dam. The Conservation Commission Chair is looking for a policy from the Land Use Director on
Lake Shirley.
The other issue she wanted to mention was the forest management plan; they are moving forward with cutting at
the small town forest due to significant insect infestation to the hemlock trees. There will be a public hearing on
June 21S
===PAGE 4===
She also attended the MPO meeting. There was a TIP (Transportation Improvement Plan) workshop. We
submitted a development TIP that is currently out for public comment. We did move some projects up. There is
still funding available for 2018; they are under-programmed by $1.3 million.
Mr. Toale submitted a sample thank you letter to the Board for the Building Reuse Committee. If anyone has
any other suggestions, please let him know.
Town Manager Report
Ms. Lemieux reported the Lake Shirley Dam inspection is scheduled for November. The fee for that is $5,000.
There is another mandated report that includes spillway calculations. The company that has done it previously
has submitted an estimate of $28,000 for that report. The DPW Director is seeking other estimates.
It was suggested to hold a workshop on Lake Shirley and to find out the status of the emergency action plan.
Ms. Lemieux reported she received notification of an Information Technology grant award of $40,000 for e-
permitting software. She will be working with the Land Use Director on which departments will be included in
this. Ms. Bertram suggested meeting with land use departments to find out what their needs are before getting
the software.
we also received notification on the DLA grant for formation of business/town partnership. This will provide
technical assistance from MRPC to facilitate charrettes and meetings with the business community, help them
foster economic development for their business and identify economic development for the town.
The first meeting for negotiations with the clerical union will be June 13".
Mr. Toale reported the next meeting for this board is June 6th
Public Comment:
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, stated she felt criticized about her opposing opinion regarding the town
building warrant articles at annual town meeting.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated the word he was looking for regarding the road opening moratorium
was "recommendation, "versus policy. He also suggested making a temporary appointment to a committee for a
period of time so an individual could get their feet wet and see how they like it.
Regarding the goals discussion, he did not think the Board and Town Manager could get everything done. The
other thing that concerns him is that you need to get input from departments on issues. He did not believe
Lunenburg was the destination for economic development.
He had concerns about the Passios parking and the plan. He hoped no one believed it was practical to relocate
the playground.
EXECUTIVE SESSION MGL c.30A, §21; to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with
non-union personnel or to conduct collective bargaining session or contract negotiations with non-union
personnel (Finance Director Contract)
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: R.Ebersole
To enter Executive Sos on to conduct strategy sins i preparation for me gotiations with nor anine
Vote: Ms. Bertram-aye, Mr. MeQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Ebersole -aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:52 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
claim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 2 / 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
! CLERK OFFICE
