===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
February 7, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux
Also Present: Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Greg Bittner and Damon McQuaid, Planning Board members;
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director and Carl Luck, Sewer Commission Chairman
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Chairman Toale called the meeting to
order.
Roads Workshop
Ms. Bertram reported on the Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) meeting, specifically Transportation
Improvement Projects (TIP). MPO advanced the Lunenburg Route 13/Chase Road resurfacing project from
FF Y2019 to PFY 2017 and increased the funding amount by approximately $1 million dollars (with a
corresponding reduction in funding for FFY2018). Ms. Lemieux will write a letter of support to MRPC for TIP
Amendment #3 (Route 13/Chase Road resurfacing project).
DPW Director Rodriquenz provided handouts to the Board and updated the debt exclusion roads list, the
pavement management plan, provided a five year paving history and available funding. $537,000 was spent in
FY2016 on main roads. The spring construction season will amount to $1.7 million dollars and on there are the
Chase Road and Summer Street projects. He identified roads that would be good candidates for the Complete
Streets Program and Stormwater. Debt exclusion funds used on stormwater expenses totaled $87,947.32. He
stated White Street and the Pearl Brook Road areas would be another area for installing sidewalks. Mr.
Rodriquenz will need to outsource in order to complete all the scheduled road projects. Ms. Bertram thanked
him for his presentation and stated she was onboard for the Complete Street program. Mr. Toale asked for the
debt exclusion road list to be updated at future intervals and provided to the Board twice annually. In order to
inform residents of the paving schedule, notices will be placed on public access, the website and notices will be
mailed to affected residents.
Complete Streets
There was a brief discussion on the program and general agreement to move forward. Ms. Lemieux, Mr. Burney
and Mr. Rodriquenz will work on a draft policy and present at a future meeting.
Discussion also ensued on downtown walkability, parking, bicycle lanes and narrowing roads to slow traffic
down.
Community Compact and Related Grant Programs
Discussion arose on which "Best Practices" to focus on. Sewer Commission Chairman Luck requested the
Board to consider Addressing Infiltration and Inflow to reduce unintended storm and waste water in the system
and the cost of treating it. The three chosen were Citizen Engagement: Implement a Citizen Engagement Co-
Creation Plan (focused on enhancing residents' ability to participate in and influence decisions made by their
local government; Water Resource Management; Implement Stormwater Management Measures (so that land
use regulations help promote infiltration, control flooding and reduce pollution) and Information
===PAGE 2===
Technology/Strategic Planning: Implement a Cyber Security Training Program (that ensures staff is aware of,
know how to prevent and to respond to cyber security threats.
Discussion on Draft RFP's for the Sale of Town Owned Buildings (Ritter Memorial Building, Town Hall,
Primary School, Brooks House, and the T.C. Passios Building)
Mr. Toale outlined the schedule and stated the plan is to put out five Requests for Proposals (for sale of each
building). Further discussion on an evaluation committee and final wording ensued.
Amend Closing Date/Time of Annual Town Meeting Warrant
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'd. T. Alonzo
To amend the closing of the Annual Town Meeting Warrant to Thursday, March 23* at 4:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
APPOINTMENT
Ms. Lemieux informed the Board that she had appointed Melanie Rich as Sewer Commission Board Clerk to
record meeting minutes.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Luck
To ratify the Town Manager appointment
Discussion ensued on whom Sewer Department Business Manager Barb Lefebvre reports to and Town Manager
Lemieux felt that an organizational chart should be created. This led to a discussion on the need and importance
of performance evaluations for town employees.
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale- no, Ms. Bertram - no, Mr. Alonzo-abstained
Due to the vote, the motion failed for lack of majority, the appointment will be effective 15 days from the notice
of appointment (2/15/2017).
Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $495,496.40 and a Payroll Deductions Warrant
in the amount of $512.481.01.
The Board signed Minutes of January 17 and 24, 2017.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 9:35 p.m.
2": P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine I Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
