===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced the Salvation Army has issued a red kettle challenge to the mayors of Fitchburg,
Leominster and the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen. Mr. Toale has accepted the challenge on behalf of this
Board and he will be ringing the bell at Whitney Fields Mall tomorrow at 3:30 p.m.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS
Architectural Preservation District Commission/Historical Commission Representative- Cullen Dwyer has
requested to be reappointed. The Historical Commission supports the reappointment.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2id: P. Bertram
To reappoint Cullen Dwyer to the APDC as Historical Commission Representative
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Town Facilities:
Public Forums: The first public forum (a.k.a. charrette) of a series of these types of meetings on Town
Facilities was held on Thursday, December 7th at 7 p.m. and the meeting is available to be viewed on YouTube.
We had approximately twenty participants that shared their ideas on the future of the town buildings, what they
envisioned for those spaces, and ideas on green space. One recommendation that came out of that meeting is to
hold the same type of meeting with the seniors at the Senior Center. The date for this meeting will be February
Sth at 10 a.m. and this will be advertised in The Ledger, on the website, and in the newsletter.
Property Condition Assessments: The property condition assessments for the Town Hall, Ritter Memorial
Building, old Primary School, the Brooks House, and the TC Passios were concluded today. We hope to have
the final report from the consultant within a couple of weeks.
Complete Streets Public Forum:
The date for the public forum to hear feedback on areas in town that would increase safety and accessibility for
all modes of travel for people of all ages and abilities will be Tuesday, January 9, 2018 at 7 p.m. in the MS/HS
Collaborative Room #A130. Snow date for this forum will be January 16"
Cleaning Services for Town Buildings:
The Invitation for Bids to provide cleaning services to our town buildings is currently being advertised and bids
are due January 3rd. As described leading up to the Special Town Meeting, the current contract expired and
based on preliminary estimates from cleaning companies, it will cost $15,000 more than originally budgeted for
the remainder of the year under a new contract. Special Town Meeting approved appropriating the additional
funding for this known expense. The contract will cover cleaning for the Town Hall, the Ritter, the Library, the
Teen Center, the Senior Center, the DPW, and the Public Safety Building.
Financial Forecast Presentation to Finance:
The Finance Director and I met with Division of Local Services in November to review the Town of Sutton's
Financial Forecast that Division of Local Services did through the Community Compact Program. There is
===PAGE 2===
put out to bid. It the Town was successtul in being awarded the next round of Competitive Green Communities
Funding, this would be an eligible project. Through the DOER grant the Town received for grant administration
services, Karen Chapman of Montachusett Regional Planning Commission has lined up a free energy
ve for an anitain.
audit by Energy Source on Wednesday, December 27th. This will include the Town Hall, the Ritter Memorial
Building and the Public Safety Buildings.
COMMBUYS Training:
Staff from the Commonwealth's Operational Services Division came to Town Hall on December 12th to
provide our staff that will frequently be required to either post bids or purchase items off of a state contract a
demonstration of the new software called COMMBUYS. Due to changes in procurement law under the
Municipal Modernization Act, bids over a certain dollar threshold are now required to be posted on
COMMBUYS.
Announcement:
Town Offices will be closed December 25th and December 26th in observation of the Christmas Eve and
Christmas Day.
Ms. Luck encouraged more advertising of the upcoming Complete Streets workshop and the Senior Citizen
Public Forum on Town Buildings, specifically on the website and via posters. Ms. Lemieux will follow up
tomorrow.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Goals
• Identify desire for and type of Economic Development for Lunenburg
• Develop an Infrastructure Plan (including Roads, Buildings and Equipment)
• Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Outreach
2. 2018 License Renewals (cont.)
Ms. Lemieux reported there were three licenses up for renewal tonight.
• PK & P Corporation d/b/a DIPPIN DONUTS- 455 Massachusetts Ave.; Common Victualer $25.00
• First Choice Limousine & Transportation Service, Inc. d/b/a First Choice Limousine; Limousine License
$25.00
• Mark S. Testa d/b/a Lakeview Driving Range; Base License, Golf Driving Range $60.00
Motion: R.Ebersole
To approve the three licenses as presented by the Town Manager
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review and consider response to Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by Kathryn Adams on
12/6/17 regarding Selectmen's Meeting on 11/9/17
Mi. Toale stated the Board is required to meet within fourteen business days of receipt to review the
complainant's allegations, take remedial action, if appropriate, notify the complainant of the remedial action,
and forward a copy of the complaint and description of the remedial action taken to the complainant. The public
body must simultaneously notify the Attorney General office that it has responded to the complaint and provide
===PAGE 3===
specifically. The Board concurred.
3. Committee Reports
Mir. McQuaid reported Capital Planning received requests from the Police Chief, the Fire Chief and the School
Department. We will be getting a presentation from DPW at our first meeting in January. They are scheduled to
do a prioritization exercise on January 9*
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee heard non-personnel budget requests from the Schools, Special
Services and the Athletic Program. The Primary School is requesting a 17% increase, the Elementary School is
requesting a 62% increase and Middle School is requesting a 30% increase, and the MS/HS is requesting a 37%
increase.
Zoning Board of Appeals is meeting on the 27" to hear three requests for residential special permits. MART
Advisory met this morning but she was unable to attend. Ms. Lemieux did attend and no action was taken on the
MART agreement due to the need for more information by the towns for direct/indirect costs for transportation.
Ms. Bertram reported the Cable Advisory Committee met last night. We have received a counter offer from
Comcast which for the most part we were amenable to. We do have some counter offers that will be presented
to Comcast by Attorney Bill Hewig. MPO is meeting tomorrow and we are starting the Transportation
Improvement Program process again. If there are any projects you are interested in, she would happy to
advocate for Lunenburg with approval from the Board
Mr. Ebersole reported the Library Trustees reviewed their section of the Town Charter at their meeting and
came up with some proposed changes. Sewer Commission will be reviewing the charter as well as the Board of
Health. The Town Charter Committee has been meeting twice a month. They are concerned about meeting their
target of annual town meeting for proposed changes. They are still going to try to move as fast as they possibly
can. They will be holding public hearings and forums that will be advertised. The committee has set a rule that
all changes must be approved by a 2/3rd
vote of the committee. We will be meeting with the Town Manager in
January but we haven't asked the Board of Selectmen for their opinion. If you have anything you would like to
change as an individual feel free to send it to me. All of our meetings are being recorded and broadcast at a later
date.
Mr. Toale reported Finance Committee met last Thursday and their major task was to provide input to the
Charter Committee. Council on Aging met last week and they will be meeting with this board in January to
present their goals, objectives and mission.
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule. This Board meets again on January 2nd
• January 9t is a
Complete Streets Workshop.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Katey Adams, 40 Williams Drive, stated she heard the response to her Open Meeting Law complaint and
believed her complaint was not addressed, specifically to the posted agenda for that night.
Ms. Bertram stated she was pleased about the February forum with the senior citizens. She asked if there was
anything else related to economic development coming up as far goals or a charrette. She requested feedback
from the Board on any next steps. Mr. Ebersole stated he was looking to the Town Manager and Land Use
===PAGE 4===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
