===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
January 17, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Lunenburg Town Hall, Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, as scheduled with
Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Paula Bertram, Member; Phyllis
Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced the Finance Appointing committee appointed Cindy Testa, 508 W. Townsend Road, to
the Finance Committee making that board a full committee of seven members.
Katie Adams, 45 Williams Drive, presented to comment on a recent security scare at Turkey Hill Elementary
School. She was surprised to learn the Lunenburg Primary and Turkey Hill Elementary Schools do not have any
surveillance cameras. Now that it is public knowledge that there are no cameras, she believed it was important
that cameras and a public safety officer are added to those schools. Mr. Alonzo recommended she attend the
School Committee meeting tomorrow and make the request there as the schools are under their purveyance. He
stated the School Superintendent and staff are reviewing all safety practices and procedures.
Michael Ray Jeffreys, 1170 Massachusetts Avenue, presented concerning the cannabis cultivation proposal
from last week's meeting. He is an abutter and read aloud a written statement concerning his opposition to the
project and presented a letter with other abutters' signatures. He was concerned about the environmental and
general impact on the neighborhood. He and the other abutters requested a public hearing be held if this project
comes to fruition. Mr. Alonzo thanked him for coming forward. He added if the project is applied for the
Planning Board will hold public hearings concerning this. He stated he was not considering the size last week
but addressing the initial principle of marijuana cultivation in Lunenburg. He thought Mr. Jeffreys made
excellent points. Ms. Bertram stated she did support the concept but also had concerns about it being in a
residential area. She urged him and any other abutters to attend those hearings when posted. Mr. Ebersole stated
while looking at other town properties in Massachusetts that have dealt with greenhouses on an industrial level
and the light emitted; they have actually restricted the hours of operation due to the light glare emitted across
property lines. He would expect that to be part of the review process. Mr. Toale appreciated Mr. Jeffreys
coming forward; this is why we heard Mr. Striar's proposal last week, to get a feel from the town. Mr. Jeffreys
stated he believed this is here to stay but there is a responsible framework for it to be developed within the
community but we have to mindful of where this is going. He thanked the Board for their time.
APPOINTMENTS
Pole Petition - Northfield Road 12/21/2016.) Mr. Toale opened the hearing and read the pole petition aloud.
To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are hereby notified
that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor, in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room,
Lunenburg, MA, on Tuesday, January 17, 2017 at 7:05 P.M. upon petition of Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company
for permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such other fixtures as may be necessary
to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon, along, across, or under the following
public ways of said Town:
LOCATION
Northfield Road- approximately 1405 feet from New West Townsend Road, installing (2) mid-span poles (1)
between pole #93 and pole #94 and (1) between pole #94 to pole #95. (Plan #963-L dated 12/21/2016.)
===PAGE 2===
Location approximately as shown on plan attached.
Jim Dee of Unitil presented for the petition. He reported there are a number of houses being built in the area and
the span between poles is currently over 400 feet. The Board discussed and requested the pole petition plan be
amended to show residential driveways.
Motion: P. Bertram
2"' R. Ebersole
To continue the hearing until January 24, 2017 at 7:05 p.m. pending additional plan information be
provided
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale opened the hearing for Burrage Street and read the following:
To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are hereby notified
that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2** Floor, in the Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room,
Lunenburg, MA, on Tuesday, January 17, 2017 at 7:15 P.M. upon petition of Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company
for permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such other fixtures as may be necessary
to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon, along, across, or under the following
public ways of said Town:
LOCATION
Burrage Street- Approximately 590 feet northwest of proposed location to Shaker Court, installing one new pole for
service to 331 Burrage Street, Lunenburg (Plan #962-L dated 12/19/2016).
Location approximately as shown on plan attached.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: T. Alonzo
To continue the hearing until January 24, 2017 at 7:15 p.m. pending additional plan information be
provided
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Dee will return with revised plans for both petitions.
Application for a BYOB Carry In Permit for Kabob-e-Licious, 165 Main Street
Owner Tarrnum (Seema) Williams presented on behalf of the Bring Your Own Bottle Carry In Permit. She
stated she was applying for her business located at 165 Massachusetts Avenue. Mr. Toale asked Ms. Williams if
she was applying for the BYOB permit in place of an alcohol license. She stated yes until pursuing the alcohol
license. Mr: Ebersole stated according to the Bring Your Own Bottle Policy, Section 4.02 (4) she is obligated to
wrap and seal the bottle for the patron. Was she prepared to do so? She stated she was.
Motion: P. Bertram
21d: T. Alonzo
To approve the BYOB Carry In Permit for Kabob-e-licious at 165 Massachusetts Avenue.
Mr. Ebersole asked about the hours of operation. Discussion ensued. Ms. Bertram amended her motion to
include the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Mr. Alonzo seconded the amendment.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Williams thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. 1. Open Warrant for May 6, 2017 Annual Town Meeting
Motion: T. Alonzo
To open the Annual Town Meeting warrant and close it on Thursday March 27th at 4:00 p.m.
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
2. Execution of Financing Documents (Bonds: Pavement Mgmt., Sewer, Artificial Turf)
Finance Director Karen Brochu presented on the borrowing documents. There is a bond anticipation note for the
Middle/High School project in the amount of $2.5 million to carry through to project completion and the
Massachusetts School Building Authority (MSBA) audit. We are at the 95% completed portion of the grant.
The Town will not receive any additional reimbursement until the audit is completed. The interest rate is 1.09%
and the amount of interest paid until January 2018 will be $27,250.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2': T. Alonzo
===PAGE 3===
To approve the bond anticipation note as presented
Vote: All in Favor
The second document is for a bond issuance in the amount of $2,580,000 which comprises three items: the
pavement management plan, the artificial turf field and a portion of the sewer project that was ineligible through
the Mass Clean Water Trust. The amount for pavement management plan is $1,675,000 with a 2.92% interest
rate for fifteen years. The tax impact is $30 - $34 annually for an average home valued at $267,500. Next is for
the artificial turf field in the amount of $760,000 with an interest rate of 2.88% and the term is for twelve years.
Lastly, the sewer portion amount is $145,000 with an interest rate of 2.92% for fifteen years so it will coincide
with the repayment schedule of the Mass Clean Water Trust.
Motion: REbersole
2"d:P. Bertram
To approve the bond in the amount of $2,580,000 as presented
Vote: All in Favor
The Board thanked Ms. Brochu and exited the meeting.
3. Records Access Officer Discussion (cont.)
Town Manager Lemieux stated she was happy to work with Executive Assistant Peterson to be Records Access
Officer. Two other department names were submitted for Records Access Officers.
,Motion: R.Ebersole
2*: P. Bertram
To appoint Lt. Michael Luth (Police Dept.) and Karen Weller (Fire Dept.) as Records Access Officers
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: P. Bertram
To appoint Heather Lemieux as Records Access Officer
2nd: R. Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
4. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed Minutes of January 10, 2017. The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount
of $348,922.25.
Action File: Mr. Alonzo reported it has been brought to his attention that some residents applying for solar
installations are being charged by Unitil a $300 study fee because Unitil is saying their circuit may not be
sufficiently equipped to handle further solar installations without equipment modifications and/or upgrades.
If a new transformer is needed it will cost the homeowner an additional $1000.00 to replace it.
He stated he would be calling one of their municipal representatives to verify this. He stated residents are
looking to take advantage of renewable energy to lower their bills and reduce the carbon footprint and at every
turn meet with something else from the utility company. Ms. Bertram stated if this is the case, we need to place
this on an agenda and have Unitil come in.
Mr. Toale presented a thank you letter from the Board for signatures to James Sharkey, former Inspector of
Wires, due to his recent retirement.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the Lifelong Learning Advisory Committee is seeking community interest for possible adult
education workshops. There is a survey for residents on the website, at Town Hall and the Public Library. They
are looking for ideas. The School Committee voted on the 2017-2018 school year calendar and finalized facilty
use fees. They gratefully accepted an anonymous donation of $10,850.50 to the Turkey Hill School to add a
mobile lab cart. The PTO donated $32,000 that they collected over a few years until the school was finished
They passed it out to three different schools. The Strategic Framework Steering Committee met on the 9th. They
are looking at creating a vision for the schools that will guide programs and expenditures for the next ten years.
The Zoning Board of Appeals is seeking a member, There is an associate, Shelia Lumi, who is interested in
filling the vacancy. They granted a Special Permit for the installation of 60 ground mounted solar panels at 615
Leominster Road. They granted a Special Permit for the removal of a three family home and replacement with a
three unit condominium at 654 Massachusetts Ave. Another Special Permit was granted for the demolition of a
home at 70 Oak Ridge Road and replacing that with a new home. There was a request to demolish a building at
55 Spring St.
===PAGE 4===
Storm Water Task Force met on the 12th
'. It was an education/outreach workshop format. Sarah Cammer is
resigning from the Task Force for personal reasons. The Storm Water Task Force meets on January 26" with
consultant, Design Consultants, Inc. to discuss progress on their work.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory will meet on January 23d
at 5:30 as they did not meet on Martin Luther
King Jr. day. Finance Appointing Committee appointed an excellent candidate to the remaining vacancy so the
membership is complete. Mr. Alonzo stated he was getting great feedback on the functionality of new
Middle/High school.
Mr. Toale reported Building Reuse Committee meets on the 30#h. Capital Planning met this afternoon. It was
their last meeting to hear department requests. On the 24*
, they will work on prioritization and submit
recommendations to the Town Manager.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was no further comment.
Motion: P, Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:05 p.m.
2''': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elave m. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
