===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 0 2 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
BOARD OF SELECTMEN
MINUTES
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
April 11, 2017
The Board of Selectmen met in the Bilotta Meeting Room, with Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice
Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Clerk; Phyllis Luck, Member and Town Manager Heather Lemieux
Not present: Paula Bertram, Member
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck stated the Lion's Club Pancake Breakfast will be at the Eagle House Senior Center tomorrow morning
from 8:00 to 11:00 a.m. $2.00 per person; takeout is available.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club "Are You Smarter than our Sixth Grader?"
fundraiser that was cancelled due to weather is being rescheduled for mid-May.
Resignation- Jim Auge from Board of Health effective April 3, 2017. Mr. Toale read Mr. Auge's resignation
aloud. There will be a vacancy that will need to be filled by mutual appointment of the Board of Selectmen and
the Board of Health until the next Annual Election.
APPOINTMENTS
Request for 2017 Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride
Mark Walter of the American Cancer Society presented his request to run the fundraiser Bicycles Battling
Cancer through Lunenburg on Sunday, June 11, 2017. It begins and ends in Marlborough. This is the same
course as last year. Mr. Walter will inform the Police Department of the event for information purposes. Riders
coming through town will be spread out because when they reach Lunenburg it will be mile 17 of the course.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2™d: T. Alonzo
To approve the Bicycles Battling Cancer ride through Lunenburg on June 17, 2017 Vote: All in Favor
Verizon Wireless Amendment to Lease Agreement
Ms. Lemieux reported the lease agreement has been changed to be consistent with the RFP wording. The
difference is that the previous language allowed for extensions at the sole discretion of the Board of Selectmen
while the requested language from Verizon allows for automatic extensions. This has been reviewed and
approved by Town Counsel. The other amendment to the agreement is the replacement of Exhibit 1 with zoning
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the amendment to the Verizon Wireless Lease as presented
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $536,284.32.
Embers Pizzeria -Alteration of Premises for Alcohol License 00004-RS-0636
Owner Ken Ricker requested to expand the patio area at Embers Pizzeria, 84 Lakefront Avenue from 240 to 640
square feet. He stated he was not increasing the occupancy for the building so had not checked in with the
Building Commissioner or Fire Chief.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2'd: T. Alonzo
===PAGE 2===
To approve the alteration subject to applicant going to Building Commissioner to check on zoning
requirements
Vote: All in Favor
Follow up on Legal Counsel Interviews: Reference Checks and Review of Ratings (non-priced)
Ms. Lemieux referred to compiled evaluation ratings for the four legal counsel firms. The ratings were based on
scoring by the Board, Ms. Lemieux and Mr. Burney. Ratings ranged from not advantageous, unacceptable,
somewhat advantageous, advantageous or highly advantageous. Miyares & Harrington's overall rating results
showed 4 out of 7 evaluators rated them highly advantageous; Murphy, Hess, Toomey and Lehane showed 3
out of 7 evaluators rated them as highly advantageous; Deutsch Williams showed 5 out of 7 rated them as
highly advantageous and Mead, Talerman & Costa rated 5 out of 7 as highly advantageous. The next goal is to
match the most advantageous non-priced proposal with the best price proposal.
Ms. Lemieux received 13 out of 16 reference checks back on the firms and presented them as well as their fee
schedules. The Board requested Ms. Lemieux separate the total hours over one year from KP-Law invoices of
general services and litigation services and then project with each of the four proposals what the estimated cost
would be for the Town. The next phase is reinterviewing the four finalists on April 18'h
CURRENT BUSINESS
Assignment Consent for the Net Metering Agreement with Clean Footprint LLC
Facilities Director John Londa and John Kluwin of Clean Footprint LLC appeared regarding the request from
Clean Footprint to assign the net metering agreement rights between them and the Town to Fitchburg Solar,
LLC, which is an affiliate of Clean Footprint, LLC. Clean Footprint completed a transaction on October 26,
2016 in which Fitchburg Solar acquired all of Clean Footprint's rights, title and interest in the approximately
612 (kW) DC solar generating facility located at 225 Industrial Road in Fitchburg.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the Consent to Assignment as presented
2"°: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Complete Streets Policy Review and Possible Vote to Adopt
Ms. Lemieux referred to the draft Complete Streets policy. Chairman Toale, DPW Director Rodriquenz., Land
Use Director Burney and she had met and put together the draft policy. The policy takes into account
MassDOT's criteria guidelines for the Complete Streets program. Once the Board votes to adopt the policy, it
will be uploaded into the MassDOT's website online portal and we would receive notification within three
weeks on our score. A score of 80 or above would generate funding of $50,000 for technical assistance which
would aid in the prioritization plan for our Complete Streets projects. The next step would be to solicit bids for
technical assistance and putting together that plan. After some discussion the wording under Implementation
(1) was changed to an advisory group of relevant stakeholders will be appointed by the Board of Selectmen
within six months of approval of this policy by MassDOT." Mr. Ebersole suggested waiting for approval of this
policy until Ms. Bertram returns next week as she had some concerns. He thanked Ms. Lemieux for all her
work. He asked if the Planning Board needs to revise their subdivision rules and regulations or policies to be
consistent with this. Land Use Director Burney stated yes there will need to be some work done. The discussion
will be continued.
Bylaw Review Committee Recommendations
Mr. Ebersole drafted a redlined version illustrating the bolded language that is going to be changed and
strikethroughs for provisions that are proposed to be deleted. Mr. Ebersole stated he did not put any editorial
comments but had some personal opinions on the following:
ARTICLE II TOWN ADMINISTRATION Add new bolded language to SECTION 1: SECTION 1. All Boards,
standing committees and officers of the Town, shall keep proper records of all their doings and accounts. The records and
vouchers of such boards, committees and officers shall be kept in their respective offices and shall not be removed
thereform; such records and vouchers shall be open to the inspection of the citizens of the town, the said records and
vouchers remaining under the supervision of the board, committee or officer having charge thereof.
Minutes of all town boards and committees must be approved in 30 days and periodic review of executive session
quarterly. The minutes of all town boards and committees meetings shall be filed with the Town Clerk within two (2)
===PAGE 3===
reeks after those minutes are approved by the board, and the minutes of all executive sessions of those boards an
ommittees shall be tiled with the Town Clerk within two (2) weeks of those minutes being made public. Minutes shal
include the material substance of the discussions, including votes, and need not be a verbatim record unless otherwise
required by law.
Mr. Ebersole noted this was a good item to have. Mr. Toale asked within 30 days of what, the meeting? Mr.
Ebersole stated he would make notes and forward them to Town Clerk Herrick and Committee member Rob
Bowen. Ms. Luck believed having minutes approved within 30 days was an unreasonable request adding there
are many boards that are unable to do that. Mr. Alonzo suggested approving them within two or three
consecutive meetings. Further discussion ensued on what is a reasonable time to complete minutes and
frequency of some board meetings. Mr. Ebersole will pass these concerns on to the committee.
Repeal SECTION 6 as it is covered in Town Charter, section 3-2, part (c).
SECTION 6. The Board of Selectmen shall have the right and power to revoke and annul any license, whenever any of
the terms and conditions of such license may have been broken, or any infraction of the laws of the Commonwealth has
been committed by the licensees.
Town Charter section 3-2 part (c) Board of Selectmen Licensing Authority reads:
The board of selectmen shall be a licensing board for the town and shall have the power to issue licenses as otherwise
authorized by law, to make all necessary rules and regulations regarding the issuance of such licenses, to attach conditions
and impose restrictions on any such license it may issue as it deems to be in the public interest and to enforce all laws
relating to all businesses for which it issues any license.
Mr. Ebersole stated repealing Section 6 is warranted because the Charter covers that.
Repeal SECTION 8 as the topic is covered by the Massachusetts Conflict of Interest Law.
SECTION 8. Except as otherwise permitted or required by law, no person holding an elective office shall perform work of
ether serves for the town for remuneration se long as such work is subject to the direct control or supervision of the Board
er Department of which such person is a member.
Section & is already covered by the Conflict of Interest law.
Repeal SECTION 12 as Massachusetts General Laws lists these fees.
SECTION 12 License and Permit Fee schedule adopted April 6, 1981 Annual Town Meeting, Article 23. (See "LICENSE
AND PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE") April 1981, 1982, May 14, 1988 Art 61.
(36 sections listed)
Mr. Ebersole stated Massachusetts General Laws lists these fees. He will be recommending not doing so. Mr.
Ebersole reported the committee did not want to be redundant to a fee schedule that was in the statute but the
statute states unless otherwise provided by bylaw the following fees shall be as follows...all this time we have
increased the fees so our schedule is the current fee schedule that was reviewed recently to be in line with other
communities.
ARTICLE V USE OF PUBLIC WAYS
Amend all language references to "man" or "men" to gender neutral language in entire ARTICLE V.
Mr. Ebersole stated this was standard practice.
Expand language in SECTION 2 regarding street to include "right of way".
SECTION 2. No person shall break or dig up the wrought part of any highway or street right of way, or place within the
limits of any street or highway street right of way any obstruction or rubbish, stones, ashes, or any animal or vegetable
substance or offal, or move any building into or along the same, without a license from the Selectmen, the Chief
Administrative Financial Officer (or equivalent), or DPW Director or his or her designated Agent.
===PAGE 4===
The DPW Director had suggested they include the words "right of way."
Repeal SECTION 13 as this section is a redundant statement of the Massachusetts Architectural Access Board
Requirements.
SECTION 13
(a) Any person or body that has lawful control of a public or private way or of improved or enclosed property used
ass off street parking areas for businesses, shopping malls, theaters, auditoriums, sporting or recreational
facilities, cultural centers, residential dwellings, or for any other place where the public has a right of access as
invitees or licensees, shall be required to reserve parking spaces in said off street parking areas for any vehicle
owned and operated by a disable veteran or handicapped person whose vehicle bears the distinguishing license
plate authorized by Section Tow of Chapter Ninety, according to the following formula:
If the number of parking spaces is at least one (a) but not more than twenty five (25), one (1) parking space;
More than twenty-five (25) but not more than fifty (50), two (2);
More than fifty (50) but not more than seventy five (75), three (3);
More than seventy five (75) but not more than one hundred (100), four (4);
More than one hundred (100) but not more than one hundred fifty (150), five (5);
More than one hundred fifty (150) but not more than two hundred (200), sis (6);
More than two hundred (200) but not more than three hundred (300), seven (7);
More than three hundred (300) but less than four hundred (400), eight (8);
More than four hundred, but less than five hundred (500), nine (9):
More than five hundred (500) but less than one thousand (1000), 2% of total number of spaces.
More than one thousand (1000), twenty (20) spaces plus one additional space for each one hundred spaces over
1000.
(b) Parking spaces designated as reserved under the provisions of paragraph (a) shall be identified by the use of
above grade signs with white lettering against blue background and shall bear the words "Handicapped
Parking: Special Plate Required. Unauthorized Vehicles May Be Removed at Owner's Expense"; shall be as
near as possible to a building entrance or walkway; shall be adjacent to curb ramps or other unobstructed
methods permitting sidewalk access to a handicapped person; and shall be twelve feet wide or two eight foot
wide areas with four feet of cross hatch between them.
(e) No person shall leave an unauthorized vehicle within parking spaces designated for use by disable veterans of
handicapped persons or in such manner as to obstruct a curb ramp designed for use by handicapped persons as
a means of egress to a street or public way.
(d) The punishment for violations of subparagraphs (a) through (c) shall be $100.00 for each offense.
Mr. Ebersole stated his only question is do the Police have the power to issue tickets under the state regulations
as opposed to the bylaw? If they don't, then we can't enforce it.
ARTICLE VI GOVERNMENT OF TOWN MEETINGS
Repeal SECTION 3.
SECTION 3. No money shall be raised or appropriated at a special town meeting except by a two thirds vote of the voters
present and voting.
Mr. Ebersole reported this was something the previous Town Manager has requested. He stated he was open to
discussion on this one.
ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTIONS 9 and 10. Change permitting authority from Board of Selectmen to Planning Board in SECTION 9.
EARTH REMOVAL ORDINANCE and SECTION 10 Penalty for failure to erect barriers after notice. No other
language change.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Ebersole stated they hadn't had further discussion about this other than when the Land Use Director
brought this to them. He believed more discussion was warranted.
SECTION 11 Change "Superintendent of Highways" to "D.P.W. Director"
No other language change.
No further comment was made on this change.
Repeal SECTIONS 12 and 15 as they are covered in the Town Charter section 3-2.
SECTION 12. The Selectmen shall annually appoint an Inspector of Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in Buildings, whe
shall be a licensed plumber or licensed gas fitter.
SECTION 15. The Selectmen shall annually appoint an Inspector of Wires who shall be a licensed electrician and they
shall annually fix the salary or compensation of said Inspector of Wires. The Beard of Selectmen shall approve for
issuance a prescribed fee schedule and all fees collected within the town of Lunenburg shall be paid in to the Treasury.
Mr. Ebersole stated this is covered in the Charter already so we can repeal that.
Renumber Section 23A to Section 24.
Section 24 23A Fire and Emergency Medical Services Details
No further comment was made on this change.
ARTICLE X PROSECUTIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION 3 NON-CRIMINAL COMPLAINT - Fine amounts under review by the Chief of Police.
No further comment was made on this change.
ARTICLE XII FINANCE COMMITTEE
Repeal SECTIONS 1, 2 and 3 as covered by Town Charter sections 2-3 (b), (c) and 5-3.
SECTION 1. There shall be a Finance Committee consisting of seven voters of the Town, appointed by the Selectmen, as
hereinafter provided, no one of whom shall be a Town officer elected by ballot, or an appointed officer receiving a salary.
SECTION 2. Said Finance Committee may consider any or all municipal questions and shall examine all articles calling
for expenditures of money, shall during the months of January and February, and may at any other time, hold pubhe
hearings for the purpose of determining their findings and recommendations, shall repert the same to the Town in the
annual report when practicable and when not so reported to each and every Town meeting in printed form or otherwise.
SECTION 3. Upon the approval of this By law, the Selectmen shall appoint said Committee as follows: two members
who shall act as such until the first meeting of the Selectmen after the next annual meeting; two members who shall act as
such until the first meeting of the Selectmen after the second annual meeting; three members who shall act as such untit
the first meeting after the third annual meeting. Upon the expiration of the term of office of each member, the Selectmen
shall then appoint a successor to serve as a member for the term of three years.
Town Charter section 2-3 Committees (b) Finance Committee - Composition, Term of Office reads:
There shall be a finance committee that shall consist of 7 members appointed for terms of 3 years each so arranged that
the terms of as nearly an equal number of members as is possible shall expire each year. The members shall be appointed
by a committee consisting of 1 member of the board of selectmen chosen by the board of selectmen; 1 member of the
school committee chosen by the school committee; and the town moderator. (c) Powers and Duties - (1) The finance
committee shall have the primary responsibility to report to town meeting on the proposed budget of the town manager
and all warrant articles having a fiscal impact on the town, as more particularly detailed in the charter, town by-laws, and
the laws of the commonwealth; before preparing its final recommendations, the finance committee shall hold 1 or more
public hearings to permit public discussion of the subject matter of the articles contained in the warrant. (2) After the
===PAGE 6===
town manager has prepared the budget, the finance committee shall consult with the town manager and recommend any
modifications it deems appropriate before the budget is filed with the town clerk. (3) The finance committee shall have all
other powers conferred on finance committees by the General Laws.
Mr. Ebersole stated this in the Town Charter; the one question they had was Section 4 of the Finance
Committee town bylaw allows the Finance Committee to remove members who have not attended 1/3 of the
regular meetings.
Refer SECTION 4. To Town Counsel for review as section is referenced in Town Charter Article 3-1(f) - filling of
vacancies.
ECTION 4. Members absent from one-third of the regular meetings of the Finance Committee in any fiscal year may b
moved bv a two thirds (2/3) vote of the remaining members present and voting. Anv member who shall remove forn
Mr. Ebersole stated they did not recommend changing this but have referred it to Town Counsel for review.
ARTICLE XXII BOARD OF HEALTH
Repeal SECTIONS 1 and 2 as they are covered by Town Charter section 3-6(a)
SECTION 1. Composition - There shall be a Board of Health which shall consist of five members. The terms of office
shall be so arranged that the terms of as nearly an equal number of members as is possible shall expire each year.
SECTION 2. Powers and Duties - The board of health shall be responsible for the formulation and enforcement
of local rules and regulations affecting the environment and the public health and for the enforcement within the
town of all state statutes and the provisions of the code of Massachusetts regulations affecting the public health.
the board of health shall have all the other powers, and responsibilities given to boards of health by general
laws.
Town Charter Article 3 Elected Officials, Section 3-6 Board of Health reads:
(a) Composition, Term of Office - There shall be a board of health consisting of 5 members elected for terms of 3
years each so arranged that the terms of as nearly an equal number of members as is possible shall expire each
(b) Powers and Duties - the board of health shall be responsible for the formulation and enforcement of local rules
and regulations affecting the environment and the public health and for the enforcement within the town of all
state statutes and the provisions of the code of Massachusetts regulations affecting the public health. The board of
health shall have all the other powers, duties and responsibility given to boards of health by general laws.
Mr. Ebersole stated the almost exact same wording is in the Charter.
ARTICLE XXVI SEWER COMMISSION
Repeal SECTIONS 1 and 2 as they conflict with Town Charter sections 3-14 and Repeal SECTION 3 as it conflicts
with Town Charter Section 3-1(a)
Sewer Commission
SECTION 1. Composition, Mode of Selection: - There shall be a sewer commission consisting of five members
appointed for terms of three years each, so arranged that the terms of as nearly an equal number of members as is possible
shall expire each year.
SECTION 2. Powers and Duties-The board of sewer commissioners shall make careful studies of the resources,
possibilities and needs of the town as they relate to the availability of sanitary sewers and shall make plans for the
installation of a system of sanitary sewers and for the maintenance of a sanitary sewer system. The beard sewer
commissioners shall develop a comprehensive or master plan for a town wide system of sanitary sewers, in graphic and
===PAGE 7===
textual form, policies to govern the future growth and development of the entire town. The board of sewer commissioners
shall, in conjunction with other land use bodies, assist in developing a long range strategic plan for guiding town growth
and development. The powers and authority of the sewer commissioners shall include oversight of the sewer enterprise
fund, setting rates and charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system, ratification responsibility for the sewer business
manager and providing advice to the board of seleetmen relating to intergovernmental agreements concerning sanitary
sewers. The day-to day operation, care and maintenance of the sanitary sewers shall be under supervision of the town
manager.
SECTION 3. Sewer Business Manager - The appointment of a sewer business manager by the town manager shall
become effective on the fifteenth day following the day on which notice of the appointment is filed with the board of
sewer commissioners, unless the board of sewer commissioners shall, within that period and by a majority vote of all of
its members, reject such appointment or has sooner voted to affirm it.
Town Charter Article 3 Elected Officials, Section 3-14 Board of Sewer Commissioners reads:
(a) Composition, Term of office - There shall be a board of sewer commissioners consisting of 5 members who
shall be elected to terms of 3 years each, so arranged that the terms of as nearly an equal number of members
as possible shall expire each year.
(b) Powers and Duties - the board of sewer commissions shall make careful studies of the resources, possibilities
and needs of the town as they relate to the availability of sanitary sewers and shall make plans for the
installation of a system of sanitary sewers and for the maintenance of a sanitary sewer system. The board of
sewer commissioners shall develop a comprehensive or master plan for a town -wide system of sanitary
sewers, setting fourth, in graphic and textual form, policies to govern the future grown and development of
the entire town. The board of sewer commissioners shall in conjunction with other land use bodies assist in
developing a long-range strategic plan for guiding town growth and development. The powers and authority
of the board of sewer commissioners shall include oversight of the sewer enterprise fund, setting rates and
charges for the use of the sanitary sewer system, ratification responsibility for the sewer business manager and
providing advice to the board of selectmen relating to intergovernmental agreements concerning sanitary
sewers. The day-to-day operation, care and maintenance of the sanitary sewers shall be under the supervision
of the town manager.
(c) Appointments - the appointment of a sewer business manager by the town manager shall become effective on
the fifteenth day following the day on which notice of the appointment is file with the board of seer
commissioners, unless the board of sewer commissioners hall, within that period and by a majority vote of all
of its members, reject such appointment or has sooner voted to affirm it.
Town Charter Section 3-1 Elected Officials General Provisions (a) Elective Offices reads: the town offices to be filled by
ballot of the whole town shall be ... and a board of sewer commissioners....
This is also in conflict with the Town Charter.
ARTICLE XXVII CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Correct the reference to the Town Charter from "Section 6-6" to "Section 6-7."
Mr. Ebersole stated this is just changing the section numbering. He recommended if there were any other
comments to contact Chairman Rob Bowen or Kathy Herrick. Mr. Toale thanked Mr. Ebersole.
Mr. Alonzo suggested appointing a Charter Review Committee at some point as the last one was in 2008 and is
required to be reviewed every ten years.
Annual Town Meeting Warrant signatures
Motion: R. Ebersole
To sign the Annual Town Meeting Warrant
2'd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
The Board signed five copies of the annual town meeting warrant for legal posting.
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Lemieux asked the Board if they would like to have the pertinent committees come in for a presentation on
the articles they were waiting to make a recommendation on before the town meeting. Suggestion was made to
have the Cemetery Commission present on their request at the May 2^d meeting.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee meeting last week was cancelled due to illness. She stated she
attended the MA Congress of Lakes and Ponds Associations workshop last Friday. DEP Wetlands and
Waterways Program representative presented on the new Chapter 91 General License Self Certification process
for residential small dock and pier owners, which is applicable to all great ponds, navigable rivers and tidelands,
Whalom Lake is Lunenburg's one great pond. All such docks and piers are required to be licensed and recorded
on property deeds. She suggested Lunenburg be brought up to speed for this process. The Storm Water Task
Force is meeting on Thursday.
Mr. Alonzo reported Cable Advisory meets tomorrow. Finance Committee meets on Thursday. School Building
Committee meets next Wednesday.
Mr. Ebersole reported Sewer Commission is meeting tonight; one big topic continues to be infiltration inflow;
trying to remove the extra water in the sewer system.
Town Manager Report:
Ms. Lemieux reported the Board has received a copy of an indoor air quality report for Town Hall conducted by
the Department of Public Health in December 2016. They came to perform air quality testing and make visual
observations of the building. Results of the air quality test indicated the carbon dioxide levels, temperature,
humidity and particulate matter concentrations were below the recommended level and there was no detection
of carbon monoxide. However, the visual observations include bird waste in the attic, high levels of moisture in
the basement that have led to mold and a ventilation system that is not working properly. Mr. Lemieux and
DPW Director Rodriquenz have been working together and taken the following steps to address the issues. A
commercial restoration and cleaning company has been contacted to look at the basement and attic. They
provided an estimate for cleaning the attic bird waste of $7,400. She contacted Massachusetts Interlocal
Insurance Association (MIIA) to file a claim for mold remediation in the basement but unfortunately learned
today from the claim adjuster that it will not be a covered incident. If there had been a recent incident that
caused water damage, such as a broken pipe or structure that led to the mold, it would have been covered.
At this time we do not have a cost estimate for the mold remediation. Outside of the mold remediation which
includes restoration of records that we cannot destroy, there are a number of issues to get the basement to be
weathertight. Staff has been advised not to enter the basement until further notice. The DPW Director has
contacted a pest control company to control the rodent problem in the building; they will be working on sealing
all holes to prevent future access by squirrels or other critters. The ventilation system and other building repairs
will need to be addressed separately and a scope of work will need to be put together to establish a basis for
getting bids for performing that work. Overall we are at a preliminary stage of assessment. We will address the
attic and basement situations first.
Ms. Lemieux reported she has received notification today from the Department of Revenue regarding the
Community Compact Program and the submittal of our three best practices submitted. We will receive a grant
up to $10,000 for the cost of a cyber security assessment; a grant up to $10,000 to implement a citizen
communication engagement plan and a grant up to $25,000 for the stormwater measures to be implemented.
She is working with the IT Director to finalize the scope of work for the cyber security assessment and the
citizen communication engagement plan. She has contacted the Storm Water Task Force to request they provide
a scope of work to implement the stormwater measures.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Chriztine Foltz, 284 Lancaster Ave, stated she had just left the Middle/High School gym where there are adult
gym classes going on and it is a wonderful opportunity for people to work out and get trim. She encouraged
everyone to participate.
Mr. Ebersole reminded all of the Annual Town Meeting on Saturday, May 6" at 9:00 a.m. and the Town
Election on May 20t from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m.
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Toale stated the next Selectmen meeting is on April 18'h to have the second round of interviews for the four
finalist legal firms; the meeting starts at 6:00 p.m.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting at 8:13 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaikem Noterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
