===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Executive Session M.G.L. c. 30§21, Reason #3: To discuss strategy with respect to potential and
demonstrably likely litigation, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's
litigating position, and the Chair so declares, namely the Town's participation in potential MultiDistrict
Litigation against opioid manufacturers.
The meeting commenced at 8:17 p.m.
Ms. Lemieux stated she and Attorney Costa had discussed and she was bringing this to the Board tonight to see
if they wished to sign on with other communities in signing on with the civil suits being brought against
pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors of opioids. The consortium group is Massachusetts Opioid
Litigation Attorneys (MOLA). In December 2017 a multidistrict litigation was formed in the district of
Northern Ohio.
Attorney Costa stated this is different from a class action suit. Cases are filed individually. Claims are filed in
Federal Court in Ohio and then consolidated into the multidistrict litigation. The Town would sign on with the
consortium and would incur no out of pocket costs for discovery process or depositions that might occur,
subpoenas, court filing fees, etc. The legal firms are fronting all these costs. If the case is won, they get a
percentage of the award and are paid for their expenses. The firms could recover monetary costs for the Town
incurred by addressing the crisis. Attorney Costa stated there could be some indirect costs. Discussion about the
lawsuit and possible scenarios ensued.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To join the multidistrict lawsuit
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye, Mr. Toale - aye
2"d: P. Luck
Mr. Costa noted his firm sent a letter to KP Law, PC who is one of the legal firms listed in the consortium and
informed them they were joining the consortium but they were not going to go into communities represented by
them and communicate with them without their knowledge. Mr. Toale asked if anyone wanted to amend the
motion or vote after this information. There was none. Ms. Lemieux stated something like this helps change
policy sometimes.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To adjourn from Executive Session not to return to Open Session
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale - aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
