===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale stated in accordance with the
requirements of Open Meeting Law this meeting was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public
Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reminded about the Lions Club Pancake breakfast at Eagle House Senior Center tomorrow from 8:00
- 10:00 a.m., $2.00 per person, takeout is available. She reported the School Committee decided on Dr. Kate
Burnham for the School Superintendent position.
Ms. Adams reported she attended the MMA Newly Elected Selectmen's Training in Natick this past Saturday.
It was a great experience and a good meeting.
Mr. Toale noted the Cultural Council Arts Festival was this past weekend and it was a nice event and well
attended. He stated Cruise Night was well organized and well attended also.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, stated she has been volunteering to record meetings for PACC over the past
year. Tonight she learned PACC has issued a policy stating PACC volunteers and paid videographers shall not
make public comment while recording meetings. She believed her 1s Amendment rights were being restricted.
Ms. Adams was shocked that the Town would try to restrict anyone's participation in a meeting. More
information was requested regarding the policy.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Tax Lien Sale Auction: As a reminder, the Tax Lien Sale Auction will be on June 13th at 1 p.m. Payments
have continued to be made; the total tax liens are now down from 28 to 20 as of June 12th
". The current total of
delinquent taxes/interest/penalties accrued for these tax title properties is approximately $555,010.
Complete Streets: Due to a scheduling conflict the consultant has on June 19th, the Complete Streets
presentation by Woodard & Curran will be on the July 10th agenda.
Business-Town Partnership Meeting: There will be a Business-Town Partnership meeting on Monday, June
25th. I have sent out a Doodle Poll to find out if a majority of attendees would prefer a morning meeting at 10
a.m. or an early evening meeting at 5 p.m. Montachusett Regional Planning Commission Principal Planner
Karen Chapman will be there to facilitate a discussion on the development of a business brochure. If the
meeting were in the evening, we would aim to wrap up by 6:30 p.m. knowing that the Planning Board is
holding a listening session concerning Recreational Marijuana regulations that evening.
Upcoming Meetings:
• Town Counsel Office Hours for June: Town Counsel Office hours will be on June 26th from 2-6 P.M.
Ms. Lemieux wanted to clarify a comment made at the last week's meeting by Ms. Luck during the discussion
on taxing to the levy limit about a statement that in response to Finance Committee member Mark Erickson's
question on whether or not we should be backing off taxing to the levy limit, that my response was an
immediate "yes." If you look back at the video of that meeting which was January 25th,
', 2018, at approximately
29 minutes into the meeting, my response was not an immediate "yes," but I said it would probably be a policy
decision and that by taxing to the levy has allowed us to put money into Stabilization and that I would continue
===PAGE 2===
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Salary Reserve Transfer
Ms. Lemieux reported this is for the Library Director Salary due to renegotiations on her contract with the
Library of Trustees.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To approve the salary reserve transfer in the amount of $2032.00
2nd: D.MeQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
2. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of May 8, 2018 were approved. An accounts payable warrant in the amount of $411,893.16; a payroll
warrant in the amount of $822,249.45 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $28,267.62 were
presented.
Thank you letters for those not renewing their annual appointments were signed by the Board.
GOAL SETTING WORKSHOP
The Board of Selectmen goals for the past year were:
• Identify desire for and type of Economic Development for Lunenburg
• Develop an Infrastructure Plan (including Roads, Buildings and Equipment)
• Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Outreach
Discussion ensued about the first goal. Mr. Toale stated we wanted to see if the townspeople supported
economic development. Mr. McQuaid stated the average response was "no more shopping centers but yes, we
want something." Ms. Luck wasn't sure we received enough resident input. General feedback was that residents
wanted to retain the rural character of the Town and to support existing businesses.
By Town Charter, the Planning Board would address economic development in the Master Plan. A proposed
economic development committee could assist in creating a plan along with the Planning Board. Agro tourism
and ecotourism as areas that might need more exploration.
Ms. Adams suggested forming an economic committee from members of committees that already exist.
• Develop an Infrastructure Plan (including Roads, Buildings and Equipment)
Mr. McQuaid stated they were partially through this goal. Ms. Lemieux stated we have a full inventory of the
town property. We have identified the needs, but not the costs. Mr. Ebersole asked if this is still our goal or a
task for the Town Manager? Suggestion was made to have a policy for maintenance of town properties (roads,
buildings, equipment, land). After discussion it was decided to develop an infrastructure plan and policy for use,
maintenance and capital replacement. Cemetery Commission and Parks Commission should be involved as
well. Day to day operations would remain under the purview of the pertinent body. (I.e. Cemeteries: Cemetery
Commission) Suggestion: Adopt an action plan for dealing with the five municipal buildings and establish a
planning process for the Turkey Hill Elementary School.
Mr. Ebersole noted developing a road policy or the fact is we are going to continue the five-year plan, we are
going to continue the concept of federal funding for eligible roads, seeking grants, Montachusett Regional
Planning Commission (MRPC), the Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) etc.; that we actually include all
that in our policy.
Ms. Lemieux stated one important piece of that is the MPO representative position; it needs to be filled. They
===PAGE 3===
Board to hear their concern, they should be coming to public comment here or talking to the Town Manager.
Ms. Adams clarified she meant in terms of communication, not conversation. What does Representative Benson
do, how does she communicate? Is our policy restricting the ability to communicate?
Mr. Ebersole recommended as part of this goal to review our social media policy and establish a communication
Ns. Lenic saved an out file for this goal a to perforan a communications audit. We will look at all ou
processes on how we communicate currently and develop a communications policy that identifies strategy
and actions to improve communications. Mr. Ebersole suggested assisting various appointed committees to
identify their communication policy and to suggest non-appointed boards have a policy on how they
communicate with the public.
Ms. Luck noted that many documents that are part of a presentation at a meeting, especially during the budget
season, were not always available to the public at the meeting or during the broadcast, making it difficult to
follow along. Suggestion was made to have documents posted on the website following the meeting and if
possible to put it up on the screen in the meeting room.
Summary: Communication plan, education plan, no more acronyms, review the social media policy with town
counsel.
Mr. Toale stated in regards to last week's annual appointments, we had the reappointment forms that we did not
use. Mr. Ebersole stated he did use it in regards to voting to reappoint people. Ms. Luck pointed out there are
comments that are useful for recommended changes as opposed to what they were currently doing on the board.
Mr. McQuaid believed reappointing should be a bigger agenda item because these are decision-making
boards/committees that we appoint to that people don't get to elect, but their lives are affected by it and they
have no method to provide feedback on their performance.
Mr. Toale would like to jump into the appointed committee process in a big way; perhaps the Personnel
Committee can assist as well. We would make a conscious practice of recruiting and building a talent pool,
helping people understand what the various committees do through outreach. Making sure chairpersons are
involved in the process, scheduling interviews, notification process for successful or unsuccessful candidates, as
well as orientation; how to run a meeting and the Open Meeting Law component of committee participation.
Mr. Toale presented the Board's Appointment Policy (Section 2.07). He would like to reexamine the Board
liaison process. He would like it to be a goal to continue the work of organizing our appointed boards and
committees and making them feel more of a part of the process, broadening the pool of people to appoint and
giving them the skills to do their work. Further discussion about liaisons, committees and communication with
them and about them ensued. Ms. Luck stated this Board should have a stronger relationship with the School
Department/Committee and work together during the budget process and contract negotiations. She would like
to find ways to tighten our fiscal belt and set a goal to change the mindset of taxing to the levy limit of 2.5%
and to have more budget conversations earlier and to have more impact on the budget. More discussion about
the School budget ensued. Suggestion was made for the Town Manager to approach the new School
Superintendent about increased communication during the school budget process. Ms. Lemieux stated you may
not see it because it is behind the scenes, but she and Supt. Calmes communicate often and have a good working
relationship. She intended to do the same with the new Superintendent. Suggestion was made to hold a joint
meeting with the School Committee and the School Superintendent.
Mr. Toale summarized the Board's proposed goals:
1) Town assets/ planning and action oriented goals
===PAGE 4===
Will address annual facilities maintenance. We put about $40,000 into the budget for facilities
maintenance. This will start to address those smaller projects.
• Facilitate Business and Economic Development-create a partnership with the business community
that promotes stability and growth of our existing businesses. We continue to hold the business
association meetings and work on a promotional brochure for the Town website of town resources.
We are looking at forming a regional alliance with other business associations, such as with
Townsend, Groton and Pepperell. We are looking at creating the permitting guidebook with guidance
from MRC. There has been movement to facilitate meetings of the Chairs of each of those groups.
Includes creating a charge for the proposed Economic Development Committee and work with those
members.
• Advancing Human Resource Management-streamline processes and procedures for employees
(Complete a comprehensive update of the Personnel Policies and others, create an employee
handbook, implement employee performance evaluations for non-management positions)
• Create Written Procurement Process & Procedures -compliance with procurement law, further
controls against fraud, and implement financial auditor's recommendation. There will also be a
central location for all procurement files, including bids and Request for Proposals.
Mr. Ebersole suggested thinking about succession planning as well.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Toale reported the Board meets this Monday, June 18"h for an Executive Session and on Tuesday, June 19th
for a regular Selectmen meeting. The Board will not be meeting on July 3rd.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Luck reminded all the Police Department v. citizens basketball fundraiser game is this Thursday night.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting at 9:30 p.m.
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 11 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
