===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
December 18, 2018
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale announced in accordance with the requirements of Open Meeting Law, the meeting
was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams conveyed Happy Holidays and a Happy New Year to all.
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Ave., reported today the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club drew the
grand prizewinner of the 12 Days or So Before Christmas Raffle. If you are number 172, you
have won $2500.00. He thanked all the participants, donors and local businesses.
Following last week's meeting he wanted to express his support to the Planning Board to place
all the marijuana questions on the election ballot. He thought it would be good for the town to
vote on those individual items. He hoped the Planning Board has a contingency plan for what
happens if the regulations don't pass at town meeting.
Earth Removal Permit Hearing-Lunenburg Water District- 496 Massachusetts Avenue
Mr. Toale read aloud the public hearing notice:
To All Interested Parties:
The Lunenburg Board of Selectmen will be holding a public hearing on Tuesday, December 18,
2018 at 7:05 p.m. at Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor, Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg, on
the application submitted by the Lunenburg Water District, 50 Lesure Ave., for an Earth
Removal Permit in accordance with Article IX, § 9 of the Town Bylaws. Said application is for
removal of 20,000 cubic yards of excess fill material located at 496 Massachusetts Avenue,
Lunenburg, MA. Plans are available for review in the Board of Selectmen office at 17 Main St.
during office hours, Monday through Thursday.
Mr. Toale called the hearing to order. Fran McNamara, Lunenburg Water District
Superintendent, presented for the permit. Mr. McNamara stated they need to move the material
before beginning to build the new office and are looking to move 20,000 cubic feet of material.
Mr. Toale asked where is the material going? Mr. McNamara stated most of the calls he gets for
the material is from local contractors for filling in around foundations. We are charging $2.00 a
yard. Ms. Adams asked about erosion control. Mr. McNamara stated it is part of the site plan.
We have a permanent retention pond for water runoff. The engineers planned it so half of the lot
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Toale read Land Use Director Adam Burney's memo regarding the permit.
The Lunenburg Water District has applied for an Earth Removal Permit for the removal of
approximately 20,000 (corrected from 2,000) cubic feet of material at 496 Massachusetts Ave. As the
Board of Selectmen is the permit granting authority they should be aware that this property has
received Site Plan Approval from the Planning Board. This approval dated 8 May 2017, includes the
construction of an office/garage building and the appurtenant parking and operational facilities for
the Water District's headquarters. The approved plan also prescribes final grading, ground cover
and elevations for the site.
I would recommend the Board impose the following conditions:
1) The approved Site Plan be accepted as the closure plan for the Earth Removal Permit
2) The removal of material shall not exceed the grades on the approved Site Plan dated
7 March 2017 with amendments on 27 April 2017.
3) The as-built plan submitted to the Planning Board shall also be submitted to the Board of
Selectmen. This plan should outline the final grades and location of facilities and any
alterations from the approved plan.
Mr. Toale asked for any questions or comments from the Board or public. There were none.
He closed the hearing
Motion: D. McQuaid
2*: P. Luck
To approve the earth removal permit with the conditions as outlined above by the
Land Use Director
Discussion: Ms. Lemieux suggested including hours of operation: Monday through
Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and that signs to be installed warning of trucks entering.
Mr. McQuaid amended his motion to include those conditions and Ms. Luck seconded
the amendment.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. McNamara thanked the Board.
Victory Distributors LLC license # 00016-PK-0636 Change of Doing Business As
Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy
Jennifer Moore, Store Manager, presented on behalf of the change of doing business as.
She stated the name change has been in effect since 2009 but it wasn't changed officially with
the town.
Motion: D.McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To approve the change of doing business as to Hannaford Supermarket & Pharmacy
submitted by Victory Distributors, LLC
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Moore thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
IV. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Pete Lincoln- Public Access Cable Committee-term to expire June 30, 2021
Steve Archambault- Public Access Cable Committee- term to expire June 30, 2021
===PAGE 3===
Steve Archambeault, 662 Page Street, stated PACC Coordinator Jo McLaughlin asked him
three years ago to be on the committee. He taught for 35 years and has been involved in the
recording industry for forty years. Before he taught he worked for WJUL as part of their
team. He trained people how to be radio personalities. He has been involved in audio all his
life and that is what he is bringing to this committee. Ms. Luck thanked him for
volunteering.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
To appoint Pete Lincoln and Steve Archambault to the Public Access Cable Committee
with a term to expire June 30, 2021
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Notice of Intent to Convert Chapter 61B Land at 994 Northfield Road:
Road from Wiliam Custus on December Gith to conver 35.07 acres of land out of Chapter 61B3
to be used for commercial use. Section 9 of MGL Chapter 61B stipulates when Chapter 6l
land is either sold or converted that the Board of Assessors, Board of Selectmen, Planning
Board, Conservation Commission, and the State Forester at Massachusetts Department of
Conservation & Recreation be notified. In the case of an intended conversion of property, not
involving a sale, the Town shall have an option to purchase the land at full and fair market
value to be determined by an impartial appraiser hired at the expense of the Town. This
presal would need to be completed and dili vered to the landowat within 30 days of the
hearing followed by written notice signed by the Board of Selectmen, mailed to the landowner.
The Planning Board has voted to recommend the Board not exercise their first right of refusal,
the Conservation Commission meets tomorrow evening, and the Open Space Committee is
scheduled to meet this Thursday. Given the succinct timeline if the Town were so inclined to
exercise this right and the inability to have an independent appraisal performed within the 30
days and the lack of funding to do so, it is recommended that the Board take an official vote at
the next regular meeting on January 8' to not exercise this right.
Discussion ensued about the short time period for obtaining an appraisal and for all the affected
boards to review the offer for the Town ensued. Ms. Luck suggested setting up a special fund to
place any back taxes paid upon conversion from Chapter 61 for future appraisals and purchases.
This item will be placed on the January 8, 2019 agenda.
Update from Cemetery Commission on recovered headstones/military markers after
demolition of Holman Street Building:
Since the demolition of the Holman Street Building and the uncovering of many headstones
and military markers, Cemetery Commissioner Bill Tyler spoke with the previous
Superintendent and learned that most of the military markers are duplicates and many have
===PAGE 4===
Memorial Building, and the Town Hall are complete.
Town Facilities (TM Goal #2):
• Town Hall Handicapped Accessible Bathroom: The Town Facilities Technician and I
met with representatives from Monty Tech on Thursday, December 13th and Monty
Tech will be able to take on this project this year. Construction is expected to last up to
two months and may start as soon as mid-January. This will save the Town a
significant amount of money, as we would otherwise be paying for the labor costs,
which would have been subject to prevailing wage rates.
• Ritter Building Shutters: The DPW Director received a quote of approximately
$9,000 to replace the shutters at the Ritter Building with new painted wooden
• RFP for Rental of Space at the TC Passios: The RFP for rental of space at the TC
Passios was due on Thursday, December 13th and there were no bids received. The
School Facilities Director will be reaching out to the one known party that had
expressed interest to learn why they did not submit a bid
• Revolving Museum: We continue to work with the Revolving Museum to work out
an agreement for use of the cafeteria space at the TC Passios in exchange for in kind
art projects and workshops. Part of the process is identifying possible projects that we
would like in exchange for the use of the space; this could be centered around a
Homecoming float, a mural at a park, or even an event that involves poetry. I will be
reaching out to relevant groups such as the School, the Cultural Council, the Parks
Commission, the Library, and the Boys & Girls Club for their input. I welcome any
suggestions that we can offer as part of determining the projects that will need to
fairly equate to the value received for use of the space.
FY20 Budget Schedule and Finance Tool Enhancements:
The Finance Committee reviewed the FY20 budget schedule and the dates that they will be
meeting with departments at their last meeting. We discussed and they agreed they would add
"snow dates" on the Monday after their regularly scheduled Thursday budget meetings in the
event the Thursday meeting has to be cancelled. This schedule will be circulated with the
departments to ensure they can attend on the proposed dates and then posted accordingly.
The new budget dashboard with financial data will be complete with FY2018 data by the end
of this week. Right now you can view information with data up until FY2017 at
https://Lunenburg-ma.cleargov.com.
Ms. Lemieux showed a sample of what it will look like on the website.
===PAGE 5===
America will come to speak at the Library
Cable:
The Cable Coordinator reported they are currently airing the "Knights
Roundtable" with the School Superintendent and a promotional video on the
Memory Café held monthly at the Eagle House.
•
Recently two videographers resigned and have hired one replacement to date.
Town Clerk:
• The Town Clerk is looking for a trailer to store all the voting equipment for an easier
mobile set-up at the voting location. The Police Chief has a surplus trailer that was
offered to the Town Clerk if the space inside is large enough.
• Town Clerk discussed the eventual need to have two separate polling locations.
Council on Aging:
• The COA Director announced there have been some recent repairs to the plaster at
the Eagle House and the walls in certain rooms have been painted.
• The Dementia Friendly meetings have been moving forward and the Memory Cafe
have been a success.
The Bridges Together program between seniors and Lunenburg students has
wrapped up.
•
Senior wellness programs: Pickleball has begun at the Passios Gym
(Wednesdays) and Zumba will begin in January, also at the Passios Gym.
DPW:
• Winter began early this year for the DPW therefore it also cut short the paving
season.
• Vacant positions at the DPW are starting to be filled, including the Mechanic
position and a Heavy Equipment Operator position.
Police:
• The Police Chief continues to work on their accreditation.
• The Police Department is expected to receive an electronic fingerprinting machine from
the State any day, which would mean that funds that were appropriated in a previous
capital article totaling $25,000 would be available for repurposing.
Land Use Director:
• The Open Space Committee has finalized the draft Open Space and Recreation Plan
and is looking for comments from the appropriate officials/departments.
===PAGE 6===
alallo to trovero
residents).
• Currently Engine #4 is out of commission and will need approximately $15,000 in
repairs to be functional. The replacement of Engine #4 was a capital request in 2016 by
the Fire Chief to be replaced in FY20. The estimated cost is $685,000.
Treasurer/Collector:
•
Foreclosure proceedings have been initiated for 250 Howard Street.
Binance Director:
• The Finance Director reported she was finalizing all the submissions to the Department
of Revenue so the tax rate could be certified and bills sent out by December 18. She is
also working on updating the budget figures from the town meetings in budget
documents and the Financial Forecast so the Town Manager can provide target budgets
to all the departments.
IT Director:
• The IT Director reported that we have moved to managed print services for town
printers and this includes servicing those printers and includes the cost of toner
replacement.
Relocation of the Veterans Service Officer's Office:
The Veterans Service Officer's office will be moving from the Eagle House to an office in the
Ritter Building in a couple of weeks. The DPW relocated storage materials that were in an
office in the Ritter to the Brooks House and are in the process of having the Ritter office
cleaned and painted prior to moving the VSO to the Ritter. The office used at the Eagle House
is not handicapped accessible and this new space is accessible.
Attendance at Meetings and other announcements:
• Wreaths Across America Ceremony at Monty Tech: I had the opportunity to attend
the Wreaths Across America Ceremony last Monday at Monty Tech and along with
Barbara Reynolds, our representative from Lunenburg on the Monty Tech School
Committee, accepted a wreath given to Lunenburg. The wreath was delivered to Town
Hall on Thursday, December 13" and our Veteran's Agent TJ Blauser picked it up and
placed it at the Veteran's Memorial Park for all to visit.
• Salvation Army's Christmas Angel Program: This year's Christmas Angel program
was a huge success. I want to thank the people of Lunenburg for their generosity and
outpouring of support in giving presents to children that would otherwise not receive
gifts at Christmas. Lynette Valentine of the Salvation Army picked up a room full of
clothes and toys on Thursday, December 13"h. We hope to make this an annual
===PAGE 7===
• Local Inspector
• Assistant Mechanic
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular member, 2 alternate member vacancies)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy for a design
professional/craftsperson)
• Cultural Council (multiple vacancies)
• Green Communities Task Force (1 vacancy - Citizen at Large position)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Ms. Luck thanked Ms. Lemieux for holding the department head meetings and keeping the
Board updated. Mr. Toale agreed, adding it is good to hear and informative for the townspeople
as well. He asked if they were going to get something similar to this from the school. Ms.
Lemieux stated she was working on it. Ms. Adams suggested considering the cost of $9000 for
the replacement shutters for the Ritter Building, to have a shutter free building.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Letter of Support for Open Space and Recreation Plan 2019-2026
Brandon Kibbe, Chairman of the Open Space Committee, was present for the request for a letter
of support of the Open Space and Recreation Plan for 2019- 2026, to be sent to the Division of
Conservation Services, Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. Mr. Toale
commended him for the comprehensive work on the plan. Mr. Kibbe thanked him and noted he
had a good group working on the updated plan. They solicited feedback from the public via a
survey mailed out with tax bills. It provided a good deal of information on what people are
thinking and what they want. They also held some public charrettes. They are still collecting
letters of support from various town boards and outside agencies. Once submitted to the state and
if approved, it will provide an Open Space Plan for the next seven years. This will allow the
town to be eligible for a variety of state grants for open space land acquisition, park
improvements, etc. The grant reimbursement rate from the state is around 62-64%. Ms. Luck
and Mr. McQuaid also commended him on the work. Mr. McQuaid asked him to elaborate
further on the forest cutting plan; is the reason to have a plan to help the forest or to obtain
revenue or both?
Mr. Kibbe stated managing forests is about the habitat, the timber and wood product quality and
protecting your investment and using those activities to enhance the recreational activities on the
property. A forest stewardship plan is different than a forest management plan. What the
Conservation Commission is striving to do is to look at the entirety of the resources that are there
and the benefits that those properties provide. A managed forest not only provides some revenue
but a healthy environment in the forest itself.
===PAGE 8===
to maintain Lunenburg's rural character, support Lunenburg's agricultural sustainability,
conserve important wildlife habitats and drinking water resources as well as enhancing and
promoting existing open space and recreational assets of the Town. Sincerely, Lunenburg Board
of Selectmen
Vote: All in Favor
2. Annual License Renewals for 2019
Ms. Lemieux presented the remainder of the licenses up for renewal for 2019.
Licensee Name
Whalom Gas
Service Inc
Whalom Gas
Service Inc
Conrad's Drive In
Inc.
SE-Flan Inc.
Fifty Mass Ave.
LLC
Donnelly's
Tavern Inc
Michael
Bartnowski
PK & P
Corporation
DBA
Whalom Gas
Service
Whalom Gas
Service
License Type
Common Victualler
Automatic Amusement
Devices (2)
Conrad's
Common Victualler
Sean Patrick's
Common Victualler
Restaurant All Alcohol
Simon-Pure
Publick House
Restaurant All Alcohol
Common Victualler
Weekday Entertainment
Donnelly's Tavern Restaurant All Alcohol
Common Victualler
Weekday Entertainment
Jukebox
Automatic Amusement
Devices (4)
KC Sales and
Services LLC
Class Il Auto Dealer
Dippin Donuts
Common Victualler
Fee Paid
$25.00
$70.00
$25.00
$25.00
$1,450.0
$1,450.0
$25.00
$100.00
$1,450.0
$25.00
$100.00
$35.00
$140.00
$100.00
$25.00
Address
1 Whalom Road
835 Massachusetts
Ave.
494 Electric Avenue
50 Massachusetts
Ave.
43 Summer Street
1312 Massachusetts
Avenue
455 Massachusetts
Ave.
===PAGE 9===
indicating that business owner John Donnelly was refinancing and that taxes would be paid
following that transaction. Mr. McQuaid amended his motion to say that Donnelly's Tavern
license renewals will be contingent on all taxes being paid to date. Ms. Luck seconded the
amendment.
Vote: All in Favor
3. Discussion on setting a timeline of action items related to TC Passios, Brooks, old
Primary, Town Hall, and Ritter Memorial Buildings
Mr. Toale stated our intent is to set a timeline for what we have to do over the next couple of
months relative to that activity. Ms. Lemieux noted the Board already has a workshop planned
on January 15th with the Historical Commission, Historical Society and the Architectural
Preservation District Commission being invited
Mr. Toale stated he would like to hear interim uses for these properties in upcoming Town
Manager reports. We want to prepare at least one warrant article for the Annual Town Meeting
Ms. Adams suggested while preparing for writing ATM articles to invite the Parks Commission
and Open Space Committee to solicit their feedback on these buildings and open space in town.
Mr. McQuaid stated there was some information from Open Space in their plan. Ms. Lemieux
stated she had those two committees on her short list but also noted the Public Access Cable
Committee is interested because they have funding for a new studio but are in limbo currently.
Ms. Lemieux would also like to hear feedback from town employees as they are the ones who
work in these buildings. Ms. Lemieux noted warrant articles are due in mid-March. Another
warrant article would be to approve the cost of a design that provides detailed cost estimates for
the proposed move to TC Passios and to form a Building Committee.
4. Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board approved an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $198,213.82.
Action File Issues- Ms. Luck reported she checked with Executive Assistant Peterson on when
the last time was that license fees were raised and she went back to 1995 and could not find any
other time when those fees have been raised since. She noted we raise taxes but we haven't
raised the license fees in 30 years. She did not think we are looking enough at revenue sources.
Discussion ensued about the cost of doing business. Ms. Adams noted she had suggested slight
increases annually.
5. Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force is meeting on the 20th. She attended a School
Committee meeting and on the school website page they have a Community page and there is
information on INTERFACE (mental health services referrals) that you can link to. Ms. Lemieux
stated it was on the town website also.
Mr. Toale reported the Charter Review Committee elected Steve Archambault as the new Chair
and scheduled the first public hearing for January 9"". They are planning on more than one
opportunity to present their proposed changes to the townspeople.
===PAGE 10===
b. Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Vutreach
c. Increase Alignment with Committees Appointed by the Board of Selectmen
Mr. Toale stated we did address Old Business #1(a) (2) in our Current Business this evening
under agenda item #3. He is waiting for the Personnel Committee to meet again so he can touch
base with them on Goal c.
2. Discussion on the Contract with Casella Waste
Ms. Lemieux reported in response to the global recycling crisis that began in 2017 when China
enacted the National Sword program which banned materials that were previously recyclable, the
Town has been in discussion with Casella about addressing those recyclables, especially mixed
paper and glass. A glass recycling plant in Franklin, MA has closed and there is no longer a
market in the state for these items. Casella would like the Town to amend the contract to begin
paying for recycling. According to Casella, their cost, for at cost recycled materials is $55/ton.
The Town has countered by going from paying $0/ton to $25/ton. Casella has responded that is
not possible as they would still be losing money. Although our contract with them ends in June
2021, we could face the possibility of being dropped as a customer. Currently the going rate for
single-stream recycling runs between $60- $70 per ton. She believed $55/ton is a fair assessment
for that cost.
She presented a spreadsheet and noted the highlighted section from the Finance Director
showing the impact to the budget. If we were to start this on July 1, 2019, the total impact to the
General Fund would be $58,930. We will need to increase the price of the Pay as You Throw
trash bags, but that is the cost of the bags themselves increasing and the terms of our contract
increasing every year, which could be up to 3%. Discussion about public outreach and education
concerning the single stream recycling and contamination ensued.
Motion: P. Luck
2^°: D. MeQuaid
To authorize the Town Manager to renegotiate the contract with Casella Waste for a cost
of no greater than $55/ton in recognition of the fact that the Town will need to pay for
recycling as of July 1, 2019
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule; the next meeting is January 8. January 15th
will be the workshop with the Historical Society, Historical Commission and the APDC. We will
meet on the 22nd and are reserving the 29t in case of a needed extra meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams wished everyone Happy Holidays and a Happy New Year.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 8:50 p.m.
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 11===

