===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LIVELINI
Others present: Sue Doherty, Council on Aging Director; Pete Lincoln, COA Chairman, Debbie Lincoln,
Susanna Jewell, Bob Hamel, Judy Tarbell, Amy Whitcomb Ricciuti, Thomas Gustafson, Leon Tarbell,
Selectmen Chair Toale opened the meeting at 6:09 p.m. and requested a Motion to enter Executive Session.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2nd: P. bertram
To enter Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30 §21, Reason #2: To conduct contract negotiations with
non-union personnel, if any open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining
position, and the Chair declares so and to return to open session at 7:00 p.m. (Town Manager Contract)
Vote: P. Bertram-aye; P. Luck -aye; D. McQuaid -aye; R. Ebersole -aye; J. Toale -aye
****
**********Executive Session Minutes Are Separate****
*********
The meeting resumed at 7:02 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Bertram announced she will not be seeking reelection in May. It has been an honor to serve the citizens of
Lunenburg over the last twelve years and I truly enjoyed working with each of you. The Board members
expressed their appreciation to Ms. Bertram.
Mr. Toale stated the feedback he has been getting on the town providing space for the displaced Fitchburg
elementary school students has been outstanding. The feeling of cooperation between the two towns is notable.
He recognized School Superintendent Loxi Calmes and Town Manager Heather Lemieux who worked with
others to make that happen and make our town proud.
APPOINTMENTS
Lloyd's Limousine Service: Limo License renewal with changes to original application
Tom Crounse, owner, appeared to request a change to his address on his license. He had been renting from a
property owner on Chase Road and that arrangement has not been renewed for 2018. He is requesting to have a
Lunenburg postal box listed on record. Legal counsel has informed that the requirement for a physical address
in town is up to the Board.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the transfer of the license address for Lloyd's Limousine Service
2"°: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Ebersole requested looking at what communities are doing for requiring CORI checks for limousine drivers
be placed on their "to do" list.
Council on Aging & COA Director Discussion of COA Mission and Goals
COA Chairman Pete Lincoln appreciated the opportunity to come before the board and town to explain what the
Council on Aging is and what it does. Eagle House Senior Community Center is located at 25 Memorial Drive
in an historic building which was orignally the Bellows House. Our mission is to advocate for improved quality
of life for all seniors through supportive services, programs and education.
===PAGE 2===
population
Lunenburg COA meets on the 2'd Tuesday of each month at 9:30AM at the Eagle House Senior Community
Center.
Council on Aging Board Members
•
Pete Lincoln - Chairperson
•
Jacquelyn Dwyer- Vice Chairperson
Betty DiGiacomo
Sarah Grant
•
Brian Guenard
Deb Lincoln
• Kevin McNally
Cheryl Moisan
•
Diane Nowd
• Jane Rabbitt
• Judy Tarbell
Eagle House Senior Community Center Staff
Office Staff
Susan Doherty - COA Director
Amanda Koeck - Administrative Assistant/Transportation Coordinator
Pauline Roy - Outreach Worker
Kitchen Staff
Joanne Brazell, Judy Alario, Elsa Watson
Van Drivers
Jim McGuigan, Paul Grunditz, Lee Ann Normandin
COA Director Doherty resumed the presentation.
What Services Are Available at the Eagle House Senior Community Center?
The Eagle House Senior Community Center serves as a gateway to Lunenburg's aging network, connecting
older adults to vital community services that can help them stay healthy and independent.
• Information/Referral to various agencies
• Meal and nutrition programs
===PAGE 3===
• Van is handicapped accessible with a wheelchair lift
• The senior van travels to medical appointments, shopping, banking, hairdresser/barber, and various other
locations in Lunenburg, Leominster & Fitchburg. Van also travels to Nashoba Hospital in Ayer.
• Days and hours of operation of the van is Monday - Friday 8:30 AM-4:00 PM
• Reservations must be made at least 24 hours in advance by calling 978-582-4166
• Cost to ride the van is .50 each stop Lunenburg, $2.00 round trip to Nashoba Hospital in Ayer
Activities
COA member Deb Lincoln listed some of the activities they hold there:
Intergenerational Bocce/Bocce/Shuffleboard/ Horseshoes
Bingo/Cribbage
Creative Coloring/ Arts/Crafts
Community Reading in association with Fitchburg State College
Hosts Pancake breakfasts
Educational/informative programs
Floral Arranging
Special Catered Functions
Volunteer Cookouts
Friday Movies
Billiards
Ms. Lincoln encouraged anyone with ideas for activities for 50 and 60 year olds to please let a COA member
know. Mr. Lincoln resumed the presentation.
How is the Eagle House Senior Community Center funded?
To maintain operations, the Eagle House Senior Community Center must leverage resources from a variety of
sources. These include federal, state, and local governments, public and private grants, bequests, in-kind
donations and volunteer hours.
We rely on:
• Municipal
• State Formula Grant Funding
• 501(c)3 Non-Profit Eagle House Supporters Inc.
• Grants
• Program donations from various health care agencies and local businesses
• Private donations to the Council on Aging Gift Fund
===PAGE 4===
vomitity wanted
• In FY17 we had 41 volunteers who gave 2318.5 hours of their time
• If the town were to pay them at the minimum wage of $11.00 per hour it would have cost $25,503.50
Volunteer Opportunity-Delivering Dignity- Meals on Wheels Volunteers are urgently needed.
If interested, please stop by the Eagle House Senior Community Center and fill out an application.
Event Statistics from 07/01/2017 to 12/31/2017 compiled from My Senior Center software
Category
Duplicated
Unduplicated
Congregate
Meals
Cultural
Fitness Exercise
Group Support
Health Benefits
Counseling
Health Education
Health Screening
Intergenerational
Legal Asst.
Other Health
Services
Professional
Services
Recreation
Wellness
Total Event Sign
ins
564
35
672
30
34
99
48
13
8
174
10
4053
230
5970
76
34
95
25
31
15
25
12
8
88
8
478
41
626
===PAGE 5===
Cultural
Fitness Exercise
Health Benefits
Counseling
Health Education
Health Screening
Intergenerational
Other Health
Services
Professional
Services
Recreation
Wellness
Total Event Sign
ins
23
545
34
156
73
14
169
14
3915
182
5701
21
69
31
28
38
13
98
10
480
44
600
TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS FROM MY SENIOR CENTER
Transportation provided between 07/01/2016 and 12/31/2016
Category
Duplicated
Unduplicated
Medical
354
38
Other
425
19
===PAGE 6===
Transportation provided between 07/01/2017 and 12/31/2017
Category
Duplicated
Unduplicated
Medical
377
38
Other
436
23
Rec/Social
495
19
Shopping
369
15
Totals
1677
52
Mr. Lincoln resumed the presentation.
COUNCIL ON AGING GOALS
The COA has several goals in mind to be completed in FY18 and beyond
• Expand upon Intergenerational programming
• Expand upon recognition of our Veterans
• Expand upon Health & Wellness programming
• Incorporate community input for innovative programs
===PAGE 7===
The Eagle House Senior Community Center is open to all age 50+ regardless of where you live. Copies of our
newsletter, which include monthly current events, can be picked up at the Eagle House, Town Hall, Lunenburg
Public Library, area churches, hairdressers, & medical facilities.
You can also view the newsletter online by going to www.ourseniorcenter.com
An 11 month subscription can be purchased for $5.50.
Mr. Lincoln spoke about the Boston Post Cane program. In 1909, the Boston Post, a publication at the time,
gave out over 400 gold tipped canes to citizens in five hundred different towns in four of the New England
states. The cane was supposed to be given to the oldest male resident in the town. In 1920 coinciding with
womens' voting rights being granted, it was changed to the oldest individual. Lunenburg has managed to keep
that going for 110 years. If anyone in town knows who got the canes before 1969, please let us know. There will
be a ceremony this spring for the next recipient to be awarded.
Eagle House is a dynamic place to be, drop in to see what goes on there. We are always looking for new ideas.
Mr. Lincoln thanked Mr. Toale for attending the last few meetings of the COA as a liaison and listening to all
sides. Ms. Doherty thanked the Board
Mr. Toale welcomed other Boards and Committees to come in and present on what their committee does. He
asked the COA is there was anything the Board of Selectmen could do to help them with their goals. Mr.
Lincoln stated publicity about their events and activities would be a huge help.
APPOINTMENT
Senior Citizen Property Tax Workoff Program Committee (Member at large) -Robert Hamel -10
Pleasantview Drive-term to expire June 30, 2018.
This is an appointment by the Town Manager. Ms. Lemieux introduced Mr. Hamel who was present. Mr.
Hamel stated he has been a resident in town for 65 years. He is a member of many voluntary groups. He spends
a lot of time with the seniors. Ms. Doherty, Chairperson of the Senior Citizen Property Tax Workoff
Committee, stated they are a five person committee and have been seeking the member at large for a long time.
She believed Mr. Hamel would do a great job on the committee. Ms. Bertram thanked Mr. Hamel for all the
volunteer work he has done in the community.
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd. R.Ebersole
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Robert Hamel to the Senior Citizen Property Tax Workoff
Ms. Luck thanked Mr. Hamel as well.
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Open Warrant for May 5, 2018 Annual Town Meeting (Closes Thursday March 22" at 6:00 PM)
Motion:P. Bertram
2"d. R.Ebersole
To open the warrant for the May 5, 2018 Annual Town Meeting and close IT on March 22, 2018 at
6:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 8===
them aware that it they have events, programs, or public notices that need to be advertised, to send the
information and we will post it on the FB page.
Complete Streets:
The Complete Streets workshop was on Tuesday, January 9th and we had agpy to increase safety, either througet
road markings, greater connectivity by constructing new sidewalks, and speed is an issue. This meeting is
available to watch on YouTube and all the materials related to Complete Streets are now up on the town
website. The next step in the process is our consultants from Woodard & Curran will put together a survey to
solicit more input from residents on areas in town that would benefit from improved safety and/or accessibility
and we will then circulate the survey through various means including an online survey and hard copies that can
be left around town.
Town Facilities:
Public Forums: Reminder that the date for the Public Forum with the seniors at Eagle House will be on
February 5th at 10 a.m. The snow date for this event is on February 26"
Business-Town Partnership Workshops:
The next scheduled meeting with the business community will be February 12th at 10:00 a.m. In anticipation of
the approval for District Local Technical Assistance from MRC to assist creating a permitting guidebook and
creating a promotional brochure highlighting our businesses and resources in town, I have confirmed this date
with John Hume at MRPC and the report that was presented by MRPC in December will be re-presented at this
next meeting. A meeting invitation will be sent out to all the participants from the Business/Town Partnership
meetings this fall and also advertised on the website and town Facebook page.
FY 19 Budget and Annual Town Meeting Schedule:
In your meeting packets is the budget and schedule to meet deadlines for the May 5'' Annual Town Meeting.
For the FY19 budget, departments were given a target budget to meet and any requests that exceed that figure
will require an explanation of why the expenditure is necessary such as whether it is to meet an increased
demand for services, is to restore a previous cut, is mandated or will result in an increase in revenues. The
presentation for the Five Year Financial Forecast and FY19 Capital Plan will be presented to the Finance
Committee on Thursday, January 25th at 7:00 p.m, and I will present my recommendation for the FY19 budget
on Thursday, February 15th at 7:00 p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
2. Sign Renewal of BAN for Middle/High School Bond
A bond anticipation note (BAN) dated January 25, 2018, in the amount of $2,100,000.00 was presented for the
Middle/High school construction by the Treasurer. The interest rate is 1.5% payable at maturity and is due on
January 25, 2019.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"': P. Bertram
To sign the renewal Bond Anticipation Note as presented
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 9===
4. One Day Entertainment License Fee
Ms. Lemieux noted a suggestion of $25.00 for the one day entertainment license fee.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the fee of $25.00 for a one day entertainment license
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
5. Right of First Refusal for Lot 5, Prospect St. & Cross Road
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town received a request to remove this property from Chapter 61B status. Ms.
Bertram noted there was some interest from 2 members of the Planning Board. Others were interested in the
property behind the lot if that became available. Is there road frontage access to the rear of the property? Mr.
McQuaid stated there was farther down Cross Road.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2*: P. Bertram
To not exercise the right of first refusal for Lot 5, Prospect Street and Cross Road Vote: All in Favor
6. MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS
The Board approved the minutes of December 7, 2017. They signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount
of $1,226,254.84. A warrant in the amount of $172,455.23 for the MS/HS project was presented and after some
discussion it was not signed.
Action Items: Ms. Luck stated at the meeting the Board held with other boards and committees some had
expressed they needed help with recording minutes. What is the status of that request? Ms. Lemieux stated she
would have to see budgets come in and see if there could be any available funding for that.
7. Committee Reports:
Ms. Luck reported the School Committee met on January 3ª. They discussed next year's calendar, capital
requests and the FY19 budget. They meet again tomorrow night. She attended the Steering Committee meeting
of the Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition on January 9th and the MA Statewide Stormwater Coalition
meeting at DEP today. The MA Statewide Coalition has received a $200,000 grant from DEP to plan an
education and outreach program. The Central Mass Regional Stormwater Coalition is working with WPI
students again this year. They are going to develop a curriculum regarding watersheds, stormwater pollution
prevention and water quality that aligns with the fifth grade common course standards.
Ms. Bertram reported Conservation Commission meets tomorrow night and the MPO meeting has been
postponed to a later date to be determined. Discussions related to the development of the FFY 2019-2023
Montachusett TIP will continue to be held over the next few weeks at meetings of the MRPC, the MJTC and the
MMPO. They invite those organizations, agencies, local boards and citizens with an interest or responsibility
for planning that may be affected by transportation in the Montachusett region to provide their input to the draft
development process. Meetings are listed on the MRPC website, www.mrpc.org
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule of this Board.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, had questions about the Bond Anticipation Note discussed earlier this
evening. It was his understanding that we have gone to final bonding and if we haven't, he would like to know
===PAGE 10===
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
