===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck,
Member; Katey Adams, Member
Board member not present: Damon McQuaid
Water Commissioners present: Mark Bursch, Mark Flagg, John Esposito
Also Present: Fran McNamara, Water Superintendent, James Larkin
Mr. Toale called the Board meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. The water commissioners called their meeting
to order and conducted some regular business before discussing the draft intermunicipal agreement
(IMA) between the Water District and the Town of Lancaster with the Board of Selectmen.
Mr. McNamara reported MassDOT is replacing the bridge deck on Route 2A by Maki's. While under
construction the road will be reduced to one lane for traffic with a traffic light. They agreed they will
replace a water pipe while working there if the water district pays for the pipe.
He also reported he is in the process of applying for an earth removal permit through the Board of
Selectmen office for the Massachusetts Avenue construction site of the new water district offices.
McNamara reported under a USDA loan, any structure over 1500 square feet calls for an elevator to be
installed. They may have to reduce the size of the basement in order to avoid that.
Mark Bursch reported the water district is discussing the possibility of selling water to the Town of
Lancaster. The IMA presented for tonight's discussion is a first draft from Lancaster. The water
district's legal counsel has not reviewed it yet.
The Lunenburg water district is considering selling water to Lancaster because they need to fund their
capital improvement plan and the only other option to fund it would be to raise rates for Lunenburg
water users. Their original plan was to expand the water district but met resistance due to the amount of
residential construction coming into the area and having voters from another community in the water
district. Based on the resistance, the commissioners researched an IMA. Support of the Board of
Selectmen would make it an easier process. It is anticipated Lancaster would use 185,000 gallons per
day according to Title 5 estimates, which are usually double what actually is used
Mr. Toale stated initial concern was that Lunenburg has enough water for its current and future needs of
the residents and the current district before supplying anyone else. Another consideration is the Dept. of
Environmental Protection (DEP) permit.
Bursch stated the initial idea was in the short term we would use the resource from Lunenburg to take
care of Lancaster's needs and for the long term develop another water source within that area that would
take care of their needs and give Lunenburg an additional resource. However, we cannot own a water
source outside of the district for the district, so the IMA was the best option. Mr. Ebersole disputed that
===PAGE 2===
His concern with expanding the district is that you have a water district meeting where 10-30 people run
the annual meeting. Thus 50 people from Lancaster could take over the water district.
Mr. Esposito stated we can't control whether the voters are going to come in and vote or not. All I care
about is getting the money from Lancaster to fix our infrastructure so we don't have to raise rates for
Lunenburg users. Based on the chart provided by Lancaster of 185,510 gallons per day of usage by
2023, potential income for the water district from this agreement could eventually be $350,000 per year.
McNamara stated Lunenburg's current use averages 540,000 gallons per day for Lunenburg but the new
permit will be reduced to 505,000 gallons per day. We are currently capable of pumping 1.5 million
gallons per day. If Lancaster happens, he would like to increase his permit by 250,000 gallons per day.
So it would increase to 755,000 gallons total per day. He is working on modifying the old permit
to 185,000 gallons per day in a separate section, so we would never take any of Lunenburg's allowed
amount for Lancaster. It would be two separate permits. Mr. Toale asked how are you going to deal with
35,000 less gallons per day with the new permit? McNamara stated we would be more restrictive on
usage. We will need to educate the public about conservation. Every five years the permit increases by a
certain percentage. If there is more development, we can apply for a modification to the permit. 70% of
Lunenburg receives water from the water district via 2430 connections.
Some of the commercial businesses in Lancaster would like to expand in size but can't because they
need sprinkler installations for fire protection. One concern previously expressed was when water use is
restricted it only affects residential customers. Businesses are not restricted on their usage.
Discussion ensued about possibly extending the water district into Lancaster by an act of legislature
rather than have a well in Lancaster that the water district may not own or have any control over.
The water commissioners asked the Board's opinion on this proposal, although they don't need their
approval, it would be easier to present to water users if the Board endorsed it.
Mr. Toale was supportive of an IMA as was Mr. Ebersole but the wording in the agreement needs to be
strong. Mr. Ebersole stated the issues for him in an IMA are making sure Lunenburg water district
doesn't pay any money to construct or maintain in Lancaster; water rates should be at a premium in
addition to the maintenance costs and the concept of water restriction. Ms. Luck stated she agreed with
the concept of an IMA but needed more specifics and public support. She thought the district voters
need opportunity to weigh in on this proposal. She would not support it if the water users did not.
The water commissioners will continue their discussions with Lancaster and have applied to the DEP to
increase the amount allowed under the permit. They will check back with the Board in early 2019 on
their progress.
===PAGE 3===
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
