===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux
Mr. Toale called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2"d: P. Luck
To enter Executive Session under M.G.L. c. 30 §21, Reason #3: To discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining or litigation, if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the goverment's
bargaining or litigating position, and the Chair declares so. (Public Employees Committee Negotiations
for Health Insurance Changes) and to return to open session.
Vote: Mr. MeQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck -aye, Mir. Toale-aye
Ms. Lemieux introduced Sue Shillue, President of Cook & Company and reported they have been meeting with
the Public Employees Committee (PEC) which is composed of representatives from each of the unions,
including the school's and one retiree representative. We have discussed possible plan changes in order to
mitigate health insurance costs. Ms. Shillue presented a rate proposal they had presented to the PEC to modify
the plan design. The rates would be in effect July 1, 2018. She addressed the HMO Blue or Network Blue orates
as these cover the bulk of the employees' coverage. If there are no changes to the plan, there would be a 6.82%
increase in rates. This plan does not have an upfront deductible; it does have an out of pocket maximum which
most people will not hit through the plan year. Primary office visit payments and hospital copayments are
tiered, based on cost and quality. Specialists are a flat $25 copayment. An emergency room visit is a $100
copayment. Hospital out-patient surgery is $150. High tech imaging (CAT scans) is $100 and there are two
prescription drug programs. One is if you go to the pharmacy and you get a 30 day supply. You can also order
through mail order and get a 90 day supply.
Ms. Shillue referred to the Group Insurance Commission (GIC) plan, which provides and administers health
insurance and other benefits to the Commonwealth's employees and retirees, their dependents and survivors;
specifically sections 21- 23 of c. 32B, to highlight the differences between this plan and the Town's. The
benchmark plan has the highest enrollment and is often used during coalition bargaining for comparison. She
presented copayment differences between the GIC plan and the current Town plan.
Mr. Ebersole entered the meeting.
Basically the town would be adding a calendar deductible of $250/person and capped at $750 per family.
Office visits under the benchmark plan do not have payment tiers for primary care office visits. The flat fee is
$20.00 visit. Specialist office visits would go from $25 to $35. The emergency room would be $100 after the
deductible is satisfied. Hospital admissions would go to $300/$700 after the deductible is satisfied. Out-patient
surgery would be the same but you have to satisfy the deductible; same with hi-tech imaging. Prescription drugs
co-payments would stay the same. Overall the biggest difference is adding in the calendar year deductible, not
having tiering on the primary care visit copayment and increasing co-payments for hospitalizations. She stated
they reviewed the benefit structure with the PEC in previous meetings but have not presented a proposal. Some
feedback from the teachers is they liked having the tiered primary care office co-payments. Another question
asked is there a possibility of keeping the hospital co-payments at the $200/$400 level. That is a possibility and
it would add .2 percent to the premium rates. We would be looking at a 3.61 percent increase.
===PAGE 2===
we could go with this presentation and offer keeping the $200/$400 hospital copayment in exchange for not
offering the mitigation plan. Would the Board be in agreement with this proposal? The Board concurred.
Ms. Shillue stated currently the Town is paying 75% of the Medicare Part B premium which on average is
$135/month for every enrolled retiree and spouse. It's becoming more uncommon for municipalities to
reimburse retirees and spouse for the Medicare Part B premium. We want to address this when it comes time to
negotiate a new agreement. Ms. Shillue recommended working with an actuary to reduce the OPEB liability.
The Board was interested in finding out what the actuary benefits of each of the different categories would be.
Ms. Lemieux stated they had what they needed for direction for their meeting with the PEC on the 26t.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2": D. McQuaid
To exit Executive Session and enter Open Session
Vote: Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck -aye, Mr. Toale-aye, Mr. Ebersole- aye
The meeting was adjourned at 7:01 p.m.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
JUN 05 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
Subcommittee members: Jamie Toale, Tom Alonzo, Paula Bertram
The meeting was called to order at 6:00 p.m. by Mr. Toale.
Mr. Toale stated the following reason for entering Executive Session; Per M.G.L. C. 30a, §21; To consider or
interview applicants for employment by a preliminary screening committee, if the Chair declares that an open
meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants. This shall not apply to any meeting
regarding applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening. (Interim Town Manager applications
review)
Motion:T. Alonzo
2": P. Bertram
To enter Executive Session and adjourn immediately afterwards
Vote: Mr. Alonzo- aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The Board interviewed Adam Burney at 6:00 p.m. and Stephen Delaney at 7:00 p.m.
After the applicants exited, the members discussed the interviews.
Motion:T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
2":P. Bertram
Vote: Mr. Alonzo- aye, Ms. Bertram - aye, Mr. Toale- aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine In Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
