===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Member;
Damon McQuaid, Member; Katey Adams, Member
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale stated in accordance with the
requirements of Open Meeting Law the meeting was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams reported she was close to an auto accident this past weekend and the first police officer who
showed up at the scene had just been at the scene of another accident and was joined shortly by another
officer coming from the same accident because there was an arrest associated with it. It was one of those
moments when you saw the vulnerability of both officers and how little that is in this simple
simultaneous situation. She hoped the discussion concerning the understaffing at Public Safety would be
continued.
Aisling Gaughan, 73 Lancaster Ave., was following up on her request regarding the location of the
weathervane on Town Hall. She suggested the Town file an insurance claim since it has been lost. Ms.
Adams asked if there could be some followup on this question as it has been circulating off and on
social media for months.
APPOINTMENTS
Council on Aging (COA) Update
COA Chairman Pete Lincoln stated before giving tonight's report, he and Deb Lincoln would like to
volunteer for the town tricententenial anniversary committee. He was on the last anniversary committee
and only four of those members are still around. You need years in advance to plan for this.
The Council on Aging's mission is to advocate for improved quality of life for all seniors through
supportive services, programs and education. We meet at Eagle House Senior Center on Memorial Drive
on the second Tuesday of every month at 9:30 a.m. unless there is inclement weather; then we meet the
third Tuesday. We don't meet in July. We have eleven members. Jacquelyn Dwyer is our Vice
Chairman. Betty DiGiacomo, Brian Guenard, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Kevin McNally, Cheryl
Moisan, Sarah Grant, Diane Now and Jane Rabbitt are our other members. We have one vacancy right
now. Our Administrative Assistant Amanda Koeck takes excellent minutes. All our meetings begin on
time and we follow Robert's Rules of Order.
Communication with the public- We issue a monthly Senior newsletter, available at Eagle House,
Town Hall, Public Library, the Post Office and other places throughout town. Every issue of the
Lunenburg Ledger has a half-page detailing activities at the Senior Center. We also have a FaceBook
page. Public Access Cable records activities and events occuring there. He recalled older Annual
Reports with photos of each committee and volunteered himself and his son, Danny to photograph the
committees for the next report. It would put a face with a name.
===PAGE 2===
value his presence and he has been helpful in discussing things with the Seniors that they don't know
much about, like the Capital Plan. Ms. Dwyer, a nurse, is our liaison to the Montachusett Home Care
Board of Directors. We also have a good relationship with Public Access Cable Committee (PACC), the
Fire Department and Police Department, for senior-related issues.
He reported he and Deb spoke to Senator Tran and part of his program is aimed at seniors. He is
concerned about senior welfare and is promoting bills for the Formula Grant which is based on senior
population in each town. Mr. Ebersole thanked Mr. Lincoln and stated he set the bar high for other
committees and boards to follow.
Mr. Lincoln stated COA Director Sue Doherty was a treasure. She has added new programming and had
made the center welcoming and comfortable.
Ms. Doherty presented a PowerPoint on activities at the Senior Center as an end of year report. We do
much more than Bingo. We participated in the Stillman Fair last year and intend to do so again this year.
We have an annual tea party, a monthly veterans' breakfast (sponsored by the Highlands in Fitchburg)
and a sock hop in February. We have an annual St. Patrick's Day luncheon. Every so often we present
the Boston Post Cane to the oldest resident in Town.
We held intergenerational programs such as a Girl Scout dance party, 8 grade Pen Pal, and Bridges
Together, a nationwide program. She introduced the new Outreach Coordinator, Pauline Roy. She was
in charge of the Bridges Together program.
Ms. Roy stated the goal of the program is to bring together elementary age students as well as older
adults with the goal of fostering respect, understanding and maybe new friendships. We got sixteen
volunteers together ranging from ages 60 - 94. Mr. Toale was one of our volunteers. It was a weekly
hour commitment for six weeks. We went into two fifth grade classrooms and the seniors were in paired
up in groups of two. They each worked with a small group of 6-8 students depending on the classroom
size and they stayed with the same students for six weeks. There was a multi-topic curriculum to follow.
At the end of the sic weeks we had a pizza party at the Senior Center. The students toured the Senior
Center and it was loud, crazy and a lot of fun. There was genuine sadness when the program ended. This
totally exceeded our expectations. They would actually like to expand to all the fifth grade classes next
year. We are looking forward to it. Ms. Doherty thanked Ms. Roy and noted she does a great job and is a
huge asset for us.
COA member Deb Lincoln reported once a year we honor our volunteers with an appreciation cookout
sponsored by Eagle House Supporters, Inc. We are lucky to have the Fire and Police Department help us
with the cooking. This year we had 45 volunteers donate 2510.5 hours at the Senior Center. If they were
paid at $11.00 per hour, it would amount to $27,615.50. They perform all sorts of services. We
encourage everyone over 50 years old to come and get involved.
Ms. Doherty presented statistics on events and programs. She reported 4114 Meals on Wheels were
delivered to forty-five clients last fiscal year. Sixty-eight clients were provided 3244 rides to various
locations. Ninety-nine Yellow Dot Emergency Kits were distributed to 77 people. We have more left, if
you want one, please drop by the Senior Center. We have the RYOK? Program for automated wellness
===PAGE 3===
Coming this year, we are in the process of becoming a "dementia friendly community." Dementia
Friendly Massachusetts is a grassroots movement to make communities safe, inclusive and respectful for
people with Alzheimers Disease or a related dementia. The first step will be "Expresso Yourself" at the
Eagle House Memory Café. This is social contact for those dealing with memory loss and their
caregivers. This will be funded by the Executive Office of Elder Affairs grant, Eagle House Supporters,
Inc., Formula Grant funding and any donations to the Lunenburg Council on Aging gift fund.
Mr. Toale agreed with Mr. Ebersole on the great presentation and noted we have talked about the
communication that can go on between committees in town. We offer this platform to all of the Town
committees. He thanked the Council in Aging for their presentation.
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for August 4", - Lunenburg Bengals
Joe Anderson, 780 West Street, Director of Funding for the Bengals, stated they are seeking to hold a
tollbooth fundraiser on Saturday, August 4' from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in the center of town. Mr.
Toale asked if he had checked in with the Police Department. Mr. Anderson replied not yet. Mr. Toale
asked if he knew all the rules for the tollbooth. Mr. Anderson replied yes.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the Lunenburg Bengals Youth Football/Cheer Association tollbooth fundraiser on
Saturday, August 4* from 11:00 a.m to 3:00 p.m.
2': D.McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Anderson thanked the Board.
Discussion of Entertainment/Special Event License & Town Wide Noise Bylaw and Discussion of
Recent Activity at Shady Point Beach & Campground (cont. from 6/19/18)
Ms. Lemieux reported Police Chief Marino was here to update on the noise bylaw being drafted for the
Special Town Meeting in the fall. She referred the Board to a report from Land Use Director Adam
Burney following up on the questions brought up at the last meeting. She read the report aloud:
"As a follow up to the Board of Selectmen's (BOS) meeting of 19 June 2018 the Building Commissioner and I
have been reviewing the records for 701 Reservoir Road (Shady Point). The impetus for this review is the recent
noise complaint brought forward to the Town Manager's Office on 15 May 2018. Regardless, the review will
cover the entirety of the attached 2001 Special Permit and remains ongoing.
As background on 9 October 2001, the Zoning Board of Appeals issued a Special Permit to allow the extension of
a non-conforming use, in this instance a campground. The Special Permit increased the number of campsites from
thirteen (13) to thirty-five (35), provided a maximum number of 8 people per campsite with a total limit of five
hundred five (505) patrons at any time (inclusive of the function areas, limited the number of boats allowed in
conjunction with Shady Point to forty (40) and imposed some additional conditions outlined in the attached
At the BOS meeting, there was some discussion regarding noise but other issues were also brought up that the
Special Permit may cover. The three most prominent issues, other than noise, seemed to be boat/water safety,
crowd control, and traffic. There are conditions contained within the Special Permit that may assist in reducing
===PAGE 4===
rurermore, in reviewing me me for shady Point and searening the worcester ornern Registry of Deeds tere
is no documentation of the Special Permit decision having been recorded. While this is generally a requirement of
the General Laws Chapter 40A §11, the fact that Shady Point has been operating under the approval for nearly
seventeen (17) years and there is a record of attempted enforcement by Town Officials, it is the opinion of the
Building Commissioner that the Special Permit is in full force and effect.
As noted above the Building Department's investigation into the compliance of Shady Point with the 9 October
2001 Special Permit remains ongoing and any pertinent findings will be forwarded to your office. If you require
further information please do not hesitate to contact me."
Chief Marino reported he has made all the corrections suggested by Town Counsel to the draft noise
bylaw. He would like to do a second review of the proposed bylaw and then it would be ready for Town
Meeting. Mr. Toale asked for anyone representing Shady Point Campground to come forward. Attorney
Nicholas LaFountain of Weymouth introduced himself stating he was a personal friend of Robert and
Robin Wilson and they had asked him to represent them temporarily. Ms. Wilson could not be present
this evening due to another obligation. Mr. and Mrs. Wilson are also choosing to abstain from this
hearing until such time they can obtain specialized counseling with respect to zoning. Mr. Toale stated
this is not a hearing but a continuation of a previous discussion. We wanted to ensure that Shady Point
had an opportunity to be here. Mr. Toale called for any public comment.
Mike DeFazio, Jr., 131 Flynn Road, stated he lives on the channel and watches every boat that goes
through. Shady Point does a good job of keeping the jet skis from going fast. They throw them out as
soon as they do something wrong and at 6:00 p.m. as soon as they close, all the lake people come flying
through the channel; jet skis, people pulling tubes through the channel, and that's illegal, but it's okay
for the lake people to do that? People ski through the channel. They are doing wrong as much as the
people who come flying through with their jet skis, but they get thrown out. People on the lake don't get
thrown out. So I am standing up for Shady Point, people on the lake are just as bad as the campground
people.
Jason Roux, 100 Sunset Lane, stated he has lived on the lake his whole life. He asked is this was strictly
in regards to the noise or all activities that affects us on the lake. Mr. Toale stated this began as a
continuation of a discussion that was a result of a letter to the Town Manager. It was looked into by the
Police Department; part of that discussion included is there any noise ordinance? The answer was no,
but we have been working on one. We are trying to get a feel from citizens, what action they believe we
should be taking, if any, and we are just listening. Mr. Roux stated there are a lot of things that affect us
on the lake. There is a lot of traffic. I've had a lot of problems with fishing tournaments in the last year
or two. People being very rude to me at my own place, coming too close, hitting my boat. Watching
them hit my friends' boats and jump on to my friends' boats to get their fishing lures unhooked. Shady
Point does what they can to control it. I just feel there are too many unsupervised people sometimes. I
see kids riding in front of their parents on jet skis. That is illegal, but it happens every day. Those aren't
people from the lake. On Sundays from noon to four p.m. I can't even go out on my boat.
===PAGE 5===
Chief stated he was concerned about safety. He knew there were people on the lake on jet skis but he
couldn't send out officers. She suggested the Town consult Town Counsel about liability. The
Environmental Police have been there over the last few weeks and it has improved and we appreciate
that.
Ms. Adams questioned if this should be addressed by the Planning Board or Zoning. Mr. Ebersole stated
it falls under code enforcement who is the Building Commissioner, who we supervise. Ms. Adams stated
the easiest place to start would be to look at that list of Special Permit conditions. She also noted
ecotourism and attracting people to town has been a Board discussion topic over the last year and that is
what Shady Point Campground does; brings people to town to recreate. We talk about promoting it. If
this is truly something we want to aspire to do, that is already here. People don't seem happy with it. If
we are looking at the noise ordinance situation, we should look at it for other similar situations, not just
Shady Point.
Mr. Ebersole believed it was important that the process with the code enforcement process go forward.
We need to support the Police Department. In addition to the landowner responsibilities to manage the
people, we have some responsibility to support enforcement of boating requirements by the Police
Department subject to availability as to what's going on in town, and whether there is opportunity to talk
with the landowners to possibly support a Police presence paid by them.
Janet Leavitt, 30 May Street, stated encouraging people coming into town to enjoy Lunenburg's
resources causes more traffic, noise and other things. We are getting a lot of people who are not only a
little bit noisy, messy and have a little bit of a good time. They overdo it to the point where people who
live there can't enjoy their own properties. We do not want to run Shady Point out of business, but
people on the lake pay a premium for their land. We deserve to be able to enjoy our properties without
worrying about our grandchildren in the water because a jet ski is coming too close to the beach, without
waking up at 10:00 in the morning to the music. Have some respect for the other people who are there
all the time. In the end, we are the ones paying the bills, cleaning up the trash that is thrown to the side
of the road and that washes up on the beach, the fishing lures that are stuck to our docks, our boats, our
beaches, our trees. She thanked the Police Chief for having some officers down there.
Gary Spindt, 7 Ruth Street, stated he also lives on the lake and he heard that Shady Point spends
thousands on Police details annually. He asked for verification. Attorney LaFountain reported the
following amounts: 2016: $16,474; 2017:$13,229 and $9,425 to date for this year. Mr. Spindt suggested
in the spirit of compromise, maybe there could be some chipping in for those expenses from the Town.
Scott Benjamin, 40 Fire Road 12, stated he lives on a portion of the lake that is too narrow for one boat
to go through at more than 6 miles per hour. That means it's less than 300 feet in width. According to
MA boating regulations, you have to be 150 feet from shore, from a designated swimming area to go
over 6 miles per hour. When I see four jet skis going side by side, some of them 20 feet from my dock,
===PAGE 6===
Kathy Reinhardt, 53 Pearl Street, stated she is directly across the lake from Shady Point. She
commended Shady Point because they are trying more. If they are spending that much money on Police
Details, are they really making that much income to eliminate the jet skis? It is them who are most
hazardous to all. I know they are trying, but we cannot use the lake safely when all of these boats are
out.
Janet Leavitt asked the Chief why the Town doesn't kick anything in towards policing the lake? Chief
Marino stated this year Shady Point has paid for the lake detail. Usually the Lake Shirley Association
kicks in money too because we do not have it in our budget. Ms. Leavitt asked are we not residents as
well? Why aren't you considering the lake needs to be policed? Chief Marino stated the condition that
causes the need for police details is due to the operation of a private business.
Attorney LaFountain disputed the Chief Marino's statement that his client was creating a condition. This
is a public body of water that all members of the public have the right to. My client believes that the
Town has even come to some sort of agreement with the Commonwealth to ensure public access in
exchange for funding for a dam. With respect to discussing a proposed noise ordinance while
simultaneously discussing a single business, it seems clear to my clients that this proposed noise
ordinance seems like a case of priviliged people around the lake that do not want their clientele at the
lake. My clients love this community. This business has been in operation since 1967. They have felt
under siege before with people trying to shut them down; they feel the same way now. Which is why
they will be getting zoning counsel. They intend to reach out to the ACLU and any other related
organizations because they have a lot of people of foreign origin who use this business. They feel there
is animosity towards their clientele and the type of music they like to play. If my clients see anyone from
their establishment disrespecting water regulations, they are able to pull them because they control
where the vehicle is parked and the access point. They have noticed many people who live on the lake
not following proper rules. Their own clients have complained. They see people trying to jump the boat
wakes and water skiing through the channel. People are water skiing without a spotter on the boat. My
clients see it all the time by people who are not launching boats at Shady Point. They pay significant
sums of money for police details because they want to control things as much as possible out of respect
for their neighbors. My clients would have no complaints if this Board would allocate additonal funds
for a Police boat to be on the lake at all times during the summer. They strenuosly disagree with passing
a noise ordinance that is targeted at a single business that has been in existence for 85 years. The
petitioners claim they are not trying to shut Shady Point down; my clients have seen the FaceBook page.
They have seen "Shut down Shady Point." My clients have a complaint. Neighbors have allowed people
to park on their property, I assume for a fee and then send them over. My clients shut their gate when
it's too late in the day or if they have reached capacity. They have delayed opening until 8:00 a.m. in the
morning. Historically they opened at 7:00 a.m. They close at 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays; that
===PAGE 7===
more development because they will be selling the property.
Mr. Toale stated although they are grouped together on our agenda, tonight's discussion was on
entertainment and special event licenses, townwide noise bylaw and discussion about recent activity at
Shady Point Campground. These were all three different items that were brought to the attention of the
Board that we scheduled in June. They were discussed and continued to this evening. We are working
on all three. He did not believe that any one of them was directed at Shady Point; they are connected.
The last time we had a crowd in here like this was another noise ordinance on another special event
license. We are not here this evening to make any decisions, we are here to listen.
Chief Marino addressed Attorney LaFountain's idea that this noise ordinance has to do with Shady
Point. It is a result of a special event permit issued over a year ago when a group of residents came
forward and requested we enact some type of noise ordinance. The idea that this is directed at Shady
Point is completely false. With respect to your comment disputing the business creating conditions,
Shady Point and cooperation, I have nothing bad to say about them. They are very cooperative however,
I don't know of another house down there that can create a condition where there's cars parked up and
down the road that requires a Police response; or where there are a group of people on a piece of private
property in excess of 200. That creates in in my estimation, a potential problem. That's why it's my
perogative to determine how many police officers are going to be stationed at that area and we are going
to require them to pay for it. So I disagree with your analogy.
Joanna Bilotta, 362 Sunset Lane, stated she lives directly across from Shady Point on the penisula. It's a
family owned business. Anytime I have called with a problem they have been very cooperative. You
want to find a balance between Police patrol and the right to do business. She related a history of the
association paying for boat patrol. Shady Point has paid for the last two years for the boat patrol. She
truly believed this was all fixable as long as everyone communicates with each other.
Mr. Toale stated regarding the action items that Mr. Burney's letter pointed; we will continue to talk to
the enforcement officer and to talk to the Shady Point owners and having the Police Department
continue to do the best job they can and all of us trying to be understanding. If in fact there is a decision
that needs be made, we will bring this back but I don't believe there was one planned for tonight's
agenda. Ms. Luck requested checking with Town Counsel on the validity of the Special Permit. Mr.
Toale agreed. He thanked everyone for being here and for their input.
APPOINTMENTS- Acting Police Sergeant
Motion: R.Ebersole
2'°: K. Adams
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Sean Zrate as Acting Police Sergeant
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 8===
Schedule I - Parking
Replace Main Street, East Side, From Massachusetts Ave. to Oak Ave-No Parking Any Time -
with, Main Street, East Side, From Memorial Drive to Oak Ave.-No Parking Any Time."
Motion: R. Ebersole
To approve the amendment to the traffic rules and regulations as recommended by the Police
Chief and DPW Director
2"d: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Summer Street Road Reconstruction Project Update:
The contractor will be installing drainage structures in Fitchburg on Monday (7/23). They are planning
to start near the John Fitch Highway intersection and work their way toward Lunenburg. They are
planning to begin work on the bridge over Baker Brook soon.
Route 13/Chase Road Reconstruction Project Update:
Last week a guardrail crew worked on straightening, repairing, and adding guardrail sections along the
northbound lane of Route 13. The milling/grinding of the roadway surface is scheduled to begin on
Wednesday, July 25'h.
Economic Development Bond Bill:
Nathan Boudreau of Senator Tran's Office reached out last week to request any projects that we would
like to file as an amendment to the Senate's version of the Economic Development Bond Bill that
needed to be submitted no later than yesterday. The projects that I submitted for consideration for
Lunenburg were:
• $300,000 for the redevelopment of the property at 925 Massachusetts Avenue;
• $250,000 for upstart costs for a community commercial kitchen;
• $450,000 for facade and streetscape improvements in the downtown area of Main Street,
Massachusetts Avenue, Leominster Avenue, and Lancaster Avenue.
We will wait to see if these amendments make it into the filed Economic Development Bond Bill. We
appreciate Senator Tran's Office consistently seeking out the needs of our community and advocating on
our behalf.
17-23 West Street:
When I first arrived in Lunenburg, one of the projects brought to my attention by the DPW Director was
the disposal of the property at 17 & 23 West Street, which are two adjacent lots on West Street that have
two old outbuildings that previously housed the Highway Department. 17 West Street was listed as old
Parks Department land and 23 West Street has two outbuildings that were used as the office space,
garage facility and materials storage for Public Works that changed to a storage garage with a small
===PAGE 9===
containing materials are present, along with lead based painted surfaces and proper inspection/abatement
as necessary procedures would need to be followed if demolition or remodeling were to occur to either
building. The recommendation is to proceed with disposal of this property in their current condition per
the town meeting vote. The town-assessed value is approximately $170,000 and would need to be put
out to bid for disposal.
Green Communities Competitive Grant:
As announced at last week's meeting, the Green Communities Competitive Grant application
that the Town submitted this past spring was awarded in the amount of $198,867 for a variety of
energy efficiency projects at the Public Safety Building, the Town Hall, the Ritter and Turkey
Hill Elementary School. These include LED Lighting upgrades, plug load controls, condensing
boilers, building envelope tightening, pipe and fitting insulation and HVAC retro
commissioning. The total estimated annual electricity savings is 186,000 kWh, 2,241 therms for
annual natural gas savings and 703 gallons of oil per year which translates into approximately
$39,000 in energy savings. Once we receive the fully executed contract documents back from
the Department of Energy Resources, which we mailed today, and meet our utility
representatives regarding the energy incentives, we can proceed with having the approved
energy consultant Energy Source move forward with projects. The goal is complete the projects
by this fall.
Personnel Committee Update:
At my request, I asked the Personnel Committee to have a meeting, which was held on July 16'h. One
of the items that I requested they discuss was performing a wage and classification review of all the
positions within the existing classification schedule for the ensuing three years, which is one of the
responsibilities set out in the Salary Administration Bylaw. The last review provided an updated wage
and classification schedule through Fiscal Year 2019 and the goal was that the impending review would
be presented at the May 2019 Annual Town Meeting for acceptance. Due to the comprehensive nature
of performing a compensation and classification review, the Personnel Committee is recommending to
hire a third party consultant to perform the review. We will be soliciting quotes and would need to
request an appropriation at the Special Town Meeting to fund this study. This will include performing a
market analysis of towns with similar demographics with positions with the same level of
responsibilities.
Town Website Update:
Last Tuesday our website host QScend had an all-day training for those that would be responsible for
updating the website. We had approximately 20 employees attend the training, which included our IT
staff that was available to assist individuals throughout the training. The IT Director and I will be the
Administrators of the site and the various back-end users of the site will have editing capabilities that get
===PAGE 10===
Regional Animal Control Facility Design:
Last week Police Chief Marino, Townsend Animal Control Officer Mary Letourneau, Lunenburg
Animal Control Officer Kathy Comeau, and I met with the architects to review space needs and
building functionality needs for a regional animal control facility. The land behind the Public Safety
Building has been identified as the primary site for a future building and the architect was back out
today with a civil engineer to assess the site for feasibility. The architect will work with Lunenburg and
Townsend to assess our space needs, identify the optimal location for the building, provide a
conceptual design and a construction cost estimate. The goal is to have this completed by this fall and
be eligible to apply for the Community Compact Regionalization Grant in late fall for construction
costs.
Department Head Meeting Updates:
At the Department Head meeting this morning our Risk Management Representatives from our
insurance company MIIA came in to provide an overview of the recent state legislation that requires
towns to comply with OSHA Safety regulations for public sector employees by February 1, 2019.
MIIA will be assisting us with any areas of compliance we may need after an assessment. The state's
main goal is safety first and compliance second.
Some highlights from today's monthly department head meeting:
• Police: New personnel due to Lt. Luth's departure and continuation of programs with
different departments that Lt. Luth was in charge of. The Police Boat that was part of the
FY19 Capital Plan has been ordered.
• COA: Memory Café beginning on September 28; trend of stable number of users of the
Senior Center based on FY18 statistics; fall programming will include Health/Wellness
classes at the IC Passios gym.
• PACC: PACC has hired two new videographers; developing job description for a Production
Engineer that will have a background in IT; currently working on a promotional video for the
Eagle House.
• Land Use: Currently working on the development of recreational marijuana regulations and
will be taking a bifurcated approach that will be voted on at the Special Town Meeting.
• Finance Director: Finalizing end of year reports to Department of Revenue in order to
submit for certified free cash.
• Treasurer/Collector: Real Estate Taxes due August 1st; working with Tax Title Attorney to
move properties into Foreclosure proceedings.
• Assessors: Our regional assessing firm Regional Resource Group (RRG) is currently working
with the Department of Revenue on certification of our property assessments because this is a
mandatory revaluation year. Any changes in assessments would be in the third quarter bill
due February 1, 2019.
• Library: Moved to a new software platform that is web based through CWMARS and busy
===PAGE 11===
July 2s"
• Montachusett Regional Planning ADA Meeting: I will be attending a meeting on
Thursday, July 26" at Montachusett Regional Planning Agency to discuss ADA Transition
Plans.
• Parks Commission Meeting: I will be attending the Parks Commission meeting on
Thursday, July 26"
, at 6 p.m.
• Finance Committee Meeting: I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on
Thursday, July 26",
, at 7 p.m.
Ms. Luck thanked Ms. Lemieux for the department head reports. She asked how much a community
commercial kitchen would cost the Town. She asked why there was no discussion on these three items
and amounts before they were submitted. Ms. Lemieux stated she found out about the opportunity after
times when you have to let the Town Manager make some quick choices such as requesting funding.
None of these three items surprised him based on ongoing past discussions. Mr. Toale agreed stating he
did not have any problem with this.
Ms. Luck asked about the West Street properties, when you say put out to bid for disposal, does that
mean the Town would not incur any costs for demolition? Are we selling it as is for $170,000? Ms.
Lemieux stated this was the assessed value. Mr. Ebersole stated we don't know what we are selling it
for. Ms. Adams asked if there would be opportunity to provide biographies and photos of boards and
committee members as well as a directory on the town website. Ms. Lemieux stated yes.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Goals
Mr. Toale asked for any feedback on the Board goals for Fiscal Year 2019. They are listed in the
minutes from the last meeting. Mr. Ebersole stated he was not here, but watched the meeting on
You Tube and thought the Board did a good job. He thanked all for their work.
2. Discussion on Liaison Appointments
Mr. Toale stated one position that is critical is the Representative on Metropolitan Montachusett
Planning Organization (MMPO). Ms. Luck attended one MPO meeting last week. It was reported the
Summer Street project is moving along on schedule. After discussion, Mr. Toale volunteered to attend
the MPO meetings until the Board could find a designee. The liaison discussion will be continued at
another meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. B& H Corporation d/b/a Mickey Shea's License #00039-RS-0636 Request to withdraw
application for Change of Manager/Beneficial Interest
===PAGE 12===
The Board signed Minutes of July 10, 2018 and the following Executive Session Minutes ready
to be released. Mr. Toale noted Executive Session minutes are released once the issue can become
public.
Executive Session Minutes for Release
• April 4, 2017 (Town Accountant/Finance Director Contract/ Union Negotiations)
• April 18, 2017 (Town Accountant/Finance Director Contract)
• May 23, 2017 (Town Accountant/Finance Director Contract)
• September 5, 2017 (Laura Caron-Gustus v. Town of Lunenburg, Board of Selectmen,
Kerry Speidel)
• October 10, 2017, Session 1 & Session II (Union Negotiations)
• November 7, 2017 (Union Negotiations)
• November 14, 2017 (Union Negotiations)
• November 21, 2017 (Union Negotiations)
3. Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm WaterTask Force will be meeting on August 2nd.
. MART emailed the new
Council on Aging contract and supporting templates for compliance late today. She has not had a chance
to review them yet. Ms. Lemieux will be forwarding it to Town Counsel for review.
Ms. Adams reported the Planning Board has been working on two options in regards to marijuana
licensing for Town Meeting. They are working on a bylaw. The first option would be prohibition. If that
is approved, sales would be prohibited. If that fails, then there has to a bylaw to address the sale of it.
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule: August 7, August 14 and August 21, 2018. Mr.
Toale suggested addressing the earth removal closure process as a workshop for the August 14"h
meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 65 Whiting Street, stated he attended because he hoped there would some discussion
about the special permit process policy and procedures. Due to the lengthy discussion about Shady
Point, he requested the item be placed on a future agenda. He inquired about a mention in a previous
Town Manager's report about a possible grant to fund an assessment of the old Primary School for
hazardous materials. Ms. Lemieux corrected him stating there was a proposed demolition of the building
with funding from the state. Mr. Passios stated regarding the disposal of the West Street properties, there
was capital funding appropriated for demolition of those buildings years ago; that money is still sitting
unused. He recommended reappropriating that money.
Mr. Toale noted he overlooked the Quarterly Animal Control Report provided this evening and asked
for comments. Mr. Ebersole appreciated it being sent in advance.
===PAGE 13===
*********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate***************************
The meeting resumed at 9:26 p.m.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2'°: D.McQuaid
To approve the Memorandum of Agreement between the Town of Lunenburg and Laborers
International Union of North America, Public Employees Local Union 39 (DPW Unit); July 1,
2018 to June 30, 2021 with the proposed changes to the exisiting contract within the document
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale- aye
Motion: R.Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting
2°: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:26 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
