===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. McQuaid reported he has registered his business in town, adding it was a pleasant experience. He said
everyone involved was very helpful. Hopefully he will gain some insight through his process of starting a
business that he can share on economic development with other people who are starting businesses in town.
Ms. Luck noted open air burning permits are now available and you can burn from January 15 to May 1st.
It is a very easy process.
Mr. Toale announced the Senior Property Tax Workoff Committee is seeking a member at large. They meet
during daytime hours. Anyone interested should contact Council on Aging Director Sue Doherty.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
2018 MRC District Local Technical Assistance Application (Current Business):
We received notification from Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) for requests for
applications for District Local Technical Assistance applications for funding during 2018. Applications are due
by the end of January. In an effort to continue the work the administration has begun to create a partnership
between the Town and the Business community, the application request would be for technical assistance to
implement two of the recommendations made by MRPC in their December 2017 report through the last round
of DLTA funding. The two proposed projects would be to create a brochure that would promote our local
businesses, that could also be put on our website and to create a permitting guidebook. The permitting
guidebook would create a step by step process on how to navigate the permitting process and it would also work
in the new electronic permitting process that will be going live this spring. Both projects would require
continued participation through meetings with the business community, land use departments, and the public,
which was a positive means of increasing citizen engagement on this topic. The application requires a letter
signed by the Chairman that the subject was discussed and decided upon at a public meeting.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To authorize the Town Manager to apply for District Local Technical Assistance to implement the two
MRPC recommendations
2"d: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Draft OPEB Funding Policy (under Current Business):
In the Board's electronic packet there is a draft policy for funding Other Post- Employment Benefits. The draft
policy addresses the necessity to manage the impact of the OPEB liability on the overall budget and to create
guidelines for funding this liability within the parameters of available funding sources. This draft policy has
been forwarded to the Finance Committee for their review as well.
Town of Lunenburg Facebook Page:
The Town of Lunenburg Facebook page is now officially "live", so I invite everyone to "like" our page. As
previously discussed, this will be another means of getting information out to the public on upcoming events,
===PAGE 2===
Complete Streets Public Forum:
Reminder that the date for the public forum to hear feedback on areas in town that would increase safety and
accessibility for all modes of travel for people of all ages and abilities will be on Tuesday, January 9, 2018 at 7
p.m. in the MS/HS Collaborative Room #A130. The snow date for this event is January 16, 2018.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Goals
• Identify desire for and type of Economic Development for Lunenburg
• Develop an Infrastructure Plan (including Roads, Buildings and Equipment)
• Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Outreach
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. 2018 MRPC District Local Technical Assistance Application
This item was discussed under the Town Manager report.
2. Draft OPEB and Tax Collection/Tax Title and Tax Foreclosure Policies
Mr. Ebersole liked the proposal that the Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) trust fund will be
supported annually by a transfer of an minimum amount equivalent to 10% of certified General Fund Free Cash
as well as from individual enterprise accounts. He asked Ms. Lemieux if there was a fixed amount or
percentage from the enterprise accounts. Ms. Lemieux stated that number still needs to be determined.
Discussion about the policy wording ensued. Suggestion was made to change to read "the Board of Selectmen
will request at Town Meeting an amount equivalent to at least 10%." Suggestion was made to have the budget
reflect what amount is designated for OPEB. Ms. Lemieux stated the actuarial report seperates it by Town,
School and Enterprise Accounts. Further discussion ensued about contributing to OPEB.
Motion:R.Ebersole
21d: D. McQuaid
To approve the OPEB Policy as amended
Discussion: Mr. Toale asked if the policy was presented to the Finance Committee yet.
Mr. Ebersole amended his motion to "subject to the Finance Committee's approval: Mr. McQuaid
seconded.
Vote: All in Favor
3. Discuss meeting schedule from January - March
• January 9" 7:00 p.m Complete Streets workshop at the High School
• January 10t: Town Manager meeting with Charter Review Committee to discuss the Town Manager
section
• January I1* at 7:00 p.m. Finance Committee meeting
•
January 16 and 23 Selectmen meetings
• January 25*' is the Five Year Financial Forecast presentation to the Finance Committee
• February S*' at 10:00 a.m Public Forum with the Seniors at Eagle House Senior/Community Center
• February 6* Selectmen meeting
• February 8" Finance Committee meeting
===PAGE 3===
signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of 33,124, 18.04, a payroll warrant in the amount of
$825,224.17 and a payroll deduction warrant in the amount of $183,673.17.
Action File- Ms. Luck noted the links on the website to the Disturbances of Newly Paved Roads. She asked if
there have been any requests for waivers yet. Ms. Lemieux stated there were none to her knowledge. Ms. Luck
suggested keeping a log of all requests for waivers and that this Board is informed of the ones that are granted
and the reasoning behind granting the waiver. Mr. Ebersole stated it is good to have the information but noted
the Board's job was developing policy. He suggested letting the day to day business be handled by the Town
Manager adding we don't need to know on an individual basis but perhaps on a quarterly or annual basis. Ms.
Lemieux will provide a quarterly report of requested waivers.
5. Committee Reports
Mr. McQuaid reported Capital Planning met earlier today with the DPW Director. Ms. Luck reported the
School Committee meets tomorrow and are going to review a revised Capital Plan and the Superintendent's
recommended FY'19 budget. Mr. Toale reported the Council on Aging will be meeting with this Board on
January 16"
6. Department Reports- ACO QUARTERLY REPORT
Mr. Ebersole noted some of the reporting issues have been resolved, which is a great improvement over prior
reports.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was no further public comment.
Motion: REbersole
To adjourn the meeting at 7:35 p.m.
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elain m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
