===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee Members present: Teri Burchfield, Chairman; Mark Erickson, Vice Chairman; Jay
Simeone, Clerk; John Henshaw, Hannah Anderson, George Martin and Marc Luescher
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale stated in accordance with the
requirements of Open Meeting Law this meeting was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public
Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck welcomed Ms. Adams to the Board and thanked her for her contribution to the Flat Hill Road water
runoff discussion. She appreciated the DPW Director stating that until this situation is resolved, Flat Hill Road
would not be paved. She applauded Chairman Toale's suggestion that the Storm Water Task Force and
Conservation Commission become involved in these issues.
Ms. Adams stated at the last meeting a resident commented on the conditions behind the old Primary School.
She thanked the DPW for going over and cleaning up the playground and bringing it back to its natural state as
best as they could and being responsive to the complaint. She hoped they could continue to talk about the
potential of it being a green space.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, stated in the past one of the email messages she has sent to the Board was
poor communication between public bodies. After attending the Open Space Committee meeting last week, she
realized it was important to comment publicly. She stated her initial impression was the school and those
involved in Wallis Park Playground were not diligent in seeking alternative funding sources for the project for
the field and park projects. She wondered why no one spoke up about the Open Space Plan while these projects
were being discussed. She is aware the Town is updating the website which is a necessary step. She did not
think it was unreasonable for PACC to cover more meetings now that the user fees have been doubled by the
Comcast license renewal. She encouraged appointed/elected officials to interact with other committees and
boards.
Hannah Anderson, 787 West Street, informed all about a basketball game fundraiser between the Police
Department and civilians to raise money to purchase six automated external defibrillators on June 14* from 7-
9 p.m. at the Middle/High School. Admission is $5.00. There will be raffles and a bake sale.
Adam Burney, Land Use Director, wanted to remind all about the June 25'h Planning Board informational
meeting at 6:30 p.m. here regarding adult marijuana and seeking feedback in advance of forming
regulations/bylaw.
REORGANIZATION OF BOARD
Mr. Toale asked for nominations for Chair of the Board. Ms. Luck nominated Mr. Toale and Mr. MeQuaid
seconded it. Ms. Adams nominated Mr. Ebersole for Chair and he seconded it for discussion.
Discussion: Mr. Ebersole stated he appreciated the nomination. It was his belief that there should be a regular
turnover of chairs within committees and there should be a period of time so the Chair can get acclimated to the
operations of the committee and then have a year or two to do work and not have to worry about the operations.
He believed Mr. Toale has done a good job. He was concerned that continuing with the same Chair for a fourth
year is a concern relating to how it looks. We need to keep doing the work to improve communications
===PAGE 2===
always did a great job. It's very difficult to chair a meeting and stay involved and he was always good at that;
not that he didn't think Mr. Ebersole wouldn't do a great job too. He did a great job when Mr. Toale wasn't
present. He would like to see Mr. Toale continue. Further discussion ensued
Mr. Toale stated he has always endeavored to include listening to the public. Sometimes he had to cut people
short due to time constraints. He felt Mr. Ebersole would be an excellent Chair also. He called for a vote based
on the order of nominations.
All those in favor of Mr. Toale for Chair: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. MeQuaid, aye, Mr. Toale- aye. Majority
was for Mr. Toale. Mr. Ebersole made a motion that the Board make the vote unanimous as a show of
support that they are going to work together. Ms. Luck seconded. Ms. Adams stated she was dissenting.
Mr. Toale called for a nomination for Vice Chairman. Ms. Luck nominated Mr. MeQuaid. Mr. Toale
seconded for discussion purposes. Mr. Toale nominated Mr. Ebersole for Vice Chairman. Ms. Adams
seconded. There were no other nominations.
Discussion: Ms. Luck stated she would appreciate giving Mr. McQuaid the opportunity to serve as Vice Chair.
Mr. McQuaid stated personally he did not mind either way, but he believed Mr. Ebersole has always done a
portunity to are as vie Chair.
very good job. Mr. Toale stated he would like to see Mr. McQuaid play a more active role on this Board but he
also believed Mr. Ebersole has done an excellent job.
He called all those in favor of Mr. McQuaid for Vice Chairman: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. MeQuaid-aye
All those in favor of Mr. Ebersole for Vice Chairman: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Mr. Toale asked for nominations for Clerk: Mr. Ebersole nominated Mr. McQuaid and Ms. Luck
seconded.
Vote: All in Favor
APPOINTMENTS:
1. Liquor License Violation- J & M's Sports Bar- 5 Summer Street, #10; License #00047-GP-0636
No one was present for the hearing. Mr. Toale moved to the next agenda item.
2. Transfer of Alcohol License #00036-RS-0636 for 324 Summer Street, Unit #4 to A.A.G. LIC d/b/a
Kindred Spirits - This hearing was postponed to July 10th due to an address error in the hearing notice.
3. Update on The Bootlegger alcohol license status
Co-owner/licensee Sean Morrison, 227 Lunenburg Street, Fitchburg, presented for another extension of their
business being closed. At this time they are not sure how it is going to work; they may stay on with someone
else managing it or a go with an outright sale and transfer of the license. Morrision requested another 90 days.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2nd: D. McQuaid
To extend The Bootlegger closing for another 90 days (from the original expiration date of April 21) to
July 21$t
Vote: All in Favor
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Reserve Police Officer- Samuel Christensen
Chief Marino recommended Samuel Christensen for appointment as Reserve Police Officer. He has completed
the Municipal Police Training Sanctioned Intermittent Police Academy and is a resident of Lunenburg. He
holds a Bachelors' Degree in Criminal Justice from Keene State University. If he is appointed, he will undergo
a rigorous field training program which will allow the department to evaluate him and provide an accurate
assessment of his skills and work ethic.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd. P. Luck
===PAGE 3===
paramedic level would provide a better level of service to residents and offset some of the cost of personnel.
For 2017 they did 1022 EMS calls, including lift assists and "well-being" checks. Out of 708 EMS transports,
46% required advanced life support level and 13% of these were at an advanced EMT level. 54% were for basic
life support. We have estimated 53 of those calls could/should have been advanced life support transports.
Initial start up costs would be $1573 for medications and a refrigerator to store them; $336 for miscellaneous
equipment; $37,000 for a cardiac monitor/pacer/defibrillator (+$1500 for the battery charger) bringing the total
cost to $40,409 for each ambulance.
Ongoing costs would be for medical control fees ($7,000/yr), equipment maintenance ($3,500/ yr), replacement
of supplies ($5,000/yr) which would be around $15,500 annually. Anticipated revenue increases would be
around $131,085 for various services if the Town had paramedic status. Figures are based on current ambulance
rates. There is limited increase in fees due to insurance payouts for Medicare and private insurance. We
anticipate additional call volume of 31 EMS calls/year increase. Some potential savings would be $26,000 for
the current on call stipend; this savings is being utililized in fiscal year 2019 with the addition of two full-time
personnel and the duty officer stipend of $10,400 because $5,200 was shifted to offset the two full-time
sipens or 10,01
personnel. Remaining funds still provide an on call duty officer on Sundays as that day is covered by per diem
personnel. Approximately $151,584.57 would be fully realized once the department is fully staffed and
operating at the Paramedic level.
Challenges: The Town would need to recruit and retain two firefighter/paramedics, which are in short supply
statewide. We could train our own and allocate training money; $12,000-$15,000 for paramedic school (12-24
months); + $1,500 for advanced school (5-6 months)
He has discussed a mechanism with Town Manager about a proposal for up to $15,000/year for training which
would not be used if no one was taking classes. Once we get the license for paramedic we have three years to
provide the service.
SUMMARY: 3 Additional staff beyond FY'19 provides 24/7 career coverage supplemented by per diem and
call force. Paramedic level service is an increasing demand, provides a better level of care for our citizens, more
accountability and additional revenue that can offset some personnel costs.
Finance Chair Teri Burchfield asked when the Chief would be looking to have paramedics on board. Chief
Sullivan replied the fall of 2019 if all goes as planned
Finance Committee member Mark Erickson asked how are we going to pay for this? He said we haven't heard
from the Police Chief either. If we are going to hire one Police officer each year for ten years, that is a
significant expense; where is the revenue to pay for these positions? Chief Sullivan stated even if we don't go to
paramedic, he still needs theose two staff people. This is a way to offset some of that.
Mr. Ebersole asked if you need to have two paramedics on at any one time? Chief Sullivan stated you can
operate under a waiver with one paramedic and one basic. That is the model we are looking at
Mr. Henshaw stated with respect to the ambulances, they would be used more and is there a need to replace
them sooner than planned? Chief Sullivan stated he would still anticipate the ten year cycle. Mr. Martin stated
after the training is there any retention method to keep the trained staff in Lunenburg? Chief Sullivan stated that
is always a challenge. As far as bringing people on board, they would have to agree to remain paramedic as a
condition of their employment.
Mr. Toale stated the Board has not addressed this topic specifically but it has always been on our radar due to
conversations with the Fire Chief. Mr. Ebersole stated paramedic was discussed during the last negotiations and
a pay rate was agreed upon in case it came up in the future. But the Board has not taken a position. Mr. Erickson
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Lemieux reported when she started here a year and a halt ago, both Chiets stated their need tor more
personnel. We made that happen for Fiscal years 18 & 19. They approached her with a written plan for adding
additional staff. She thanked them for putting in all the effort as well as Ms. Moore and Ms. Brochu.
Discussion ensued about how to fund the requests and financial forecasting. The discussion turned to taxing to
the 2.5% levy limit. Ms. Burchfield stated so far we haven't been able to address unmet needs. She wasn't sure
what objectives we want to meet first, unmet needs or taxing to the limit to address those needs. She stated after
listening to the public safety people tonight, I don't know how we can find more money if we reduce what we
are taking in.
Ms. Luck noted we increase taxes every year by 2.5% and no one thinks well maybe we don't have to, maybe
we can try taxing at just 2%. Our taxes have gone up 30% since 2014. That is too much for a lot of people. Ms.
Burchfield noted some of that has nothing to do with the 2.5% increase. There are school loans and things like
that. Ms. Luck stated the school budget is going to increase by $1 million over the next 3 years; we can't keep
doing that. They are already taking 70% of the town's budget. We have to stop and start thinking what we can
afford. She noted there was no discussion before or after the Town Manager presented her budget, we have to
have these discussions in early November.
Ms. Lemieux stated if we are going to discuss not taxing to the levy, it has implications and means cuts. We will
not be able to add additional staff, it will impact the Capital Plan and negatively impact the plan to address
deferred maintenance on our facilities. We need to consider these. She noted the bulk of our tax increases are
coming from the debt exclusions. Mr. McQuaid stated the same people who say they don't want their taxes
increased also ask why can't we have nice things. You can't have it both ways. Mr. Toale noted the Finance
Committee has set financial policies and he commended them for their work. Chief Marino stated he was
considering having an informal meeting with residents about his budget and inviting other public officials to
participate too. Mr. Ebersole stated he was in favor of having earlier additional discussions before the budget,
including the school budget, is a good thing but we won't be able to do everythig we want to do. Mr. Luescher
stated he compared our budget to other communities and found our school budget to be higher and our public
safety budget to be lower than them. He hopes to have more data to present at a later date. Mr. Toale thanked the
Finance Committee for coming in tonight and the Chiefs and staff for their research and presentations.
The Finance Committee adjourned their meeting.
Liquor License Violation Hearing - MIJ, Inc. d/b/a J & M's Sports Bar- 5 Summer Street, #10; License
#00047-GP-0636
Mr. Toale reviewed the hearing procedure for those present. The licensee was not present. Mr. Toale read the
hearing notice letter sent to the licensee.
"On June 5, 2018 at 7:05 p.m., the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen will hold a hearing pursuant to M.G.L. c.
138 § 64, to discuss your alcoholic beverage license at 5 Summer Street, Unit 10, Lunenburg. The hearing will
be held in the Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg. The hearing will
concern the April 17, 2018 incident report filed by the Lunenburg Police Department and received by the Board
of Selectmen on April 25, 2018, a true copy of which is enclosed. You may attend this hearing and be
represented by counsel at your own expense if you wish. This allegation, if proven, may constitute the following
violations of Lunenburg License Commission Regulations;
===PAGE 5===
provision of the relevant General Laws of the Commonwealth, [M.G.L. Chapter 138, § 12]; and of the
regulations of the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission or of the regulations of the Licensing Authority;
These allegations, if proven, would constitute grounds for disciplinary action, including a written warning,
suspension, revocation or a decrease in operating hours of your license, per Section 1.14 (a-d) of the Lunenburg
License Commission Regulations.
Due to the fact that you have had four violations occur within the last two years, a fifth offense would be
subject to a range of a warning to revocation of the license. "
Mr. Toale swore in Officer Kayla Leger. She read the incident report.
===PAGE 6===
he had seen someone inside of J&M Sports Bar.
I arrived on scene to assist. Officer Campbell informed me that he saw a person, with a white t-shirt, walk by the
side door as he drove by the building. We looked into the front window and were able to see a pair of shoes on the
ground, a jacket on the bar and a jacket on the bar stool. There were four plastic cups on the bar. Officer Campbell and I
banged on the door announcing who we were telling the parties inside to come to the door. They did not respond.
There were three vehicles in the parking lot at this time. One vehicle bearing MA reg 4HA853 was parked in a
handicap spot outside of the side door without any visible handicap placards being displayed, the second vehicle,
bearing MA reg 5yn517, was parked behind the building blocking half the road and the third vehicle was parked off to
the side in a legal parking spot, bearing MA reg 7GBN70.
After knocking several times, we informed the parties inside that the illegally parked vehicles would be towed
if they were not moved. Melissa Thibodeau (DOB 12/7/75) came to the door wearing a white t-shirt and no shoes. She
seemed surprised and asked us what we wanted. She began to tell us that she was finishing up some things at the bar
and that the male party, later identified as Aaron Storm (DOB 06/14/84), was her ride.
After entering the building it was clear that the two had been hanging out in there for a while. There was smoke
in the room and there was a distinct odor of burnt marijuana and cigarettes in the room. Aaron said he was unaware
that the bar did not have a license past 12:45 and immediately left the building, making no comments about being
Melissa's ride or even offering her a ride at this time. Officer Campbell told Melissa to get her belongings and go home
as well.
Respectfully submitted,
Officer Leger l
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Adams stated the fact that there is a spreadsheet of violations is appalling. Once you have a spreadsheet of
all your violations, it is a much larger problem than this specific incident.
Mr. Ebersole noted the three violations being addressed tonight are
1.03 Admission to the Premises; Licensees shall not lock the front door of the premises until the last patron
has exited from the premises and (k) Licensees shall not allow any patron or any guest or any employee who is
not working that shift to enter the premises after the closing hour posted on the license;
1.04 (a) Hours of Operation
The hours of operation shall be restricted to those set by the Licensing Authority and stated on the face of the
license. No patrons shall be on the premises before the official opening hours or after the official closing hours.
Last call is a minimum of thirty minutes prior to closing time. Customers must be up and out once the closing
hour of the licensed premise is reached.
He was unclear on the last 1.13 Other Causes for Revocation, Suspension and Modification (a) (1) Violation
by the licensee of any provision of the relevant General Laws of the Commonwealth, [M.G.L. Chapter 138, §
12]; and of the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission or of the regulations of the
Licensing Authority; unless it was referring to the marijuana at the location; he thought there would be a finding
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d. P. Luck
That the Board finds there is a violation of 1.03 & 1.03 (k) Admission to the Premises; 1.04 (a) Hours of
Operation and 1.13 Other Causes for Revocation, Suspension and Modification (a) (1)
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale asked for discussion of a penalty. Mr. Ebersole stated we were doubling the suspension phases but he
was leaning towards a revocation. Mr. Toale stated the violations occurred close to the hearing dates. He
believed we were pretty serious that we did not want to see them in here again. He also stated he did not believe
they were capable of managing their establishment. Ms. Adams noted they weren't even present and how it
could appear to other licensees that you can keep making violations with no consequences. She also suggested
changing the hours of operation. Mr. Toale stated he was in favor of a revocation and to let the licensee appeal
to the Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission (ABCC) and see where they come in on this. Ms. Luck stated
it does not seem like there has been enough effort on the licensee's part to run the business responsibly.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2nd: P. Luck
To revoke the alcohol license for MIJ, Inc. d/b/a J & M's Sports Bar effective Friday, June 15, 2018
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid stated he did not take the decision to take away the license lightly. But it is needed
before something more serious does happen. Ms. Lemieux stated the licensee has five days to appeal to the
ABCC. If the ABCC approves the local licensing decision, the licensee can appeal to Superior Court within 30
days of receipt of the decision. If the ABCC does not approve the appeal, the local licensing board must carry
out the ABCC directive. If the local licensing board does not agree, they can appeal within 5 days of the ABCC
decision. Ms. Adams noted the licensee did not even react to the hearing notice and bother to appear tonight.
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 8===
Drainage work will begin at the Fitchburg end of the project and proceed towards Lunenburg.
Tax Lien Sale Auction: As a reminder, the Tax Lien Sale Auction will be on June 13th at 1:00 p.m. Due to
payments and tax agreements, the total tax liens went from 28 to 22 as of May 29th. The current total of
delinquent taxes/interest/penalties accrued for these tax title properties is approximately $577,611.
Complete Streets: On May 29th the DPW Director and I met with staff from our consultant Woodard & Curran
to review the projects on the prioritization plan and they did field work to get parameters and scope of work in
each project area. Using industry standards accepted by MassDOT, Woodard & Curran will cost out each
project and anticipate presenting to the Board of Selectmen at the June 19th meeting
Capital Facility Repairs and Improvements for the Commonwealth Bill: At a meeting on February 5th with
Senator Tran, he requested possible capital projects that were ready to go to be submitted for a Capital Facility
Repairs and Improvements for the Commonwealth Bond Bill that the Senate would be filing that day. The list
of projects I sent Senator Tran were ones that had been identified as part of the town's capital plan, or related to
the property condition assessments. It included $25,000 for the Eagle House HVAC system for the older section
of the building, $27,000 for the repair of the handicap ramp at the Town Hall, $65,000 for the repair of the old
section of the roof at the DPW, $40,000 for LED lighting at the Library, $40,000 for a feasibility and cost
estimation to demolish the old Primary building including hazardous materials assessment, cost of abatement
and design for future use of the land, and $130,000 for asbestos abatement and ceiling replacement at Turkey
Hill Elementary School. The first five projects have been approved by the Conference Committee and the last
project for Turkey Hill is included in the state budget, which is the most likely to receive funding. If any of the
projects that were funded at our Annual Town Meeting as part of the FY19 Capital Plan are funded through the
state, this will allow this funding to be reappropriated towards other capital projects at a special town meeting in
the fall. We will await the final decision by the State on whether these projects are funded and proceed from
there.
Ms. Lemieux thanked the DPW and subcontractors for all the paving work around town. There has been a
number of positive comments that have been received through social media.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Letter of Support for Submission of Section 319 Grant
Land Use Director Adam Burney presented for the request on behalf of the Storm Water Task Force. The
319 grant application has been submitted. We have until Friday to submit the letter of support. this is for
storm water maangement for impaired water bodies and healthy watersheds. We are pursuing it for the
upper Mulpus. This would be for nine best management practices at five locations. This would be in
conjunction with pavement management and the intent would be to reduce the impact of the developed area
on the upper Mulpus. There is a community and education outreach component of it too.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2"d: P. Luck
To authorize the Chairman to sign a letter of support as submitted for this grant application
Vote: All in Favor
2. Annual Appointments
Mr. Toale reviewed Board appointments and the following was decided upon:
• Capital Planning- Damon McQuaid
• Central MA Regional Stormwater Coalition- Phyllis Luck
===PAGE 9===
BOARD OF SELECTMEN APPOINTMENTS
Animal Control Officer
Kathleen Comeau- 806 West Street
Architectural Preservation District Commission-term expires June 30, 2021
Brian Corcoran-9 Lancaster Ave.
Agricultural Commission- 3 years-term expires June 30, 2021
2 vacancies
Conservation Commission- 3 year terms-term to expire June 30, 2021
Kenneth Jones -50 Valley Road
Carl Luck- 50 Sunset Lane
Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2019
Joseph (AI) Dettenrieder- 72 Lancaster Ave.
George Martin - 522 Burrage Street
Louis Franco-250 Arbor Street
Mike Kidney- 86 Lancaster Ave.
Tom Alonzo- 284 Lancaster Ave.
William Tyler-5 Graham St.
Constable- term expires June 30, 2019
Kevin Rice-14 Iris Rd. Leominster
Alan Herget- 79 Beachview Road
John Godek- 321 Pearl St. Fitchburg
Council on Aging- 3 year terms-term expires June 30, 2021
Elizabeth DiGiacomo-761 Flat Hill Road
Deborah Lincoln- 46 Hemlock Drive
1 vacancy
Cultural Council-term expires June 30, 2021
Laura Brzozoski-21 Francis Ave.
Pete McCarron -42 Reservoir Road
Historical Commission- 3-year term -expires June 30, 2021
Rebecca Lantry- 251 West St.
Richard McGrath- 22 Cushing Lane
MART Advisory Board-term expires June 30, 2019
Phyllis Luck- 50 Sunset Lane
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee- Selectman or Representative
Paula Bertram-312 Townsend Harbor Road
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission - Selectman or Representative
Vacant
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC)-term to expire June 30, 2021
Faith Beall-54 Riley Road
Personnel Committee-term expires June 30, 2021
1 vacancy
Senior Citizen Property Taxation Work Off Program- term expires June 30, 2019
Myleen Mallari-Treasurer/Collector
Nancy Forest-Human Resources
Sue Doherty-COA Director
===PAGE 10===
Motion: P. Luck
To approve the appointments
TOWN MANAGER APPOINTMENTS
Building Commissioner
Garry Rhodes
Asst. Building Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Andrew Hudson
Dam Keeper term expires June 30, 2019
Ronald Wilson 701 Reservoir Road
Assistant Dam Keeper- term expires June 30, 2019
Rich Patry 655 Reservoir Road
Emergency Management Director /Forest Warden- term expires June 30, 2019
Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan
Fence Viewers- 1-year term
Vacancies
Field Driver- 1-year term
Kathy Comeau- 806 West Street
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer
Heather Lemieux
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Gary Williams-34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Richard Kapenas
Pound Keeper- term expires June 30, 2019
Jean Larkin- 17 Highland Street
Public Weighers- term expires June 30, 2019 (provided by P J Keating)
Rich Reynolds
Julianna DiPrima
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
Jay Valliere
Mike Reynolds
Britany Woodhouse
Inspector of Weights and Measures-term expires June 30, 2019
Stephen E. Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)
John (Jack) Biery- 15 Crescent Road
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)
David Stone-83 Arbor Street
RACES Control Officer -term expires June 30, 2019
Ralph Swick 113 Townsend Harbor Road
Brian LeBlanc- Asst. Radio Operator- 67 Mulpus Road
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 11===
Ms. Adams noted the Wiring Inspector is her father.
Motion: P. Luck
To approve the Town Manager appointments
2nd: D. McQuaid
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstained (Adams)
3. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of May 1, 2018 were approved. An accounts payable warrant in the amount of $355,574.90; a payroll
warrant in the amount of $799,436.04 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $773,546.61 were
signed.
Action file Issue: Ms. Luck was surprised and confused with the Town Manager's performance evaluation
process when viewing the May 8'* meeting. Ms. Luck had prepared her review prior to the meeting and
submitted it to the Chair. When she was watching the meeting she realized there was new information provided
by the lown Manager at that meeting to further inform of her progress. Information Ms. Luck could not have
had knowledge of when she did her review. There were tasks that she had rated as "no progress" on the review.
It seems like we have to have a better timeline. Ms. Luck requested the dates coming up for November and
April and when we would be reviewing because the process certainly did not work for her.
Mr. Toale appreciated her input and stated unlike the performance portion of the review, the goal review was
performed at the meeting. We can discuss the process going forward next week at our workshop.
Mr. McQuaid inquired regarding the committee report assignments. Mr. Toale stated that could be discussed
next week also.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Toale stated the Board will be holding a workshop meeting on June 12 for goal setting for the upcoming
fiscal year. June 19 is a regular business meeting and he suggested not having a meeting on July 3rd due to
feedback from Board members.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Police Chief Marino reminded all about Cruise Night tomorrow night on Memorial Drive from 4 - 8 p.m.
The rain date is Wednesday June 13", same time. He hoped to see everyone there.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, congratulated the Chiefs for their presentations. He reminded that the DPW is
not fully staffed and Town offices are only open 4 days a week.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting at 9:47 p.m.
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peters on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 10 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
