===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale reported the Board received a letter dated April 25, 2018 from the Attorney General's office,
Division of Open Government, stating that as a result of a complaint filed by Kathyrn Adams on January 24,
2018, they determined the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to make its November 9, 2017
audible to the audience and by failing to post an anticipated topic on its November 9, 2017 agenda. In addition
they ordered the Board's immediate and future compliance with the law's requirements. They ordered the Board
members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training videos (#1 and #2) and to certify to their
office within thirty days that they have complied with the order. The Attorney General's office considers the
complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. The Board received this letter after we posted
tonight's agenda. We will add this topic to next week's agenda and discuss it at that time.
Ms. Luck thanked everyone for coming out to the Earth Day event last weekend.
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Ave., announced the Board of Selectmen Candidates' Debate on Thursday, May 3rd
at 7:00 p.m. at the Middle/High School. He encouraged voters to attend. It is sponsored by The Lunenburg
Ledger and moderated by Town Moderator Tim Murphy. It will be recorded by public access cable and will be
broadcast at a later time.
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, updated on the efforts to add one additional staff to the Fire Department budget so
we can achieve coverage 24 hours/7 days a week. He planned to make a motion to make an amendment to the
FY19 budget at the annual town meeting this Saturday. He asked for feedback from the Board and Town
Manager on his proposal. Ms. Bertram noted this item is not on their agenda so she did not believe they could
discuss it as a Board. Mt. Toale noted #2 under old business allows for discussion of Annual Town Meeting
warrant articles.
APPOINTMENTS
Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. RE: Article 21
Steve Douglas, 24 Wintergreen Court, representing the Hickory Hills Dam Committee presented on Annual
Town Meeting Article 21 (Perpetual Easement along and upon portions of Town-owned property). Hickory
Hills is a 315 acre lake. Recently the state increased their requirements for dams. To meet this requirement,
several alternatıves have been considered by lighe & Bond Engineering firm; (enlarging the spillway, new crest
gate, overtopping). Uvertopping of the earthen portion of the dam with erosion resistant material has been
chosen as the most cost effective choice. A portion of the Hickory Hills Dam is within the road easement along
Townsend Harbor Road. Hickory Hills Landowners Inc. is requesting Lunenburg residents to vote YES to allow
he dam improvements on the road easement to meet state tae Department of Tavironmental Protection and
und the project. The lown will have no financial liability.
the Conservation Commission have approved the plan. Town counsel has been working with the HHL on the
wording of the proposed easement. DPW Director Rodriquenz has been reviewing the proposal. Mr. Ebersole
stated he was impressed by the work done by the group and although the Board would not be voting tonight, he
would be supporting the article at Town Meeting.
===PAGE 2===
people at the initial part of the road that would qualify to do a private sewer extension if this was included in the
service area. Discussion ensued on whether the area can support installation of conventional septic systems and
if there is a need for sewer. Mr. Ebersole stated he would be interested in the Board of Health's determination
of that area. He was also concerned about the residents who had to have septic systems installed because they
were not given this opportunity previously. Ms. Bertram concurred and stated she would need the data on the
septic systems on Tilton Avenue. She and Mr. Ebersole were not ready to make a recommendation on this
article this evening. Mr. Ebersole recommended reaching out to the residents on Tilton Ave. before the Town
Meeting.
Citizen Petition re: ATM Article 26
(Eliminate Chapter 127 Cigarettes, 127-1, 127-2 and allow sale of cigarette rolling papers)
Lance Rozell, owner of City Line Plaza and Smit Patel, owner of City Line Smoke Shop presented on behalf of
the citizen petition to end the prohibition of sale of cigarette rolling papers. They believe in lieu of changes to
the state law regarding marijuana as well as surrounding towns that it would be beneficial to end the old
ordinance. Mr. Patel believed Lunenburg voted in favor of legalization of marijuana and that the bylaw is
outdated. Mr. Rozell stated they wanted to have the same right to sell cigarette papers as surrounding towns. He
hoped they would take the request under consideration.
Motion: R. Ebersole
2n°: P. Bertram
To recommend approval of Article 26
Ms. Lemieux stated the Police Chief will present his thoughts on this bylaw at town meeting.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Rozell and Patel thanked the Board.
Mr. Toale noted the Charter Review Committee will be requesting Articles 27 and 28 be passed over at town
meeting. He asked for a recommendation from the Board.
Motion: R. Ebersole
To recommend passing over Article 27 and 28
2nd: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
The discussion turned to Mr. Luck's earlier presentation regarding adding another staff to the Fire Department.
Ms. Bertram asked for feedback from Ms. Lemieux. Ms. Lemieux reported she has met with the Fire and Police
Chief on various occasions and discussed a long-term plan as far as implementing staff incrementally. This is
both a budgetary restriction, making sure we can sustain the personnel because there is compounded effect of
adding staff each year plus overtime. Her concern with adding an additional firefighter, two in one year, is the
overtime coverage because once we move to that level of staffing, that shift will have to be covered by another
full-timer. They get first option on that shift coverage. So they are in the long-term plan which both chiefs have
submitted recently. The annual overtime for two staff was approximately $40,000. Presently the FY19 budget is
a balanced budget. In order to increase the raise and appropriation amount for the Fire Department, we would
have to decrease the raise and appropriation under the Capital Plan which would mean using another source,
increasing borrowing. Discussion ensued about the impact and public safety needs. Mr. Luck pointed out the
Fire Department will save $31,000 in overtime and on-call stipends if the Town goes 24/7. There will be no
increase in taxes to fund this. Mr. McQuaid stated he supported what he was trying to do, but there are a lot of
===PAGE 3===
District Local Technical Assistance from Montachusett Regional Planning Commission:
Land Use Director Adam Burney met with MRPC Staff John Hume and Karen Chapman on Tuesday, April 17th and
the contracts were executed for MRPC to assist the town to develop a promotional brochure and permitting
guidebook that should be finalized by November. The design and details of the brochure will be formulated by
working with the business community at the regular meetings we have been having and instead of listing all the
businesses on the brochure, there will QR (scan) codes or links back to the Town website. The other DLTA
assistance will come in the form of creating a permitting guidebook and MRPC will work with the Planning Board
and Land Use Director to outline the requirements for applicants to apply for various permits.
Open Meeting Law Training:
On Wednesday, April 25th there were two Open Meeting Law trainings, one in the afternoon and one in the evening.
There was staff from every department present and many board/committee/commission members. The presentation
Town Counsel gave at this training is now on the website and an email to the town wide listserv has been circulated
to inform staff and committee/board members know where they can view it.
LED Streetlight Conversion:
At the March 6th meeting I reported that I had requested the accumulated depreciation value of our 335 streetlights
and the estimated cost if Unitil were to replace these lights with LED fixtures. We received the formal quote from
Unitil that the accumulated depreciation value is $81,808.79. In response to our request for a proposal for Unitil to
provide and install new LED fixtures for the 335 streetlights that they would continue to own and maintain and we
received two options. The first option includes an estimated cost for Police Details in the amount of $45,000, the
undepreciated costs of the existing High Pressure Sodium lights in the amount of $81,808.79, and an estimated cost
for removing and installing new LED lights for $33,500 and an energy efficiency incentive credit for $33,500 for a
grand total of $126,808.79. Option 2 includes the same costs and credit minus the $45,000 for Police Details
(assumes that the Town would agree to waive the Police Detail cost) for a grand total of $81,808.79. Until estimates
the Town would save approximately $29,760 a year by converting to LED. The other option the Town would have is
to purchase the existing street lights from Unitil and go out to bid to have a third party install new LED streetlights
and then the Town would be responsible for replacing and maintaining the lights. The Green Communities Task
Force has a meeting on May 10th to review the quotes from Unitil.
Update on Summer Street Project:
MassDOT issued the Notice to Proceed to the contractor on April 25th and the pre-construction meeting will be
scheduled within the next three weeks.
Skateboard Park:
On Monday, April 30th I met with Anthony Caiozzo and Greg Roy regarding site survey and soil testing work to be
done on the land between the TC Passios and Kids Kingdom for the proposed skateboard park. Greg Roy is a
professional engineer and partner at Ducharme & Dillis in Bolton and is able to provide surveying and engineering
support for the project. Mr. Roy will do a topographical survey from the road to the back of the property that will not
require any disturbance to the area. The next step will require soil testing at 4-6 locations on the proposed site with
test pits that will be approximately 3'wide x10' deep. The DPW Director has offered assistance that will require 2-3
hours with the backhoe. A skateboard park designing firm will use the results from the survey and soil testing results
to create a design for that space. The fundraising has commenced and the group would like to advertise both the
future site of the skateboard park, as well as their fundraising efforts. Mr. Roy and Mr. Caiozzo will submit a design
of the sign to the Land Use Director to ensure conformance with the sign bylaw. The expected timeframe to break
ground is late summer/early fall and will come back to the Selectmen to give an update prior to breaking ground.
===PAGE 4===
alter the close ot Town Meeting at the Lunenburg Primary School. Parents must pre-register for this service no later
than noon (12:00 p.m.) on Friday, May 4th to ensure adequate staffing is available. Parents/guardians not currently
registered to attend Extended Day will need to complete a registration form that is available through the school
website, is available on the town website, and the Town Facebook page. Parents/guardians must provide photo ID to
register. Families interested in this service must email the Extended Day Director, Tammy Perry at
tperry@lunenburgonline.com to register. There will be no charge for this service. Anyone failing to pick up their
child within the 30 minute timeframe after the close of town meeting will be assessed the full cost of childcare
services that day.
In addition, the Women's Club will be providing brown bag lunches to purchase and the School Committee has
waived their requirement of no food in the auditorium for this event. I want to thank Superintendent Calmes and the
Extended Day Program Staff for coordinating childcare during the town meeting and the Women's Club for their
efforts in preparing lunches for what is typically a long annual town meeting.
Health Insurance:
The Selectmen signed an updated Public Employee Committee Agreement on April 10th and all the unions that make
up the Public Employee Committee have voted to approve the agreement, which will go into effect on July 1st. A
Public Employee Committee Agreement is mandatory since a vote of the Board of Selectmen in May of 2008 to
accept MGL Chapter 32B, Section 19, which calls for the creation of Public Employee Committee (PEC) and the
terms of the health care coverage offered to town and school employees. The four year agreement that was signed
introduces a deductible type plan and reduces the monthly premium for all plans, and will reduce the town's OPEB
lability by an estimated $8 million. An educational meeting will be held in the near future and while open
enrollment is still ongoing.
Department of Public Works Facebook page:
The Department of Public Works now has its own Facebook page to post information, snow updates, and other
pertinent information on that went live last week. The DPW Director and the DPW Administrative Assistant have
posting capabilities. In just a few short days the page has almost five hundred likes/follows.
Earmark in FY19 House/Senate Budgets:
Earlier this Fiscal Year, Senator Tran had requested a list of capital projects to advocate in a Capital Improvement
Bill that was filed as part of the FY19 Budget. Representative Benson contacted me this week to relay that one of the
projects, $25,000 to upgrade the HVAC system that is failing in the older section of the agle House, has made it
through the House budget. The next step is for the budget to go to Conference Committee and if the Senate and
House language agrees on this earmark, it will not be debated and move forward. I will keep the Board informed as
the state budget is finalized.
Performance Evaluations:
Department heads were provided draft performance evaluations for management and non-management personnel
and are expected to submit any questions or comments by mid-May with a goal of finalizing them by the end of
May.
Department Updates:
At our monthly department head meeting on April 24th the following topics and updates were given:
Cable:
• The Cable Access Coordinator related that the staff is working on doing a multi-camera wireless shoot for
town meeting to provide better coverage.
• The three Selectmen candidates have been invited to do 10 minute segments in the cable studio that will be
aired on Channel 8.
===PAGE 5===
bne down dreasurem conecot ls contng workg wo tre ds dele daleorney c dod a las titie
assignment auction. From February 27th until April 23 d, $104,934.96 has been collected from property
owners with properties in tax title and the list of properties in tax title has been reduced from 34 to 29.
Comparing the total of what has been collected for the same nine month time period in FY18 versus FY17,
$231,260 more has been collected in tax title receivables in FY18 than the previous year. The date of the Tax
Title Assignment Auction has been postponed from the original April date to a date to be determined once all
the necessary notifications and advertising requirements are worked out but is expected by the beginning of
the new fiscal year.
• Based on the list the Board discussed and wished to proceed with the foreclosure process four of those
properties have moved forward towards foreclosure. The Treasurer/Collector expects an additional 1-2 more
this year based on the projected funding available.
DPW:
• The DPW coordinated having a moving company move all the records out of the Town Hall attic on Friday,
April 20th. All records that were marked by individual departments for approval for destruction were put into
a dumpster and the rest were moved to a designated classroom at the TC Passios building.
• The DPW is now transitioned to spring clean-up and beginning the paving season. A portion of Lancaster
Road was repaved and the DPW Director will provide an updated paving schedule that will be published on
the town website, as well as the traditional postcards in mailboxes to affected residents, post on their new
Facebook page, and announce in the Ledger.
• In addition to the DPW work on spring cleanup, the Turkey Hill Gardeners are assisting with the landscaping
around town center.
• The developer of the Whalom Luxury Apartments will begin work on building a small playground at
McNally Park.
IT Director:
Website Update: The content migration is complete and the next step in the process is we will be setting up
a date/time for all departments to get trained on updating their content on the new site. The site is expected to
go live within the month.
Land Use Director:
• The electronic permitting software is going "live" for internal users next week. It is estimated to go "live" for
external users by the beginning of June.
• The Land Use Director reported that after Town Meeting, the Planning Board will begin focusing on drafting
regulations to regulate the time, place and manner for permitting recreational marijuana.
Other meetings, trainings, and seminars:
• Economic Development Summit: I attended an Economic Development Summit today that was put on by
Governor Baker, Lt. Governor Polito, and Housing & Economic Development Secretary Jay Ash. I attended
the session on Community Based Innovation that focused on collaborative workspace with a highlighted case
study and speakers from the Orange Innovation Center.
• DPW Union Negotiations: The next DPW Union negotiation meeting is tomorrow, May 2nd.
• Regional AC Facility: Chief Marino, the Townsend Town Administrator, Townsend Deputy Police Chief,
and I will be meeting with sole firm that submitted a bid to provide architectural services to design a new
Regional Animal Control Facility on Friday, May 4th.
===PAGE 6===
having spoken to Land Use Director Burney, who attends all the SWTF meetings, noted Burney has agreed to
be the conduit between the SWTF and the DPW Director. Ms. Luck stated although the SWTF welcomes
another member at large they have been unable to recruit a volunteer. The SWTF is requesting the Board reduce
the membership to a Board of Selectmen member, a Planning Board member and Conservation Commission
member.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2": P. Bertram
To change the composition of the SWTF to a Board of Selectmen member, a Planning Board member
and Conservation Commission member and two alternate members to be appointed by the Board of
Selectmen
Vote: All in Favor
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action File Issues
Minutes of April 3, 2018 were approved. Accounts payable warrants in the amount of $2149.20 and
$1,059,060.76 were presented. A payroll warrant in the amount of $730,360.41 and a deductions warrant in the
amount of $38,572.08 were also presented.
Action File Issue: Ms. Luck reiterated she would like a discussion about raising taxes by 2.5% every year and
was told that would happen during budget discussions. That never happened. She believed this practice is
unsustainable. Mr. Ebersole recommended this happen in a joint meeting with the Finance Committee.
Mr. Toale stated he would recommend a discussion on our progress with Town Manager goals and this Board's
goals before the election for next week's agenda. There is new Open Meeting Law language affecting the
Chair's compilation of performance evaluations. Boards may only receive employee performance evaluation
documents containing individual members' opinions at a public meeting, or at the same time as the general
public, following a decision of the Supreme Judicial Court.
Because Ms. Luck cannot be with us after the election, he recommended the Board reorganize at the June 5th
meeting.
The Board tabled committee reports to proceed to the workshop item.
WORKSHOP MEETING ON TOWN FACILITIES
Ms. Lemieux reported the Board members were asked to bring their ideas for each of these buildings (Ritter,
Town Hall, T.C. Passios, Brooks House and Old Primary School) to tonight's meeting. The goal is to narrow
down a consensus on what we think the use of these buildings should be.
Ms. Bertram presented a PowerPoint presentation on her ideas.
Town Hall, A Farmer/Art/Craft Market
Proposed Strategy:
• Determine if there is a strong interest amongst farmers/crafters
• Assist in the formation of a Farmers'/Arts Collaborative
• Apply for grant funding for building rehabilitation
• Lease building free of charge with the stipulation that costs of operation must be funded by
Collaborative
===PAGE 7===
Repurpose site & utilize portion of land for Ritter & Historical Society parking
Lease or sell portion of land for defined, pre-permitted use
The rear area of the primary could be utilized for parking, with a decorative stairway and green space.
Handicap parking would be in the front of the building.
Retail Restrictions
• Pre-Permit desired uses
• Formulate Request For Proposals with specific building envelope options
Passios Building
•
Locate Municipal Offices in one section/wing
• Remove Brooks House
• Remove turnaround and construct park/green Space
• Construct two parking areas - possibly using pervious materials
• Community use space for children, adults & seniors
• Lease wing of building to offset cost - ie. Boys & Girls Club?
• Lease Cafeteria (farmers' collaborative)
• Large park could support expanded farmer's market with restroom facilities
• Park adjacent to school field would allow for expanded recreation opportunities
• Community space could offer programs for adults & children, providing an opportunity to bring people
of all ages together in a central location
• Cafeteria could be utilized by farmers' collaborative or leased to private entity
• Leasing of a portion of building would help offset operation costs
• Municipal offices located in one fully accessible location would be beneficial to citizens and would
support collaboration between all departments
• If the proposed skate park is constructed adjacent to Kids Kingdom, the entire area would be a
recreational mecca for the community.
When viewing the Community/Municipal Building from Mass. Ave, citizens would view a welcoming green
space. With the removal of the Brooks House and associated parking area, a large Town Green is created.
The existing picturesque tree-lined road would connect the senior center, library, municipal offices, community
building, indoor market/art facility, Town Green, Kids Kingdom and (if constructed) the skate park; creating a
walkable, multi-use area.
From a stormwater perspective we need to explore asphalt alternatives
•
Controls & Manages Runoff
• Removes Pollutants
• Aesthetically Pleasing
She then presented examples of reuse in other communities.
Newburyport, MA
The Newburyport Youth Services program has been relocated from the former Kelley School building on High
Street to the first floor of the Brown School on Milk Street, which is now being referred to as the "Newburyport
Rec Center." Work continues to outfit classroom and office space in the Brown School building for this
===PAGE 8===
remodeled into a multifunctional tacility, including a city hall, police department office, county offices, a senior
center, a fitness center, and a daycare center.
Possible Funding Assistance:
Farmers Market Promotion Program
https://www.ams.usda.gov/services/grants/fmpp
The purpose of the Farmers Market Promotion Program (FMPP) is to increase domestic consumption of, and
access to, locally and regionally produced agricultural products, and to develop new market opportunities for
farm and ranch operations.
• Administered by United States Dept. of Agriculture
• 2018 Grant Deadline May 7, 2018
Massachusetts Food Venture Program
https://www.mass.gov/news/baker-polito-administration-awards-over-700000-in-grants-to-local-food-
ventures
• A grant program intended to address food access and expansion of economic opportunities through new
food ventures and enterprises throughout the state.
• Lancaster received $124,699
• Grant will support the renovation of a commercial community kitchen for the World Farmers
Organization, providing the infrastructure needed for incubator businesses and local food entrepreneurs.
The project will enable nearly 250 immigrant and refugee farmers at the organization's farm to produce
value-added products as well as provide commercial kitchen space to local businesses and new food
businesses.
Community Development Block Grant
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/community-development-block-grant-cdbg
Eligible CDBG projects include but are not limited to housing rehabilitation or development, micro-
enterprise or other business assistance, infrastructure, community/public facilities, public social services,
planning, removal of architectural barriers to allow access by persons with disabilities, and downtown or
area revitalization. Available to Communities with a population under 50,000
Mass Cultural Facilities Fund
http://www.massculturalcouncil.org/facilities/facilities about.htm
Provide resources for cultural facilities to flourish, promotes the development of cultural facilities that
contribute to the cultural and economic lives of their communities, have a transformative impact on the.
community and supported by matching contributions from the private sector. Repair, rehabilitation or
renovation of existing facilities. Purchase of major equipment (including HVAC). New projects that
demonstrate a transformative impact on the host community.
• Worcester received $225,000 for expansion and accessibility improvements at the American Antiquarian
Society.
• Bolton received $96,000 for the construction of a performance pavilion.
Economic Development Fund
https://www.mass.gov/service-details/economic-development-fund-edt
Finances projects and programs that create and/or retain jobs, improve the local and/or regional tax base, or
===PAGE 9===
•
Loans of $500,000 - $5,000,000 to assist larger scale, key community economic development projects
•
Rehabilitation of investor-owner residential buildings
• Rehabilitation of mixed-use buildings
Infrastructure improvements supporting investor-owner residential or mixed-use projects
Mr. McQuaid believed moving the Town Offices to the Passios Building made sense as well for all the reasons
that Ms. Bertram listed. Possible future uses for Town Hall would be through land lease or rental due to
residents' concern about selling/losing the building; potentially leasing to the Farmers' Collaborative and
creating artists' work and gallery space, also the idea of the collaborative work space. This is a revenue
generating enterprise that a tenant could run within this building to do renovations and to have the cost taken off
the Town.
The Ritter Building offices could be moved out and parking space over at the Old Primary School site would
support the future use of that building. Those two sites are very important to each other. He liked the idea of the
farm to table restaurant and having the condition of using local sources. Some people would like to see a
brewery/pub there. There is potential to let someone land lease the site at Old Primary and build something new
there that is attractive that meets zoning bylaws. Rent could help improve the site and take the burden off the
Town. He noted that businesses in the Village District could lease parking spaces at the old Primary School
specifically for their business. Making that area a pocket park or a square or something that meets Village
District zoning.
Regarding TC Passios, he agreed with Ms. Bertram about having that as a community campus. It's a great
community space. It's visible and makes a connection between the school and the library. That is the space a
new park should be. He suggested taking Brooks House down and using it as a gateway to the new campus with
trees, benches etc.
Mr. Ebersole supported using Town Hall, Ritter and Passios for active reuse. He did not believe demolishing the
Brooks House or old Primary School is a consensus of the town. Moving the Brooks House somewhere else for
use could be an option. What he has seen over the last month and a half is a lot of people wanting to do
something different. That's fine until we have to start paying for it. He liked the idea of keeping the Ritter,
Town Hall and Passios under Town control but he was open to doing other things with the other properties. Ms.
Luck asked if the old Primary was too far gone for the possibility of housing. Mr. Ebersole believed subsidized
housing would be too expensive. Private business would have to go to the building shell; again it gets down to
the price. Ms. Bertram stated if we are going to repurpose the Ritter Building, some of that adjacent site has to
be used for parking. She stated she did not address parking for Town Hall earlier. Right now the Boys and Girls
Club is using their parking lot from 3:00 - 5:00 p.m. that was originally designated for municipal parking.
Personally if we were able to move to the Passios and create the green space over there, the parking could be
utilized by Town Hall.
Mr. Toale stated we are more similar than apart. He liked the community campus concept. We can have
preferences and we can put out guidelines. If there is no response to these ideas perhaps a broader approach to a
museum or theater is possible. The Ritter and Primary spaces are tied together because of the parking space
issues.
Ms. Luck agreed with using the Passios for town offices. She liked the community center concept as well. She
cautioned that it has to be something that we can afford. Ms. Bertram stated her thought process was first we
need to come up with a concept/plan and then get feedback from the community. If they are, then we go
===PAGE 10===
Timeline of Discussion on Town Facilities
•After the Building Reuse Committee disbanded, the Board of Selectmen made it one of their
goals to look at use and re-use of the five town buildings and have held various workshops,
public forums, and discussed town facilities at various Board meetings, including, but not
limited to the following:
• August 15, 2017 Workshop on Current and Future Use of Town Buildings
o August 22, 2017 Voted on color to paint Town Hall based on Survey Monkey results
• November 7, 2017 Workshop on Town Facilities
• November 21, 2017 Town Facilities and Grounds Workshop
• November 28, 2017 Special Town Meeting: Article 1, 4, 7, 9, 11, 12
• December 2, 2017 Walking Tour of five town buildings
• December 7, 2017 Public Forum on Town Facilifies at MS/HS
o February 5, 2018 Public Forum on Town Facilifies at Eagle House
o February 13, 2018 Presentation by Vertex on the Property Condition Assessments for Town
Hall, Ritter, Passios and old Primary
o Various meetings in March and April discussed 2018 AT warrant articles related to
facilities
Old Primary School 30 School Street
•Built in 1928; vacant since 2005. Building sits on 2.7 acre lot; current building has 12,300
sq./ft. of space.
Recommendation for Old Primary School:
•Perform the abatement of hazardous materials in phases ($308,000) and the costs of
demolition through the capital planning process starting in FY2020 and develop a plan and
cost estimate for the final use that properly.
•Prepare Asbestos and Lead Operations Maintenance Plan and Comprehensive Demolition
Survey using funds remaining in the Facilities budget by the end of FY18 or appropriate funds
at the Fall Special Town Meeting.
•This will eliminate current/future costs to re-use the existing building and the space can be
re-purposed.
•Create Green Space or other purpose that is identified at Town Meeting. Create space for
municipal parking lot that is lacking in town center to be shared with Historical Society.
===PAGE 11===
•Could reuse the land as Green Space/Community gathering spot
•This would eliminate the necessity to maintain and upkeep a building that has minimal use
but retains the historic building
•Eliminates the immediate costs identified in Building Condition Assessment and long term
costs that are no longer being offset by rental income.
Town Hall 17 Main Street
•Built in 1830's; currently houses 7 municipal departments; Meeting Hall for various boards,
commissions, public functions; 15 acres; 5,700 square feet
Town Hall: Property Condition Assessment
•Overall Property Facility Condition Rating of Poor= The aggregate of identified issues is 12%
of the total replacement costs.
•Immediate Repairs total $37,066
•Upkeep and maintenance for the next five years excluding immediate repairs with inflation
total $148,744
•Additional $3,092 for General ADA Improvements per Vertex.
Recommendation for Town Hall:
•Retain ownership of the building and perform the immediate repairs to the building to
maintain the integrity of the building.
•Incorporate the larger projects identified in the Vertex report into the five year capital plan
and incrementally increase the Facilifies operating budget so there is sufficient funds in the
budget to do annual maintenance projects.
•By retaining ownership, revenue from Cell Equipment will offset annual maintenance costs
and keeps town owned communications equipment at that location.
•Explore use of space for collaborative workspace or other community/non-profit groups
Ritter Building 960 Mass Ave
•Built around 1910 with 1963 addition; currently houses 5 town departments, State
Representalive Office, Friends of the Seniors Office, Storage, 2 meeting rooms for various
committees. 1.10 acres; 6,000 sq. feel office space.
Ritter Building: Property Condition Assessment
•Overall Property Facility Condition Rating of Poor= The aggregate of identified issues is 28%
of the total replacement costs.
===PAGE 12===
architecture it brings to town center.
•Look at ways to address parking by incorporating adjacent town properly on the old
Primary lot.
•Incorporate the larger projects identified in the Vertex report into the five year capital plan
and incrementally increase the Facilities operating budget so there is sufficient funds in the
budget to do annual maintenance projects.
•Explore lease of the space for collaborative workspace, farmers' cooperative or other use
that would benefit the community
TC Passios 1079 Mass Ave
•Builf in 1952; used for Districi offices, IT office space, ACE program, Special Services, Food
Manager, PACC, Gym used by various community groups and in process of renting kitchen
space.
•7 acres; approx. 56,000 sq. ft.
TC Passios: Property Condition Assessment
•Overall Property Facility Condition Rating of Poor= The aggregate of identified issues is 26%
of the total replacement costs.
•Immediate Repairs (excluding allowance for evaluation and abatement for hazardous
materials of $755,500) total $30,432
•Upkeep and maintenance for the next five years excluding immediate repairs with inflation
total $2,932,253
•Additional $7,153 for General ADA Improvements (Stripe spaces, convert urinals to lowered
height)
Recommendation for TC Passios
•Proceed with conceptual design of moving town offices from Town Hall, the Ritter Building,
and reserving space for the Veterans Officer, School Central Offices, the Cable Studio,
Community Space.
•By renovating the TC Passios for this purpose we will absorb the identified costs that are
needed to maintain and upkeep that building and we would get a fully accessible building
with updated HVAC, electrical, and mechanical systems.
•Would require authorization to borrow for final design and construction costs for long term
note.
===PAGE 13===
•Ritter: Retain town ownership of building to lease for farming cooperative or restaurant that
will retain the historic quality that adds character to town center and supports local business.
Would need to address parking requirements if change of use.
• TC Passios: Proceed with conceptual design plan to co-locate all town offices currently in
the Town Hall and Riffer Building and provide space for a cable studio, School Central
Offices, and storage. Explore use of other wing for community use and/or rental space for
quasi-municipal or school agencies.
• Economic Development opportunities with the Town Hall and Ritter Building by providing the
space for small business owners, craftsmen, artisans, etc. to use as a
"makerspace"/collaborative workspace. INVEST IN OUR LOCAL PEOPLE
Ms. Luck liked all of the recommendations but did not agree with demolishing the old Primary School until we
know what we are going to do with that land. Ms. Bertram agreed with all and thought everyone has the same
concept but we have to have a plan that the community can get behind because they are contingent upon each
other. If the community agrees then this Board can put forth the steps to achieve it. First we have to have
consensus on the plan. Ms. Luck added we would need an estimate of what it is going to cost. Mr. McQuaid
offered to take what was presented today and compose a graphic draft. Mr. Toale stated it was worth the effort
before presenting to the town. Ms. Bertram added the formation of an economic development committee could
help advance these concepts.
Mr. Toale reminded everyone this coming Saturday is the Annual Town Meeting. Election Day is May 19th
This Board meets again on May 8, 15 and 22.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Katey Adams, 45 Williams Drive, noted Article 26 on the town meeting warrant is a citizen's petition article
and the Board unanimously endorsed it. Just a couple of weeks ago, you did not endorse Mr. Passios citizens
petition stating you did not endorse citizens petitions. She moved on to the town building discussion tonight and
one component that is missing is the schools. When we talk about school land we need to think about future
school needs such as if the high school would need an addition. She stated she has worked on student safety and
security since she started getting involved in town government. Bringing a town campus into the school campus
could have serious unintended consequences and this needs to be addressed before permanently bringing
density into a space that belongs to the future of the schools.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, appreciated that the Town Manager has prioritized public safety needs and
that there is a plan to address the staffing deficit going forward. But she feels a low impact solution to a critical
public safety service when it becomes available would be a disservice to our residents to be so rigid that we
have to stick to our plans. She applauded Mr. Luck's work and creativity in addressing this need. She believed
when an idea like Mr. Luck's comes along this should be embraced. She felt there was a disconnect between the
town committees and the public and hoped this would be addressed
She asked Ms. Bertram if the other municipal buildings in other communities' properties were near active
schools. Ms. Bertram did not know but clarified the school gave the TC Passios Building to the Town.
===PAGE 14===
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 06 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
