===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced in anticipation of the Annual Town Election on Saturday, May 19, 2018, the Citizens
Party Caucus will be held on Monday, March 12, 2018 at the Turkey Hill Elementary School, 129 Northfield
Road at 7:00 P.M. Anyone interested in running for office should attend and if nominated, will be placed on the
ballot. Those who are not nominated that evening may pick up nomination papers from the Town Clerk's
Office.
Ms. Luck stated she was proud to be a Lunenburg representative at the Massachusetts Municipal Association
(MMA) Annual Meeting held last weekend in Boston. Three Selectmen attended as well as two elected board
members from other committees. The conference and workshops were very informative. Lunenburg is lucky to
have so many committed elected officials. All the presentations are available on the MMA website.
Mr. Ebersole stated he attended and a lot of state agencies were there. The Department of Environmental
Affairs was talking about China greatly reducing the purchase of recyclable materials which will eventually
create a higher cost for us to dispose of. He attended the Marijuana Law workshop and two workshops
addressing on social media policies.
Mr. Toale attended and represented the Town at the MMA Business meeting, the MMA Selectmen's
Association meeting and the MIIA Annual Business meeting. There was a lot of information there.
Katey Adams, 40 Williams Drive, wondered if the town could come up with a more immediate solution for
accessibility to meetings. Ms. Bertram noted this meeting room is the only place that meetings can be broadcast
Loxi Calmes, Superintendent of Schools and resident, wanted to give a big shout out to the DPW for the
exemplary job they did on this challenging weather day. She acknowledged their hard work keeping us all safe.
She also acknowledged all the citizens in town as well as those from beyond who joined them for Career Day
today at Lunenburg High School.
Ms. Bertram also noted the DPW has done a phenomenal job in the last few storms. She appreciated the DPW
Director for sharing updates on social media as it appeared they were being well received.
APPOINTMENTS
Meeting with School Building Committee Chairman and Superintendent to Sign Documents for the
Closeout of the MSBA MS/HS Project and BOS sign Final Payment Requisition
Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle and Lunenburg School Building Committee Chair, reported the committee
had its final meeting on January 10" at which we moved the budget revision and final invoice. He thanked all
the board members for their support, help and thoughtful questioning that assisted in bringing the project
through. The School Building Committee began its work almost six years ago. The total budget was
$72,975,321.00. We expended $68,106,475. The project came in four million dollars less than budgeted. MSBA
eventually decides what is allowed to be reimbursed to the town. The town share will be around $38,809,377.
He thanked the members of the School Building Committee and Ms. Calmes, the administrators and faculty. He
thanked the School Committee and taxpayers for all their support.
===PAGE 2===
something that was identified in advance, the tact that the warranty expired does not mean that we still don't
have a claim. The Board requested Facilities Director Londa come in and provide more detail.
Finance Director Karen Brochu presented a summary of Middle/High school construction project revenues and
expenditures. The total cost was $68,106,475. MSBA has reimbursed $32,233,840 to date. Once we reach the
95% threshold, MSBA withholds the rest of the funding until they audit the project. From the last requistion we
submitted, they owe us a balance of $241,296. The anticipated reimbursement from the final payment of
$172,455.23 that you are withholding and the one that was paid prior, the anticipated MSBA reimbursement is
$167,098. Once we have received everything from MSBA the total received will be $32,642,234. The total
local share expended will be $35,464,241. To date with what we have issued in bonds and have applied toward
the project from bond premiums and a prior year warrant article is $33,809,377, leaving a final balance to bond
at $1,654,863. This depends on what happens with the MSBA when they go through the whole audit process.
The MSBA audit will take six months. We have the $2,100,000 bond anticipation note to carry us through to
the end of the project and the audit. Our financial advisor is projecting 4% interest rates on long term bonds.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Complete Streets:
Information related to the Complete Streets program is now up on the town website under Public Notices. This
includes the Complete Streets Policy adopted in April 2017, the meeting minutes of December 5th with town
officials, the PowerPoint presentation of Woodard & Curran from the January 9th workshop on Complete
Streets and the YouTube video of that meeting. We encourage people to read the materials and that a survey is
in the process of being developed by the Town's consultant Woodard & Curran that will be made available
through various means, including online and hard copies.
Town Facilities:
Public Forums: Reminder that the date for the Public Forum with the seniors at Eagle House will be on
February 5th at 10:00 a.m. The snow date for this event is on February 26.
Property Condition Assessments:
The engineering firm who was hired to perform the property condition assessments will be coming to the
Selectmen's February 6th meeting at 7 pm. The Capital Planning Committee and the Finance Committee will be
invited to attend as well. The firm will have completed a review of the Town Hall, the Old Primary, the Brooks
House, TC Passios, and the Ritter Building. The property condition assessments for the Eagle House and
Turkey Hill will come at a later date once those assessments and written assessments are performed.
Town Counsel Office Hours:
Town Counsel office hours for February will be February 13th from 3:00 -7:00 pm and in March will be March
13th from 9:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Annual Town Manager Performance Evaluation
Mr. Toale reported the Town Manager performance is evaluated annually according to her contract.
Composite Town Manager Performance Evaluation - January 23, 2018, prepared by Jamie Toale, Chair
Board of Selectmen from input by Selectmen Toale, Ebersole, Bertram, Luck and McQuaid
===PAGE 3===
anscuss ten input and trade teedback. The town manager has diso prepared a sell-evaluauon against le
same 10 performance standards that will be used to plan development and set goals for the coming year.
Performance Standards & Core Responsibilities
1. Individual Characteristics - most of the Board felt that Heather's sound judgement, professional
attitude and demeanor and ability to create positive working relationships with department heads,
employees and citizens exceeded expectations. Although one comment suggested longer lead time
notifications for workshops and increased delegation, positive input centered around her leadership at
the Special Town Meeting and innovative solutions to various issues including:
a. Adoption of "Complete Streets"
b. Comprehensive Permitting System
c. TC Passios short term re-use
Heather's calm and informative manner was also cited as a positive.
2. Problem Solving /Decision Making - Heather has handled all issues that have come her way head-on.
Town Hall facility issues, grant opportunities, updating policies and contract negotiations have been
dealt with. She has continually exceeded expectations with innovative solutions showing creativity in
obtaining funding and using various local resources to assist with issues/concerns including:
a. Obtaining dedicated local assistance grant (DLTA) funds through MRPC
b. Implementation of Town Counsel office hours to improve communication and reduce legal
expenses
c. Working with vendor to improve Town website and overall communications
d. Various programs to increase citizen input
e. Driving participation in "Community Compact" through award
f. Town Hall mold abatement and handling of records.
Heather handled the situation of workplace safety and air quality with great speed and kept the Town
Hall running.
3. Professional Skills and Knowledge - Heather clearly is knowledgeable in the practice of local
government. What is particularly impressive is how quickly she was able to understand the nuances of
local traditions, issues, and relationships. She has earned the respect of her staff with her knowledge and
she is a real asset to the BOS. Her assistance in the selection and integration of the new Town Counsel
was outstanding. Heather has initiated Town Manager Reports which she prepares for each BOS
meeting to provide the Board with a concise snapshot of current issues. Heather Exceeds Expectations in
her ability to listen to various viewpoints and exchange information in a way that demonstrates respect
even if she may have a different perspective. Heather deals with complex problems of our Town
===PAGE 4===
being discussed rather than disputes regarding facts. The Town Manager has taken action to improve
relationships between the Board and various members of the community through public outreach.
Although one board member sees a Need for Improvement as a result of a department/committee
dispute, the remainder of the Board assesses this area as Exceeding Expectations based on the Town
Manager's leadership role in cross department team-building, involving the business community in
Economic Development and driving the department Capital Planning process.
5. Staff Effectiveness - While all the Selectmen rated this category as at least Meeting Expectations, this
remains an area where the Board has limited visibility but "high profile" view into the actual operations
of the departments. It appears that Heather has integrated with the existing staff and is leading them
toward continuous improvement and efficiency. She has instituted monthly department head meetings.
In the Board's role as a policy setting body and the Town Manager's responsibility in "operations,"
ways should be found to increase visibility and allow for Board support without interfering with day-to-
day performance.
6. Supervisory Oversight and Direction - Developing opportunities for the Board to have increased
visibility into staff performance and finding ways for the Board to support initiatives for staff continuous
improvement should be an area of concentration in the future. Board comments in this category did not
differentiate from the previous category on Staff Effectiveness and we should work on discussing how
to differentiate the two categories or combine them going forward.
7. Community and Public Relations - Heather's manner is one of respect to the public and assumes that
they deserve good service and information to address their concerns. The public outreach efforts have
been great to watch and involve some people who do not normally participate in town government.
Heather has driven several initiatives to get the community more involved in Town Government.
Charrettes and other community input meetings have been held in areas of Building ReUse, Economic
Development and Complete Streets. Communication through an improved Town internet site and social
media presence is beginning to catch on. This area rated Exceeds Expectations by the Board has a
potential for high impact and positive results.
8. Fiscal Management - Heather was able to assimilate into the budget and Town Meeting fiscal
processes early in her tenure as Town Manager. She will play a more robust role in the creation and
debate of this year's financial process. She has assumed the role of Town "procurement officer"
seamlessly and the Board is confident in her day-to-day financial decisions. Addressing long-term
capital (and implementing an automated long term capital tracking system) preventative maintenance
===PAGE 5===
to Board questions and often provides more detail than expected. She handles the expectations of a
diverse board and provides results that represent the body as a whole.
10. Reporting - Again, Heather Exceeded Expectations of the Board in the area of reporting. She meets
with the BOS Chair weekly to review and prepare the meeting agenda. Heather also prepares BOS
meeting packets for IPad, the Town Manager Update as well as relevant documents for weekly
meetings. She distributes text messages as appropriate to insure the Board is informed. Heather's reports
to the public on budgets, Town Meeting articles and proposals have been complete and accurate.
Heather also emails or texts the board in emergency situations 24/7.
OVERALL RATING - Exceeds Expectations
The Town Manager meets all and exceeds most of the Board expectations on the 10 Performance Standards and
Core Responsibilities for the period 1/17/17 through 1/1/18.
Ms. Luck requested the above overall rating wording meets all and exceeds "most of the Board" to be changed
to "a majority of the Board's."
Motion:R. Ebersole
To accept the composite Town Manager Performance Evaluation as read and amended
2"d: P. Bertram
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale will make the changes and present for signatures at the next meeting. There will be an Executive
Session following the next Board meeting to discuss any salary action.
2. February Workshop
Ms. Lemieux reported she and Chairman Toale discussed holding an agenda planning workshop in February
working from the compiled list of "to do" agenda items. Half of the February 13 meeting will be used for
regular business and the other for the agenda workshop.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
Mr. Ebersole thanked Executive Assistant Peterson for her appropriate minutes recording and responsiveness.
The Board approved minutes of December 19, 2017 and January 2, 2018. They signed an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $439,019.64, an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $3,000; a payroll warrant
in the amount of $743,605.69 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $161,409.03.
Action Items:
Ms. Luck stated the state is looking to change zoning approval (via House Bill #4075) at town meetings from a
2/3°° vote to 50% majority. She hoped this board would take a position on this and share it with our legislators.
Ms. Luck attended a social media workshop at MMA and it was recommended to establish a town social media
policy for employees as well as appointed and elected committee members and to distribute it annually and
have them sign an acknowledgement of receipt. Ms. Lemieux noted a social media policy was approved last fall
===PAGE 6===
meets on the t
Ms. Bertram reported Cable Advisory Committee and the MPO are both meeting tomorrow. Cable Advisory is
continuing to negotiate with Comcast. We are hoping we have something for this board soon. Conservation
Commission canceled their last meeting due to snow. They meet again on February 7"
. On January 30th
Lunenburg will be hosting the first subregion community only meeting at Eagle House at 7:00 p.m. The MRPC
encourages all subregion communities to attend as this will provide members with an opportunity to discuss
transportation issues as well as interact with others from our subregion. Subregion 3 consists of Lunenburg,
Shirley, Ayer and Harvard. It's a good opportunity to meet one on one with MRPC staff. She hoped board
members, the DPW Director and/or Town Manager Lemieux would attend. She thanked COA Director Sue
Doherty for accommodating them.
Mr. Ebersole reported the Town Charter Review Committee will be meeting with Ms. Lemieux on the 24" to
review various topics that fall under her jurisdiction.
Mr. Toale reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule of this Board. On January 25th
", Ms. Lemieux will present
the Five Year Financial Forecast and the Capital Planning report at the Finance Committee meeting. This Board
meets again on February 6"
• The February 13 meeting will be half regular business and half workshop.
Thursday, February 15 is the Finance Committee meeting where Town Manager will present the FY19 budget
presentation. We meet on February 20"h and the 22nd is another Finance Committee meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, questioned as a sponsor of an amendment to an article at the Special Town
Meeting last November, why Turkey Hill Elementary School and Eagle House have not been added to the list
of the property condition assessments. Ms. Lemieux reported the engineers have not been out to do the two
building assessments due to their staff scheduling constraints.
Ms. Luck noted Representative Jennifer Benson is holding a regional economic development forum at the Bull
Run in Shirley on Friday, January 26 from 1:30-3:30 p.m.
Motion: P. Bertram
To adjourn the meeting at 8:13 p.m.
2"d: R.Ebersole
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Clairem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
