===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Robert Ebersole, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Member;
Damon McQuaid, Member; Katey Adams, Member
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Land Use Director Adam Burney, Building
Commissioner Garry Rhodes, Dennis Mannone, Parks Commissioner; Karin Menard, Parks
Commissioner
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale stated in accordance with the
requirements of Open Meeting Law the meeting was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams reported she attended a Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) Americans
Disability Act (ADA) Transitions Plan meeting and they are encouraging towns to look at three criteria
on how to be more ADA compliant in open and recreation spaces, public rights of way and buildings.
Speaking as a citizen and Selectman, she has inquired about holding these meetings in a facility that is
more ADA compliant like the collaborative classrooms at the Middle/High school. She encouraged the
Board to not only look at long-term solutions but to use what we currently have at no additional cost.
Ms. Adams referred to Article 22 of the May 5, 2018 Town Meeting warrant, regarding the conveyance
of real property. She requested to discuss that topic going forward in open session as she saw no
detrimental effect doing so.
Ms. Luck announced the Lion's Club Pancake breakfast is tomorrow morning at the Eagle House Senior
Center from 8:00 - 10:30 a.m. The cost is $2.00 per person.
Ms. Luck attended the grand opening of the Lunenburg Pollinator Habitat located at 123 Hollis Road on
Sunday morning. There are labeled plants that attract pollinators along the path. There is an attractive
butterfly sign on the site and she encouraged everyone to take a walk there.
Judit Ernst, 568 Flat Hill Road, spoke about banning plastic shopping bags. She submitted a citizen's
petition for a Special Town Meeting warrant article addressing the ban.
Marilyn Talley, 172 Peninsula Drive and Carolyn Finch, School Nurse, spoke about the Stillman
Country Fair on September 8 and offered a table to the Selectmen for volunteer solicitation for town
committees. This year funds from the fair will partially fund a new initiative, William James College
Interface Referral Services, through the Wellness Advisory Committee for the schools. It is a referral
service for mental health services. This is a service we can purchase for the entire town not just the
school district. Based on information provided by the caller, it matches them to a mental health service
provider from their database, usually within two weeks.
APPOINTMENTS
Public Hearing-Golden Pyramids, Inc d/b/a Sean Patrick's, 494 Electric Avenue, Transter of
Alcohol License & Change of Manager; Common Victualer & Weekday Entertainment License
Mr. Toale read the notice aloud:
===PAGE 2===
rayez mala, president, brect dna major stockholder of colden tyramias, me. ne is aiso te
proposed manager on record for the business. Also present was current owner of Sean Patrick's, Sean
Flanagan. Mr. Matta is a resident of Leominster and is TIPS certified and Crowd Control Certified. His
intent is to be the full-time manager (60 hour per week) of the premises. The premises and the operation
of the premises and hours of operation will remain the same. The intent is to retain the current
employees also. Mr. Toale asked if there was anyone present who would like to speak for or against this
application. There was none.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the alcohol license transfer for Golden Pyramids, Inc. d/b/a Sean Patrick's as
described in the notice and the application
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R.Ebersole
2ad: D. McQuaid
To approve the Common Victualer and Weekday Entertainment license as submitted
Vote: All in Favor
Public Hearing -Settlers Crossing Enterprises, Inc,. d/b/a Settlers Pub, License #00045-GP-0636,
994 Northfield Road for Transfer of License
Mr. Toale read the notice aloud:
The Lunenburg Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on Tuesday, August 7, 2018 at 7:10 p.m. at Town
Hall, 17 Main Street, 2d Floor, Lunenburg, MA on the application submitted by Settlers Crossing Enterprises,
Inc. d/b/a Settlers Pub, for Transfer of License (License # 00045-P-0636) located at 994 Northfield Road,
Lunenburg, MA. The premises are described as a one-story golf clubhouse with an outside patio and the first six
holes of the golf course.
Donald Lyons and Laura Gustus presented on the application. Mr. Toale asked if there was anyone
present who would like to speak for or against this application. There was none.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the transfer of license and the change from seasonal to annual class as submitted
Vote: All in Favor
Common Victualer, Weekday Entertainment, Jukebox & Auto Amusement License for A.A.G.
d/b/a Kindred Spirits, 324 Electric Avenue, Unit #4
Co-Owner/Manager Rebecca Andrews-Grifoni and co-owner Jill Andrews presented for the application.
Mr. Toale asked if there was anyone present who would like to speak for or against this application.
There was none.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2'd: D. McQuaid
To approve the Common Victualer, Weekday Entertainment, Jukebox & Auto Amusement
License for A.A.G. d/b/a Kindred Spirits as submitted
Vote: All in Favor
Interview Candidates and Vote to Appoint to Parks Commission with Parks Commissioners - term
to expire at next annual election
===PAGE 3===
Parks Commissioners Menard and Mannone called their meeting to order. Susanna Jewell, 985
porks argus be a good fit for her. She holds a landscaper architecture d recreated a hand andyc ape e
company. She stated she understands the importance of open space and recreational land; they are just as
important as our public buildings. Mr. Ebersole asked if she saw any challenges or opportunities for the
parks in town. She replied just going to Lake Whalom this week, parking could be addressed over there.
Mr. Toale asked her if she intended to run for election next year. She stated yes.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he has been an elected official going on eight years. He has been
very involved in other committees as well as the one he serves on. He has spent the last two years
attending Parks Commission meetings getting to know how the Commissioners felt about the needs of
the town. He has found there has been a shift in interest in other types of sports other than baseball and
they are starting to address those needs. He has some ideas as well as he knows all the areas of town and
what has potential for expansion or transition. In his professional life he has been in the manufacturing
field in either middle management or management; working with developing budgets, taking care of
structures and the physical plants, tracking maintenance needs and soliciting quotes for work. He sees
the need in town for municipal space for residents. We have transformed almost all of our open parks
into sports venues and there is a need for open space for just park area.
Mr. Ebersole asked other than the two areas you have talked about do you see any challenges or
opportunities for the parks in town? Mr. Passios replied keeping a closer eye on the money budgeted for
Parks and making sure the commission comes up with appropriate and affordable projects that improve
our parks and continuing to work on their policies and procedures. Mr. Ebersole asked since he was
elected would he be resigning from the Board of Health (BOH) if elected next year.
Mr. Passios stated Town counsel informed him because this is an appointed until elected position, he
could remain on the BOH until the next election. If someone wants to come forward and serve on the
BOH, he would resign. If necessary, he would resign tonight and definitely run in May. Parks
Commissioner Menard reported they have met with both candidates prior to tonight. They are both
equally qualified.
Mr. Toale asked for a nomination for appointment to the Parks Commission. Ms. Luck nominated
Susanna Jewell for the position of Parks Commissioner. Ms. Adams seconded it. Mr. McQuaid
nominated Dave Passios for Parks Commissioner. Ms. Menard seconded it.
Mr. Toale called for a vote in favor of appointing Susanna Jewell. Ms. Menard- nay, Mr. Mannone-aye,
Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid- nay, Mr. Ebersole-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Total in favor- 5, 2 against. Mr. Toale announced Ms. Jewell was appointed to Parks Commission.
He thanked both applicants for their interest. The Parks Commission adjourned their meeting.
Resignation from Zoning Board of Appeals - Robert Cadle effective July 23, 2018
Motion: R.Ebersole
To accept the resignation of Robert Cadle
2n°: D. McQuaid
===PAGE 4===
the cua
To appoint Dave Blatt to the Zoning Board of Appeals with a term to expire June 30, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
Appointment of ZBA Associate Member - term to expire June 30. 2021
Patrick Callahan, 24 Beal St., stated he thought the Associate position was a good start for himself as
Mr. Blatt described. He has been in the trade since 2003 and he knows his way around building and plot
plans. He was excited to try out the position. Ms. Luck asked if he ever attended any meetings. He stated
no but he done some reading on the subject. He has met with Chairman Gravelle and he seemed like a
nice guy to work with. Ms. Luck asked if he would attend every meeting. Mr. Callahan stated he would.
Mr. Ebersole asked if an Associate could fill in if there wasn't a quorum. Mr. Callahan stated that was
how he understood it. Mr. McQuaid thanked him for volunteering.
Motion: REbersole
2nd: D. McQuaid
To appoint Patrick Callahan as ZBA Associate with a term to expire June 30, 2021
Ms. Adams recused herself stating Mr. Callahan is her brother in law.
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Adams)
2n°: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: R.Ebersole
To appoint John Lynch as Clockwinder with a term to expire June 30, 2019
Earth Removal Permits Renewals/Updates
Building Commissioner Garry Rhodes stated we currently have two businesses who have earth removal
permits in town: PJ Keating and Powell Sand and Gravel. There was one permit issued to Powell Sand
& Gravel, (#54 located at 151 Leominster-Shirley Road) that the Board did not renew last year, with the
stipulation that they provide a closure plan. He believed their engineer was here to talk about that plan.
One issue discovered when we met was that they had exceeded the permitted area onto adjoining
property and there are not permits for that portion.
The second permit (#32) is located to the rear of Goodrich Street containing approximately 16 acres.
The Board of Selectmen had requested Powell provide a closure plan for the 15 acres where material has
been removed. There is about an acre of land remaining that has material on it. As of this date they have
not provided a closure plan. They have just requested the permit be renewed. Mr. Rhodes recommended
the Board consider whether the permit should be renewed at all. Maybe it is time to order a closure plan
and provide a time limit for it to happen.
In regards to PJ Keating, they have about 700 acres of earth removal permits. When the Board last met,
there were several condiitons placed on the permits. The first was to provide a plan showing the location
of all their earth removal permits. One of the problems he had researching it was that it was impossible
to know where each one was. They aren't always tied to parcels. Some parcels had multiple permits on
them. There weren't any meets and bounds. One of the things they were going to do was provide a
consolidation plan of them. He believed they were going to provide you a plan tonight and it was his
===PAGE 5===
WALLAY IN
ittallyment in that area and there are houses directly adjacent to where the removal would take place
was appropriate. I found out today Keating came in and now wants to renew the permits.
The Board should consider whether it is appropriate but I will tell you that they haven't provided any
engineering to support any of the status of the permits. If I had been aware of their changing their minds
before I wrote my recommendation, I would have said not to renew multiple permits because they were
required to provide a plan. They haven't provided anything. All they want is renewals. He reiterated
suggesting to not renew the two additional permits that they said they weren't going to and the Board
look at possibly other locations where the permits not be renewed because we don't know how much
material has been removed and how close to groundwater they are. I can tell you one of the permits I am
aware of, they are approximately 30 feet below the elevation that the Board approved. They are already
in violation of those permits. The Board may want to consider a more tougher approach with them.
Mr. Toale stated our plan was to do regular renewals of permits tonight and to hold a workshop next
week on any policy issues that we need to discuss.
Ms. Luck asked for clarification on the two permits that Rhodes suggested not be renewed; one is at
their offices and the other near Lake Shirley? Mr. Rhodes stated yes, where the offices are located there
is a parking lot and landscaping. It make no sense to me that there is earth that needs to be removed
there.
The other one is so close to residential properties that I feel that would be detrimental to the residents.
These permits were issued around sixty years ago and Lunenburg was much different sixty years ago.
There were no houses in these locations. I don't know if the conditions on the permit would protect the
people living there. Ms. Luck asked about one spot where they are thirty feet below, is that a different
one? Mr. Rhodes stated this one is adjacent to the Lancaster town line. I think its reasonable for them to
remove material from there but what this to me reflects is it appears to me is that Keating has not
necessarily always reviewed their permits and tried to keep up with them. I don't know what conditions
have been met or not met. At this point they have made no attempt to provide an engineering report.
Mr. Ebersole read aloud Mr. Rhodes memo stating the Board renewed all permits through August 31,
2018 on the condition "they work with the Building Commissioner to review all the permits and make
adjustments as appropriate by combining permits and parcels; that they provide a full engineering report
requested by the Commissioner as well as a closure plan for all parcels that will no longer be utilized for
earth removal." Mr. Rhodes indicated the Keating earth removal permit plan that brings us closer to
identifying the permits to the properties. He believed they have clearly complied with that component.
Mr. Ebersole noted Mr. Rhodes recommendation to extend the permits through December 31" to allow
them to submit engineered plans and any other information needed. This memo was written before P J
Keating decided to reapply for permits #28 and #29. Mr. Ebersole questioned if Mr Rhodes was in
agreement on extending all the other permits other than #28 and #29, until December 31st
Ms. Luck asked weren't they supposed to have engineering reports now? Why haven't they provdied
them? Mr. Rhodes stated you can ask them tonight; they did not give me a very good reason. What we
===PAGE 6===
we received in December that was a result of the November 21, 2017 Board meeting. There were four
bullet points on it;
•
All earth removal permits be renewed until August 31, 2018 with stipulations,
• An engineering report/plan shall be submitted to the Board of Selectmen by P. J. Keating for each permit
site which shall include any material remaining to be removed and a closure plan for each site,
When we met with Commissioner Rhodes, we had not had that completed yet. What I would like to
submit tonight is an engineered report from S J Mullaney Engineering Inc., that identifies each lot, its
current use and its proposed use.
Mr. Ebersole noted since this material is new we should not act on it tonight and give time to Mr.
Rhodes to work on also. Ms. Luck asked who are you leasing the mineral rights from? Mr. Langlois
replied the Keating Family Trust. Ms. Luck noted you don't lease rights from the Trust on permit #28.
So that doesn't fall under what you just said. Is that correct? Mr. Langlois stated yes. Mr. Ebersole asked
about the third and fourth bullet points in the letter:
• All earth removal permits will be identified by a map and parcel number,
Mr. Langlois pointed to the color-coded map and said that is what we submitted there. Last year at this
time, we did not know exactly where some of these were, so we put some effort into doing that.
•
Wherever there are adjacent parcels, those sites shall be merged into one permit.
Again, we reviewed that but PJ Keating is not the landowner on some of these permits so it is hard for
us to distinguish which one should be merged or not. So at this point we would like them to remain as
originally permitted
Motion: R.Ebersole
2"d: D. McQuaid
To move this agenda item to a future meeting in August with consideration of review by the
Building Commissioner of what was submitted tonight, policy discussions regarding the two
properties that were raised by the Building Commissioner, as well as the policy of the property
owner versus the permit holder
Discussion: Ms. Luck requested an opinion from Town Counsel. The Board concurred.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale stated this would be continued until the August 21 meeting. Mr. Langlois stated PJ Keating
is the holder of the permits, they are in their name because we lease the land for the mineral rights. So in
theory we are the one requesting the permits. Secondly, if there are recommendations from the Board,
that we receive those is writing so we can react to them as we did from the December 2017 letter.
Mr. Langlois stated he had a conflict with the August 21" date, could there be a different night? The
Board could not provide an answer at this time. Mr. Ebersole stated we will work with you, we just need
to give the Building Commissioner enough time to review this new information and consult with Town
Counsel.
Mr. Rhodes moved on to the Powell Sand & Gravel earth removal permit. He reported last year one of
their permits (#54) located on 151 Leominster -Shirley Road was not renewed and a closure plan was
requested. When I met with the engineer on their closure plan, I discovered they had actually expanded
===PAGE 7===
The board has issued a permit that is discretionary and placed conditions on it and those conditions
should be maintained no matter what.
Mr. Ebersole asked does the closure plan for permit #54 cover the area that was not subject to the permit
or does it only cover the original permit area? Mr. Rhodes deferred the question to Powell's engineer.
Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, stated this is the closure plan for 151 Leominster-Shirley Road
He indicated the orange area on the closure plan as where the earth was removed. Back in 2011, there
was a permit obtained for a garage and while the construction was happening they obtained an additional
parcel, so what was previously proposed was not constructed. This plan only covers the area that was in
the earth removal permit; this does not show the additional acreage that they have expanded on to. This
plan shows the as-built grades as it stands today. The green is all the vegetation and the orange is the
current active gravel yard. Everything inside the orange area drains to the middle and is contained on
site. Powell would like to close out that earth removal permit and we are working right now with
surveyors. Hopefully by the end of August, beginning of September we will be submitting a new plan
for the manufacturing yard for all the materials that they process and sell. That would be the continued
use in the future. Work that should not have been performed without a permit was, but we are trying to
alleviate the situation with proper permitting. There is no more removal going on now, just processing.
Everything stated in the bylaw required for closure is on this plan.
Mr. Ebersole asked the reason the Planning Board is involved is because Powell was issued a Special
Permit site plan? Mr. Marchetti confirmed yes, that was back in 2011: Ms. Luck asked when did they
stop removing from the unpermitted area. Mr. Marchetti did not know but believed it was years ago.
It is currently concrete, loam and asphalt stockpiles.
Mr. Ebersole asked when are you going to the Planning Board for the amended Special Permit? Mr.
Marchetti stated he started working on the closure plan when he discovered the gap between property
lines. This is being worked on now. Mr. Ebersole asked when you go back to the Planning Board will
the closure plan change? Mr. Marchetti stated no. We should receive a supplemental survey next week
on the adjacent 30 acres for the manufacturing part which will show existing conditions.
Mr. Marchetti does not have a physical plan for Goodrich Street (#32). He believed the Goodrich Street
permit was obtained in the 1970s by Mr. Powell. It is composed of around 16 acres. Right now it's
where the Powell's horse farm is located. There is about an acre of land left that he could still remove
earth from and they keep it open because they do feed from it annually. They do not want to close that
plan because they still use it. The majority of that whole area is covered in grass. If there is something
we need to do to update it; if we met with Mr. Rhodes out there, we could look at the active portion
being mined and come up with a plan. Mr. Ebersole reminded that when we reviewed the permit last
year we did so on the condition you provide a closure plan on the areas where the earth removal has
been completed. So we need that. Mr. Marchetti stated Steve Powell does not want to do that due to the
activity needed to access the remaining portion. Mr. Ebersole requested a plan detailing why you don't
want to close the permit. Mr. Marchetti repeated we really can't provide a closure plan and we need to
meet out there with the Building Commissioner.
===PAGE 8===
...
to be reviewed.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To approve the closure plan for Permit #54 as submitted
2ad: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
The Board requested more information on permit #32.
Mr. Toale asked if anyone from The Bootlegger was present. Lance Dellogono, co-partner, reported they
are relaunching and are in the process of rehiring staff and their timeframe is looking like 6-8 weeks out.
Motion: R.Ebersole
2nd: D. McQuaid
To extend the license (closing) of The Bootlegger until October 31, 2018
Discussion: Mr. Toale stated if Mr. Dellogono returned before October 31s' he would like to see some
details in writing like deadlines and milestones etc. Mr. Dellegono agreed.
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Summer Street Road Reconstruction Project Update: The contractor, Baltazar, is continuing their
drainage work on the Fitchburg end of the project. Given the depth of some of these structures, and the
utility conflicts encountered, the work has been going slow. They have a crew wrapping up another
project in August and will be able to bring the second crew to this project to speed things up.
Groundbreaking Ceremony for the Summer Street Road Reconstruction Project: After reaching
out to the Governor's Office to find out the Governor and Lieutenant Governor's availability to attend a
groundbreaking ceremony for the Summer Street Road Reconstruction Project, the Governor's Office
responded that Governor Baker's schedule was too hectic but Lieutenant Governor Polito would be
available. I have been working with MassDOT about the logistics for an event and contacting the
necessary public officials and outreach. I'm in the process of working with the Lieutenant Governor's
Office on a date that will attempt to accommodate everyone's schedule as best as possible, but the date
will be driven by the availability of the Lieutenant Governor. More information will be sent out by
tomorrow.
Business-Town Partnership Update (TM Goal #1 and #3): There will be a Business-Town
Partnership meeting on Monday, August 13th at 5 p.m. at Bad Larry's Bar & Grill. Montachusett
Regional Planning Commission's Principal Planner Karen Chapman, Land Use Director Adam Burney,
and I will review a draft business brochure with the Lunenburg Business Association as part of the
District Local Technical Assistance funding we received to create an electronic brochure. In related
news, there will be a Quad-Town Mixer on Wednesday, September 19th from 5:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m. at
The White Farm in Townsend being put on by the Townsend Business Association. The event is a mixer
for businesses from Townsend, Pepperell, Groton, and Lunenburg.
===PAGE 9===
weathervane had blown off the roof onto the sidewalk in front of the Town Hall and had been brought to
sement. Our oftice sent an emaought back to the Town Hall and placed on top of the large safe in th
about the whereabouts of the weathervane and a few town employees confirmed it had been last seen on
top of the large safe in the Town Hall basement this past spring. The individuals that were part of the
removal of the records in the basement were included on the email that went out and the company who
performed the mold remediation has been asked as well. The Historical Commission was contacted to
request assistance with finding a replacement and our insurance company has been contacted about
filing a property loss claim.
Skateboard Park Update: The topographical survey and soil testing done at the end of June will be
used to prepare a design that should be done by September. Once an initial design is complete, the
Skateboard Park Committee will go back before the Parks Commission to seek endorsement of the
design, and once approved by the Parks Commission it will come for final approval by the Board of
Selectmen. The Parks Commission also asked the Skateboard Park Committee to do additional research
of annual maintenance costs of skateboard parks in similarly sized communities that would include labor
costs spent on landscaping and other associated costs. The Skateboard Park Committee states they
believe they will be ready to break ground by March. As of July 26th they had raised $13,000 and had a
fundraiser on July 28th. They have a goal of raising $100,000 in cash and the additional project costs, an
estimated $150,000, would be in-kind donations of labor, materials, and equipment.
ADA Self-Evaluation and Transition Plan/MA Office on Disability Grants (TM Goal #2):
I attended an ADA Transition Plan meeting at Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC)
on July 26th to hear about the possibility of MRPC planning services that could assist communities to
develop their ADA Transition Plans. At the time of the meeting an ADA Self-Evaluation and Transition
Plan had not been found, but subsequent to that meeting I found that the Town had performed a self-
evaluation and written transition plan for municipal and school buildings in 2009. This plan was not on
file at the Massachusetts Office on Disability, which is the agency that promotes full and equal
participation of people with disabilities through training to employers, advocacy, and resources such as
the Municipal ADA Improvement Grant Program that offers planning grants to create or update a Self-
Evaluation or Transition Plan and project grants of up to $250,000 to remove barriers and create and
improve accessible features and access for persons with disabilities. MRPC will be providing a scope of
work and project cost for interested communities to use when applying for the Planning Grant, which I
will be applying for to update our 2009 Transition Plan. Even though our Transition Plan is outdated, we
are eligible to apply for a Project Grant and I have a call into the Assistant Director of Community
Services at MA Office on Disability to find out the scope of eligible projects that we could apply for.
Both grants are due by October 1st. In the meantime, I have asked the Land Use Director to have the
Building Inspector begin the Self- Evaluation on the municipal buildings and have asked the School
===PAGE 10===
Meetings and other announcements:
• Town Counsel Office Hours for August: Town Counsel Office hours on August 28*; 2 - 6 p.m.
• Regional Dispatch Meeting: I attended a meeting with the State 911 Director and the Bolton Town
Administrator today to discuss additional state funding for the center.
• Finance Committee Meeting: I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on Thursday,
August 9th
Ms. Luck asked what does the Skate Park Committee need to have in hand before they are able to break
ground? Ms. Lemieux believed once they reach the $100,000 goal. Ms. Luck asked where does the
Town get assurance that the $150,000 in-kind donations are available? Ms. Lemieux stated that was a
good question and she would have to follow up with the committee. She stated they did approach many
organizations and got assurances that they would receive in-kind donations. They will be coming back to
this Board in the fall with an update. Ms. Luck asked what is the plan for covering the annual
maintenance. Ms. Lemieux stated it was discussed at the Parks Commission meeting that any excess
funds would be placed in an account for any future expenses. Parks Commissioner Menard reported the
Skate Park Committee reassured them that there was no maintenance, but we gave them some
homework to ask questions of other similar-sized towns with skate parks. The DPW Director was
concerned about graffiti and trash. She expected them to come back with answers to those questions.
Further discussion ensued about long-term maintenance.
Ms. Adams in regards to ADA compliance requested a future agenda item be a discussion considering
holding public meetings.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Goals
a. Town Assets
1. Present & Future Maintenance & Capital Replacement of All Town Assets
2. Adopt an Action Plan for Activities During FY19, dealing with the "Five Buildings"
b. Improve Public Satisfaction through Community Involvement and Public Outreach
c. Increase Alignment with Committees Appointed by the Board of Selectmen
2. Discussion on liaison appointments
As part of the third goal (see c. above), Mr. Toale intends to attend the next Personnel Committee
meeting to try to engage them in helping with onboarding, recruiting, training, etc., for Board-appointed
committees. He recommended holding off the liaison discussion of appointed boards until we bring
dearpointed
back all of our goal-related increased alignment with appointed committees by this board. He believed
they need to address liaisons to elected boards. He noted the memo in the Correspondence from the
Sewer Commission that requests we discontinue our liaison with them. Mr. Ebersole stated he sees this
as a success of the Town Manager as she has been actively in communication with their Chair, the
Business Manager and the Sewer Commission and has attended several of their meetings. Mr. Toale
===PAGE 11===
elected boards, nor any responsibility to oversee them. On a day-to-day basis we should be staying out
of their business unless they want help with something. Ms. Luck did not see a liaison as being in their
business; the School Department is responsible for 70% of the Town's budget. We need to be apprised
of what is happening on the School Committee. Mr. Toale stated that is why they have televised
meetings. Mr. McQuaid stated when it comes to other elected boards, he did not think we need to be
apprised more than any other citizen in town because we are just another citizen and they are the elected
board. Ms. Luck disagreed. Ms. Adams stated as a citizen she appreciated the committee reports.
Mr. Ebersole asked how do we determine what is important to bring back here from any of the elected
board meetings? He did note the new website will allow people to subscribe to a particular committee
for notifications of agendas and minutes. That may change how we report as a liaison. A future goal may
be to have a bylaw requiring every town committeee meeting to be televised. Further discussion will be
needed.
Mr. Toale stated the office got a letter back from MMPO and he will be representing Lunenburg and
needs to choose a designee if he can't attend a meeting. He will be working with Town Manager on
determining who that would be.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed Minutes of July 17 and July 24, 2018. Mr. Toale noted the Supreme Judicial Court has
issued a decision on Open Meeting Law compliance, that a communication, if it includes an opinion,
from one board member to all the other board members, is considered an Open Meeting Law violation.
He suggested going forward, if you want to make an amendment to the minutes, you will need to do it at
an open meeting, unless it's a typographical error.
Mr. Toale announced at the July 24 meeting, the Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $192,219.63; a payroll warrant in the amount of $620,581.64 and a payroll deductions
warrant in the amount of $665,935.38.
The Board also signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $336,518.01, a payroll warrant in the
amount of $640.040.95 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $561,905.53. The Fiscal Year
2019 151 Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $7,252.80 was signed. A thank you letter to Robert
Cadle for serving on the Zoning Board of Appeals was signed.
Action Items: Mr. Toale announced he would not be attending the Stillman Fair this year and if
another board member wanted to set up the volunteer booth, they were welcome to do so.
Ms. Luck requested creating a projects wish list on a future agenda. She would like to discuss and
put out a public survey, then have a list that is grant ready. Ms. Luck asked if there was any follow up to
a resident complaint about an abandoned jeep on a neighbor's property. Ms. Lemieux reported the jeep
owner would be moving the jeep within fourteen days.
===PAGE 12===
meeting.
busines reviewed the gust in mechedule August 14 will be a workshop on earth removal. Regular
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Adams requested the Executive Session on a land swap be conducted in Open Session. She
contacted the Division of Open Government and we have to define what we are holding the Executive
Session. Reason # 6 is not enough. We need to prove why it would be detrimental to discuss it in Open
Session. Mr. Ebersole stated we should have that discussion at the time we make the motion to enter.
Motion: R.Ebersole
To adjourn the meeting
2n: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:17 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Cavem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
