===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Brochu, Finance Director
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale announced in accordance with the requirements of Open Meeting Law, the
meeting was being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reminded everyone that the Lions' Club pancake breakfast at Eagle House Senior
Center will be on December 12'
'. She thanked all the people who came out last weekend to
decorate the Town center and the gazebo. Special thanks to Mark Flagg who came out with
his bucket truck.
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Ave, wanted to say how much he enjoyed serving on the Board
with Bob Ebersole. He applauded his service as Selectman as well as all the other positions
he held. He was a true historian of the town and a public servant in every regard.
He also was at the tree lighting; it was a wonderful event.
As Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club, he wanted to
announce that yesterday was the first day of the 12 Days or So Before Christmas Raffle.
We rattled off a Christmas tree from Pierce Tree Farm. Today we ratfled off a gift
certificate to Ixtapa Restaurant. He wanted to thank theses sponsors for doing that. He listed
the next few day's raffles. He noted people can still enter online at
http://bgclubotlunenburg.org. Drawings are each weekday live at the club. The grand prize
is December 18 at $2500.00.
REORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD
Due to Mr. Ebersole's resignation from the Board, Ms. Luck nominated Damon
McQuaid as Vice Chairman, Mr. Toale seconded. Vote: All in Favor
Mr. McQuaid nominated Ms. Luck as Clerk. Mr. Toale seconded the motion.
Vote: All in Favor
Continuation of Tax Classification Hearing as required by M.G.L. Ch. 40 § 56 on
issue of allocating the local property tax levy among the four classes of real and
personal property.
Mr. Toale noted this is a continuation from the last meeting. Regional Assessor Harald
Scheid introduced Josh Gendron, Associate Assessor, to the meeting. Mr. Scheid explained
the classification hearing takes up the question of a potential shift in tax burden.
Lunenburg, historically, has chosen not to shift the tax burden and maintaining a uniform
tax rate across all classes of property. You have done that because Lunenburg's
commercial/industrial sector carries a relatively low value. For that reason, The Board of
Assessors recommends that the Board of Selectmen adopt a single tax rate to be applied to
all classes of property in Lunenburg. This year as is required in all communities we had to
undergo a periodic triennial audit of our valuations and the methods that we employ in
===PAGE 2===
Tax Rates
Based on the shift factors, the Board of Assessors has calculated the following tax rates
needed to raise the tax levy:
Property Class
Residential
FY 2019
18.68
FY 2018
19.70
Commercial
18.68
19.70
Industrial
18.68
19.70
Personal Property
18.68
19.70
Mr. Scheid noted we are actually projecting a reduction in Lunenburg's tax rate going from
$19.70 per thousand going to $18.68 per thousand. Valuations are on the increase; coming
out of the revaluation, we are calculating residential values are going to increase 6- 9% and
commercial values will increase around 6 or 7% increase. So we are predicting for the
average residential home an increase of $195 in taxes.
Examples of Typical Residential Tax Changes
Average
Average
Residential Class
FY18 Value
Avg. Tax
FY19 Value
Avg. Tax
Change
Single Family Homes
$282,996
$5,575
$308,864
$5,770
Ms. Luck asked about the excess levy capacity of $60,442; what does that mean? Mr.
Scheid stated the maximum allowable tax levy that Lunenburg can raise under Proposition
2 1/2; that amount came in higher than was budgeted, mostly in new growth that was
estimated. Ms. Lemieux noted the Assessors provided an estimate on what new growth
would be for Annual Town Meeting, which was based on historical numbers for new
growth. Only personal property new growth had been certified by then. estate had been
certified in November.
Ms. Luck asked if this means we have to raise taxes by 2 1/2 percent tonight? Mr. Toale
stated that was decided at Annual Town Meeting. The new growth came in higher than
what was presented at Town Meeting. Ms. Luck asked if we decided not to increase taxes
by 2 ½ percent, when would that happen?
Mr. Scheid stated that would occur during the budget planning process. You start with an
estimate of the revenues that you will have in the coming year.
Mr. Toale asked for any further public comment and there was none.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2"d: P. Luck
That the Lunenburg Board of Selectmen votes in accordance with M.G.L., Ch. 40,
Sec. 56, as amended, the percentage of local tax levy which will be borne by each class
of real and personal property, relative to setting the Fiscal Year 2019 tax rates and set
the Residential Factor at 1.0, with a corresponding CIP shift of 1.0, pending approval
of the town's annual tax recap by the Massachusetts Department of Revenue.
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Summer Street Project Update from MassDOT:
The Contractor will most likely be wrapping up the construction season by the end of
December. They paved the skim/level course in Leominster last week to try to keep that
section of roadway intact over the winter. The curbing has been installed on the right side
of the road coming from the intersection of John Fitch Highway and Summer Street to the
Baker's Brook Bridge and will be pouring the concrete for sidewalks behind the curbing,
weather permitting. They do not anticipate installing the curb on the left side this
construction season due to weather concerns. Three drainage crews are scheduled to be on
site this week to continue installing catch basins in Lunenburg and Leominster with the
goal of having all the catch basins installed before the winter shutdown occurs. All work is
based on the weather.
Recycling Education and Outreach (TM Goal #1):
On November 26" I met with Tessa David, the Director of MassToss Cooperative, and
the DP W Director Jack Rodriquenz to discuss the next steps for a curbside recycling
education campaign in an effort to reduce our contamination rates and recycle better. An
informational handout from MassDEP that lists acceptable items to put in recycling and
items that cannot go into recycling will be mailed out with the upcoming tax bills as the
first step in the process. Below is a timeline for this curbside recycling education
campaign:
1. Request recycling residual/contamination detail report with audit date from
Casella - December 2018
2. Remind/confirm Casella uses OOPS tags for unacceptable recycling - December
2018
3. Send MassDEP's Recycle Smart sheet as a tax bill insert - End of December 2018
4. Publish single issue notifications through various communication channels -
Monthly 2019
5. Request recycling residual/contamination detail report with audit & collection
date from Casella to compare against baseline report in December - April 2019
6. Refocus single issue notification posts based on April audit results - Monthly
2019
7. Conduct curbside residual/contamination audit - May/June/July 2019 (depending
on staff or volunteers available, spring or summer)
925 Mass Ave:
Land Use Director Adam Burney, Town Counsel, and I met regarding the next steps for
925 Mass Avenue and will be proceeding with the Tax Title process in order to gain legal
entry onto the property to conduct a Phase I assessment. I am currently looking into
applying for grant funds for the assessment costs through MassDevelopment's
Brownfields Redevelopment Program.
Town Facilities (TM Goal #2):
• Town Hall Handicapped Accessible Bathroom: I have asked Monty Tech to take
===PAGE 4===
forwarded information on how the Turkey Hill Elementary and Middle Schools could
enroll in this program to Superintendent Burnham and that our regional planning agency
could assist in that application.
EY20 Budget Schedule and Finance Tool Enhancements:
Attached is a draft of the important dates related to the FY20 budget schedule. The
schedule outlines dates such as the date budget submissions from departments to the
Town Manager are due, the presentation of the Five Year Financial Forecast, the Capital
Plan presentation, the opening of the warrant for Annual Town Meeting, the dates the
Finance Committee will meet with the various departments, and the Public Hearing on
the budget. This will also be reviewed with the Finance Committee at their December
13 meeting.
We will also be rolling out a new dashboard with financial data (ClearGov) on our
website that will allow users to compare our revenues and expenditures by category
against other communities and will provide demographic information. The goal of this
tool is to provide transparency about the budget and uses visuals to show how tax dollars
are spent in an easy to understand manner. The Finance Director and I will also be
working on rolling out a new budget software that will be used internally to send out the
FY 2020 budget documents and tracks any changes by the end user and different
versions of the proposed budget.
Attendance at Meetings and other announcements:
• Town Counsel Office Hours: Monday, December 17" 8 am-12 pm.
• Capital Planning Conference: I attended a Capital Planning Conference in
Stowe on Friday, November 30# put on by the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy
and the UMass Collins Center for Public Management. The topics that I attended
included innovations in Capital Planning, Advanced Capital Planning, and
Communicating with the Public about Capital Needs and Costs.
• Central Mass Municipal Recycling Coordinators Annual Lunch Celebration
& MassToss Meeting: The DPW Administrative Assistant and I attended the
Central Mass Municipal Recycling Coordinators and MassToss meeting that
included a tour of the Gardner Transfer Station, an update on recycling markets
from MassDEP, a discussion on organics collection, city compost, the 2020
Master Plan, and DEP's new recycling website titled RecyclingSmart.org.
Lunenburg received an award for our Outstanding Solid Waste Program with each
participating household averaging less than 1000 pounds of trash a year.
===PAGE 5===
• Building Commissioner
• Local Inspector
• Assistant Mechanic
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular member, 2 alternate member vacancies)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy for a design
professional/craftsperson)
• Cultural Council (multiple vacancies)
• Green Communities Task Force (1 vacancy-Citizen at Large position)
• Public Access Committee (2 vacancies)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Board of Selectmen Charter Review Committee appointment
Mr. Toale reported the current draft of changes to the Town Charter is complete. It has three colors, the
first is for minor changes of typographical errors, the next is for non-controversial changes that are to
make the Charter consistent with Massachusetts General Law and the last is changes, that may or may
not be controversial to the Charter. We have some new members and will have another after tonight.
The committee decided early on that they wanted a supermajority vote on the charter changes before we
suggest any to the public. Their next meeting is December 12*" in the Ritter Building and we will be
scheduling a public hearing on January 9". Each of the recommended changes can be voted on
individually. There will be also a "pros and cons" statement on each ballot vote. With Mr. Ebersole's
resignation, we have lost a Selectman member and the Chair. We will reorganize at the next Charter
Committee meeting. Ms. Adams stated she would be happy to rejoin the Charter Committee as a
member. She did attend their last meeting. Ms. Luck stated she was also willing to participate.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd. J. Toale
To nominate Ms. Luck as the Selectmen representative on the Charter Committee
Discussion: Ms. Adams stated she had served previously on the committee with perfect attendance and
the only reason she left was that when elected as Selectman she was creating auld be proud and happ
to resume her work on the committee. Mr. Toale noted the reason she left the Board was because you
were the School Committee designee and they changed their appointment. The Selectmen had two
representatives on the Board. Mr. McQuaid stated he believed Ms. Luck has more experience serving
on various boards. Further discussion ensued. Mr. Toale asked if there were any other nominations.
Ms. Adams nominated herself and Mr. Toale seconded.
Mr. Toale took the nominations in order. He called for a vote in favor of appointing Ms. Luck.
===PAGE 6===
American Graffiti, Inc
PP GROUP LLC
Central Mass Garden Center, Inc.
Elena's Gourmet Grocery, Inc.
Genghis Inc.
Lunenburg Zeda's Inc.
Global Montello Group Corp.
Red Pepper, Inc.
Aayan Corporation
Melendez Magana Inc.
Settlers Crossing Enterprises, Inc.
Carol & Henry Baker
Victory Distributors, LLC
Jiang Jun Lou, Inc.
JK Waterfront Inc
KJ Waterfront Inc
449 Corp
Sarjudas LLC
American Graffiti
Bangkok Hill
Central Mass Gardens
Elena's Gourmet Grocery
Jaxx Country Variety
Bad Larry's
Honey Farms #3829
Ixtapa Cantina
Hilltop Farms
Dario's
Settler's Pub
Baker's Whalom Variety
Hannaford Food and Drug
Asian Imperial Garden
On The Rocks
Embers Pizzeria
Lakeview Club
Lunenburg Liquors
113 Summer Street
177 Massachusetts Avenue
621 Chase Road
1 Main Street
1353 Massachusetts
Avenue
1 Main Street
134 Leominster-Shirley
Road
308 Massachusetts Avenue
1 Main Street
310 Massachusetts Avenue
994 Northfield Road
423 Electric Avenue
333 Massachusetts Avenue
5 Electric Avenue
96 Lakefront Drive
84 Lakefront Drive
449 Whalom Road
433 Electric Avenue
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
Te approve the 2019 list for alcohol licenses as presented
Mr. Toale inquired about some businesses not listed. Ms. Lemieux stated some owe taxes and will
be scheduled for renewal on the December 18t agenda.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the list of common victualler licenses up for renewal for 2019.
Lakeview Club
Kindred Spirits
American Graffiti
Hilltop Farms
Baker's Whalom Variety
Conrad's Drive In
449 Whalom Road
324 Electric Avenue, Unit #4
113 Summer Street
1 Main Street
423 Electric Avenue
835 Massachusetts Ave.
===PAGE 7===
Kabob-e-Licious
Embers Pizzeria
Lanni Orchards
Bad Larry's
Dario's
Dunkin Donuts
Lunenburg Exxon
Dippin Donuts
Bangkok Hill
Presto Pizza
Ixtapa Cantina
Lunenburg Liquors
Stella's Coffee Shop
Hannaford Food and Drug
Whalom Kitchen
1 Whalom Road
Cherry Hill Ice Cream
165 Massachusetts Avenue
84 Lakefront Drive
294 Chase Road
1 Main Street
310 Massachusetts Avenue
134 Leominster-Shirley Road
453 Massachusetts Avenue
455 Massachusetts Ave.
177 Massachusetts Avenue
429 Electric Avenue
308 Massachusetts Avenue
433 Electric Avenue
466 Electric Avenue
333 Massachusetts Avenue
324 Electric Avenue
1 Whalom Road
826 Leominster Road
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of common victualler licenses as presented
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the automatic amusement devices renewal list.
Kindred Spirits
324 Electric Avenue, Unit #4
Bad Larry's
1 Main Street
American Graffiti
113 Summer Street
Baker's Whalom Variety
423 Electric Avenue
Lakeview Club
449 Whalom Road
Whalom Gas
1 Whalom Road
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of automatic amusement devices licenses as presented
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 8===
Motion: D. MeQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of jukebox licenses as presented
2nd. P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux read the 2019 weekday entertainment licenses up for renewal.
Kindred Spirits
Dargonfly Garden Cafe
American Graffiti
Bad Larry's
324 Electric Avenue, Unit# 4
324 Electric Avenue
113 Summer Street
1 Main Street, Unit #4
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of weekday entertainment licenses as presented
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the list of miscellaneous licenses up for renewal for 2019
Kabob-e-Licious
165 Massachusetts Ave.
Lakeview Driving Range
15 Carr Ave.
Lloyd's Limousine
PO BOx 502
BYOB permit
Base license
Limousine
First Choice Limousine
555 Chase Road
Limousine
2nd. K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of miscellaneous licenses as presented
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the various auto dealer licenses up for renewal for 2019.
North End Mazda
Central Mass Power Sports
Chapdelaine Truck Center, Inc.
Daewoo North
North End Subaru
Baker's Towing
Mass Ave Motors, Inc.
PMK Motor Sales
The Auto Barn
Class I
Class I
Class /
Class I
Class I
Class II
Class II
Class II
Class I!
747 Chase Road
19 Massachusetts Ave.
199 Massachusetts Ave.
30 Summer Street
757 Chase Road
421 Electric Avenue
381 Massachusetts Avenue
36 Summer Street
53 Chase Road
2nd. P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 9===
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the 2019 list of auto dealer licenses as presented
2°: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
3. Discussion re: Calling a Special Town Election for Vacant Selectmen seat
Mr. Toale stated the Town Charter and Massachusetts General Law state the Selectmen may call for an
election and will call for an election if they receive a petition from 200 citizens. Further research shows
it costs the Town between $4,500 and $5,200 to run an election. 57 days' notice must be given to the
Town Clerk by the Board and any special election has to occur 100 or more days prior to when a
regularly scheduled election would be. Given all that, if we were to vote the election could only occur
between January 31 and February 7. Ms. Adams could not justify spending that amount of money to
place a person in office for just a few months. Mr. Toale agreed. Mr. McQuaid stated he would not want
to put a person through the election process to only serve for a short time.
Motion: K. Adams
2ad: D. McQuaid
To remain with four Board members until the Annual Election
Vote: All in Favor
4. Request from Senator Tran's Office re: Proposed Legislation to support/not support
Ms. Lemieux stated this was to let Senator Tran know any issues they would like him to advocate for, or
not. Mr. Toale asked Ms. Lemieux to look into the Muni-Choice Bill, which allows new municipal
electric utilities to be established and allows towns and cities to have a choice for electricity distribution.
5. MPO Subregion #3 Representative/ Alternate
Mr. Toale reported he just was elected to replace Ms. Bertram's former seat for Subregion #3. They are
now beginning the process of selecting new representative and alternates for 2019. The job entails
attending a one-hour meeting once a month. It does involve a lot of reading in preparation for the
meeting; such is the bureaucracy behind the Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP). Mr. Toale
volunteered to be the representative in lieu of anyone else being able to attend the 1:00 p.m. Wednesday
meeting time.
6. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Minutes of October 16, 2018 were approved. The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $711,848.40, a payroll warrant in the amount of $778,991.13 and a deductions warrant in the
amount of $249,171.88.
Action Issue: Mr. McQuaid suggested holding a workshop meeting with the Historical Commission and
the Architectural Preservation District Commission to request their opinions on issues because they are
important to building consensus about anything we are going to do. He added it would be nice to include
the Historical Society too. Ms. Lemieux will invite them to attend in January.
===PAGE 10===
this year is the Engine 4 pumper truck replacement which is $685,000. It is in really tough shape. They
are going to put $10,000 into it to get by for another year.
Mr. Toale reported Open Space Committee is requesting a letter of support for their Open Space and
Recreation Plan 2019-2026. It will be an upcoming agenda item.
Upcoming Meetings will be December 11* (workshop) and on December 18, 2018.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none.
Motion: D. MeQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 8:36 p.m.
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Peteran
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 23 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
