===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair; Damon McQuaid,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member; Michael- Ray Jeffreys, Member
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Alonzo announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams announced Denise Galloway, Administrative Secretary at the Lunenburg Primary
School, passed away on June 10 after being stricken ill at work. She was due to retire this year.
Ms. Adams expressed condolences to the family and community.
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club pancake breakfast is tomorrow morning at Eagle House
Senior Center from 8:00 to 10:30 a.m. $2.00 for all you can eat.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone on the Lunenburg Cultural Council for hosting the Arts Festival
last Saturday. There were many booths, performing arts, activities, crafts, food vendors etc. He
thanked everyone who participated.
Ms. Adams added Cruise Night is tomorrow starting at 4:00 p.m. on Memorial Drive.
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, requested clarification from the Board on when public comment
is welcome. She was looking for consistency on the practice. Mr. Alonzo stated there is an an
official public comment at the beginning and end of each meeting. Any public hearing that we
hold has a public comment segment to it. Any other public comment is at the discretion of the
Chair. Ms. Lockwood requested a standard policy so she will know when she has the opportunity
to speak on something.
Regarding the special permit discussion last week, she reminded the Board that this policy is not
about 300 Holman Street, it's about the whole town. She referred to Building Commissioner
Rhode's statements at the Zoning Boards of Appeals meeting beginning with "in my opinion,"
She stated having clear rules about what is and isn't allowed would be helpful. Mr. Alonzo stated
that he believed the Board does recognize the special event policy is for the entire town.
Regarding her second comment about the Building Commissioner's comments, he referred her to
the Planning Board and/or Zoning board of Appeals as this board has nothing to do with zoning.
He noted tomorrow is the continuation of that hearing for 300 Holman Street.
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street, reminded all that last week people had been notified that the
photo exhibition at 300 Holman Street was being canceled but one of his neighbors had informed
him since that he noticed on social media that the event was back on again. He inferred there
was a lot of deception going on. Following up on last week's public comment, he presented a
plan for a memorial type of park at the old Primary School site. Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Weaver to
submit his plan via email for consideration of a future agenda item.
===PAGE 2===
devoted to the Lunenburg events that he cannot recoup. In conclusion, he will no longer appear
or send any statements to this board.
Mr. Alonzo stated as this Board's Chair and as a governmental organization, the Town does not
tolerate hate, bigotry, prejudice or intolerance of any kind. He was sorry that there are people
beyond the control of this body that engage in the activity that you described. The activity
saddened and angered him, and he apologized that we have people who may be engaging in that
kind of activity and that you were subject to it. This Board granted the entertainment licenses
with the conditions that were given with no decision based on what kind of event it was and who
was putting it on. It troubled him that there are people who are that intolerant and are willing to
disrupt and at worse, threaten other people. Zoning issue aside, he hoped they could hold the
event. He thanked him for taking the time to come before the board
Jaclyn Mayo, 38 Otis Street, has lived here for two years with her wife and was looking forward
to the upcoming events going on in town. She was disappointed to see the negative posts on
social media (Discussing Lunenburg) and that there is a vocal minority that is being portrayed as
the face of our town. She requested that NOWOCO Pride not be dragged into the 300 Holman
Street issues. It's not about cars driving down the street in the neighborhood; it's about providing
support to youth who are uncertain about their gender and the resulting issues surrounding it.
Mr. McQuaid thanked her for her comments and asked her not to take Discussing Lunenburg as
a litmus test for the town. Mr. Alonzo added for people who may not know, it is not a public
sector page. The only official Lunenburg pages are the Town of Lunenburg, or the Police, Fire,
DW Departments. Social media is a free for all.
Ms. Adams stated even though we can't sort through the zoning issue at 300 Holman Street,
perhaps another location could be found for these events if there is enough time.
Mr. Jeffreys appreciated the fact that you came here today to express what your perspective is on
this. He thanked them for coming.
Joanna Bilotta, 362 Sunset Lane, on behalf of the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation
(LSIC), requested to know who was in roll call in Executive Session on June 4". Mr. Alonzo
stated the Board of Selectmen members. Ms. Bilotta asked if Ms. Luck recused herself. Mr.
Alonzo stated no and we did not vote on anything. It was just a discussion. Also present were
Conservation Commission members Carl Luck, Todd Dwyer, Richard Bursch and Bob Pease.
Ms. Bilotta thanked him.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request from Green Communities Task Force re: Formal Request to Unitil for
Purchase Price to Convert Streetlights to LED
Dave Blatt, 411 Goodrich Street, reported the task force met last week and discussed and voted
to request the Town approach Unitil about purchasing the street lights with the intent of using the
next round of green community funding to convert them to LED in order to save money. We had
===PAGE 3===
2. Discussion about putting Labor Counsel Services Out to Bid
Ms. Luck believed this should go out to bid every four or five years. Ms. Lemieux estimated the
town spends between $25,000- $30,000 on labor counsel annually. Mr. Alonzo asked if we have
anything through fault of labor counsel that put us in a bad position or a lawsuit. Ms. Lemieux
stated not to her knowledge.
Ms. Adams stated usually one is looking for cost savings or as Ms. Luck suggested previously
that Mead, Talerman and Costa could handle this as well, but there is the adage don't fix what
isn't broken.
Ms. Luck asked if labor counsel represents the town or the employee. Mr. Alonzo stated the
town. Ms. Luck believed that in the recent discussion regarding the Town Manager's contract
that labor counsel was representing the Town Manager. Mr. Alonzo stated he wasn't on the
board at that time and would have to review the details.
Mr. Alonzo stated when we went out to bid for town counsel, it involved drafting a request for
proposals, distributing it, reviewing the responses and interviewing the firms. We did that
because we were not satisfied with the current firm at the time. It took a good expenditure of
time and effort to do that. The reason I bring this up is the cost of what we are paying annually
for labor counsel (25-30k) and the fact that we don't have any issues other than what you are
implying about recent history, for me at least, is not something that we are going to see any great
savings and I don't know if they have mistepped at all.
Mr. McQuaid agreed with Mr. Alonzo, given the amount of money that we spend on it, there will
not be much savings hourly. I don't think that they have done anything to warrant us leaving
their counsel.
Ms. Luck thought the board could do better. Mr. Jeffreys stated following what happens on the
board prior to me sitting here, he was not aware of the conflict with labor counsel. He asked Ms.
Luck to be more specific about her concern.
Ms. Luck stated when we were discussing whether our evaluation of the Town Manager could be
in open session, labor counsel kept skirting around the issue even though in the Attorney
issue, he said we decided not to bother. I just feel he is too comfortable.
Ms. Lemieux did not recall that being the answer, during contract negotiations there are
proposals that get accepted or countered. She would have to look back at those discussions.
Mr. Alonzo stated as far as the evaluations being in open session or not, I looked it up and there
was a discrepancy on what was published on the Attorney General's website and what was
published on open meeting law on what was allowed and not allowed. There was wording
differences that made them in conflict with each other that other towns brought to their attention.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Adams stated at this time she did not feel there was a compelling reason to warrant making a
change to labor counsel without collecting more information that a change was needed. It's
always a possibility to revisit.
Motion: K. Adams
2ni: P. Luck
To retain current labor counsel and not go through a search process at this time
Discussion: Ms. Luck stated she was not saying that we have to change; it's just prudent to
examine what is out there. We are very happy that we changed town counsel and they have two
attorneys that do labor counsel, and it might be nice package to have current town counsel do
everything.
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 nay (Luck)
WORKSHOP: BOS AND TOWN MANAGER GOAL SETTING
1. Review of FY19 Goals
The Board reviewed the Town Manager Goals first.
See attached TOWN MANAGER GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FISCAL YEAR 2019-
Status Update.
Mr. Alonzo stated this is not really a goal, but a job description. Ms. Adams agreed stating it
makes evaluations difficult if the goal is something that should exist. Completion is not possible
because it is ongoing. Mr. McQuaid stated moving forward it should just be part of the job
description. There was a noted deficiency at the time the goal was set but not anymore.
Ms. Lemieux added that's why in my goals I like action items because I like concrete structure
for measurability on how I achieve those goals.
Mr. Jeffreys stated goal #2 should be our goal. Mr. Alonzo stated it should be a shared goal. Ms.
Luck asked if we have an inventory at this point. Ms. Lemieux stated yes, property and vehicles.
Ms. Adams asked if there was a list. Ms. Lemieux stated she had an excel sheet. Mr. Alonzo
requested it be placed on the google drive. Ms. Lemieux confirmed action i. was completed.
Discussion ensued about carrying over any of these goals. No Board member thought any of
these goals should be carried over to FY20. Mr. Jeffreys believed five goals is too many. With
the amount of time that you have to do them, it's unrealistic. I think we should limit ourselves to
three. Mr. Alonzo stated this Board should limit itself to three also.
Mr. Alonzo moved on to Ms. Lemieux's FY20 goals.
1. Goal #1 Develop and Implement Steps towards Redevelopment/Reuse of 925 Massachusetts
Avenue
a. Objective: To address a blighted property that has been in tax title for over a decade.
i. Action: The Town Manager will work with Town Counsel and the Tax Title
Attorney to gain a Right-of-Entry through the tax title process in order to conduct
===PAGE 5===
Phase I assessment, the Town Manager will hire an environmental consultant to
perform the Phase Il assessment (estimated to take 6-12 months).
Measure of Success: Completion of Phase I ESA and commencement with
Phase II ESA.
Mr. Jeffreys stated the only thing he would adjust is the Measure of Success. Instead of
Commencement of Phase II, maybe a draft plan for Phase II. Ms. Adams preferred this to be
farther down on the goal list because it is private property, As a Selectman she was more
concerned about municipal properties. Mr. Alonzo stated it should be on our list to do the second
part, the driving force is the Board of Selectmen, not the Town Manager. The order is irrelevant,
they are all important. If we are going to limit the goal to three, he expected all three to be
completed. Mr. Jeffreys stated he misread the third action and it is really clear on what the
commencement of Phase Il means and he thought it was great goal.
Ms. Lemieux stated she was passionate about all three goals and when she came to interview for
the Town Manager position and visited the town, she noticed the Mass. Ave. property and
thought it would be great to see it come back to life because it is in the town center.
Ms. Luck stated it was a good goal noting she had been in another city that had converted an old
gas station to a brewery.
2. Goal #2: Implementation of Recycling Contamination Enforcement Program:
a. Objective: To educate residents on what materials are recyclable and what materials are
not recyclable and improve the quality of the Town's recycling. By increasing the quantity
and quality of the Town's recycling, this will save on disposal fees and ensure
sustainability of the recycling program.
i. Action: The Town Manager will work with the DEP Regional Recycling
Coordinator, Casella, and the DPW to conduct all the steps in the Recycling
IQ Kit Grant in an effort to reduce contamination in recycling. This will
include educational mailings, signboards, hiring staff to perform curbside
checks and data tracking
Measure of Success: At the completion of the process will request another
contamination audit from Casella and compare results from initial contamination
audit performed in December 2018.
Mr. Alonzo stated he would like to see at least one public seminar added to the action list to
address questions from the public. Ms. Luck suggested focusing on composting also. Mr.
Jeffreys asked what is the DPW's role in the steps in the Recycling IQ Kit. Ms. Lemieux stated
===PAGE 6===
MA V Dsl pro dr to commpi dile aes Italisitlt lal.
ii. Action: Review the Complete Streets Prioritization Plan with Board and apply
for the Complete Streets Grant in the fall that aligns with goal of Complete
Streets "to provide safety and accessibility for all users of roadways, trails, and
transit systems" to people of all ages and abilities.
ili. Action: Identify and complete accessibility projects at public buldings and other
town properties that can be paid with the funds appropriated at the Annual Town
Meeting for FY20 for town facilities.
Mr. Alonzo stated we got some good insight from participants in the walkability study that
happened a couple of weeks ago. Ms. Adams stated going to a band concert is difficult as there
are no parking areas and crosswalks. Also getting from the Town Hall to the Ritter Bulding is
cumbersome as there is no sidewalk. Ms. Luck hoped they would be able to focus on making the
town beach safer. Mr. Jeffreys stated here was a site plan approved right across from the town
beach and one concession was to add parking. ADA issues there were discussed also.
Mr. Alonzo asked if anyone would like to add anything to the goals. Mr. Jeffreys stated under
Goal #3 he would assume the measure of success is the actual accessibility.
Motion: D. MeQuaid
2n°: M. Jeffreys
To accept the Town Manager's goals with the minor adjustments as mentioned
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo moved on to the Board's goals. He referred the Board to last year's goals:
TOWN ASSETS
1. Develop a comprehensive strategic infrastructure plan and policy guide
for inventory, use (present & future), maintenance and capital replacement
of all Town assets.
a. Roads
b. Buldings
c. Equipment
d. Land
e. Future Needs (i.e. School - Turkey Hill)
2. Adopt an action plan, for activities during FY19, dealing with the "Five Buldings"
a. Ritter
b. Brooks
c. Old Primary
d. Town Hall
e. T.C. Passios
===PAGE 7===
BOS and appointed committees.
Note: this process may be used by other elected bodies or Town departments,
if appropriate.
2. Establish a communication policy and a process for press releases or other
formal announcements, including an approved communication policy for the
BOS and appointed committees.
Note: this process may be used by other elected bodies or Town departments,
if appropriate.
3. Improve presentation material availability (in advance, if possible) especially
in cases of financial data, use of acronyms, educational opportunities, etc.
4. Continue review and improvement of social media practices and policy,
Open Meeting Law compliance and appropriate opportunities for
community involvement.
5.. Establish a communication policy and a process for press releases or other
formal announcements, including an approved communication policy for the
BOS and appointed committees.
Note: this process may be used by other elected bodies or Town departments,
if appropriate.
6. Improve presentation material availability (in advance, if possible) especially in
cases of financial data, use of acronyms, educational opportunities, etc.
7. Continue review and improvement of social media practices and policy, Open
Meeting Law compliance and appropriate opportunities for community
involvement.
INCREASED ALIGNMENT OF BOARD OF SELECTMEN WITH COMMITTEES
APPOINTED BY THE BOARD OF SELECTMEN
1. Develop a process for Selectmen to assist the boards and committees we
work with by organizing the appointment process and making the members
feel more a part of the process.
a. Review and re-validate the board committee charter/purpose
b. Review and improve appointment and re-appointment process/policies
c. Posting both vacancies and reappointments
d. Requesting public and committee input
e. Holding regular joint meetings with committees or chairs
2. Broadening Pool of Candidates
===PAGE 8===
location. It could provide a revenue stream for the town that will help supplement our needs and
will help reduce the current trend of hitting up the taxpayers.
Mr. McQuaid believed it had been explored there before. Mr. Alonzo stated by a private
company.
Ms. Lemieux stated it was a system saturation issue with Unitil. Mr. Alonzo recalled it was also
an expensive venture at the time ($700 to $900 k) due to Unitil installing supplementary
equipment for conversion for a quarter of a mile. Mr. Jeffreys suggested the goal to be to
research the option. Thirdly, student initiative, we invest a lot into the next generation, as we
ought to, and we should continue to invest. We are at a critical point where we have to turn to
them and say we need your help. We have several boards and committees that need assistance
with note-taking and other things and could use this as a movement of civic engagement while
helping students learn what their town government does and using the skill sets that students
have. The Town Clerk has mentioned that she could use some help. This could be some type of
internship or volunteer thing. We should think about this and develop something to get the
students engaged in government.
Mr. McQuaid stated his main concern is the infrastructure and the center of town having a
comprehensive plan to present to town meeting. The main things are moving forward with the
relocation of town offices and that building study. Another one is finding uses for the spaces that
we vacate to the extent that is possible. We should come up with a plan for the old Primary
School and the expense involved; or tear it down and turn it into a park or find out the cost to fix
it in time for the spring. People want to know the plan and the cost.
Ms. Luck thought that the Board failed on their goal of increased alignment of the board with
other committees and boards appointed by the BOS. She thought they should continue with is
this year.
Ms. Lemieux suggested a goal of working on the appointment/reappointment process as it has
came up for the last three years. Mr. Alonzo stated he could get behind the following:
• Review and improve appointment and re-appointment process/policies
• Posting both vacancies and reappointments
Ms. Luck stated the goal of providing to committees the tools to be effective...she thought the
Board needed to do more to help members of boards and commissions. The land use boards have
been asking for a joint meeting of all their boards for two years. Ms. Lemieux did not believe
everyone has responded to that coming to the table. Ms. Adams stated time or lack of it may be a
factor in that.
Ms. Adams suggested looking at population trends and the impact of growth on the town/schools
and preparing for it. Wants and needs in terms of population; we may want a new town hall but
could need school space. Mr. Alonzo stated that is exactly why we have the school committee
and school administration. The BOS is not going to be instrumental in telling us what the school
population is going to be. Mr. Jeffreys stated the 30% of the town that hasn't used the school
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Alonzo asked the Board to think about goals and what we should be doing in addressing the
situation we are in with the buildings and the land they are on and what is an achievable goal for
this year. Come up with three goals that are achievable for the next meeting. More discussion
ensued about getting students involved in government.
Upcoming meetings were discussed. The board will not meet on July 2nd
. The board will meet on
June 18 and July 9, 16, and 23. Mr. Alonzo will not be here for the July 23 meeting.
I hard it of an 3016 payable val dad in the amount heal at or ara
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the Minutes of March 19, 2019
2n°: D. McQuaid
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Alonzo)
Action File Issues: Ms. Adams asked about any updates on the intersection of Electric Ave. and
Mass. Ave. Ms. Lemieux stated there is no word from the state yet.
Committee Reports: Mr. Jeffreys reported he intends on going to the Council on Aging
meetings but because of training, he won't be able to start that yet. Mr. Alonzo asked if anyone
was interested in revisiting liaisons to boards. Ms. Luck was because she felt they did not
communicate with boards enough. Ms. Adams did see value in it. Mr. McQuaid and Mr. Jeffreys
were not. Mr. Jeffreys felt it was better to watch from home. Mr. Alonzo requested it as a future
agenda item. Discussion about attending meetings and the time involved ensued.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Jettreys wanted to express his support for his fellow board members. He appreciated they
were five individuals and would not always agree and stated his opinion was no more important
than theirs. He enjoyed the tone of the past couple of meetings and hoped they could maintain it.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 10:09 p.m.
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted.
Clacem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
===PAGE 10===
ii.
improvements as needed in access to information. The new website was
finalized and went live on Labor Day weekend and users can utilize the
subscription feature to receive notifications on any updates to information they
are interested in, see the latest news under News & Announcements, and view
the posts on the Town Facebook page from the live feed.
Various updates have been made, including new information on recycling better,
a new Americans with Disabilities Committee page, a page for information on
ROAR and the Interface program, and the "Get Connected" page, that was
retitled to "Citizen Engagement and Transparency Center" that details the various
communication tools the Town uses to get information to residents and solicits
input on what type of information residents are interested in. The Town has
subscribed to a new financial transparency data platform called ClearGov that is
also on the Citizen Engagement page. The Finance Director has been busy
working with ClearGov staff to get 2018 and 2019 data onto the site.
After looking at the most commonly clicked items, the Charter/Bylaws and
Important Documents buttons were moved to the top of the main page and the
homepage middle buttons were changed to Town Calendar and Town Meetings
& Town Finances.
Action: The Town Manager will continue to seek input from citizens on current
issues, increase and create new two way communications.
The communications questionnaire was created to gather data on how
people receive information on town government and the type of
information they are interested in. This is on the town website, shared on
the Town's Facebook page, a public announcement was in the
Lunenburg Ledger, and hard copies were made available at the Town
Hall, Library, Senior Center, and the Special Town Meeting. We
received over 100 responses and 56% of respondents receive their
information through town social media accounts, 45% receive
information through the Lunenburg Ledger, and 42% of respondents
receive information through the Town website.
•
To address the high level of contamination in the Town's recycling, I
began a Recycling Education Campaign in December that included
sending out a tax bill insert on what can and cannot go into recycling,
have used the Town's Facebook account to get out recycling tips, put an
article in the Ledger's town-wide edition, and will continue monthly
recycling tips.
===PAGE 11===
to meet with the business community, community groups such as ROAR
and Salvation Army, individual members of boards and committees and
citizens regarding their concerns, with the goal of improving public
relations and promoting causes that benefit Lunenburg businesses and
residents.
ili. Action: The Town Manager will perform communications audit and create
Communications Policy that identifies strategies and actions to improve
communications. After conducting a survey of all departments on the
communication tools they currently use, which methods work best, and any that
they would like to use in the future, attached is the result of that audit.
Examples of the currently used communication tools that are used by the Town
are the Town website, various social media accounts (Town, COA, Police, Fire,
DPW, Public Access, Library), the public access channel, public
meetings/hearings/forums, the annual town report, sign boards, CodeRed, tax bill
inserts, the townwide email listserv, mailers, public notices in the Ledger,
promotional flyers, and the Senior Center newsletter. Communication audit and
summary is attached.
2. Goal #2: Comprehensive Infrastructure Plan:
a. Objective: Address deferred maintenance on town buildings, recreation areas, and other
town infrastructure and continually update long range capital plan for the town'sassets.
i. Action: Town Manager will continue to develop a comprehensive inventory and
Building and Infrastructure Maintenance Plan that will include repair and
maintenance of town buildings, school buildings/land, recreation areas, roads,
and underground infrastructure. Building and infrastructure needs will continue
to be included in the Capital Plan and funded in the operating budget through the
Facilities account and Town Roads account. The FY20 Budget recommendation
includes an additional $40,000 for maintenance of facilities and an additional
$50,000 in the Town Roads account. The DPW Director applied for and
received a grant from MassDOT's Small Bridge Program in the amount of
$380,000. The submission of the Complete Streets Tier 3 application in October
addresses many areas in Town that are public safety concerns and increases
accessibility for users of all ages and abilities. The Town was not awarded
funding the last round but can continue to apply.
ii. Action: Town Manager will continue to address infrastructure needs through
recommendations to fund capital projects and recommend a budget that will
address annual maintenance of facilities. In an effort to address the significant
amount of capital requests identified to date in the Capital Plan, the
===PAGE 12===
project requests such as replacement of the fuel tanks (which is a town asset and
an increasing liability the longer it stays in the ground), improvements to
Basketball court at Wallis Park, a Building Automation system at the PSB,
Asbestos Abatement at THES, and painting the exterior of the Teen Center. The
FY20 Capital Plan also included all the repairs identified in the Vertex Reports
for the Town Hall, Ritter Building, old Primary, Brooks and TC Passios
buildings. Although the Town is still in the process of identifying the future use
of some of these buildings, by including the known repairs to continue the
current use of these buildings, these makes the Capital Plan a more
comprehensive document.
The Town was also awarded $198, 867 in Green Communities grant fundsto
perform a variety of energy efficiency projects that will update old infrastructure
and save energy. Other methods to address infrastructure include applying for
the ADA Projects grant for a variety of ADA improvements at public buildings,
the North Cemetery, and access to parks. I will continue to advocate for the
facilities projects in the Capital Facilities Bond Bill.
3. Goal #3: Facilitate Business and Economic Development:
a. Objective: Create a partnership with the business community that promotes stability and
growth of our existing businesses.
i. Action: Town Manager will continue holding sessions with the business
community to find ways we can partner with our local businesses and help them
grow. Facilitate meetings with other business associations to form regional
alliances. I have continued to hold business-town partnership meetings with the
Lunenburg Business Association and coordinated a joint meeting with the
Pepperell Business Association that led to Lunenburg joining Townsend,
Pepperell and Groton in regional business association events.
ii.
Action: Will work with regional planning agency and business group to create
business brochure. I applied for and received District Local Technical Assistance
to have planning assistance from Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
(MRPC) to create a business brochure. MRPC Regional Planner, Land Use
Director Adam Burney, and I met over the course of a year with the Lunenburg
Business Association to develop the "Explore Lunenburg" brochure, which was
completed at the end of 2018 and is now up on the website under the Business
section on the website and the Conservation Commission's page.
i11.
Action: The Town Manager will create a charge for an Economic Development
Committee and work with the Committee members. A charge was created and
===PAGE 13===
until to do alliary tsary. tea
salariened all pal vaults
policies and procedures at the workshop in July and October and made
amendments to Section 7.04 Alcohol and Drug Policy and Section 7.11 CORI
Policy. The Social Media Policy is the only personnel policy that is proposed to
be updated.
ii.
Action: Create an Employee Handbook-All employee related policies in one
place and given to all employees (CBA's would supersede on items already
addressed in the CBA's). An Employee Handbook was completed that includes
all the personnel policies, codifies the town's hiring process, and other relevant
employee information.
Action: Create and implement performance evaluations for Non-Management:
New performance evaluations were included in the most recent DPW collective
bargaining agreement and are being utilized. I will continue working with other
departments to implement performance evaluations for their departments.
Goal #5: Create Written Procurement Process and Procedures:
a.
Objective: Compliance with procurement law, further internal controls against fraud,
and implement financial auditor's recommendation.
i. Action: Town Manager will develop written procedures for the proper
procurement of supplies and services and construction. Will create internal
controls that will alleviate any potential violation of procurement law and create
another control against fraud. A Procurement Manual was completed and
-
includes guidelines for bidding requirements and the Town's requisition and
approval of purchase orders in MUNIS.
ii. Action: Town Manager will create centralized location of all procurement files
(i.e. bids, RFPs, contracts). In February, all departments (Town and School) were
notified that in order to streamline the process for procurement and that the
engagement of services has gone through all the proper procedures, departments
would need to have contracts reviewed and signed off by the Town Manager and
Finance Director and that all procurement files would now be kept in the Town
Manager's Office.
===PAGE 14===
Attorney to gain a Right-of-Entry through the tax title process in order to conduct
environmental assessments.
Action: The Town Manager will explore funding resources for Phase I
Environmental Site Assessment (ESA) and, based on securing a funding
mechanism, hire an environmental consultant to perform the Phase I assessment
(estimated to take 3 months).
ili. Action: The Town Manager will explore funding resources for Phase II
assessment and based on securing a funding mechanism and completion of the
Phase I assessment, the Town Manager will hire an environmental consultant to
perform the Phase II assessment (estimated to take 6-12 months).
Measure of Success: Completion of Phase I ESA and commencement with
Phase II ESA.
2. Goal #2: Implementation of Recycling Contamination Enforcement Program:
a. Objective: To educate residents on what materials are recyclable and what materials are
not recyclable and improve the quality of the Town's recycling. By increasing the
quantity and quality of the Town's recycling, this will save on disposal fees and ensure
sustainability of the recycling program.
i. Action: The Town Manager will work with the DEP Regional Recycling
Coordinator, Casella, and the DPW to conduct all the steps in the Recycling IQ
Kit Grant in an effort to reduce contamination in recycling. This will include
educational mailings, signboards, hiring staff to perform curbside checks and
data tracking
Measure of Success: At the completion of the process will request another
contamination audit from Casella and compare results from initial contamination
audit performed in December 2018.
3. Goal #3: Identify, Plan, and Implement Accessibility Improvements:
a. Objective: To improve access to public buildings, public properties, and roadways.
i. Action: Work with Montachusett Regional Planning Commission and various
stakeholders on completing the updated ADA Self-Evaluation and apply for the
MA Office on Disability planning grant to complete the ADA Transition Plan.
ii. Action: Review the Complete Streets Prioritization Plan with Board and apply
for the Complete Streets Grant in the fall that aligns with goal of Complete
Streets "to provide safety and accessibility for all users of roadways, trails, and
transit systems" to people of all ages and abilities.
ili. Action: Identify and complete accessibility projects at public buildings and other
town properties that can be paid with the funds appropriated at the Annual Town
Meeting for FY20 for town facilities.
