===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
114Dg
Member
Not present: Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman
Also present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux: Brandon Kibbe, Open Space Committee Chair
The meeting commenced at 8:42 p.m.
Mr. Kibbe reported this meeting was in regards to the possible purchase of the Saliba property
located at 994 Northfield Road Rear that was presented to the Conservation Commission on
March 6. It is an oddly shaped parcel and comprised of 259 acres. It includes wildlife biomap 2
habitat and a very small area of critical environmental concern. Portions of it have the cold-water
fishery, Pearl Hill Brook, on it. There are various vernal pools in the vicinity. It is an interesting
wildlife habitat and it is within our acquisition priority area. It provides connectivity from
Northfield Road all the way up to conservation areas in the northwest corner of town and into the
conservation area off Chase Road. It touches Howard Street and New West Townsend Road, but
it does not touch Chase Road.
When we were looking at the recent Chapter 61 withdrawal of 994 Northfield Road, you
remember that a portion of that property is intended to be subject to a conservation easement.
What we are talking about is potentially negotiating a land swap with the golf course to provide
better continuity for their property and better protection for the undevelopable portion of the
back of the upland portion of their property that would be ideal for conservation purposes. If
there is a way to reconfigure the property to extract some value out of it in order to leverage the
back portion of the golf course piece to make it a much more meaningful piece from a
conservation standpoint, we would like to explore it. There are two other pieces here that are of
importance that are currently in Chapter 61.
The open space values are concentrated in the northern portion of the property. If we are able to
leverage some finger of land closest to the golf course and we are able to swap that off for the
northerly unprotected portion of the golf course, then that is a win. It would give the golf course
additional access and the possibility of developing lots. Discussion ensued about approaching the
Saliba parcel owners and the golf course owners and negotiating.
Mr. Kibbe noted there is a land grant opportunity that awards up to 64% reimbursement and a
maximum payout of $400,000. You need to apply for the grant before you buy. Any costs you
spend on the project before you apply, such as an appraisal (@$3,500-$5,500), are not
reimbursable costs. The land is assessed at a value of $472,000.
Mr. Kibbe believed this was an excellent opportunity. He noted timing would be a little bit
different than with the Lane property purchase. You would need to appoint a land advisory
committee similar to when we purchased that property. We had Conservation Commission,
Planning Board, Open Space and the Selectmen represented on that committee. They could
negotiate but not make any decisions. Of course, the Selectmen can't convey without town
===PAGE 2===
to volunteer for Selectmen.
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: K. Adams
To appoint an acquisition advisory committee to investigate purchasing the Saliba property
located at 994 Northfield Road
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck -aye, Mr. Toale-aye
Discussion on advertising the committee ensued. It will be announced at the March 19 meeting.
Motion: K. Adams
2": P. Luck
To adjourn from Executive Session and not return to Open Session
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
