===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chairman, Damon McQuaid, Clerk;
Katey Adams, Michael- Ray Jeffreys
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:02 p.m.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Board had met at 5:30 p.m. with the Tree Warden, Unitil personnel and some
Planning Board members to review trees identified in Unitil's Storm Resiliency Program that were
marked for either removal or pruning. This will be discussed further at the continuation of the public
hearing on Monday, September 23ra
Mr. Alonzo invited all to participate in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Alonzo announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo remembered former Conservation Commission Administrative Assistant Jan Carrier, who
had retired in December 2015 and passed away recently. A memorial gathering for her will be on
September 20t from 3:00 - 6:00 PM at Apple Hill Farm on 143 Joslin Street in Leominster.
Ron Dionne, 131 White Street, reported he met with Facilties Technician Kit Walker last Friday and
walked through the old Primary School. This morning he met with DP W Director Rodriquenz
discussing the building. Mr. Dionne believed the building could be renovated. He opposed getting rid of
the building. He stated he had a citizen's petition to repair the roof for the fall special town meeting and
believed the building could be used for a future school or housing.
APPOINTMENTS
Smokestack Roasters, LLC - Common Victualler License hearing for 39 Mass Ave.
Owner Jaclynn Nicoll presented for the license. Smokestack Roasters is a coffee shop and café located
at 39 Mass Ave. They intend to roast coffee onsite daily and from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. they would like to
offer coffee, pastries, chocolates etc. for sale to the public.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the comon victualler license for Smokestack Roasters, LLC at 39 Mass Ave.
2nd:P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
del le v do poles soll del tele deca del bollela le to lalicilllo cells busticss value all vivalle.
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the peddler's license to Steve Mongelli/Edward Jones Investments between the hours
of 9:00 AM and sundown
Vote: 4 in favor-4, 1 against (Jeffreys)
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for October 12t-Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club
Michelle Belleza and Gary Geneau (Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club Chairman) presented for the
request. They have talked to the Police and DPW and have all the necessary cones and vests. They will
be submitting the signed waivers before the event. They would like to run the tollbooth from 9 a.m. to 1
p.m.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: D. McQuaid
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser request on October 12 from 9 am to 1 pm
Vote: All in Favor
Complete Streets Tier 3 Project Application
Ms. Lemieux reported this item is back before the Board, but is new to Chairman Alonzo and Mr.
Jeffreys. We are now on the MassDOT approval portion of the application. The areas we discussed
previously are the Main Street and Whalom Town Beach areas. She introduced Rich Benevento of
World Tech Engineering. Also present from World Tech was Bill Mertz. DPW Director Rodriquenz was
also present.
Mr. Benevento stated they looked at the projects that were under consideration last time and modified
both area projects. They reduced the Main Street area from four to three tasks. He added this is a
competitive program and they were looking for as many boxes to check off on the application as
possible to ensure approval. The beach project funding request is $220,000 and the Main Street project
is $230,000.
The beach project only checks off one box (provides pedestrian accommodation). The Main Street
project checks off many boxes. We are trying to assist you to identify the best projects) that will be
accepted by MassDOT. Sometimes it takes several attempts due to the competitiveness for the funding.
Mr. Mertz covered some of the reasons projects are accepted such as how many people it impacts,
intersection and pedestrian/vehicular safety, seasonal traffic etc.
Discussion ensued on timing of the projects with the paving management program, ADA requirements,
and other issues, such as increased housing near the Whalom area project.
Mr. Alonzo asked the Board what they would like to do as a decision had to be made due to the
impending deadline.
Mr. Jeffreys trusted World Tech's suggestions due to their experience with Complete Streets. He along
with Ms. Adams believed the Whalom area should be included in the application due to the safety
issues. They both agreed on removing improvements in the Village Area/Memorial Drive (#8).
Mr. McQuaid stated while he agreed the Whalom area is a worthwhile project, he did not believe it was
right for the Complete Street application as it does not meet the criteria we want to present to the state.
He added if he was going to remove one, he would not pick #8. That area is the most trafficed area out
===PAGE 3===
delhought the beden drea provemens were do temporn de g Wronges s opinon
that the Whalom project is premature and does not address all the issues in the area. Mr. Alonzo liked
that application alternative #1 showed a unified plan and checks off more of the boxes and addresses all
the elements of town center that was discussed on the walkability study.
Ms. Adams believed the project description for Whalom addressed all the issues. Mr. McQuaid noted all
it was doing was adding a sidewalk which Mr. Rodriquenz pointed out would eliminate the parallel
parking there due sidewalk and curbing taking up more road area.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To submit the application to Complete Streets with items #1, #4 and #3 totalling $340,000
Vote: 2 in favor, 3 against (Luck, McQuaid, Alonzo)
Motion: D. MeQuaid
2ºd: P. Luck
To submit alternative application #1 to Complete Streets
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated he would support the motion because it is going to pass and thanked
World Tech for their work. He believed Whalom area needs to be addressed at some point. Ms. Luck
agreed
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 against (Adams)
Mr. Alonzo stated alternative # 1 application will be submitted as presented. He thanked Mr. Benevento,
Mr. Mertz, Mr. Rodriquenz and Ms. Lemieux for all their work. Mr. Benevento stated notifications from
MassDOT should come by the end of the year.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion about estimate for repairs to old Primary School
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board to the first item in her Town Manager report
"Following the September 10th Selectmen's meeting discussion on the estimate for the identified repairs thatthe
APDCrequested the Town undertake in orderto prevent further deterioration ofthatbuilding, I met with the DPW
Director and the Facilities Director to review the Facilities budget and the projects that were identified to be
undertaken this fiscal year. One discussion point that we did not go over at the September 10* meeting thatwas
in the Facilities Director's estimate, was a disclaimer that"the roofrepairs do not include unseenstructural
damagethatmay be presentfrom weatherdamage, security monitoring, and electrical costs." Ihavesince
contacted Vertex, the firm that conducted the Property Condition Assessment on that building, to get an estimate
on how much it would be to have their structural engineer inspect the building and issuetheir findings. I should have
that by thecloseof business today." Ms. Lemieux stated she had not heard back from Vertex yet.
"As another follow-up to that discussion, I did a fullreview of that account and what isavailable for projects after
deductingannual maintenance expenses, security, fire, alarm inspections, and other annual contracted costsand
there isapproximately $50,000 for projects, unless there are some unforeseen emergencies.
The projectsthat were identified during theFY20 budget processand subsequent were:
• TownHallADA Ramp (Contingency Funds>$27K)
• TownHallFix Sidewalk to align with Ramp
===PAGE 4===
The initial listalso had thereconfiguration of the Ritter entryway, but dueto estimatesreceivedso far, this will need
to be submitted as acapital projectthis year. The Facilities Directorisworkingon obtaining estimates for the
above mentioned projects, but based on the projects listed above, we believethere would not be sufficient funds
to cover all of these projects and any repairsto the old Primary School."
Ms. Lemieux added we also have to address ADA compliance for the above listed tasks, which would
be a priority.
Mr. Alonzo stated he was in favor of putting money into the building but not if the structural engineer
tells us the roof needs major work. He wanted to make sure we have a completely sealed envelope that is
protected from the elements and that there won't be any further deterioration of the building by what we
do. Maybe it is a good idea to go on the roof to find out what is involved. DPW Director Rodriquenz
stated we do need to get in the attic to find out what is happening there. He added every window leaks
and broken windows have been covered. All the grout between the exterior bricks is cracked; that means
moisture is getting through. The school is still loaded with asbestos and now it is loaded with black
mold. He understood the sentimental feelings around the building but to put any more money into the
building is ludicrous. Mr. Jeffreys agreed with Mr. Rodriquenz and thought they needed to be realistic.
Mr. McQuaid agreed but thought the townspeople might need a third party's opinion. Ms. Adams
suggested putting a demolition article on town meeting warrant to gauge what the town sentiment is for
the building.
Mr. Alonzo suggested finding out how much the Vertex inspection of the roof would cost. Mr. McQuaid
noted if you put an article for demolition up then you have to come up with half a million dollars to tear
it down and plant grass etc. Ms. Lemieux stated a non-binding article could be placed on the warrant.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what more do we need to know that this building is not working for us anymore.
Why do we need to spend more money? Mr. McQuaid stated what he heard every time it went to Special
Town Meeting was we need more information. To go to town meeting for a non-binding vote and not
bring any new information is a waste of our time on town meeting floor.
Richard McGrath, APDC Chairman, 22 Cushing Lane, remarking on the condition of the building noted
there were two buildings in Fitchburg that were vacant as long as this one and perhaps longer, that were
in similar condition with the brickwork. They were sold to someone in the community with the
stipulation that they be restored. They were and are still there. One was sold to an artist and she used it
as a residence and art studio. The other is used for storage. The APDC has recommended we follow that
model and the building be put on the market with a minimal sale price and stipulation that it be restored
within a certain amount of time. Mr. Alonzo noted obviously it is predicated by if the town wants to sell
the property. So that plan won't work if the final decision is to not sell the property.
2. Request for Layout Hearing for Butterfly Lane-hearing date October 15th
Ms. Lemieux reported this is going before the Planning Board before it comes to the Selectmen. They
will give their recommendations and a public hearing process is required. It will have to be approved at
Town meeting and that is one of the discussion items for special town meeting; putting in a placeholder
for the article. Mr. Jeffreys asked DPW Director Rodriquenz if he had any insight into problems
===PAGE 5===
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular memberand 3 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• ArchitecturalPreservation District Commission (1 designprofessional; craftspersonorbuilding contractor
familiar with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Housing Authority (1 electedposition that willbeajointappointment withremainingHousing Authority
members and Selectmen)
• Planning Board (1 elected position that willbea joint appointment with the remaining Planning Board
members and Selectmen)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 regular member and 2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
Open Meeting Law, Conflict of Interest, and Public Records Law Training:
Thedatethat Town Counsel wasavailableto provideelected/appointed officialsan Open Meeting Law, Conflictof
Interest, and Public RecordsLaw Training is Thursday, October 3rd at 7 p.m. at the Eagle House Senior
Community Center.
Pleasant Street Bridge over Pearl Brook:
The DPWDirector, the engineering firm, and I meton Thursday, September 12th to review theschedule ofthe
design, bidding, and construction phases for the repair of the Pleasant Street bridge over Pearl Brook. The design
phase through Mass Department of Transportation will take most of this fiscal year and the project is expectedto be
out to bid in the spring. The hope isthat construction will take place over the summer when school is not in session.
It is expected that we will need to close Pleasant Street during construction and will givenotice wellin advance
before construction commences. As yourecall, wereceived$380,000 fortherepair ofthisbridgethrough
MassDOT'sSmall Bridge Program.
Town Hall Chairlift
Asa follow-upto the action item that Chairman Alonzo brought upabout the Town Hall chairlift issue ofthedoor
to the chairliftgettingcaught up on therug on the first floor, I spokewiththeFacilities Director about it and he
relayed that the elevator company did come and shave down the bottom of thedoor so thatit nolonger stickson
the carpetof thefirstfloor access. Togo one step further, he is going to adjust the door hinge so that it is easierto
open from the inside of the chairlift and it will close more slowly.
===PAGE 6===
nat wilbelneraeam insliktalve. beginng dunng weekt, tespecrs wilbeg eding Opslags allu all the
households will betracked on ifnon-recyclable items were found in theircontainers. Thetotal length of the
program is nine weeks, with a goal of cutting our contamination in half.
ADA PROW Self-Evaluation and Transition Plan (TM Goal #3):
Relevantstaff, the Americans with Disabilities Committeemembers, and Imetwithstafffrom Montachusett
Regional Planning Commissionandengineers fromthefirm Stantecto discussthe work thatStantechasdone
to date in performinga Selt Evaluation and Inventory Analysısotallthe lown'ssidewalks, crosswalks, ramps,
andaccessible pedestriansignals aspartof an ADA Public Rights of Way project. Stantec's review took into
account 8 miles of sidewalks, the pedestrian ramp network, and the condition of the sidewalks, it there were
obstructions, or tripping hazards. They reviewed their preliminary results and theresultsofa survey that was doneto
indicate areas identified by respondents on where they would liketo see proposed new sidewalks that currently do
not exist.
Stantec has further work on this self-evaluation component and expectsto issue the findingsofthe Self-Evaluation
to us in a coupleof weeks. After the Self-Evaluation is finalized, there will bea public meeting in orderto getmore
inputon prioritizing futuresidewalk andramprepairlocationsandthat will help inform a fiveyear Transition Plan
to adress any portions of the network that are not ADA compliant. Thispublicmeeting will likely be at theend
of OctoberorbeginningofNovember.
ADA Self Evaluation and Transition Plan for Public Facilities and Parks (TM Goal #3):
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission is currently performing the ADA Self-Evaluation on public
facilities, including the schools. MRPC staff has worked with the Town's Facilities Director and School's Facilities
Directorto tour these buildings and completethe assessments. The Self-Evaluation isexpectedto becomplete in
approximately onemonth. Aspart ofcreating the Transition Plan forthe facilities and parks, a public meetingto
obtain input willalso be part of the process. A timeframe for this public meeting may be around the same timeframe
asthe PROW public meeting, but not on the same evening
Meetings and Other Annoncements:
Town Counsel OfficeHours for Septemberwillbe September23rd from noon until4p.m. and for October they will
be October 23rd from noon until 4 p.m.
attended the Dementia Friendly Action Team meetingand CapitalPlanning Committeemeeting today.
Iwill beattending the Regional Dispatch Administration Board Meeting tomorrow duringthe day and the Parks
Commission meeting tomorrow evening.
On Thursday, I will beattending a MA Municipal Managersmeeting in Devens and the Committee/Board
member Appreciation Reception Thursday evening.
Ms. Lemieux expressed a special thanks to Executive Assistant Elaine Peterson who coordinated the
Board member reception.
===PAGE 7===
the district.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To approve the request to fund the signs for the Architectural Preservation District
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo requested a map be provided to the Board on where the signs will be located
before they are placed
Vote: All in Favor
2. Right of First Refusal for 250 Howard Street- Removal from Chapter 61B
Ms. Lemieux reported the notice was sufficient according to town counsel and all appropriate parties
have been notified. It was also forwarded to the Open Space Committee. The Town has 120 days to
exercise its right of first refusal. Question was asked if the land could be subdivided. Ms. Lemieux did
not have that information. The Board will wait for feedback from the other notified boards.
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
The Board approved Minutes of August 13, 2019. The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $311,451.98, a deductions warrant in the amount of $167,816.57, and a payroll warrant in the
amount of $811,390.09.
Action Item: Ms. Adams asked if there had been any update from the state regarding the intersection at
Mass Ave and Electric Ave. for potential improvements. Ms. Lemieux stated the next step for the state
would be to conduct a traffic study but they are currently not doing that.
Committee Reports:
Mr. McQuaid reported Capital Planning met today. We finalized what we will be sending out to
department heads for submitting requests. New this year is a point system provided by the Collins
Center to quantify requests based on criteria to help with the decision making process.
Mr. Alonzo reported the town clock is back up and running after many months of waiting for it to be
repaired.
OLD BUSINESS (Continued)
1. Town Manager Performance Evaluation Procedure
Mr. Alonzo presented in writing what had been discussed at a previous meeting. He read aloud the
eleven steps of the procedure:
1. Each member of the Selectboard completes the Selectboard-approved Town Manager Evaluation Form.
2. Each member can, at the individual member's discretion, obtain feedback by speaking with individuals who
work for and/or with the Town Manager to be used when completing the Organizational Leadership and
Personnel Management segment of the evaluation instrument.
===PAGE 8===
Manager.
5. Once all the individual Selectboard members have met with the Town Manager, the completed evaluation
forms will be submitted to the Chair of the Selectboard for the purpose of writing the composite evaluation.
6. At an open meeting of the Selectboard, at which the Town Manager's evaluation is on the agenda, the
completed composite Town Manager Evaluation Form will be distributed to the entire Selectboard, the
Town Manager and entered into the public record.
7. The period between the release of the composite Town Manager Evaluation Form into the public record and
the discussion of said evaluation by the Selectboard at a subsequent, open Selectboard meeting, the
Selectboard members may review, in a controlled environment, the other members' individual evaluation
forms for the purpose of ascertaining whether the composite evaluation fairly and adequately reflects the
viewpoints of all the individual evaluations.
8. At no time are the individual evaluations to be entered into the public record either by having it read, in total
or in part, into the record OR by direct reference at an open meeting of the Selectboard.
9. At a later open meeting of the Selectboard, at which the Town Manager's evaluation is again on the agenda,
the composite Town Manager Evaluation Form will be discussed, modified (if necessary) and its acceptance
voted upon by the entire Selectboard.
10. Once approved, the composite evaluation will be discussed with the Town Manager and the Selectboard
members at an open meeting.
11. The approved composite evaluation will be placed in the Town Manager's personnel file and be part of the
public record.
Ms. Adams expressed concern about items #7,#8, #9. She preferred not to read other Board member's
input and would rather just discuss her own evaluation. She did not believe each Board member could
look at each other's evaluations and know what they should or shouldn't be saying in public. If we all
see our own voice in the composite, then we know it's complete.
Mr. McQuaid agreed at the time that he did not feel the need to read anyone else's evaluation. If other
people are going to do it, then I certainly will as well so I have that information. While he did not agree
with that step on the process, he did not believe there was anything wrong with the way it is laid out.
Mr. Jeffreys understood what Ms. Adams was saying but believed it was somewhat of an exercise that
we have to demonstrate. Working with the board members, I see the value in having some insight into
how you perceive someone that that I also develop perceptions of. That will help me to understand to
work better with you. Discussion about how the process would work ensued, keeping statements general
and not referring to specific evaluations or statements.
===PAGE 9===
do Discuss about arties for 11/12/19 special 1 own Iviceling
Ms. Lemieux reported the following were placeholders so far for special town meeting:
• Budget adjustment article for the current fiscal year
• Approval of the collective bargaining agreement first year pay increases
• Purchase of 250 Howard Street property
• Acceptance of Butterfly Lane as a town road would be another article
• Additional liquor licenses for the town
The Board reviewed the information provided by town counsel regarding petitioning the legislature to
exceed the town quota for additional liquor licenses. Discussion ensued around whether to request for
one specific business or just for general application by anyone.
Suggestion was made to request two licenses, and one can be specifically for Lanni Orchards and the
other unnamed.
Motion: D. MeQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To petition for two separate beer and wine off premise licenses; one for Lanni Orchards and the
other unnamed
Vote: All in Favor
• Potential purchase of the property located at 635 Mass Ave
This property is located in front of the public safety building and would allow a second egress from the
public safety building lot.
• Chapter 81 about annual town meetings and submission of warrant articles and the 42nd day
before the town meeting which is a Saturday (when Town Hall is closed).
Ms. Lemieux recommended the wording to state the 60 day based on the town meeting schedule. It
allows additional time for town counsel review, making recommendations and meeting printing and
mailing deadlines. Discussion ensued on the ramifications of how this would affect filing articles.
General consensus of the Board was 47 days and adjusting board meetings.
Motion: D. MeQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To approve inclusion of the above listed articles presented by Town Manager for the special town
meeting warrant
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: K. Adams
2n: M. Jeffreys
To create a non-binding article for demolition of the old Primary School
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated this is a good opportunity to get some input from residents. Mr.
McQuaid noted a non-binding vote from people who are not necessarily going to be the same people.
who might be there when you are trying to get a real vote is just a straw poll. Ms. Luck agreed with him
because she did not think they had enough information. Mr. Alonzo did not object to placing the article
on the warrant but did not know how much data we can get from that. He did state he would be speaking
to the Town Moderator to keep discussion to a minimum on this article.
Vote: 3 in favor, 2 against (Luck, McQuaid)
===PAGE 10===
Mr. Jeffreys noted after being on this Board for a few months he thought they were making a lot of
progress but he did not like 3-2 or 4-1 votes. But, he appreciated that they all expressed their opinions
and agreed to disagree at times and we keep moving forward
Mr. Alonzo appreciated the comment and thought it was good that we all try to work together and listen
to each other for all these things.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 10:16 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 11===
Rank
Project Name
(Street and
Infrastructure
Improvement)
Main Street & Oak
Avenue - Sidewalk
Connection
Vilage Area -
Improved Pedestrian
Crossing from Ritter
Building to Town Hall
Village Area -
Memorial Drive
Improvements
Lunenburg Complete Streets - Tier 3 Application
Alternative 1
Project Details
Infrastructure Codes
Network Gap Modes Served Crash Location
Project Description (brief narrative about the
project need, condition of infrastructure, and how
a network gap or safety issue will be addressed).
Is a Network
Complete Streets Project
Type
Gap being
filled? See
(refer to the Eligible
Instructions
Projects Worksheet)
Pedestrian
Transit
tonicio/Sre
Is the project
located in a
High Crash
location?
Further discuss
the Safety Need
in Exhibit A and
indicate data
source.
Complete Streets - Safety - Mobility - Equity
Specify Safety Countermeasures
Roundabout/Mini Traffic Circle
Crossine Islanc
Pedestrian Hybrid Beacon (HAWK)
Pedestrian-Activated Warnine Device
Road Diet
Lane Narrowing
Pedestrian Signal Upprade
Sidewalk
Shared Use Path/Separated Bike Lane
On-road Bike Lane
Raised Intersection or Crossing
ntersertion Reconctriiction
Tighten Curb Radii/ Curb Extension
Transit Improvement
Reconstruction of this intersection to reduce turning
P2. ADA compliant curb
radil, calm traffic, and improve sight distance for vehicles ramps
and pedestrians. Construct missing sidewalk connection P3. Detectable warning
between Oak Street and Main Street to allow for safe
surface
pedestrian passage. Work includes excavation, base
P5. Providing new sidewalks
gravels, asphalt, curbing, fill and loam and seed
P9. Crosswalks
necessary for the construction of 100 linear feet of 5-foot S6. Reducing corner radii to
wide sidewalk. Other project components include
lower vehicle speeds
installation of (4) ADA ramps with detectable warning
S13. Intersection
plates; and (4) pedestrian crossing signs (MUTCD R1-
reconstruction - reducing
5).
complexity
SO. Traffic & Safety
Construct missing sidewalk connection to allow for safe
TP2. ADA compliant curb
pedestrian passage from Ritter Building to Town Hall.
ramps
Work includes excavation, base gravels, asphalt and
P3. Detectable warning
relocation of plantings where necessary to construct 75
surface
linear feet of 5-foot wide sidewalk through the existing
P5. Providing new sidewalks
park located between Massachusetts Avenue and Town
Hall. Other project components include (1) pedestrian
P9. Crosswalks
crosswalk with signs (MUTCD R1-5); (1) ADA ramps
with detectable warning plates; and relocation of (1)
utility pole.
Construct missing sidewalk connection along Memorial
P2. ADA compliant curb
Drive to allow for safe pedestnan passage from Main
ramps
Street to Senior Center and Public Playground. Work
P3. Detectable warning
includes excavation, base gravels, asphalt, curbing, fill.
surface
loam and seed and drainage improvements necessary
P5. Providing new sidewalks
to accommodate the construction of 500 linear feet of 5-
foot wide sidewalk. Project also includes the
construction of a pedestrian crossing across Main
Street, including painted crosswalk with flashing
beacons and (2) ADA ramps with detectable warning
plates. Other project components include painted
crosswalk across Memorial Drive for safe passage to
Church, installation of (2) ADA ramps with detectable
warning plates; and (2) pedestrian crossing signs
(MUTCD B1-51
SRTS
Does this
project
improve
safety or
accessibility
within one
mile of a
school?
SRR
Does
proj
improve
or acces
within 1
of a Se
destina
===PAGE 12===
Rank
Project Details
Infrastructure Codes
Project Name
(Street and
intrastrucure
improvement
Project Description (brief narrative about the
project need, condition of infrastructure, and how
a network gap or safety issue will be addressed).
Complete Streets
Project Type
reten to the eigible
Projects Worksheet)
Lunenburg Complete Streets - Tier 3 Application
Alternative 2
Network Gap Modes Served Crash Location
Is a Network
Gap being
filled? Sec
Instructions
Bicycle
Pedestrian
Is the project
Locked he
High Crash
location?
Further discuss
the Safe Need
in Exhibit A and
indicate data
source.
Complete Streets - Safety - Mobility - Equity
Roundabout/Mini Traffic Circle
Spect sater countermeasurec
Pedestrian Hybrid Beacon (HAWK
Pedestrian-Activated Warning Device
Road Diet
verY for Yes
Pedestrian Signal Upgrade
Sidewall
Shared Use Path/Separated Bike Land
On-rosd Bike Lane
Raised intersection or Crossing
Intersection Reconstruction
iphten Curb Radil/ Curb Extension
cave dian.
SRTS
SRFS
Transit Improvement
Does this
Does this
project
project
improve
improve satety Environme
safety or
or accessibility
al Justice
accessibility
within one
Within 1/4 mile
of a Senior
Populatio
Served?
mile of a
destination?
school?
Whaiom Road
Area/Town Beach -
General Corridor
Improvements
Construct missing sidewalk connection between Electric B3, Bicycle parking fixtures
Avenue and Lunenburg Town Beach to allow for safe
P2. ADA compliant curb
pedestrian passage. Work includes excavation, base
gravels, asphalt and loam and seed necessary for the
construction of 900 linear feet of 5-foot wide sidewalk
from Electric Avenue to an existing sidewalk on Lake
Front Avenue and for the construction of 1,200 linear
P3. Detectable warning
surface
P5. Providing new sidewalks
P9. Crosswalks
feet of 5-foot wide sidewalk along the south side of
Prospect Street from the existing sidewalk on Lake
Front Avenue to Lunenburg Town Beach. Other project
components include installation of (4) ADA ramps with
detectable warning plates; (1) pedestrian crosswalk with
signs (MUTCD R1-5) from Kimball Street; "No Parking"
signs (MUTCD R7-200) on the north side of Prospect
Street: restriping of Prospect Street centerline to allow
for on-street parking on south side of Prospect Street;
and on-street bicycle parking fixtures near Town Beach
===PAGE 13===
for a total of 139 licenses. In response to your questions, the data suggest that: (1) yes, the
legislature routinely increases the quota where there isn't a named licensee; and (2) though roughly
66% of the petitions granted were for a single, named package store, convenience/grocery store, or
restaurant, the legislature seems to have no problem granting multiple licenses in a single petition
for existing businesses or businesses yet to be named. The following breakdowns of the data are
instructive:
Iype of entity to whom the additional license is granted:
12 Convenience/Grocery Stores
4 Package Stores
5 Restaurants
1 Arcade
2 Theaters
4 Individual Business Entities (e.g., LLC, real estate investment trust, etc.)
20 Businesses yet to be named (general increase in the quota)
91 Businesses yet to be named that are restricted to specific zones or districts (this includes
downtown areas, areas along a major highway, "target commercial areas," economic development
zones," and "business districts")
Range of licenses granted in single petition: 1-20
...
Alex
MIna
Alexander M. Castro
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC
30 Green Street • Newburyport, Massachusetts • 01950
Phone 978.463.7700 • Fax 978.463.7747
alex@mtclawyers.com. www.mtclawyers.com
