===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Clerk; Katey Adams,
Member
Not present: Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Jim
Marino, Police Chief
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club Pancake Breakfast was tomorrow morning from 8:30 -10:30
a.m. at Eagle House Senior Center
She read aloud a letter from Carl Luck....
Thank you for allowing Phyllis to read my public comment due to my need to be at another committee
meeting tonight. I was very encouraged at a recent Finance Committee budget review meeting to hear the
Town Manager reported that there is, and I quote, "a lot of effort to examine the alternative" to
replacing the gas and diesel tanks. It was also reported that both Chiefs, the DPW Director and the Town
Manager are working on this. The Finance Committee Chair also stated that two members were also
investigating the cost side of this issue and offered for them to play a more integral role in this
investigation. I was less encouraged by the Town Manager's somewhat lukewarm acceptance of this
offer. As pleased as I was to hear all this, I still have three concerns and one suggestion that I hope are
given serious consideration by the Town Manager:
1. It sounds like the ongoing investigation is focused on "the alternative", a single program offered by
WEX Inc. that was brought to the Town's attention by a resident which has been used by Fitchburg since
2016. I would hope that whoever the task force is, that they would be chartered to look at all feasible
alternatives and perhaps a combination of several to provide redundancy as needed.
2. To ask the same three department heads, and Town Manager, to perform a cost benefits analysis on a
proposed alternate solution that they have already evaluated and recommended against may not be the
most effective way to get all of the facts and issues into the analysis.
3. As the outcome of this investigation into both cost and risk mitigation will be a direct result of what
questions are asked, who is contacted, and finally a distillation of the data, there could be important new
questions and ideas raised when the report and recommendations are made public. This could cause
unnecessary conflict between the team and the citizens and delay or sink this capital request altogether.
To address these concerns, 1 would respectfully suggest that at least two citizens who would be advocates
for an alternate solution be added to the task force gathering the data. Without this, concerned residents
would have no alternative than to independently do their own investigation which would mostly be
===PAGE 2===
Uj course, y this or somerning simuar has atreaay been constarea ana actea on by ine town Manager,
that is great and I only regret not having the opportunity to volunteer my time and experience to this
important work.
Ms. Lemieux requested a copy of the statement so she could review the request. Ms. Lemieux
commented in response to comments made by Selectman Luck at the public comment periods
during the March 5* Selectmen meeting and the March 7"' Finance Committee meeting,
regarding two positions in the FY2020 Preliminary budget. She noted next year she will present
a briefing to the Board prior to the preliminary budget presentation. The process can be improved
and she will work towards that goal. She added she had sent out a detailed budget message to
both Finance and the Board of Selectmen on February 12' days prior to my preliminary budget
presentation to the Finance Committee that highlighted the new positions in the budget and did
not receive any comments at the next meeting on February 19t
' Also, the Board was purposely
posted for February 19th but only the chairman was able to attend. I followed the process that is
outlined in the Town Charter, the same as I have done in the last two budget cycles and the role
of the Town Manager is to present a budget that is reflects the needs of the departments that I
administer as Chief Administrative Officer. My goal has and will continue to be to present a
fiscally responsible budget that reflects the needs of all the departments against what is
responsible and find efficiencies where possible. I would ask that any Board member that has a
concern to speak to me about it first and not speak about it publicly first. I have the same goals as
the members of the Board and that is to provide a level of professionalism and to perform my job
in the best interests of the Town.
Mr. Toale stated he was really dismayed with an awful lot of public comment and public
criticism of volunteer town people in various capacities and paid town people in public knowing
that a lot of these issues haven't been worked privately, brought to somebody's attention and the
people given an opportunity to respond to them. It's really disappointing to look at a town our
size where neighbors come forward to do their jobs as best as they can and paid professionals get
hired to do their job by screening committees and then to have folks snipe at each other in public
as opposed to working together to support the town and our objectives.
Pete and Deb Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Drive, announced the Baseball 2018 World Champion
Trophy will be coming to Lunenburg. It will be here on Sunday, April 7" from 2:30 -4:30 p.m. at
Eagle House Senior Center. This will be a fundraiser for the Eagle House and it is being
sponsored by the Eagle House Supporters. For five dollars, you can have your photo taken with
the trophy for the entire family. Bring your own camera.
Clarence Floyd, 720 Goodrich Street, commented on the concept of the Annual Town Meeting
being conducted over two days. Some people think it should be two successive Saturdays rather
than the Monday following the Saturday. People have to work or may be working. A suggestion
was made to put the important articles on Saturday.
===PAGE 3===
restrooms also.
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the Lunenburg Arts Festival for Saturday June 8, with a rain date of Sunday
June 9th
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux explained Facilities Director Londa has approached her about renting the TC
Passios and the rental fee was to cover the cost of the custodian. Ms. Brzozoski thanked the
Board
Borrego Solar PILOT Proposal for 190 Electric Ave.
Josh Farkes of Borrego Solar stated he was representing a new project that is working its way for
approval through the Town. We have received our Planning Board permit and are still working
with the Conservation Commission. He recently learned a Solar PILOT agreement was
scheduled on the upcoming Annual Town meeting warrant and wanted to see if there was an
opportunity for Borrego to replicate that same PILOT agreement. He reviewed it and was fine
with the terms in the agreement. He provided a red-lined copy that basically changes nothing
more than the company, property address, system size and all that. He offered to provide a
cleaner digital version. He asked if there were any questions about the project or if there was
anything he needs to do.
Ms. Lemieux stated the PILOT you see before you has the same terms and language that was
used and recently approved with Nexamp for the Northfield Road property. This would still need
to go to Town Meeting to seek approval for the Board to negotiate terms of a PILOT.
Motion: P. Luck
2"d: K. Adams
To place a warrant article on the Annual Town Meeting warrant for a PILOT agreement
with Borrego Solar
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Frakes thanked the Board. Ms. Lemieux stated the Annual Town Meeting is May 4*h.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Cultural Council Appointment-Stephanie Karlson, 674 Flat Hill Road
Ms. Carlson stated she would like to be on the Cultural Council because she is an artist and
would like to be more connected in town. She works as an Art Therapist.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To appoint Stephanie Carlson to the Cultural Council with a term to expire June 30, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 4===
rate on electricity and for the first 45 days this will only be open to Lunenburg residents. The
informational sessions will be on Wednesday, April 10th at 6:30 p.m. location at the Lunenburg
MS/HS Collaborative Room and Saturday, April 13th at 10 a.m. in the Library.
Donation of Memorial Bench for Whalom Lakefront
The family of Mr. Lionel Edes has donated a granite bench in his memory to be installed on the
WhalomLakefront. Mr. Edes was a lifelong resident of Lunenburg for almost 56 years before he
passed on February 23, 2019. As Mr. Edes fished on Lake Whalom, the children of Mr. Edes all
worked at Whalom Park growing up, and Mr. Edes' wife walked along that lakefront on a daily
basis for years therefore the Whalom Lakefront has special meaning for the Edes family. The
DPW has offered to install the bench at a date to be determined.
Red Sox World Series Trophy Coming to the Eagle House
2018 Red Sox World Series Trophy Coming to the Eagle House Senior Community Center!
Sunday April 1, 2019; 2:30-4:30PM
$5 admission per family gets you in so you can snap a picture using your own camera with the
trophy! All proceeds will benefit the Eagle House Supporters Inc. The Eagle House Supporters
are the 501c3 fundraising group who provide funding for programs at the senior center such as
the Memory Café, furniture, kitchen supplies, arts and crafts instructors, writing classes, and
health/wellness programs. People of all ages and from surrounding communities are welcome to
come!
Save the Date! Dementia Friendly Kick-Off Event
Monday May 20#h at 3:00 PM at the Lunenburg Library
This will be the big kick-off event for announcing that Lunenburg is in the process of becoming
a recognized Dementia Friendly Community. Town officials, public, and legislators will be
invited to attend, as well as an invitation to the Governor's Office and the Mass Council on
Aging and Executive Office of Elder Affairs.
Meetings:
AT&T FirstNet Presentation: I attended a meeting today at the Dispatch Center in Devens for
a presentation on FirstNet, which is a dedicated communications network tool that was created
for and by public safety after 9/11. The Federal Government put out a RFP to create this network
and AT&T was the only bidder and awarded the contract in 2017. Since then every State has
chosen to opt in and this is another option exclusively for public safety. Chief Sullivan and IT
Director Steve Malandrinos also attended the presentation.
Finance Committee has budget meetings with the DPW at 7:00 p.m. and Lunenburg Public
Schools at 8:00 p.m. this Thursday in the Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room in Town Hall.
NVRDD Negotiations: I will be attending a Dispatch Negotiation session on March 14th.
===PAGE 5===
• In November 2018 and February 2019 BOS Meetings discussed FY20 budget priorities and
utilizing available tax levy
• Town Manager sent target budgets to departments in December 2018 due back on January 10,
2019
• Capital Planning Committee finalized FY20 Plan in January
• Per Section 6-7 of the Town Charter: The Town Manager presents FY20 Capital Plan and
FY20-FY24 Five Year Financial Forecast at the end of January 2019.
• The FY20 Budget Message was sent out to the Finance Committee and BOS on February 12th
and summary published newspaper on February 15th
• Per Section 6-3 of the Town Charter: The Town Manager presents a Preliminary FY20 Budget
by mid-February (February 14th).
FY2020 Target Budget Highlights
• General Govt.: $60K for an Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, $8K increase for updates to
General Code
• Police- $80k for additional Patrol Officer
• Fire - $58k for additional Career Firefighter
• Regional Dispatch- $25K assessment increase
• DPW- $50K for Pavement Management; additional $40K for Facilities; $45k tor F1
Recreation Director
• Recycling Program: $65K due to recycling market changes
• Lunenburg Public Schools-$504K for a 2.5% increase
• Monty Tech Assessment- $20K for a 2.5% increase
• Health Insurance-$186K or 8% increase
FY2020 Above Target Highlights:
• General Govt.: $8K more than target for additional funds for election, census and registration
workers
• Police- Reduction of $5k from target budget figure
• Fire - additional $92k more than target to hire Career Firefighter, associated costs, Training for
Paramedic & only funds OT at 44%
• Radio Watch- $38k for weekend coverage for Desk Officer at PSB
• DPW- $60K for Stormwater related costs
• Lunenburg Public Schools - Total original request +629K over target to fund Superintendent/
School Committee Recommended Budget (5.9% increase as of end of December).
FY2020 TM Preliminary Budget on February 14th:
• General Govt.: Funds the target and above target requests for Asst. Town Manager/HR
===PAGE 6===
• Recycling- $62K due to recycling market changes
• Health Insurance- Reduced to max. of 5% increase or $116,183 increase.
• Monty Tech- Preliminary recommendation 2.5% increase.
• Lunenburg Public Schools - Preliminary recommendation 2.5% increase; due to the reduction
in health insurance figure from 8% to 5%, the School "level service" request is now a 3.04%
increase or $109K more than target budget and Supt. Recommended budget is 5.5% increase or
$600K more than target budget.
Updates to the FY2020 TM Preliminary Budget since February 14th:
• General Govt.- Increase of $13K for Assessors software
• Regional Dispatch- Assessment $3K higher than preliminary estimate
• Health Insurance- Actual renewal decreased by 2.45% =-$64K
• Monty Tech- Assessment decreased by 4.8% = -$60K • Lunenburg Public Schools - Due to the
2.45% decrease in health insurance from 5% to -2.45%, the School "level service" request is
now a 2.14% increase and the TM target budget exceeds the level service budget by $74K and
the Superintendent's Recommended budget is a 4.2% increase or $334k more than target
budget. In the process of providing the School an updated figure given the decreases in other
areas.
FY20 Personnel Highlights:
• HR Director/Assistant Town Manager- Adds a Regular PT HR Director/Assistant Town
Manager (approx. 28 hours/week). Recommending based on priority need and create greater
efficiencies.
• Library- Additional 2 hours a week for one of the staff librarians.
• Police- Additional Police Officer that follows 10 year long term plan.
• Fire- Increases OT costs to more adequately address shift coverages. Still on target with 4 year
plan since two firefighters hired in FY19.
• Parks- Adds a seasonal Parks Director (19 hours/week). Based on absence of any paid staff to
perform administrative functions and programming needs of the Parks Commission.
Process for New Positions:
• HR Director/Assistant TM- Per Salary Administration Plan (SAP) Dept. Head (Town
Manager) would propose new job description and proposed compensation/classification to the
Personnel Committee, that if approved, would need to be voted at a town meeting to be added
to the SAP Salary Grid.
• Library- Additional hours added upon approval of Omnibus Budget at Town Meeting. • Police-
Posting of position per Collective Bargaining Agreement.
• Parks- Per SAP Dept. Head (DPW Director) would propose new job description and proposed
compensation/classification to the Personnel Committee, that if approved, would need to be
===PAGE 7===
budget cuts. Ms. Adams asked how did this Assistant Town Manager position come up? Ms.
Lemieux stated it was identified by herself as a priority need. Ms. Luck stated when the Land
Use Director position was created, it was presented that the position would include Assistant
Town Manager. Ms. Lemieux stayed that has never been instituted.
Ms. Adams suggested perhaps a volunteer could take on some of the duties that Ms. Lemieux has
been unable to accomplish at a cost savings for the town. We already have an Executive
Assistant. Mr. Toale stated we are not looking for volunteers to do town work. Ms. Luck added
the 28/week position is benefited, so adds to costs of OPEB and health insurance benefit costs
for the town too. Ms. Adams preferred seeing more police officers and EMTS. Mr. Toale noted
the role of the Board of Selectmen is governance not management. Ms. Lemieux stated the HR
Director is not a position for a volunteer due to the confidentiality involved. Ms. Luck suggested
the School HR Director could be used or take some of the people who work at Town Hall work
on Fridays without adding another person. Ms. Lemieux stated this is a pattern she had noticed of
continuing to add more responsibilities to a position, including the Land Use Director. The Land
Use Director is a full-time position in itself.
Motion: K. Adams
2ed: P. Luck
That the Board of Selectmen not support the Assistant Town Manager position without
evidence that it is truly not something we can accomplish without other means
Mr. Toale noted the Board has an agreement that when we make important decisions we try to do
it with the full Board being present. He requested that we don't act on that motion. Ms. Adams
asked if that was a formal policy. Mr. Toale did not believe it was in the best interest of the
Board without the full Board being present and having a discussion. It is not listed as an agenda
item to make a decision on staffing that is not in our realm but...he called for a vote.
Vote: 2- in favor, 1 opposed (Toale)
Ms. Lemieux asked if this was also for the Parks Director and the Library hours. Ms. Adams
stated no just for the Asst. Town Manager. Ms. Luck stated there has been nothing provided to
articulate what the cost of each position will be for the town as was provided in the past for a
firefighter. Ms. Lemieux noted that was a different position with more cost involved. She expects
the same amount of rigor to go into any position that you are suggesting. Ms. Adams stated we
are discussing a budget it was discouraging that the Town Manager and Chairman were being
confrontational with herself and Ms. Luck just thinking about costs. Ms. Lemieux stated she was
discouraged by the lack of support by a recommendation for a need that she has identified for the
Town.
Mr. Toale asked Ms. Luck and Ms. Adams if they thought it was the role of the Board to get
down to detail when we have paid professionals to manage the Town. Ms. Luck and Ms. Adams
stated yes. Mr. Toale stated we disagree totally on the role of the Board. Ms. Luck stated she
wanted more detail on the pay and other costs. Ms. Lemieux stated she had stated earlier that the
Personnel Board sets the pay scale. Further discussion on process of creating a position ensued.
===PAGE 8===
serious need. Ms. Lemieux stated she meets with her department heads regularly and perhaps
sees the need(s) from a different perspective. Further discussion ensued about the specific
responsibilities of an HR Director.
2. Discussion about Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
The Board reviewed the first draft of the Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles. Discussion
ensued on policy regarding making decisions without a full Board present. Dave Passios, 56
Whiting Street, stated in regards to the vote taken earlier that is a blatant disregard for Open
Meeting Law. If you read the agenda (Current Business #1 Presentation and Discussion on Town
Manager's Preliminary Budget), there is nothing there that states a vote may be taken as indicated
elsewhere in the other agenda items. Mr. Toale stated he would look into that.
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the articles:
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the
Town Officers and Committees,
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to amend the general by-laws of Town by replacing
the current table that establishes the annual revolving funds with the table as printed in the
Annual Town Meeting warrant,
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments,
boards, committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44,
Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2019 to be expended in accordance with the
by-law heretotore approved,
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money for payment of prior year expenses,
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2019 Budget, under Article 7 of the
May 5, 2018 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 13, 2018 Special Town
Meeting,
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from
available funds a sum of money for the FY 2020 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital
Planning Committee Report,
===PAGE 9===
the Charter changed.
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for EX 2020 and to fix
the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in
the budget of the Town Manager,
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in Article AV,
Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws with FY 2020 Salary Schedule as
recommended by the Personnel Committee which authorizes a cost of living increase for Fiscal
Year 2020, for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or
individual contract and to authorize a COLA increase for Fiscal Years 2021 and FY2022,
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money to the Stabilization Fund,
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money into the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund,
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010
Special Town Meeting,
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2020,
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds the sum of $27,521
into the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund,
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds a sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY
2020,
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transter from avallable
funds a sum of money to operate the Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for FX 2020,
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to establish, under Chapter 44, §53F ½, a PEG
Access Enterprise Fund, and transfer in to such fund all funds remaining in the PEG Access and
===PAGE 10===
(PEG) Access and Cable Related Fund Revenues the sum of $152,000 to fund the PEG Access
Committee FY20 operating budget,
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate from the Comcast Tech Capital
Grant fund the sum of $120,000 to fund the PEG Access Committee FY20 capital budget,
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of $35,000 from the Sale of
Cemetery lots account to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town
Cemeteries,
ARTICLE 21. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to negotiate and
enter into a payments in lieu of tax agreement ("PILOT") pursuant to the provisions of M.G.L.
Chapter 59, Section 38H (b), and Chapter 164, Section 1, or any other enabling authority,
between the Town and Borrego Solar, Inc. or its successors or assigns, for real property and /or
personal property attributable to solar photovoltaic facilities to be installed and operated in the
Town of Lunenburg on land located at 190 Electric Avenue and as shown on Assessor's Map 77,
Parcel 14 for a term of 20 years and on such terms and conditions and for such consideration as
the Board of Selectmen deems appropriate and further to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
take such action as may be necessary to carry out the vote taken hereunder;
ARTICLE 22. To see it the Town will vote to transter the care, custody, and control of the land
and/or buildings known as the old Primary School Building, located at 30 School Street, shown
on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board
of Selectmen for general purposes and for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board
of Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest or any portion thereon, or to lease the property, on
such terms and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town,
and to execute any and all agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of
the properties and any portion thereof and to authorize and /or reauthorize the Board of
Selectmen to sell and /or lease the parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in
any manner said parcels and/or buildings situated and /or take any legal action necessary to
effectuate the sale, lease, subdivision, and/or transfer of said land and buildings situated thereon,
ARTICLE 23. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the
building known as the Brooks House, located at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on
Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of
Selectmen for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell the
building situated thereon, and take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale of said
building situated thereon,
===PAGE 11===
funds a sum of money for the design and engineering to consolidate town offices, school offices
and community space at the building and land known as the TC Passios, located at 1079
Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental and
related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation, engineering and final design services,
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify Section
250-4.1 by inserting 250-4.10(1-6), to delete Section 250-4.15 Temporary Moratorium on Sale
and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana and replace it with Section 250-4.15 Non-Medical
Marijuana Establishments,
ARTICLE 27. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-
4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(1) Marijuana Cultivator,
NON-MEDICAL
4.10
MARIJUANA USES
4.10(1)
Marijuana cultivator'
3. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana cultivators, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within
the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers. Said prohibition
shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or special Town election.
4.10(1) "Marijuana cultivator",
, an entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana, to deliver
marijuana to marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana to other marijuana establishments, but
not to consumers.
ARTICLE 28. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-
4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(2) Marijuana Product Manufacturer,
NON-MEDICAL
4.10
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/1
R
VCD
SS
TT
Marijuana product
manufacturer'
4.10(2)
-
4. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana product manufacturers, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1,
are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana
Treatment Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a
regular or special Town election.
4.10(2) "Marijuana product manufacturer",
", an entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process
and package marijuana and marijuana products, to deliver marijuana and marijuana products to
marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana
establishments, but not to consumers.
===PAGE 12===
prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment
Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or
special Town election.
4.10(3) "Marijuana testing facility", an entity licensed to test marijuana and marijuana products,
including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants.
ARTICLE 30. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-
4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(4) Marijuana Retailer;
4.10
NON-MEDICAL
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/L
R
VCD
SS
4.10(4)
Marijuana retailer°
6. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana retailers, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited
within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.
Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or special Town
election.
4.10(4) "Marijuana retailer"
', an entity licensed to purchase and deliver marijuana and marijuana
products from marijuana establishments and to deliver, sell or otherwise transfer marijuana and
marijuana products to marijuana establishments and to consumers.
ARTICLE 31. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-
4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(5) Marijuana Retailer;
NON-MEDICAL
4.10
MARIJUANA USES
W
4.10(5)
Marijuana transporter
7. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana transporter, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are
prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment
Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or
special Town election.
4.10(5) "Marijuana Transporter" an entity, not otherwise licensed by the Commission, that is
licensed to purchase, obtain, and possess cannabis or marijuana product solely for the purpose of
transporting, temporary storage, sale and distribution to Marijuana Establishments, but not to
consumers. Marijuana Transporters may be an Existing Licensee Transporter or Third Party
Transporter.
===PAGE 13===
prohibited within the lown of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marjuana reatment
Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or
special Town election.
4.10(6) "Marijuana Researcher Facility" an entity licensed to cultivate, purchase, or otherwise
acquire marijuana for the purpose of conducting research regarding marijuana products.
ARTICLE 33. To see if the Town will vote to accept G.L. c. 64N, § 3 to impose an excise on
the retail sales of marijuana for adult use at the rate of 3 percent of the total sales price received
by marijuana retailers as a consideration of the sale of marijuana or marijuana products;
ARTICLE 34. Citizen's Petition to Rezone 131 Leominster-Shirley Road
ARTICLE 35. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen
to petition the General Court for the enactment of a special legislation revising
the Lunenburg Home Rule Charter adopted at the Town Election held in 1999
and filed in the office of the archivist of the commonwealth as provided in
section 12 of chapter 43B of the General Laws, and amended by the town on
May 3, 2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
General Court on October 8, 2009, in the following manner:
1. Make certain other grammatical and phrasing changes that do not alter
the meaning or intent of existing provisions, as well as updating
requirements of the open meeting law to comply with state law.,
and to authorize the charter review committee to submit to the General Court for enactment as
the Revised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the proposed legislation contained in the Final
Report of the Charter Review Committee 2018, copies of which were placed on file in the office
of the Board of Selectmen and the office of the Town Clerk and copies of which were made
available for public distribution at the office of the Board of Selectmen, the office of the Town
Clerk at the Town Hall, at the main circulation desk of the Lunenburg Public Library and on the
town website forthwith following such filing. Said Charter Review Committee is further
authorized to consult with the members of the General Court and is hereby authorized to approve
such changes or alteration to the draft text of the special legislation as may be suggested by the
General Court if any;
ARTICLE 36. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
petition the General Court for the enactment of a special legislation revising the
Lunenburg Home Rule Charter adopted at the Town Election held in 1999 and
filed in the office of the archivist of the commonwealth as provided in section
12 of chapter 43B of the General Laws, and amended by the town on May 3,
2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the General
Court on October o, 2009, in the tollowing manner:
1. Providing that persons appointed to town committees be residents registered to vote in
===PAGE 14===
5. Clarifying the duties of the town manager relating to personnel
management, jurisdiction over town facilities, property and day to day
operations, the budget process and enforcement of charter provisions and
town by-laws.
6. Providing more specifics in the process for removal and
suspension of the town manager. and to authorize the charter review
committee to submit to the General Court for enactment as the
Revised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the proposed legislation
contained in the Final Report of the Charter Review Committee 2018, copies
of which were placed on file in the office of the Board of Selectmen and the
office of the Town Clerk and copies of which were made available for public
distribution at the office of the Board of Selectmen, the office of the Town
Clerk at the Town Hall, at the main circulation desk of the Lunenburg Public
Library and on the town website forthwith following such filing. Said
Charter Review Committee is further authorized to consult with the members
of the General Court and is hereby authorized to approve such changes or
alteration to the draft text of the special legislation as may be suggested by
the General Court if any,
ARTICLE 37. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
petition the General Court for the enactment of a special legislation revising the
Lunenburg Home Rule Charter adopted at the Town Election held in 1999 and
filed in the office of the archivist of the commonwealth as provided in section
12 of chapter 43B of the General Laws, and amended by the town on May 3,
2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the General
Court on October 8, 2009, in the following manner:
1. Change the name of the board of selectmen to select board.
and to authorize the charter review committee to submit to the General Court
for enactment as the Revised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the proposed
legislation contained in the Final Report of the Charter Review Committee
2018, copies of which were placed on file in the office of the Board of
Selectmen and the office of the Town Clerk and copies of which were made
available for public distribution at the office of the Board of Selectmen, the
office of the Town Clerk at the Town Hall, at the main circulation desk of the
Lunenburg Public Library and on the town website forthwith following such
filing. Said Charter Review Committee is further authorized to consult with the
members of the General Court and is hereby authorized to approve such
changes or alteration to the draft text of the special legislation as may be
===PAGE 15===
LUVU
....
Court on October 8, 2009, in the following manner:
1. Change the manner of selection of the town clerk from elected to
appointed by the Town Manager subject to ratification by the Board of
Selectmen.
and to authorize the charter review committee to submit to the General
Court for enactment as the Revised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the
proposed legislation contained in the Final Report of the Charter Review
Committee 2018, copies of which were placed on file in the office of the
Board of Selectmen and the office of the Town Clerk and copies of which
were made available for public distribution at the office of the Board of
Selectmen, the office of the Town Clerk at the Town Hall, at the main
circulation desk of the Lunenburg Public Library and on the town website
forthwith following such filing. Said Charter Review Committee is further
authorized to consult with the members of the General Court and is hereby
authorized to approve such changes or alteration to the draft text of the
special legislation as may be suggested by the General Court if any.
Ms. Lemieux stated she anticipated one more article from Planning Board
and possibly other citizen petitions. The Board discussed the ordering of
the articles. The Board tabled discussion of Old Business agenda item # 2
(Discussion on holding the Annual Town Meeting over two days) and #3
(Discussion on town building articles for the Annual Town Meeting) until
the next meeting.
3. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board approved Minutes of February 19, 2019. The Board signed an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $172,820.99.
Action File Issues: Ms. Luck reminded about the "vote may be taken" on the agenda issue.
There were no committee or department reports.
Mr. Toale stated we are scheduled to meet with the focus group on March 19th. Times available
are 10:00 am or 1:00 pm. The next Board of Selectmen regular business meeting is on March
19t" as well.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he actually started advocating for this a year ago and he
was concerned about the earlier discussion related to not being willing to hire new personnel. We
are one of the fastest growing towns in the state and we are not growing the entities that run this
===PAGE 16===
Motion:K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn the meeting after exiting Executive Session:
Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30 § 21, Reason #6, to consider the purchase, exchange, taking,
lease, or value of real property if such discussion may have a detrimental effect on the
negotiating position of the governmental body (conservation land) and to adjourn
immediately afterwards
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Toale-aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:42 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive to the Town Manager
