===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of selectmen present, Jamie toale, Chairman, Damon micquaid, Vice chairman, Phyllis Luck,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Muir Haman, Library Director; Sue Doherty, COA
Director; Michelle Belleza, Executive Director of the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club
Council on Aging Members: Diane Nowd, Sarah Grant, Cheryl Moison, Jane Rabbitt, Barbara Brown
Mr. Toale opened the meeting at 10:00 a.m.
Mr. Toale stated the reason this meeting was scheduled was to get feedback from the abutters to the TC
Passios Building regarding the proposed move there for use as a centralized Town Hall.
Sue Doherty believed Town should be one level and a community-accessible building. She added the
parking situation on Memorial Drive should be looked at as well.
If the Town Hall/Ritter Building offices are moved to TCP, community spaces should be included as they
are already outgrowing the Eagle House Senior/Community Center. Suggested uses could be a new food
bank location, a place to play pickleball, and cafeteria uses with refrigeration options. She noted the
limited parking at Town Hall and steep stairs to get to the second floor. There are space issues at the
Senior Center for a popular Zumba class, so use of the gym would be good.
Diane Now liked the idea of having everything in one building. Ms. Doherty added there are requests to
hold blood drives in Eagle House and she can't keep cancelling other activities to hold them.
Ms. Grant said parking is easier at TCP and asked what would happen to this building. Ms. Adams
expressed concerns about security and overcrowding at the Primary School; citing a need for more
classrooms. She advocated keeping parcels of land that are more useable like the old Primary School
rather than having a piece meal approach to moving town hall offices.
Mr. Toale stated this building (Town Hall) could be used as a cultural center. He already sees the town
center moving towards the area of the public library, the teen center, and middle/high school. There is a
proposal to place a skate park off Memorial Drive too. A traffic flow/parking plan would have to be
incorporated as well. He added the School Department is not interested in the TCP. Ms. Belleza stated
small and and the TCP would be valuable for their needs and would make a difference in what activities
they would plan. She did express concerns about sharing space with people who come and go but it
definitely is something that needs to be explored.
Jane Rabbitt stated there has to be other towns that deal with children being close to public buildings. She
was in favor of one building with all town offices together.
Ms. Lemieux noted there were three conceptual designs and one had limited access doors and different
entryways for specific purposes.
Muir Haman stated at the library when children and the general public are together, the parents are
responsible for their children. This is a high traffic space and we are limited in staff supervision. Traffic
and parking with the TCP nearby is one issue for the library. You would have to approach the whole
space with a unified plan for so many different functions and populations.
Mr. Toale stated he looks at adding space as a necessary added expense for the school, teen center and
senior center needs. Ms. Belleza asked if it was feasible with the TCP to have secure door that people
could be buzzed in.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Haman stated we all have needs but thinking in the long-term, the cost benefits for the future might
cost less with an opportunity to unify and serve the community in the best way.
Mr. Toale thanked everyone for coming and the abutters exited the meeting.
OTHER BUSINESS:
Ms. Lemieux reported there have been two requests to hunt turkeys with guns in the Woodruff
Conservation area during spring turkey hunting season. After discussion, Ms. Adams motioned to not
allow requests to hunt and Ms. Luck seconded the motion.
Discussion: Mr. Toale stated conservation lands are for everything and he was okay with bow hunting
versus with guns. Vote: 2 in favor (Luck, Adams), 2 against (Toale, McQuaid)
Ms. Lemieux noted bow hunting is allowed on conservation lands but the Woodruff area, where the
request was for, is under the jurisdiction of the Board of Selectmen
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: J. Toale
To grant permission to hunt with bow from sunrise to 9:00 a.m.
Vote: 2 in favor (Toale, McQuaid) 2 against (Luck, Adams)
Further discussion ensued about hunting on public land.
Motion: K. Adams
2nl: P. Luck
To not allow bow hunting until a policy is drafted
Ms. Adams withdrew the motion and Ms. Luck withdrew her second.
The Board took no action and permission was not granted. Ms. Lemieux directed the Board to Attorney
Costa's opinion on the hunting issue. Policies regarding land uses will be discussed in a future policy
workshop in the summer.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $622,586.12; a payroll warrant in the
amount of $742,200.77 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $577,241.63.
Mr. Toale requested Town Manager evaluations be turned in to him.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 11:27 a.m.
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
