===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair; Damon McQuaid,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member; Michael- Ray Jeffreys, Member
Planning Board Members present: Matt Allison, Tanner Cole, Gregory Bittner, Paula Bertram
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Jack Rodriquenz, Tree Warden; Adam
Burney, Land Use Director; John DiNapoli, Unitil's Municipal and Community Services
Manager; Sara Sankowich, Unitil's System Arborist; Dave Clapham, Unitil's Forestry
Supervisor
The meeting commenced at 6:35 p.m. Mr. Allison welcomed the Board of Selectmen and Tree
Warden.
The hearing was to review a request from Unitil to prune and/or remove trees along Leominster
Road from West Street to Lancaster Avenue, and along Lancaster Avenue from Massachusetts
Avenue to Rolling Acres Road under M.G.L. c. 40, 8 15C, Scenic Road Designations and under
M.G.L. c. 87, § 3, Cutting of Public Shade Trees.
John DiNapoli introduced Sara Sankowich, Manager of Forest Operations and Sustainability,
and Dave Clapham, Forestry Supervisor. Also present was Alec O'Meara, Unitil's Media
Relations Manager.
Ms. Sankowich stated Unitil's Storm Resiliency Program (SP) helps to prevent power outages
caused by trees and nearby vegetation and is in addition to their normal pruning program. Trees
that pose a structural or biological risk to the electrical lines have been marked for pruning or
removal. This program enables Unitil to access the wires and restore power during a storm
outage. Boards were in receipt of the Tree Risk Assessment Forms for each individual tree along
with a listing of all trees, indicating size, species, whether or not the tree would be removed or
trimmed, whether or not the tree was on private or public property, and number of tree(s) offered
as replacement. Unitil is requesting to remove 32 public trees. The trees have been marked with
a white ribbon.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what "to be determined," means under the tree owner list. Mr. Clapham stated
there are 12 trees on the list of which we don't yet have permission from the land owners.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he drove down Leominster Road and it is overgrown and wondered how tree
management has gotten this bad. He suggested it would be more cost effective for Unitil to do
business this way than to do routine pruning and he was not in favor of this. He asked, for a major
storm event, what has been your plan for the last ten years for tree maintenance?
===PAGE 2===
outages. These outages were just for the circuit that is the subject of this hearing. The circuit is
around 35 miles and covers just over 1200 customers. An outage can range from one to multiple
customers. Out of all the Unitil circuits, this is the worst one for reliability in the Commonwealth.
Ms. Adams stated she did not want to see pruning beyond the routine vegetative management
program on a scenic road. She asked what the Board's role was in this process. Mr. Alonzo
stated the Board would eventually be asked to approve Unitil's request.
Mr. Bittner stated the Planning Board nor the Board of Selectmen members as owners of the
trees haven't been asked to comment on the request. He asked Ms. Sankowich if the Town was
notified as a tree/land owner. Mr. Burney stated when the original application was filed at the
beginning of July, you were sent the SRP and all the data on the trees, as was the Board of
Selectmen, the Town Manager and the Tree Warden. Mr. Clapham stated he has talked to all the
abutting tree owners and explained what they would like to do.
Ms. Lemieux clarified the role of the Board of Selectmen for a scenic road public hearing, citing
M.G.L. c. 40, §15C, which requires a public hearing with the Planning Board and Tree Warden.
Also, M.G.L. c. 87 § 3, for the cutting of public shade trees, in which the Tree Warden grants
approval for cutting/removal of trees. But, if there are any individual objections in writing, then
the Board of Selectmen has the final approval. This joint meeting is so everyone can hear the
same information at one time. Although the hearing was posted, discussion ensued regarding
diligent notification to the public about the opportunity to provide written comment/objections to
the tree cutting.
Mr. McQuaid stated he understood the need for maintenance of trees and keeping them in safe
operating condition, but trimming the trees and keeping them healthy is completely different
from this SRP. Just from looking around town, he has seen examples of Unitil's other cutting
projects and was not impressed by any of them. The topping off of trees and leaving them to die
or cutting every branch on one side of a tree just looks terrible. He didn't want to subject the
center of town to that same treatment.
Ms. Bertram requested to see the data presented in a more understandable format; it would be
helpful going forward with a spreadsheet instead of working off multiple documents. She
inquired about potential liability for the tree abutter or the Town if it chooses not to have tree(s)
removed. Ms. Sankowich advised consulting Town counsel regarding liability. Ms. Lemieux
will pursue the question of liability with Town Counsel.
Bertram also stated a map would have been helpful and noted there is no data associated with the
poor circuit. She stated you are talking about removing five trees and replacing with one tree,
where is that tree going to be placed. What tree and species are you removing and then replacing
with? Where is it going to be located, on public or private property? There is a lot of missing
information. We don't have that data tonight to make an informed decision. Ms. Sankowich
thanked Ms. Bertram for the feedback.
===PAGE 3===
boards if you don't agree, don't do it.
Ms. Sankowich stated that Unitil is only looking for a decision from Lunenburg as to whether or
not it wants Unitil to pursue the SRP. If the Town has no wish to pursue, Unitil requests a letter
stating so. Mr. Jeffreys stated that maybe the SRP should be pursued but not on this scale. He
asked if Unitil could provide data as to when a road was pruned and subsequent outages that
occurred afterwards on that road. Ms. Sankowich stated she could, they have a map with all the
location/dates of the outages and the pruning done.
Ms. Adams stated this comes down to preference; do you prefer to have less outages and take
down all the trees so they can't fall, or leave the trees and run the risk of them falling. I would
rather keep the trees.
Motion: K. Adams
To not grant permission to remove the 32 trees on the public land in the scenic roadway
Mr. Allison pointed out that there has not been public comment yet. Ms. Bertram recommended
hearing from the public and before acting to continue the public hearing for additional
information. We have correspondence from Unitil on the condition of the trees which now
becomes a potential liability and would like clarification from Town counsel. There is no data on
what specifically you are replacing for trees. What are you replacing and with what are you
replacing them? There is a lot of data missing
Sarah Cammer, 304 Lancaster Avenue, stated she is not located within the current SRP area, but
feels this is being presented as an all or nothing plan with no other options are being offered to
the Town. Many of the trees were selected due to proximity to power lines; power lines could be
placed underground. She would like to see some effort in protecting those trees.
Ms. Sankowich responded we are here to start the discussion, there are options available, but the
Town will gain the most benefit from following through with the recommended SRP because we
are looking at reliability related to trees. Unitil and the Town can discuss what would be the perfect
plan for the Town. We are very open to hearing about each individual tree.
Mr. Alonzo agreed that they did not have enough data. He thought having an independent arborist
to go through these and seeing if we concur was sensible. These trees are 80-100 years old. He
wanted to address liability by having their own arborist look at them and once we have that, have
Unitil come back and do a walk through on the road.
Bonnie Reynolds, 91 Lancaster Avenue stated Mr. Clapham has been to their home a couple of
times. We have very tall trees in the front of the house which gives me concern during storms. She
===PAGE 4===
because there has been a significant increase in storms since 2011 in which power is lost and
people don't like that. It can also be life threatening for some people if they lose their power.
Ms. Luck asked Sankowich how many public and private trees Unitil is suggesting to cut down.
Sankowich did not have those numbers for this hearing. Mr. Jeffreys although not in favor of
this, could go with some modifications and hopefully Unitil has listened to the requests for more
information from the comments.
Ms. Bertram stated ultimately Unitil is doing this because you have to. You are hearing from the
public that it shouldn't be an all or nothing approach. She thought looking at the trees themselves
makes sense. She was concerned about Sankowich's comments that if we don't do a certain
percentage then the program doesn't work. Sankowich thought the walk was fantastic and if you
want to hire an arborist we can go with them. The percentage question is tricky because at what
point are we not getting at true benefit? Depending on where the trees are and how severely
compromised they are, makes the difference. We are definitely willing to continue the
conversation without the program.
Mr. DiNapoli asked if both Boards would provide a written list of their questions to enable Unitil
to respond to all the concerns. Ms. Bertram stated she understood his request but personally, she
would like to have an independent arborist review the tree list. She would like the assessment
sheets for each tree correlated to the map and a pole number. Before we have another meeting,
we should walk the route. She added we are looking for data related to these trees and the
outages. Discussion of a future continuance date ensued.
Ms. Adams withdrew her motion.
Mr. Rodriquenz stated in 2015 the BOS had a hazardous tree survey conducted by two certified
arborists. They had listed around 20 trees on Lancaster Ave. He would like to cross-reference those
trees with Unitil's list.
Mr. DiNapoli requested the hearing be continued to the Planning Board's September 23 meeting.
Ms. Bertram suggested moving the Hearing to October 7 for the availability of the Selectmen
Chair. Discussion ensued about whether to hire an arborist.
Motion: P. Bertram
2°d: G. Bittner
To continue the public hearing to September 23, 2019 at 6:35 PM
Vote: T. Cole-aye, G. Bittner-aye, M. Allison-aye, P. Bertram -aye
Motion: P. Bertram
2nd: G. Bittner
===PAGE 5===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiieh Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 1 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
