===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen members present: Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Clerk;
Katey Adams, Tom Alonzo, Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Others present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux; Adam Costa, Town Legal Counsel; Adam
Burney, Land Use Director
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Alonzo stated in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access
channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams stated she missed the walkability study but she attempted to walk to Conrad's Drive-
In on Massachusetts Avenue and found it was not walkable. She hoped some progress would be
made on this issue.
Ms. Luck reported the High School graduation ceremony was lovely and the speakers were
articulate. The memorial service at Public Safety for Fire and Police was a nice ceremony as
well.
Mr. Alonzo congratulated the graduates of the Class of 2019. He enjoyed the speakers,
especially Superintendent/Dr. Burnham's comments to all.
The walkability tour was last Saturday, he thanked the twenty-three people who came. There
were two separate tours. The report is coming out in October. Another walk is scheduled for the
Whalom area and we will be trying to host another town center walk as well. He noted the
Police and Fire memorial service was very touching and well attended. Thank you to all who
came to that as well as the organizers.
Joanna Bilotta, 362 Sunset Lane, President of Lake Shirley Improvement Corp. (LSIC), stated
Lake Shirley is a 360 acre parcel of water. She was seeking help regarding the Order of
Conditions (OOC) issued by the Conservation Commission. She reviewed the history of
extending the current OOC and stated she has found out from the Dept. of Environmental
Protection (DEP) that the Conservation Commission cannot amend an OOC but LSIC, as the
applicant, can through an appeal process to amend it. LSIC had returned to the Conservation
Commission on April 17" for a response to their request to extend the OOC through September
of 2019 as they were entering the summer season for the lake. On April 17, Commission member
Carl Luck presented the OOC with amendments after the commission denyed LSIC's request to
extend to September. Ms. Bilotta stated she did not want this document as the commission is not
allowed to amend them., The LSIC attended the May 29 meeting and things did not go well for
either side. The LSIC is frustrated because they attend the Conservation Commission meetings
===PAGE 2===
suggestivil,
opinion. Mr. Costa stated for the record, there is no pending litigation involving LSIC at this
time. There was an imminent threat of litigation received by the Board, which is the basis for the
agenda item later. Regarding recusal, it is up to the individual member to decide; it is their
obligation to comply with the MA ethics laws. Mr. Luck filed a disclosure with the appointing
authority in 2015 as a landowner along Lake Shirley, but Mr. Costa has not seen the signed
document yet.
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street, stated Mr. Alonzo's speech at the Memorial Day ceremony
was very nice. He added Ms. Luck's speech was very touching and personal. He thanked them
both.
He cautioned the Board when looking at an appointed position, when someone is going to be
replaced it should not come as a surprise to them. That is the importance of doing a performance
review so the employee knows how they are doing.
Mr. Weaver suggested when looking for more parking in the town center, to tear down the old
Primary school and build a park and extra parking. He requested Selectmen Adams', Luck's and
Jeffreys' opinions on that suggestion. Ms. Adams believed there was potential to put in a "home
base" of parking. Ms. Luck agreed with Ms. Adams that we should not convey the land but she
was unsure about a park location there due to it being set back off the road. Parks should be more
visible. Mr. Jeffreys believed there should be a comprehensive plan of what we are going to do
with all of our vacant properties. Given the location of the old Primary School he can't envision
any other uses beyond a park and a supporting parking area.
Mr. Weaver believed the Board should revoke the entertainment licenses for 300 Holman Street
due to the cease and desist order in effect. The Zoning Board of Appeals does not meet until June
'. Building Commissioner Rhodes is going to enforce the cease and desist order on the
photography event scheduled for June 8th.
'. Mr. Massey is planning to cancel that event. He asked
the Board to reconsider and revoke both licenses.
John Tata, 135 Flynn Road, asked is it not true that every board is required to maintain minutes
and there is a time requirement to approve them by the next meeting? Mr. Alonzo stated yes,
minutes are required but not before the next meeting. Open Meeting Law states they must be
done in a timely manner.
Jaiesta Fields, 95 Sunset Lane, legal representative for NOWOCO Pride, read a statement from
Anthony Bovenzi, one of the applicants listed on the entertainment licenses issued for 300
Holman Street, who could not be here this evening. Before doing so she related playing
basketball against Lunenburg as a resident of Ayer and being called a monkey by someone in the
bleachers.
From Anthony: He thanked the Board for allowing NOWOCO Pride to serve the LGBTQIA
community in Lunenburg. He wanted to state they condemn hate in any form and in 2019 people
still feel the need to try to shut down pride events by any means necessary, because they are
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Jeffreys stated he appreciated Ms. Fields' comments. He attended school in Lunenburg,
graduated in 2000 and joined the military. It is no secret that Lunenburg's majority population is
white. Despite that, I was elected to sit on this Board. I experienced racism while attending
school here. My nephew graduated in 2009 and also experienced racism here. Last year I ran a
campaign and Ms. Adams was my opponent and although we never had any personal conflict,
there were racist things said to me by others at the time. I don't believe our community is racist
and I look forward to the day when we as a society will get to the point where I will stop being
the first black Selectman or stop being a black something else. My skin color is how I was born
so the things that I have been able to accomplish in my life are the things that make me proud. I
am married and a husband and live in Lunenburg. I am a God fearing man, I love my Lord and I
am not ashamed of who I am today, but I will say we all in our own development have to
progress. Where we are as a community is good; we have had issues in the past and we are in
this really long process to overcome them. People have the right to be racist or hold whatever
views they want whether I agree with them or not. However, we do not have the right to act on
those actions that are racist. Then we have a problem and it is within oneself. I appreciate the
comments today and I appreciate the direction we are going as a town. I am thankful for the
opportunity to sit here as your Selectman. Applause resounded through the meeting room.
Jackie Ramondelli, 599 Reservoir Road, commented on LSIC meeting with the Conservation
Commission last week regarding the lake management program. There is a lot of frustration from
the residents. She has been on the board of LSIC since 2006. She related that the LSIC meets
several times a year with the Conservation Commission regarding the lake management
program. It is continually getting more difficult with the increasing requirements issued from the
Conservation Commission, particulary one member. She called for the removal of Conservation
member Carl Luck due to a conflict of interest as he lives on Lake Shirley.
Gary Spindt, 7 Ruth Street, related there is concern among the LSIC of the conflict of interest
issue and it needs to be addressed.
Ashley Brawn, 607 Reservoir Road, also on the LSIC board, stated our government is based on
checks and balances. The last line of the original OOC states, at the annual meeting or any time
deemed necessary, the Conservation Commission (CC) can update, halt or require any activities
or reporting it feels to protect Lake Shirley's environment and the health of the public affected
by any management activities. Before last meeting was closed, a neighbor asked the CC to cite
the health or environmental reasons as to why all these changes were made. The Sentinel ran an
article and quoted Matt Marro who said 95% of the changes were refinement to the language.
If these changes are merely refinements, how does that justify an environmental or health issue
above and beyond what the DEP has directed us? There is disappointment among my neighbors
and I personally feel we were misled. I have attended many meetings and the Chair has been
rude to me. I ask clarifying questions and he loses patience with me. I am trying to see the
perspective of the Board and understand where they are coming from and listen to the people
===PAGE 4===
DUCATIN
Pine Grove Road Plan # 965- L dated May 2, 2019
(1) Proposed new pole located 80 feet west from Cross Road on the north side of Pine Grove
Road and (1) Proposed new pole 200 feet west from Cross Road on the south side of Pine
Grove Road
Jim Dee from Unitil presented for the petition to get permission to set two poles on Pine Grove
Road for a new single family home located at 150 Cross Road, but the driveway is going to be on
Pine Grove Road
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the pole petition for Pine Grove Road, plan# 965-L by Unitil Gas & Electric
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys asked where the driveway and house will be located on the plan. Mr.
Dee indicated it will be to the left of the proposed pole. Mr. Jeffreys suggested an alternative
location but Mr. Dee preferred to keep it in the road so it could serve other properties and to
avoid cutting trees. Mr. Alonzo stated we have always asked where the proposed driveway
locations are on these plans. He asked Mr. Dee to indicate driveways on future plans.
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Jeffreys)
Mr. Jeffreys noted his nay vote was due to several requests from this board to Unitil to depict
driveways on their plans and they consistently won't do it.
One Day Wine & Malt License -June 8, 2019 - Dragonfly Garden Café -3 Lancaster Ave.
Joslin Schneider presented for the request and is looking to offer a six course tasting menu that
highlights all the community has to offer.
She is working with several local farms to incorporate items into the meal. She is hoping to pair
local beers and wines with the tasting portion of each course. This will follow the Lunenburg
Arts Festival. It is a small dinner party style for 24 guests. It will be from 4:30 - 7:30 p.m.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the one day special license for Saturday, June 8'' for the Dragonfly Garden
Café at 3 Lancaster Avenue
Vote: All in Favor
Special Event Permit Discussion
Mr. Burney welcomed the new board members and reported before town meeting in April we
held a public hearing on the draft special event permit. We discussed it and I amended it based
on that discussion. He referred the Board to the redlined draft in their packet. The redlined
portions are the new amendments.
Mr. Burney stated we talked about updating the definition of a special event. He was trying to
balance what the intent of this would be. (Mr. Burney's comments are bolded)
We talked about deleting recurring events, so I deleted that.
"A Special Event is any private event/activity held on public property or an event open to the general
public held on private property that affects the ordinary use of parks, playgrounds, fields, public streets.
===PAGE 5===
existing primary use of the site where they take place shall not be considered to be Special Events.
Individuals or organizations wishing to hold Special Events on public or private property must obtain a
Special Event Permit from the Town of Lunenburg. Special Event Permit Applications must be filed a
minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the event, failure to do so may result in the denial of application.
There was a request to note the Select Board can impose conditions so I added the
following:
During the review and permit issuance process the Select Board reserves the right to impose •
additional reasonable conditions to any Special Event Permit.
There was a lot of discussion about exemptions and loopholes and what should be
exempted so I changed the language a little bit:
Exemptions: The following events are exempt from Special
Event Permitting:
• Town Events held on Town Property, including school and
Town league sporting events permitted by the Lunenburg
Public Schools and/or the Lunenburg Parks Department:
• Sporting Events approved by the Lunenburg Public Schools
or the Lunenburg Parks Department.
Events held by Private Membership Organizations where
only members and guests are permitted Homeowners
Associations located on common property held by said
Association and for its membership.
•
Training Activities conducted by local, state, and/or federal
public safety entities.
Permit Posting: Special Event Permits should be posted at
greeting areas or main entrances at events. Event organizers and
managers are reminded that they may be asked, by Town staff, to
show proof of the permit during the event.
There was a discussion about 6:00 a.m. being too early
for setup...
Timing: Events are prohibited from conducting activities after
22:00 and before 06:00. Loudspeakers, amplified music, bullhorn
or public address systems during events are strictly regulated and
must be part of the permit.
Comment [WU1]: Is 06:00 too early to begin
events? This was raised and marked for further
deliberation.
===PAGE 6===
there is strict compliance with the Town of Lunenburg policy regarding such (Town of Lunenburg Board
of Selectmen Policies and Procedures, as amended). No Bring Your Own Bottle (BYOB) Permits may be
issued for Special Events. Private events that serve alcohol for free or allow participants to provide their
own alcohol shall not be subject to this provision.
Recreational use of drugs shall be prohibited at any permitted Special Event that takes place on property
owned by the Town of Lunenburg. This shall be deemed to include marijuana.
I added a 48-hour period for cleanup before the town would bill any potential organizer.
Restrooms/Trash/Cleanup: The Town of Lunenburg may require event organizers to provide temporary
toilet facilities. Temporary toilet facilities must be cleaned daily or as required by the Lunenburg Board of
Health. Trash must be disposed of in approved containers. Trash pickup and disposal is to be performed
by a hauler approved by the Lunenburg Board of Health. The applicant must clean the right-of- way or
public property of all rubbish and debris, returning it to its pre-event condition at the conclusion of the
event. If the applicant fails to clean up debris and trash within the specified periodforty eight (48) hours
of the close of the event, cleanup will be arranged by the Town and charged to the applicant.
Traffic & Parking: Parking is permitted in designated areas only. The event organizer will be
responsible for providing a parking plan to the Lunenburg Police Department for their approval. Parking
may not interfere with event entrances or emergency access.
Traffic and Parking Plans shall not violate Chapter 332 of the Code of Lunenburg.
I added a section regarding approved signs below...
Signs: Signs are permitted with the approval of the Building Inspector. No signs may be affixed to trees,
buildings or street furniture.
Approved signs may also be required by the Town of Lunenburg to assist in traffic control and to
communicate temporary restrictions during the event.
The smoking language was updated; this was submitted by a citizen.
Smoking: Smoking is not permitted in any public facility, on school grounds or on recreational parks,
fields or playgrounds prohibited in or on all Town of Lunenburg properties including, on school grounds.
and all parks, fields, and/or playgrounds.
Fireworks: Fireworks are not permitted within the Town of Lunenburg without proper licensing.
Tents and sleeping trailers was updated to have the correct square footage.
===PAGE 7===
Security/Traffic Control: Events may require the hiring of police officers to provide for security and/or
traffic control.
BUFFER ZONE: All Special Events shall take place no less than one hundred feet (100') from an
abutting residential property. Upon submission of a written request supported by documentation, the
Board of Selectmen may reduce this distance based on the size and scope of the event.
First Aid/Medical: Events may require provisions for first aid and medical personnel. Per Chapter 26
of the Code of Lunenburg, the Lunenburg Fire Department must be contacted to determine if EMT
services are required and if the Lunenburg Fire Department is capable of providing personnel for the
detail. Should the Lunenburg Fire Department be unable to provide personnel, arrangements should be
made with a private service for the event. The Fire Department can provide a list of contacts.
ACCESSIBILITY: Any Special Event permitted through the Town of Lunenburg shall be accessible to
all persons who may attend. This includes the provision of accessible parking spaces, paths, restroom
facilities and any other reasonable accommodations that may be required.
EVENT LAYOUT: All Special Event Applications shall include an Event Layout Plan that includes:
V Site Access
V Parking Areas
V Restroom Facilities
~ Required Buffer Zone
• Location of any abutting houses
Food Service Area (if applicable)
• Sleeping Accommodations (if available)
• Wetlands on the property (if applicable)
v First Aid Station (if applicable)
~ Alcohol Serving Areas (if applicable)
Location of Stage or Entertainment (if applicable)
Route of Race (if applicable)
• Any Additional Event Features not listed
There was a request to clarify enforcement and consequences affecting future requests.
Enforcement: Town of Lunenburg Police, Fire or other staff so designated by the Town Manager, may
inspect, the premises prior to and during, Special Events for compliance with the permit and any
conditions issued by the Select Board. Violations of the approved permit will require corrective action
and depending on the severity of the violation may result in the revocation of the Special Event Permit.
Multiple and/or repeated violations may result in a prohibition from applying for future permits for the
event organizer.
===PAGE 8===
Town of Lunenburg as an additional insured on applicable policies. This Certificate and verification of
Workers Compensation Coverage must be submitted to the Town Manager's Office no later than ten (10)
business days prior to the date of the event. Final Special Event Permits will not be issued without
submission of a Certificate of Insurance reflecting the necessary Workers Compensation Coverage to
comply with State Law.
Additional Permitting and Cost Requirements: Depending upon the Special Event, additional permits
may be required by the Town of Lunenburg Departments. These may include, but are not limited to,
permits for temporary food, food preparation, campground, athletic field use, merchandise sales, etc. The
organizers of the event are responsible for obtaining any additional permits or licenses and are responsible
for any additional costs incurred by the Town of Lunenburg as determined by representatives of each
Town Department before the issuance of the Special Event Permit.
This was added to note the appeal process.
Appeals:
Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Select Board in the issuance or denial of a Special
Event Permit retains the right to appeal through the process and procedure outlined in Chapter 249
§4 of the General Laws.
Ms. Adams thanked Mr. Burney for amending again and felt good about the new edits.
Ms. Luck believed 6:00 a.m. is too early under Timing. Ms. Adams stated it would not be too
early for a road race. Mr. McQuaid noted we have the ability to set conditions for individual
events. Mr. Alonzo asked if setting up was an "activity" or does this wording address the actual
opening of the event, defined under the Timing section. Discussion ensued about what is
reasonable. Mr. Burney will consult with the Police Chief regarding what quantifies the
disturbing the peace statute. Ms. Luck suggested 8:00 a.m. and Ms. Adams agreed with that.
Mr. Jeffreys felt 8:00 a.m. was too late. He stated he was fundamentally opposed to the town or
this board restricting other people's liberty. There is a unique problem here. There is is an issue
regarding 300 Holman Street and there is related litigation. Bottom line is a couple of years back
there was a big festival on Holman Street and I heard it from my house on Massachusetts
Avenue. It's problematic for neighbors. I support only residential activities going on in a
residential area. But there is a limit on how much your neighbor can restrict what you do on your
property in your house. I am concerned about the neighbor that really doesn't like you and giving
them a tool to call the police on you when you have people over for a "holiday celebration,"
referring to the definition in the first paragraph. Before we start restricting, our first obligation is
to protect the liberty of everyone. I think this does the exact opposite. So fundamentally, I don't
support this. Mr. Burney stated he could respect that, but this policy does not give the police
power when someone calls to report a neighbor he doesn't like holding a party. The policy refers
to the general public.
===PAGE 9===
I think there is a criterion that we need to provide so that somebody can use as a guldeline to see
if it applies to him or her. If it is a multi-day event, then this is what we would use, everything
else gets close to just needing an entertainment license.
Mr. Jeffreys stated there is a point where your activities start to affect someone. But, I don't like
the idea of us imposing restrictions on what other people do on their land.
Ms. Adams stated we need a policy to have fairness to abutters as well.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: P. Luck
To approve the Town of Lunenburg's special event policy presented with the edits and
including that a yard sale is exempted and to change the time from 6:00 a.m. to
8:00 a.m.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to hear others' input before taking a vote. Mr. McQuaid agreed with Mr.
Jeffreys on many of his points because policies like this end up affecting more people than you
can anticipate. It affects the well-intentioned people more than the not well-intentioned people. If
anyone looks at the policy and wonders if it applies to them, they probably won't be able to.
Most people won't do what they were planning to do or they just won't ask for permission at all.
I think this applies to too many activities; I can see it applying to multi-day activities or maybe
you narrow it down to "for profit" activities.
Mr. Burney thought that was a well-made point because that essentially has been the crux of this,
"for profit" entities using private property for their enterprises in a way that is impactful on the
neighborhood and the community. There have been people who have asked for guidance on one-
day events similar to this. People who provide events of this manner often approach municipal
employees or elected officials and say I want to do an event in your community. How do I do it?
Currently it's sort of an ad hoc discussion among department heads. We do our best to be
consistent between everyone that we talk to about these things, but sometimes the facts of the
event change. This would at least give someone a good base. I think this makes it easier to hold
an event in the community because it's not reaching out to whomever you think would be the
right person. The "for profit" entities is really where the concern lies.
Mr. Alonzo noted nowhere in this document does it say that. A document like this should be able
to be distributed to someone who is of reasonable intelligence and while reading it should be able
to know whether they qualify for it or not. In order to do that, I believe it needs to have
parameters of which, for example out of ten criteria if you check off three, you need a permit. If
you are going to expect five hundred people will show up, you will need it. We should focus
heavily on what a special event is and then all the rest of the components will fall into place. I
think it is possible to refine the definition more. Amplified music may be one thing that triggers
it or times of the event. I don't see a requirement for a public hearing in here or who has to be
notified about the hearing. These are things that exist for other permits that we should include.
I'd rather not adopt something and say we'll fix it later. If we don't have time to do it right, when
will we have time to do it over? Mr. Jeffreys agreed with Mr. Alonzo adding there has to be a
clear differentiation between someone who has a large family and likes them coming over and
===PAGE 10===
Ms. Adams withdrew her motion so further work could be done and Mis. Luck withdrew
her second.
Mr. Alonzo pointed out the following line: Special Events may span multiple days and include
on-site camping (as permitted by the Board of Health) but shall not exceed 4 days. He believed
four days was excessive for an event, particularly on private property. I would at least limit it to
three days which is the extent of a long weekend, especially with people staying overnight, As a
resident and/or abutter to that event, this would be my biggest concern. I would offer to the
board, no more than three days and two overnights per event. Mr. Jeffreys thought that was still
too long. He suggested that a disclaimer be inserted to not include Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
and Labor Day. Mr. Alonzo suggested limiting the license to no more than two multi-day events
per year and four total per calendar year. You could even limit it further and say no multi-day
events within four months of each other. Mr. Jeffreys stated he could support that.
Ms. Lemieux stated Police Chief Marino had texted her regarding the disturbing the peace
statute: 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. Mr. Burney will amend to 7:00 a.m. (activities including setup).
Discussion ensued about the buffer zone requirement.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what happens if someone doesn't apply and still engages in the activity.
Wording should be inserted in the policy to address non-permitted events in the enforcement
section.
Dave Passios noted sometimes in the same sentence you are describing a policy and guidelines;
which is it? Mr. Alonzo believed it should be a policy.
Steve Weaver stated you may need to keep tweaking it as you go along because lawyers can try
to find loopholes. As far as the camping, he thought it should be scrapped. Sunday is always a
separate day when you are issuing licenses and it should stay that way. Also, when does
something become a business? He liked the abutter notification requirement.
Helen Obermeyer-Simmons, 323 Northfield Road, stated she was one of the people planning the
photo exhibition that has been canceled. We started planning in February and all for naught now.
She believed people should be allowed to have functions as long as they tollow the rules. Mr.
Alonzo noted those events were canceled due to a zoning issue, not this board's licensing. Mr.
Alonzo suggested a workshop on this policy might help. It will be tentatively scheduled for July.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board to the following Town manager appointments and requested
they ratify them:
• Beach Coordinator-Genevieve Nass
• Seasonal Lifeguards-Elizabeth Simeone, Catherine Keefer, Cheryl Shaw, Lynn Major,
Ethan Gengler, Paige Gengler, Jarod Bowser
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
That the Board ratify the Town Manager's appointments as presented
===PAGE 11===
2. Discussion of Process of Annual Appoutments made by the boara of selectmen
Mr. Alonzo stated up until now if you wanted to be reappointed you would fill out a
reappointment form, submit it in a timely fashion and answer the questions on the form. It was
voluntary to come before the board at reappointment time.
Mr. McQuaid stated he believed all the positions that are up for reappointment should be
advertised early in the year to see if there is interest in those positions. There should also be more
advertising to the public of the reappointment times so their feedback on members could be
heard as well. Ms. Adams agreed with Mr. McQuaid. There should be a process in place to give
people who submit a talent bank form, time to interview for the position. Ms. Luck stated
feedback on the applicant should be provided from the pertinent committee too.
Mr. Alonzo stated if on one side we have people willing to serve, we should engage them and
allow them the opportunity to serve the community. But, if you are going to make this a
competition, what is the expertise on this board to select one person over the other? That is a
problem. Ms. Adams stated the expertise is the interview process. Mr. Alonzo pointed out some
people interview well because they interview often. But an interview will not tell you how they
would perform as a member on a committee. I see both sides and I am willing to try it, but we
have a tough time filling positions and to knock somebody out who did not do anything wrong
and replace with another has the potential of disconnecting someone from serving again. Mr.
McQuaid agreed stating it would be tough for him not to reappoint an incumbent who is doing a
good job. But I still think there should be an opportunity for people to raise a discussion or
complain. Mr. Jeffreys stated it's also about the appearance of a good ole boy system. There are
many people in town that don't participate because of that. The only way we can avoid that is to
give people a chance.
Motion: K. Adams
2°0: P. Luck
To invite people who have submitted talent bank forms to attend and participate in the
reappointment process
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid stated we should ensure that the incumbent knows that others have
expressed interest in the position. Mr. Alonzo agreed adding the Chair of that committee should
be notified also.
Mr. Jeffreys asked if the person would be allowed to submit a written request rather than appear
in person. Some people don't want to talk in public.
Ms. Lemieux asked the Board to widen the scope because we have vacancies on other boards.
During the process we should ask them if they are willing to serve on other boards. The board
concurred.
Steve Weaver suggested if you have several applicants to consider for a vacancy to offer them an
internship. They would not be able to vote but would gain experience. Mr. Alonzo stated we
have some associate positions on some of the boards, like Zoning Board of Appeals.
He stated anyone can attend any meeting.
===PAGE 12===
committee, this might be a red flag about that committee. Vs. Lemles Stated all the Vacancies
have descriptions of the board and what is expected of the members. Mr. Alonzo advised
everyone that if you are interested in a board, the best thing to do is to attend or watch their
meetings.
Todd Dwyer, 361 Mulpus Road, Conservation Commission member, stated it makes sense rather
than rubber stamp a reappointment, to lend your opinion and evaluate each situation, that's your
job.
Executive Assistant Peterson will contact the talent bank form applicants about the opportunity
to interview and inform those up for reappointment of the process and that they are welcome to
attend the meeting as well.
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Lunenburg Arts Festival
Saturday June 8* from 10:00 A.M. TO 3:00 P.M. on Memorial Drive
Cruise Night
Wednesday June 12'" from 4:00 to 8:00 P.M. on Memorial Drive
Route 13 (Electric Ave) and Route 2 A (Mass Ave) Intersection
As a follow-up to a request by the Board to address the dangerous intersection at Electric Ave
and Route 2A, the Police Chiefsent a letter on May 24th to MassDOT requesting a review to see
ifleftturn arrows can be provided. Montachusett Regional Planning Commission is able to assist
with the crash data study.
Update on 925 Mass Ave:
At our last meeting, a resident had brought up 925 Massachusetts Avenue and that the Town
should focus on doing something about this property. I have periodically updated the Board about
this property and that I have been working with town staff and various agencies since 2017 to see
how we can clean-up this property without the liability of clean-up costs of this old gas station. I
have worked with Town Counsel, met with Montachusett Regional Planning Commission about
possible Brownfield funds and with MassDevelopment. In order to perform the required Phase I
and Phase II environmental assessment for this property, the Town needed to gain a right-of-entry
that would be granted during the process of a tax taking. Our Tax Attorney filed a title report
with Land Court in February and his office was recently notified that a Motion to Amend the
Petition for Tax Taking had to be filed because the original petition had "registered at" instead of
"recorded at"
' The title report identifies all parties with legal interests in the subject property that
===PAGE 13===
sought input on the positive and negative aspects of affecting pedestrian travel, ways to
increase safety and accessibility for pedestrians and looked at parking. Approximately 25
people attended the meeting, which I see as a success, and Sheri received lots of great input that
will be included in her final report. I understand there was interest in another downtown area
walk, as well as one in Whalom. I spoke with Sheri today and she indicated she didn't think
there was enough in the budget for her to attend another public audit but if the Town
performed this it could be included in her final report which will also include recommendations
and possible funding sources for projects.
Anyone interested in submitting written comments on the Main Street and Whalom Park areas
are welcome to submit those to email those to myself or Sheri Bean at sbean@mrpc.org. I will
inquire again if Sheri would be able to do a walking audit of the Whalom area.
Mr. Alonzo asked if Mr. Burney would be willing to coordinate the second walk in town center
as he is familiar with the process and forms used. Ms. Luck stated members of the Select Board
might be interested in going on that walk as well. Mr. Jeffreys asked if this study has looked at
the sidewalks in the school area as well. Ms. Lemieux noted that all the schools have signed on
to the Safe Routes program which makes them eligible for construction projects along those
routes. Mr. Alonzo added one of the things discussed during the walk was the sidewalk or lack of
one, near the library, so we identified some needs for the school.
Summer Street Road Reconstruction Project
As a follow-up to a question that was asked at the last Selectmen's meeting about whether the
completion date has changed, I contacted MassDOT and the official completion date for the
Summer Street project has not changed from the original date of May of 2020. MassDO!
anticipates that most of the work will be done in the time frame of November/December and
expect that the Contractor will do the finish landscaping and punch-list items in the Spring of
2020.
Education and Enforcement Coordinator Grant
Due to the short time-frame to make any necessary changes to their Waste Hauler Regulations
and the due date of June 12th for the MassDEP Education and Enforcement Coordinator Grant,
the Board of Health has decided to not rush to make any changes and review their regulations
between now and next year's grant application.
===PAGE 14===
approximately $300 more than the current year. Of course, this is based on current electricity and
natural gas usage and we have just completed a number of energy efficiency projects that Will
result in energy savings.
Update on Community Solar Projects through Nexamp
As aresult of the public information sessions about Nexamp's community solar program that
offers residents discounted electricity from community solar projects in Lunenburgand
Fitchburg, morethan 250 residents are enrolled in the community solar program. This program is
currently full and there is a waiting list in the event residents that are currently enrolled decideto
opt out of the program. I have been working with Nexamp on enrolling all the applicable town,
sewer and school accounts that are able to receive net metering credits and the timing of
receiving these discounts will be the same as the community solar program that residents have
signed up for. The exact date that credits willbe seen on bills will depend on individual billing
cycles. Nexamp informed me yesterday that the timing of the discounted electricity for
residents and the town accounts will be in the January - March 2020 timeframe.
Earmark for Eagle House
As I reported at the last Selectmen's meeting, I was contacted by the Department of Housing and
Community Development about an earmark in the FY19 State budget that was evidently included
but we were just made aware that we received it and it needs to be spent by June 30th. I spoke with
DHCD again yesterday and due to the wording of the earmark that "not less than $25,000 shall
be expended on the Lunenburg Eagle House Senior Community Center" does not link it to a
specific project at the Eagle House, we are able to submit expenditures dating back to July 28,
20018 until June 30, 2019 up to $25,000 for reimbursement. I have asked the Finance Director and
DPW Administrative Assistant to provide me with a list and copies of invoices in order to submit
all the required documentation to the state in order to receive this reimbursement. Unfortunately,
due to the timing of when we were notified, there was insufficient time to put a specifications and
put out to bid and complete the work by June 30th. The good news is that we will be able to
submit for reimbursement for FY19 Eagle House expenditures and this will positively affect our
free cash that will be certified in the fall.
Update on 2016 NPDES MS4 General Permit and Request for Proposals for FX20
Stormwater Engineering Services:
===PAGE 15===
I put together a Request for Proposals for MS4 engineering services to comply with Year 2 and
possibly Year 3 and 4 of the permit requirements (FY20, FY21, FY22). Proposals are due by June
13th and the Stormwater Task Force, the Land Use Director and myself will evaluate the
proposals thereafter.
Meetings:
I have a Dispatch Negotiation Session tomorrow at 1:00 pm in Devens.
I willbeattending the Green Communities Meetingtomorrow evening at 6:30 p.m. in the Library.
I will be at a Small Town Administrators Meeting in Princeton this Thursday.
There will be a staff training on Tuesday, June th at 9 a.m. at the Library put on by the
Alzheimer's Association as part of our path to becominga Dementia Friendly Community.
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $320,065.21; a payroll warrant
in the amount of $837,110.10 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $257,799.99.
The Board signed thank you letters to outgoing committee members.
Action File Issues: Ms. Adams asked about putting into place a formal acknowledgment to the
family of a board/committee member who dies, such as a letter of thanks to the family.
Approval and Release of Executive Session Minutes
• October 1, 2013 (Lane Property)
• December 8, 2015 (Collective Bargaining Retiree Insurance Regulations & DPW
Collective Bargaining Update)
• May 10, 2016, Session I (Review IBPO Local 453 AFL-CIO and PEC
Negotiations)
• August 11, 2016 (Interim Town Manager Screening Subcommittee)
• August 24, 2016 (Interim Town Manager Screening Subcommittee)
• August 25, 2016 (Interim Town Manager Screening Subcommittee)
• August 30, 2016 Interim Town Manager Screening Subcommittee)
• November 22, 2016 (Town Manager Contract)
• October 10, 2017 (Town Manager Contract/ Professional Firefighters DFFM
Local 4358A and AFSCME Council 93, Municipal Employees Union
Negotiations)
===PAGE 16===
Docket No. 2017-P-0099)
• July 24, 2018 (DPW Union Collective Bargaining)
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve and release the above listed Executive Session minutes
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force met on May 23d and reviewed the stormwater
management plan. A few changes were suggested and hopefully it will be ready to approve at the
June 13 meeting. Paula Bertram presented a slide show on stormwater issues experienced at
Hickory Hills. The Chair of the Ashland Stormwater Advisory Committee is planning to attend
our June 13" meeting. It should be informative.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee Appointing Committee will be meeting next week
as they have one person up for reappointment.
OLD BUSINESS
Amendment to the Casella Contract for Solid Waste Recycling and Disposal Services-this item
has been tabled until a future date.
Review of Town Manager Performance Evaluation Form and Process is tabled until a future
date.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
June 11(BOS and Town Manager Goal Setting Workshop for FY2020), June 18
July and August Schedule
Mr. Alonzo requested vacation schedules from the board members for the months of July and
August.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Richard Bursch, 308 Electric Avenue, Chairman of the Conservation Commission, stated he was
listening to the reappointment discussion. He noted someone signing up for a board should be
aware of the responsibilities involved. When I get talent bank forms from Ms. Peterson, I invite
them to a meeting so they can see how the meeting is run and to get an idea of what is expected
of them as a member.
Mr. Alonzo stated he would entertain a Motion to enter into Executive Session and to adjourn
after exiting Executive Session: Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to
discuss strategy with respect to litigation, where an open meeting may have a detrimental
effect on the government's litigating position and the Chair so declares, namely Aldrich, et
===PAGE 17===
aye
***********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate*********************
The meeting adjourned at 10:26 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 07 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
