===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Damon McQuaid, Clerk; Katey Adams,
Member; Michael- Ray Jeffreys, Member
Member not present: Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Adam Burney, Land Use Director
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Alonzo announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo stated for those people and many in attendance who sent emails, we have received
every one of them and there is a meeting tomorrow between some representatives of the Lake
Shirley Improvement Corporation (LSIC) and their legal counsel, myself, the Town Manager, a
member of the Conservation Commission, our Town Counsel and the Conservation
Administrator. All of the things you wrote about will be discussed at the meeting. He thanked
everyone for his or her input. Obviously, the various parties in that meeting will be able to report
out to everyone.
Cindy Lee Gee, 140 Flynn Road, had sent an email to the Board and thanked Mr. Jeffreys for his
prompt reply.
Maureen Spindt, 7 Ruth Street, stated LSIC is a non-profit organization and they ask members to
pay dues voluntarily to pay for primarily weed and algae treatment. She presented a list of
fundraising events that LSIC puts on during the year. She was concerned that if there is no
treatment this year, it will be very difficult to obtain the membership fees in future years. She
thought it was ironic that a Conservation Commission member and a Select Board member and
Marilyn Jewell, 20 Sunset Lane, spoke about the difference between Lake Shirley and Hickory
Hills, which is a private lake and how dues are collected at each location. The Hickory Hills
residents have to pay fees because it is written into their purchase and sale agreement. Ms. Lee
and Ms. Jewell compared the lakes and Mr. Alonzo asked how this was pertinent. Ms. Adams
cautioned about pitting one lake against the other. She stated she grew up on Hickory Hills Lake
and there was a lot of volunteerism to maintain it. Ms. Jewell clarified that people have been
asking her what the difference was between both lakes and wanted to explain that the Hickory
Hills Lake people have more funding to treat their lake.
Steve Bean, 27 Fire Road 15, stated the Conservation Commission is adding to the Order of
Conditions and citing safety as the reason. What is the safety of the lake if it is not treated? He
alleged the Town owns Lake Shirley. What is the liability aspect when it comes to the Town if
LSIC backs out from treating the lake? Who is going to take that over?
Ashley Braun, 607 Reservoir Road, thanked Mr. Jeffreys for answering her email and many
others with your fair and well thought out response. Safety is a huge concern for her as well. She
===PAGE 2===
July 25"' at 5:00 p.m. and July 30" starting at 5:00 p.m. respectively.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review of Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Position Description and
Recommended Classification under Salary Administration Plan
Ms. Lemieux presented the job description before attending the Personnel Committee meeting on
the 22nd
1. The Personnel Committee would be the body that approves the job description. The
primary function will be Human Resources (HR) Director and will assist with procurement and a
wide variety of special projects.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'': D. MeQuaid
To accept the position description as presented
Discussion: Ms. Adams stated she was not in favor of this position because she believed there
were other staff positions, particularly in public safety that should be hired instead
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 opposed (Adams)
Ms. Lemieux stated assuming the personnel committee approves the job description, we will
discuss the grade/step classification and it will advertised accordingly. $38.84 would be the
starting rate of pay.
2. Minutes/Warrant/Action Items
Minutes of May 7, 2019 were approved. A FY19 accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$688,136.10 and a FY20 accounts payable warrant in the amount of $771,274.85 were signed.
Action File Issues: Ms. Adams asked if there were any updates on the intersection of Electric
Ave and Mass. Ave. Ms. Lemieux reported MRPC is assisting with a crash data survey that
needs to be submitted to the state first.
There were no committee reports.
POLICY WORKSHOP:
Annual review of current Board of Selectmen policies, including continuation of discussion
on new Special Event Policy
Mr. Burney presented an updated draft of the special event policy that addresses the previous
discussion. Major changes were what would trigger requiring a special event license and a
description of the public hearing process.
Discussion ensued about Category A and it was suggested to ask if the event would be on town
property. Ms. Lemieux noted that the event being on town property should not automatically
trigger the need for a special event license; there are certain very small events that happen
===PAGE 3===
"non-profit" event or if an entrance fee will be charged. Mr. McQuaid asked about the questions
requesting Police or Fire Dept. coverage. Are you giving them the option of whether or not they
need them? It was pointed out it may be required by the Board regardless.
Mr. Alonzo noted the size of the property definitely matters in setting conditions for the event.
He suggested adding a question that asks if there would be over 100 attendees.
Discussion went back and forth over whether to change the definition of a special event and the
number of criteria in Category A to trigger a special event license.
The Board moved on to the number of events allowed per year. It was suggested no three single
day events within 90 days. Applications must be filed a minimum of 90 days (changed from 60
days) prior to the event.
"Failure to obtain a license," shall be added to wording in the Enforcement section before the
words, "Multiple and/or repeated violations may result in a prohibition from applying for future
permits for the event organizer."
Waivers were discussed but no changes were added. Ms. Adams suggested adding in Category
A, It you only check off,
"Is the event requesting the use of Town Property but does not check
off anything in Category B, see the Town Manager." Mr. Alonzo suggested having these edits
for review in early August.
Ms. Lemieux asked under the public hearing process and considering the wide range of
applicants, to consider the cost for the applicant of running the notices twice in a local paper and
notifying all the abutters. Is there any way we can reduce that and provide sufficient notice?
Mr. Burney stated notice to abutters could be done by first class mail, with the applicant
providing stamped envelopes to the town so you know they have been mailed. Ms. Lemieux
stated she would check with Executive Assistant Peterson on her process for abutter notification.
300 feet was changed to 200 feet for abutters. The Board thanked Mr. Burney.
I. OLD BUSINESS
1. Review of Town Manager Evaluation Form
Mr. Alonzo handed out Ms. Luck's written comments on the form. He noted they would just be
addressing the bulleted points in the document not the entire form.
After collating individual member's choices, it was decided to go with the following:
Part Il
1. Individual Characteristics/Professionalism.
• Is dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public and personal relationships in
order to merit the respect and confidence of the elected officials, other officials and employees, and
of the public. Demonstrates accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and honestly.
• Treats others in a fair, consistent, impartial, and professional manner. Is effective in dealing
with people without arousing antagonism and demonstrates an understanding of difficult
===PAGE 4===
• Anticipates future needs, organizes work operations, and establishes timetables for work units
or projects. Is aware of technological advances and changing standards; identifies and
understands trends. Effectively allocates resources and predicts the impact of service delivery
decisions. (Moved from Criteria #7 Community and PublicRelations)
•
Knows when to take actionand what type of action is appropriate.
• Effectively allocates resources to provide service to the community. Anticipates stakeholder
needs and attitudes, and the impact of policies and procedures, and responds appropriately.
3. Professional Skills and Knowledge
• Maintains knowledge of current developments affecting the practice of local government
management and is familiar with applicable local, state and federal legislation and regulations
related to Town services.
• Demonstrates skill in listening, speaking and writing, persuading without diminishing the views
of others.
• Has a full working knowledge of the administrative and management systems and procedures.
•
Understands and implements long-range and strategic planning techniques; identifies trends that
will affect the community; demonstrates an understanding and ability to analyze and facilitate
policy choices that will benefit the community in the long run.
4. (Teamwork & Leadership removed) Organizational Leadership and Personnel Management:
• Builds cooperation and consensus among and within diverse groups, helping them identify
common goals and act effectively to achieve them; recognizes interdependent relationships and
multiple causes of community issues; and anticipates the consequences of policy decisions.
• Encourages the development and high-level performance of staff and employees throughout the
organization. Effectively selects and hires employees for position vacancies.
• Professionally manages the compensation and benetits plan.
• Develops and executes sound personnel procedures and practices. Seeks to foster high morale
and cohesiveness among employees.
• Effectively plans, organizes and delegates work. Monitors results and evaluates performance of
those supervised, and provides feedback in a timely manner.
5. Community and Public Relations
• Understands the basic principles of service delivery in functional areas (e.g. public safety,
community and economic development, human and social services, administration, public
works).
• Provides responsive, equitable service to town residents and instills the value of good customer
service in staff.
• Communicates effectively with the public. Maintains respectful, polite, and civil speech and
demeanor in dealings with all.
• Maintains good working relationship with legislators, media, and public groups/organizations,
===PAGE 5===
compares alternative strategies.
• As Chief Procurement Officer, effectively manages Town purchasing of supplies and services,
disposition of town property, and construction projects
• Establishes and manages sound fiscal policies including Five Year Financial Forecast, financial
policies, and Capital Plan.
7. Relations with Members of the Board:
• Maintains effective communication with the Board. Maintains mutual trust and treats all Board
members equally.
• Offers professional advice to the Board on items requiring board action, with appropriate
recommendations and supporting information based on thorough studyand analysis.
• Responds well to requests, advice, and constructive criticism.
8. Reporting
• Provides regular information and reports to the Board concerning matters of importance to the
local government, using the Town Charter as a guide.
• Reports produced by the Manager are accurate, comprehensive, concise and written to their
intended audience.
• Produces and handles reports in a way to convey the message that affairs of the organization are
open to public scrutiny.
Ms. Lemieux will amend the form and provide to the Board as a final document at a future
meeting. Further discussion with Labor counsel on how to carry out the evaluation process will
be scheduled.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Jeffreys noted the Board members received many emails from residents over the weekend
and the decision to respond to emails that come through in no means is a reflection that it is
received, absorbed, and accepted. In this instance, he believed it was necessary to do that,
although that should not be the norm because we should focus on this meeting forum for
residents to come, engage with us and ask questions so we can respond to them. We walk a very
fine line when we speak to residents about issues that can and will come before the Board in a
manner that is not public. He appreciated the comments from the residents earlier and wanted to
relay that in the future if I choose not to respond to an email, it is not a reflection of whether or
not I read it, understand it or have an opinion about it. Mr. Alonzo concurred and added he
usually will let the person know he got the email and it will be discussed at the next Board
meeting if it is going to be more than a couple of days to address it.
Ms. Adams agreed adding just because there is no response it does not mean it was not received,
as sometimes she was not sure a response on a certain format is appropriate, so she errs on the
===PAGE 6===
there dre people decoral dr Make sure stress d cle vers dr title.
110
expressed his appreciation to the sound room (studio) and added everyone at home receives a
great service because there is someone in the studio trying to capture it in the best way possible.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular member and 3 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 design professional; craftsperson
or building contractor familiar with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing
Committee)
• Housing Authority (1 elected position vacancy that will be a joint appointment with
remaining Housing Authority members and Selectmen)
• Sewer Commission (1 elected position vacancy that will be Joint appointment with
the remaining Sewer Commission members and Selectmen)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 regular member and 2 Associate vacancies)
If interested in serving on these or any other appointed boards for the Town, please
download the Talent Bank form from the town website or request one from the BOS office
and forward the completed form to the Board of Selectmen's Office. We will keep your form
on file for future position interviews if there are no openings.
Update on the Summer Street Construction project:
The concrete sidewalk construction is undergoing on the Lunenburg section. The contractor
is working on excavating and grading in preparation for granite curb and sidewalk
installation on the Leominster section and work at the Baker's Brook bridge has been put on
hold until fall while the crew preps and paves driveways on the Lunenburg section of the
project.
Eagle House Earmark
After much back and forth with a representative at the Dept. of Housing and Community
Development (DHCD), all documentation and standard contract information was submitted
and fully executed. This allows the town to receive the funding in the amount of $25,000
that was in the state fiscal 2019 budget under the DHCD.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Lemieux and her staff for working with our state legislators and
DHCD to get this funding at the eleventh hour of the fiscal year.
===PAGE 7===
executed contract. Once that occurs, we will start our educational campaign and efforts to reduce
the Town's contamination in our recycling. This will be a major push to educate but also enforce
elimination of materials that do not belong in recycling. This will require a time commitment
from all the parties aforementioned, the ability to meet the deadlines that are part of the grant
requirements, and the ability to hire curbside checkers that will need to be trained. The goal is to
cut our contamination rate in half by the end of the campaign.
Engineering Services for Year 2 of the MS4 Permit
The Stormwater Task Force, the Land Use Director, and I met with two firms on Thursday, July
11th. Both firms were highly qualified; ultimately, we agreed to proceed with negotiating with
Comprehensive Environmental Inc. There are additional items that they will be providing
estimates for and the DPW Director and I will meet with the firm shortly to review all the tasks
and the roles and responsibilities of both the Town and the firm and then all the stakeholders will
meet to review the scope of work.
ADA Public Rights of Way Public Outreach Survey
As part of updating our Public Rights of Way Transition Plan in accordance with ADA,
Montachusett Planning Commission has created a survey that we are disseminating through the
following means:
• Will be in the Lunenburg Ledger
• Posted on the Town website under Latest News and Announcements.
• Distribution of paper surveys at Town Hall, Eagle House, Ritter, and Library
• Distribution through town wide email listserv
• Posted on the Town Facebook pages
• Survey available to be completed through SurveyMonkey at
www.surveymonkey.com/t/Lunenburg_ADA_PROW_Transition_Plan_Survey
Surveys are due back by August 16, 2019.
Attendance at Meetings, Other Announcements:
• I will be attending a Dispatch Administration Board Meeting on July 17th in Bolton.
• I will be attending the Personnel Committee meeting on Monday, July 22nd.
Ms. Adams stated she attended the Farmers Market this past Sunday and was very
impressed. It was a really nice experience. She thanked everyone who participates in that.
Mr. Alonzo agreed, noting the large amount of attendees.
===PAGE 8===
Kespectiully submitted.
Elaire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 0•4 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
