===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair; Damon McQuaid, Clerk; Katey Adams,
Member; Michael- Ray Jetfreys, Member
Member not present: Tom Alonzo, Chair
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Ms. Luck announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck stated, "Along with my colleagues, I have read all of the emails sent to the Board of
Selectmen (BOS) over the last couple of weeks concerning Lake Shirley and the Conservation
Commission and I thank all of them for their interest in the lake and our beloved Town. I
watched the last Selectmen's meeting and would like to respond to the woman who wondered
how I feel 1 am able to serve on the BOS while not being a member of the Lake Shirley
Improvement Corporation (LSIC). My husband's parents built a small summer cottage on Lake
Shirley in 1957. They served as directors on the Lake Shirley Improvement Corp's board, as
President, Vice President, and Secretary, working to improve the lake they loved. When they
moved to Florida and we began spending summers at the "camp" with our young family in the
80's we took up where his parents left off. Carl was on the LSIC Board for years, serving as
both president and vice president and was instrumental in obtaining a 319 grant to create
demonstration projects to help educate & decrease the amount of nutrients coming into the lake. I
served on the board as Vice President and Secretary. About 12 years ago, a serious weed/algae
event caused many residents to feel it was time to begin to treat the lake with chemicals. Carl
and I agreed that weed treatment was one piece of the plan, but that for the health of the lake to
improve, additional action was needed. We lobbied for increased education and outreach to
residents of the lake and the watershed. We realized that the lake had a high nutrient load
causing it to be on the State's list of impaired waterways as a level 5, the highest level of
impairment. Further, that most of that nutrient loading was coming into the lake via the
Catacunemaug and Ester Brooks, and that work needed to be done to lower that. However, the
LSIC at that time, and still today, feels that toxic chemicals alone are all that needs to be done.
We, as well as every consultant the LSIC has ever employed, disagree. Our opposition to the
"one and done' approach caused the leadership of the LSIC Board of Directors to attempt to have
Carl removed for life from the board. LSIC leadership also changed a bylaw in place since the
LSIC founding that allowed a member to be president for no more than 2 years in a row. The
current leadership has changed that bylaw so that a president has no term limit and can serve
indefinitely in that position. We realized our efforts and opinions were not valued by the LSIC
===PAGE 2===
an LSIC member sent a message that the post was inappropriate and it has since been removed.
Being folks who like to roll up our sleeves and help, when we were rejected by the LSIC
leadership, we looked for other ways to serve the lake and the Town we love. When I retired, I
found a place where I feel my contributions are valued on the BOS & Storm Water Task Force
(SWTF), Carl gives of his time on the Sewer and Conservation Commissions.
If the LSIC expands their goals to begin to truly help the lake become a healthier water body by
education, outreach, and looking out into the watershed to reduce the nutrient loading;
If there is "new day" at the LSIC, where different opinions are valued and options discussed
openly and honestly;
If the LSIC issues a formal apology on their website to Carl for the disrespectful and shabby
treatment he's endured:
If we are invited to enjoy the benefits that any member enjoys and rejoin the LSIC Board of
Directors, then Carl and I would gladly rejoin the LSIC and pay the $450/per year that is asked
of residents in our category. We feel no ill will toward the LSIC or its membership. We feel
sorry for those who choose hate over love. It takes a lot of time and energy to hate, we have
neither time nor energy for that. We also feel sorry for those who are led by the haters and
believe the rot that they spew. Should there be a "new day" for the LSIC, should the focus shift
to creating a healthy lake and atmosphere, we'd be more than happy to rejoin the LSIC and get to
work to improve the health of the lake we love."
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street, wanted to recognize Building Commissioner Garry Rhodes as
he is resigning. Regarding the special event permit, there was discussion of waiving a fee and I
don't think you should waive it, it holds people responsible. He also believed camping should
not be allowed especially on town property. He thought using the Ritter Building as a Town Hall
was a great idea.
Pole Petition Public Hearing for 994 Northfield Road,Plan #966-L by Unitil Fitchburg Gas
& Electric
Ms. Luck read aloud the pole petition:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are
hereby notified that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor, in the
Joseph F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg, MA, on Tuesday, July 23, 2019 at 7:05 P.M. upon
petition of Unitil Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company for permission to erect or construct, and a
location for, a line of wires, poles and such other fixtures as may be necessary to sustain or protect the
wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon, along, across, or under the following public
ways of said Town:
===PAGE 3===
Also for permission to lay and maintain underground laterals, cables, and wires in the above or
intersecting public ways for the purpose of making connections with such poles and buildings as each of
the petitioners many desire for distributing purposes.
Unitil Representative Jim Dee presented for the petition. They need to install a mid-span pole to
serve a new customer who will be building a home out behind the golf course on Northfield
Road. Mr. Jeffreys thanked him for providing proposed driveway locations on the map.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the pole petition as presented
2nd: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Dee thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager Appointment of Principal Account Clerk- Ms. Lemieux
stated the appointment of Megan Lorden is to fill a temporary vacancy in the Treasurer/Collector
office due to an employee being out on medical leave.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment to Principal Account Clerk Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager Appointment of DPW Facilities Director- Ms. Lemieux stated
this is to fill a vacancy due to someone retiring last year. Kit Walker is taking the position.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2n°: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment to DPW Facilities Director Vote: All in Favor
Resignation of Interim Building Commissioner Garry Rhodes-Ms. Lemieux stated Mr.
Rhodes is retiring. He has helped out the town in a time of need over the last two years. He was
very helpful in figuring out the logistics of the earth removal permits. She thanked him for his
work and wished him well. Currently we are exploring regionalizing building inspection services
or using a firm for temporary services. We still have our local inspector Donald Farrar.
Motion: K. Adams
2'd: D. McQuaid
To accept the resignation of Interim Buildin Commissioner Garry Rhodes and thank him
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Ms. Lemieux reminded about the walkability meetings:
===PAGE 4===
held and announced funding for affordable housing for the TriTown Senior Housing
development. So that project will be moving forward this year.
Police Union Negotiations:
We had our first Police Union Negotiation meeting today and Attorney Terry will be
meeting with the Board in Executive Session on August 20th to discuss the proposals and
the Town's position.
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular member and 3 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (7 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 design professional; craftsperson
or building contractor familiar with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing
Committee
• Housing Authority (1 elected position vacancy that will be a joint appointment with
remaining Housing Authority members and Selectmen)
• Sewer Commission (1 vacancy to be appointed to by a joint meeting of the BOS and
remaining Sewer Commission)
• Zoning Board of Appeals- (1 regular member and two associates)
If you are interested in serving on these or any other appointed boards for the Town, please
download the Talent Bank form from the town website and forward to the Board of
Selectmen's Office. We will keep your form on file for future position interviews.
Attendance at Meetings, Other Announcements:
• July Town Counsel Office Hours will be tomorrow, Wednesday, July 24th from 9
a.m.-1 p.m.
• August Town Counsel Office Hours will be Tuesday, August 20th from 2-6 p.m.
• I will be attending the Finance Committee this Thursday depending on the end time
of the Whalom area walkability meeting.
• Department Head Meeting: The next Department Head meeting will be on Tuesday,
July 30th.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Luck reported the town Manager and DeW Director met with CEl, a contractor who
will work on year two phase of the MS4 permit. CEI will meet with the Storm Water
Task Force on August 15" to get started. There will be a meeting of the state stormwater
coalition on August 1s at the DEP office in Worcester. This will be an informational
meeting on how member towns can fill the requirements of the MS4 permit's annual
report.
Ms. Luck reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule.
• July 25, 2019 at 5 PM Whalom Lakefront parking lot for Walkability at Whalom Area
• July 30, 2019 at 5 PM Town Hall for Walkability at Main Street
• Regular BOS meetings August 6, 13, 20,2019 at 7 PM
• August 12, 2019 at 6:30 PM (Attend Planning Board Public Hearing on Unitil's Storm
Resilency Program)
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 7:36 p.m.
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 0:4 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
