===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman;
Phyllis Luck, Clerk; Katey Adams, Member
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Adam Costa, Town Counsel
The meeting opened at 7:00 PM with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. Toale announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access
channel.
Mr. Toale announced the Eagle House Supporters would like to thank everyone who showed up
for the Red Sox trophy viewing and participate in the wonderful community event. They have a
new venture, Lunenburg Red Sox Historian Gordon Edes is donating four Red sox tickets for
seats behind home plate along with a personal tour of Fenway Park; game date to be mutually
determined by the winner and Gordon. Tickets will be $5.00 each or thrce for $10.00. the winner
will be drawn on Cruise Night, June 12". Tickets can be purchased at Eagle House.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck announced the Lions Club pancake breakfast will be tomorrow morning from 8:00 to
10:30 am at Eagle House.
Ms. Adams has been asked if there would be a chance to amend the Town Charter on the floor of
town meeting. Attorney Costa stated amendments are at the discretion of the Town Moderator.
The general rule with respect to the Charter is because there is a process that precedes town
meeting where there was a Charter Review Committee and public hearing on the Charter, that
any floor amendments would need to be within the scope of what has been advertised previous to
Town Meeting, what the public hearing was held on, and what was printed in the warrant.
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Ave., thanked the Eagle House supporters for arranging the trophy
viewing. He reminded everyone about the Boys & Girls Club of Lunenburg fundraiser, "Are You
Smarter Then A Sixth Grader?" It is a great family-oriented event. It starts at 7:00 PM at the
Lunenburg Middle/High School. They have a full complement of 16 teams. He encouraged
people to attend or donate in advance.
Ingrid Cruse Helmer, 141 Canterbury Drive, informed about an upcoming speaker for Resources
for Opioid Awareness and Recovery (ROAR), Kate Duffy, coming to Lunenburg High School
on April 30". ROAR's mission is to increase awareness about substance abuse and addiction.
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, referred to the last meeting and discussion about the Town
Manager's performance evaluation. She asked if Ms. Lemieux's contract has any wording on
how her evaluation should be handled. Mr. Toale stated there are stipulations in the contract on
how the review is to be handled and what constitutes a board review. She addressed Ms. Luck's
comment that she did not feel the Board's summary review document reflected her comments.
===PAGE 2===
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street, stated at last week's meeting where three entertainment
licenses for 300 Holman Street were issued, the Chairman cut off residents' participation early.
He was disappointed to be unable to voice his concern. This is a very important issue to the
residents of Holman St. and Windermere Drive. Mr. Toale apologized as he believed they had
heard from everyone that evening.
Mr. Toale asked if Carlos Bismark Terrero was present. He stated he was informed Mr. Terrero
was running late and moved on to the next hearing.
Public Hearing on Special Event Permit
Mr. Toale read the hearing notice aloud:
The Board of Selectmen will hold a public hearing on a "Special Event Permit" on Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 7:15
p.m. and welcomes input from residents. The hearing will be in the Bilotta Meeting Room on the 2" Floor of Town
Hall, 17 Main Street. Anyone who would like to submit written comments regarding the special event permit
application in advance of the meeting, should submit them to the Board of Selectmen office, 17 Main Street, P O Box
135, Lunenburg, MA.
Mr. Toale noted the original notice said April 2 and a later notice stated the hearing was moved
to April 9.
Land Use Director Adam Burney stated we have gone over this several times in the last few
months. This is draft #9, I sent the draft around to other departments whose comments are listed
below:
•
The DPW has indicated they do not see amy direct involvement in the facets outlined in the draft
Special Event Permit document. However, the Director has pledged his support to all other Town
Departments in their needs related to these events.
• The Fire Department requested two changes to the document:
1) That there be an exemption added for training activities for Local, State and Federal publie
safety agencies. While this is not specifically open to the public, the Fire Chief felt it was
something important to have documented.
2) That a reference to Chapter 26 of the Code of Lunenburg is added to the "First Aid/Medical"
section of the document.
• The Board of Health indicated that they would request applicants meet with the Board of Health
to determine the needs for, solid waste disposal, sewerage, and food permitting as events can be
varied and the needs for these items are not standard.
• The Planning Board indicated that, in general, they would prefer the policy to have more
objective criteria that were more black and white as to what shouk/would be allowed. Specile
items diseussed were:
I. In the "Special Event"
section the Board felt
a. There should be consideration taken for zoning. For instance,
i. Should the number of events be codified in Zoning to prevent violations?
i. In the limit of events per year, there should be language similar to "on properties not
===PAGE 3===
loudspeakers and amplification equipment can and will/may be limited by in time or scope by
the Board of Selectmen.
1. Within the "Alcohol/Drug Use" section the Board thought that "Town of Lunenburg
property" should read "land owned by the Town of Lunenburg
5.
"Traffic & Parking" should include language that would detail the calculation of parking
requirements for events. The Planning Board suggested that this could be a specified number
of people per parking space or some other formula.
6. The buffer zone could be more explicitly defined.
a. What constitutes the buffer?
Are activities allowed within the buffer?
7.
"First Aid/Medical"
should there be a threshold for the requirement of EMTs?
8.
"Insurance" should the Town be reguiring alcohol liability insurance on events? Ths would
be to ensure that if people bring their own "refreshments"
there would some manner of
protection.
9. Should the Town concentrate its regulatory efforts on multi-day events as they are more likely
to cause greater impact?
10. What is the appeal processfor those who feel that an event was improperly permitted or denied
a permit?
Mr. Burney rather than change the document according to the items listed above, deferred to the
Board to discuss. Discussion about holding events on private, public and commercial property
ensued. Ms. Adams asked who in town would be keeping track of all the properties and
quantities of events. Mr. Burney stated the Board of Selectmen is the licensing authority. Further
discussion occurred on the private membership exemption and other events that would be
exempted.
Mr. Burney stated he received the following email from resident Dave Passios,
Hi Adam
The following is my attempt with very limited time to convey my thoughts related to this document. Hope
you are able to decifer my comments and suggestions. This would normally be a first draft but my
schedule has not allowed me to sit down and get this done before tonight.
Dave P.
Page 3
Restrooms/Trash/Cleanup: Last sentence: Define "specified period" Suggestion: "48 hrs. unless other
special conditions are set by the Board of Selectmen at time of permitting"
Also I think Cleanup should be a stand-alone section.
Traffic & Parking: Appendix 1 a copy or synopsis of Chapter 332 So applicants know what is required
Add: See Appendix 1 of this packet for details
Signs: Delete second sentence. New: Approved signs may also be required by the Town of
Lunenburg to assist in traffic control and to communicate temporary restrictions during the event.
Smoking: Prohibited in or on all Town of Lunenburg properties including, on school grounds, and
all parks, fields or playgrounds
Tents/Sleeping Trailers: Just state that: Tents (over 200 sq. ft.) and require permitting by the Town of
Lunenburg Building Inspector. See appendix 2 for more details. **Sleeping Trailers must also
comply with any appropriate regulation under M.G.L., Fire Dept. policy, and Board of Health
===PAGE 4===
Certificate of insurance should not be a prerequisite but rather required before final issuance but no later
than 14 days prior to the event
Pages not mentioned are a bit wordy for an application packet. Also, an actual policy document
should include more detail than is needed in an application packet. They are two very different
documents and should be treated as such!
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting St., clarifying on the buffer zone item, stated if you are going to
consider altering the buffer zone set in the policy, you should have some additional information
to make that decision including from the abutters and a reason from the applicant as to why they
felt they need that waiver.
Tom Alonzo asked if it was the intent of the Board that this would come before Town Meeting.
Mr. Toale stated this process was put in place a while ago and it was the intent of the Board to
draft what we were calling a policy or guideline. We were going to come away with a policy and
use it for a while to see how it worked and at some point bring it to town meeting to be accepted
as a bylaw. There is a citizen's petition submitted for annual town meeting that does two things.
The warrant asks the voters to approve two zoning bylaws; one that creates exhibits and
workshops and one that creates a bylaw for special events. The wording is similar to our draft.
They are two separate things; one is about a proposed guideline or a policy in the future.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the Board was just going to implement something of this scope without
bringing it to town meeting. Mr. Toale stated we currently have a special event license but we
wanted to make it more complete, use it for a while, and bring it to the next available town
meeting to make it a bylaw. Mr. Alonzo suggested submitting an amendment to the citizen's
petition on town meeting floor with town counsel's guidance.
Dave Passios suggested over time to have the bylaw created but the Board can still have a policy.
The most important thing is the applicant understands the steps they need to take to get through
the process.
Steve Weaver, asked about the special events, is that going to be overnight tenting; will we have
multiple day events? Mr. Burney stated the policy would allow for a total of four events per year
and multiple day events not to exceed four days. It would be up to the Selectmen at the time they
are issuing the permit to determine if it was appropriate for the location. Mr. Weaver stated it
would be almost a business because if you have one every weekend during the summer, it can be
very punishing on people and affect local businesses. He suggested the zoning board should
issue the permit and asked who is going to police these events. There are a lot of things that need
to be taken into consideration because it is important to the abutters. Ms. Adams asked Mr.
Burney if there is a violation to a license, what would your recommendation be? Should future
permits be denied? Mr. Burney stated he would expect there would be a note in the application
file or a file goes along with a certain property address.
Ms. Adams clarified that something should be written in the policy regarding violations and
consequences.
===PAGE 5===
and about especially in that vicinity. Events that pull people from out of town are a boon to
everybody in the area.
Ana Lockwood asked have you defined what actually a special event is.
Mr. Toale stated we know we need to define what a special event is more. He closed the public
hearing. He thanked everyone for their input.
Mr. Burney ran through items that he thought still needed clarification:
• In the first two paragraphs, define "special event" more clearly
The discussion turned to zoning. Attorney Costa stated applying a policy of this sort to existing
non-residential, commercial operations could be problematic in that looking at the special event
description and seeing concerts, athletic tournaments etc. listed. What about a concert hall or an
indoor athletic facility that has athletic events every day of the week? Obviously, the intent of the
policy does not affect them, but there is a need to clarity to what sorts of operations this applies.
There may be a need to make an outside reference to zoning if it is allowed under zoning or
under a permitted use of the site consistent with the operation as has been permitted. Then there
is no need for a special event permit. With that exception, I advise the Board to steer clear of
zoning. If a particular event is occurring especially on residential property that is clearly or has
some indications of it being non-residential in scope, at what point does that property begin to
shift to a property that has become more non-residential or commercial in nature? That is a
question for the Zoning Enforcement Officer. There is going to be some ambiguity. This is a
wensing pracey separate and apat from zoning, it has a different board and to siegest that you
because they are two separate processes and they are meant to regulate two different use
components. The board's purpose is to provide some sort of licensing that gives you the ability
to address public health and safety concerns, and ensure that the operation is functioning in such
a way that it is minimally invasive on the neighbors and town.
Mr. McQuaid stated, as an architect if it is an indoor event, he looks at what the building is
permitted for as far as bathroom amenities and the space.
Attorney Costa stated he has found in other communities that adopt untested policies as a bylaw,
that they quickly find something that is not going to work as they thought it would. By adopting
it as a policy initially, it gives you the ability to implement it and see how it is working, more
easily modify it by a meeting of the board with public notice, and once you have something that
functions, present that to town meeting for adoption. This is complicated by the fact that you
have a citizens
petition that seeks to adopt it as a bylaw. These guidelines are subjective, bylaws
tend to more objective. The idea behind the policy is to provide a framework and to give the
licensing authority on a case-by-case basis, the authority to subjectively review what's before it
within the framework that's been created and to impose the sorts of conditions that would
provide the protections that we have heard referenced from various speakers.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Burney moved on to Exemptions. He will remove the clause about membership events.
• Timing - 6:00 a.m. start time was a discussion for later
• Restrooms - clean up time - 48 hours was suggested
• Signs - he referred to Mr. Passios' suggestion- Approved signs may also be required
by the Town of Lunenburg to assist in traffic control and to communicate temporary
restrictions during the event.
• Smoking - he referred to Mr. Passios suggestion-Prohibited in or on all Town of
Lunenburg properties including, on school grounds, and all parks, fields or playgrounds
• Tents - the addition of Tents (over 400 sq. ft.) and require permitting by the Town of
Lunenburg
• Buffer zone- noted abutter feedback at the public hearing
• First Aid/Medical- Fire Chief's proposed amendment
• Enforcement- work needed with legal counsel assistance
• Insurance- discussion with legal counsel
Appeal Process- Mr. Costa stated c. 249, § 4 covers any action that has no appeal process
and exists whether it is referenced or not in the policy- it is a matter of discretion for the
board.
Mr. Burney stated he has stopped updating the application form until the policy is completed.
Mr. Toale thanked Mr. Burney and Mr. Costa for their assistance.
Public Hearing Class II Auto Dealer License -Carlos Bismark Terrero d/b/a National Motors,
40 Summer Street
Mr. Toale read the hearing notice aloud:
The Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on Tuesday. April 9, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. at
Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor, Lunenburg, on the Class II Auto Dealer license
application submitted by Carlos Bismark Terrero d/b/a National Motors Corp. The license is to
be exercised at premises located at 40 Summer Street, Lunenburg, MA. The applicant wishes to
store and display fifty motor vehicles for sale and to have hours of operation from 8:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and by appointment only on Sundays.
Carlos Bismark Terrero presented for the application. He stated he would like to open a used car
business and sell cars.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To approve the Class II Auto Dealer license for 40 Summer Street for Carlos Bismark
Terrero d/b/a National Motors
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Terrero thanked the Board. Mr. Costa exited the meeting.
===PAGE 7===
•a• ticket
To ratify the appointment of Katey Adams to the American with Disabilities Commission-
BOS representative
Vote: All in Favor
Appointment of Board of Selectmen member to the Economic Development Committee
Ms. Luck appreciated the wording that said this committee charge can be amended at any time.
When we received the MRP Implementation Plan for Recommendations from the 2017 Report
on the Formation of a Business/Town Partnership, it gives recommendations for creating an
economic development committee which are very different from the mission and the goals for
the Lunenburg Economic Development Committee. Lunenburg's charge is committed to
promote eco-tourism and agricultural business development within Lunenburg; to provide advice
to the Board of Selectmen on economic development policy; to meet and work with current
Lunenburg businesses and prospective businesses; to coordinate its activities with the activities
of the Conservation Commission, Open Space Committee, and the Agricultural Commission;
and to work cooperatively with businesses and state agencies to retain and promote current
businesses in Lunenburg. She asked why are only ecotourism and agricultural business
development the only targets. There are many other types of businesses in town. Ecotourism is
the practice of touring natural habitats in a manner meant to minimize ecological impact; tourism
directed toward exotic and natural environments intended to support conservation efforts and
observe wildlife. How will ecotourism drive Lunenburg's economic engine?
MRPC's plan says the mission would be to promote balanced long-term economic development
by helping to attract, retain and grow businesses by the implementation of an action plan, policy
changes, infrastructure investments and programmatic activities while maintaining the social,
cultural, and historic and environmental attributes of the community.
Ms. Luck read the following:
Section 2. Functions (B.) Goals from the Charge for the Economic Development Committee
1. Establish and nurture supportive relationships with existing businesses and property owners;
2. Work with the Lunenburg Business Association on ways the Town can assist local businesses;
3. Work collaboratively and seek out support and funding sources from local, regional, state, and
federal organizations that would promote the mission of the Economic Development
Committee;
4. Provide education and outreach opportunities to encourage and facilitate economic
development.
Ms. Luck read the following:
Membership Section 3: Membership and Meetings
1. The Committee shall be composed of five (5) regular members serving three year terms
appointed by the Town Manager and ratified by the Board of Selectmen as follows:
One member from the Agricultural Commission that owns a business in Lunenburg and shall
initially be appointed for a three year term
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Luck asked why the membership does not have someone from the Water District
Commission, Schools, Police and Fire, Finance Committee, Board of Health, or Sewer
Commission. When former Town Manager Spiedel proposed the Land Use Director position,
two of the four main benefits was that position would direct efforts toward economic
development and business retention and expansion, obtain grants for programs and services.
Why isn't this the Land Use Director's committee?
Mr. McQuaid recalled we started with the MRPC report and had a couple of hearings and did
outreach and you made the comment at the last meeting.. are we sure we want economic
development and we got a "not really" response from people, the ecotourism and agriculture
were really the only two that we could come to agreement on.
Mr. Toale agreed and stated that it was the opinions of the people who attended the meetings. I
personally believe the townspeople want the businesses we have to thrive and be successful and
there may be some businesses we don't have that would be nice to have. But it wasn't quite clear
how we could have any committee of that sort make it happen.
Further discussion ensued about the committee and the charge.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To put a hold on the economic development committee and reevaluate
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid expressed frustration. Everyone says let's do it until it's time to do it,
then everyone says no, I don't want to do it. I am ready to scrap the whole thing. Ms. Adams
stated this doesn't seem to achieve anything new. Mr. Toale stated this arose from our goal sheet
from fiscal year 2017 and a lot of meetings where a few people came. Those people who came
leaned towards agriculture and farm to table restaurants. I don't see one yet and I don't see any
road to get there. I would hate to put a lot of people on a committee to do a lot of work that the
town doesn't want them to do. I think we have to decide what the town wants in terms of
economic development. Mr. McQuaid stated the Planning Board has made some good zoning
moves for the town in terms of the Village District and Summer Street Overlay District and I
don't think there is one project that has come in for either of these districts. We need to raise
awareness of what we have.
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Reimbursement Policy & Abatement of Ambulance Receivables
Finance Director Karen Brochu reported this is a very simple reimbursement policy that we are
proposing.
Draft Reimbursement Policy
I. Employee Expense Reimbursement:
===PAGE 9===
Town business. The reimbursement rate will correspond with the Internal Revenue Service mileage rate at
the time of the travel. The Finance Director/Town Accountant will notify Department Heads whenever
the IRS mileage reimbursement rate changes.
I. Employee Travel Related Reimbursement:
As a matter of policy, the Town encourages participation by its senior management staff in their
professional associations' annual conferences and other educational training meetings. Such participation
is beneficial to the employee in terms of promoting their professional growth and development. The
community benefits through the introduction of new ideas that are often learned at conference workshops,
the networking process and the related exchange of information with a manager's peers is another
potential benefit for the community.
The Town expects to be responsible for the expenses related to professional development and ensure that
the cost of such travel is maintained at the lowest reasonable level. Costs such as hotel accommodations
and food expenses are considered reasonable expenses.
Ms. Luck suggested adding "Pre-approved" before professional in the second paragraph and
"valid" instead of reasonable in the last line.
IV. Submittal Requirements:
All reimbursement requests must be submitted on the Employee Reimbursement Form and be
accompanied by an original receipt showing proof of payment and if a credit card was used, a
copy of the credit card with the name of the credit card holder and last four digits of the credit
Motion: K. Adams
To adopt the reimbursement policy with amendments
2*d: D. McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Brochu reported we have a very old rescue wagon receivable balance in the amount of
$108,900.84. It has remained unchanged for at least 20 years. One issue that we have with all
the moving of records from the basement and mold damage to records in Town Hall basement,
we don't have the detail that supports this balance. This was recommended by the management
letter from the auditing firm. We are asking this balance to be abated so we can remove it from
the general ledger. We are also looking to a policy for the newer receivable we have with Coastal
and can do this on a more frequent basis for what truly is uncollectable.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2": P. Luck
To authorize abating the old rescue wagon receivable balance in the amount of $108,900.84
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 10===
Another management recommendation in the FY18 Audit was to write-off old uncollectible
ambulance receivables. The recommendation before the Board is to write-off a total of
$108,900.84 from old ambulance receivables that date back prior to 2003, as they are deemed
uncollectible.
Dementia Friendly Kick-Off Event
When: Monday, May 20th, 6 p.m.
Where: Lunenburg Library
This will be the big kick-off event for announcing that Lunenburg is in the process of becoming
a recognized Dementia Friendly Community. Town officials, public, and legislators will be
invited to attend, as well as an invitation to the Governor's Office and the Mass Council on
Aging and Executive Office of Elder Affairs.
Reminder: Information Sessions about Community Solar (TM Goal #1, ii)
The informational sessions held by Nexamp on Community Solar will be on Wednesday, April
10th at 6:30 p.m. in the Lunenburg MS Collaborative Room D132 and Saturday, April 13th at 10
a.m. in the Library.
Recycling Education Campaign (TM Goal #1)
There will be a Recycling Tips article in the Lunenburg Ledger in the town-wide edition on April
12" and in the Annual Town Meeting Booklet that gets mailed to every household.
Senior Tax Work Off Committee Update
The topic of amending the Senior Work Off Program regulations to increase the hourly wage and
maximum abatement for eligible seniors in this program was on the Board of Assessors agenda
for their meeting tonight. Once we receive a recommendation from the Senior Work Off
Committee to the Board of Selectmen, we will add it to the next agenda.
MRPC Walkability and Parking Study
Department heads met with a Principal Planner from Montachusett Regional Planning
Commission on April 8th regarding the Walkability and Parking Study we requested last March.
Although usually a Walkability and Parking Study focuses on one area, the planner identifed two
areas in Town that had a cluster of points of interest that would benefit from this study. The two
identifed areas were the town center and the Whalom area (including Whalom Road, Lakefront
Road and Prospect Street). The type of information that will be looked at to assess walkability
will include traffic data, accident data, and existing sidewalks. MRPC staff will assess parking in
these areas separately. To reiterate, this will be the first of multiple meetings and MRPC will get
input from all the stakeholders and public by the end of the study.
===PAGE 11===
Meetings:
• The Finance Committee will be meeting this Thursday, April 11th at 7 pm and on
Thursday, April 25th at / pm.
• I will be stopping by the Community Service Learning presentations on April 10th at
6:00 p.m. in the High School and the Information Session with Nexamp on Community
Solar at 6:30 p.m.
• Town Counsel will be holding monthly office hours on April 24th from 10 am until 2 pm
and on May 20th from noon until 4 pm.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $552,144.33.
Action File Issues: Ms. Luck requested reviewing the debt policy per the Finance
Committee Chair's recommendation.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Recommendations on ATM Articles that were deferred
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 4 was deferred because you wanted to wait for the final amount to
be determined. We only have one prior year bill at this time. Mr. Toale asked for confirmation on
the waiting until Town meeting to get the final balance and the board concurred.
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 5 was the transfer to amend the fiscal year 17 budget. The board
will wait for town meeting for the final balance required.
Article 6 (FY 2020 Capital Plan) was deferred as well.
Article 7 is the FY2020 budget. Ms. Luck had issues with the two new staff positions. Mr. Toale
stated to not recommend approving the budget due to those new positions is a significant point
and he personally believed that it is a staffing decision within the authority of the Town Manager
to get the work done that she believes needs to get done. She is not looking for additional
funding, she is doing it within the budget that she has. I would support her budget in its total.
Ms. Adams stated she may have the authority to place that in the budget but it doesn't mean it
needs to be there.
Mr. Toale stated Ms. Lemieux is more informed as to whether that is a requirement to get the job
done within her organization and therefore he supported her recommendation. Ms. Adams stated
she would not support the budget with added staff positions that we never heard we needed. Mr.
Toale noted this has been part of the staff plan for years and it has been held back due to
constraints in terms of financing. It came forward this year because it was able to be done within
the allocated budget. It has been on our radar since February 15"
===PAGE 12===
positions
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid stated he did support the budget. Mr. Toale stated so do I. Ms. Adams
stated she would take a patrol officer or a teacher before these recommended positions. Mr.
McQuaid stated this is a unique situation where there are only four of us. Mr. Toale pointed out
if we vote at this time 2-2 then we are not going to make any recommendation on the budget. If
you want to speak about changing it, you speak as an individual. Mir. Toale called for a vote.
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Toale - nay, Mr. McQuaid- nay
Mr. Toale stated the Board does not have a position.
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 8 would be presented at town meeting so she assumed they would
defer on any recommendation as well.
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A,
the Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws with a FY 2020 Salary Schedule as recommended by
the Personnel Committee, which authorizes a cost of living increase for Fiscal Year 2020, for permanent
employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract and to authorize a
COLA increase for Fiscal Years 2021 and FY2022; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
the Personnel Committee
She moved on to Articles 21-24.
ARTICLE, 21. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of the land and/or
building(s) thereon known as the old Primary School Building and property, located at 30 School
Street, shown on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to
the Board of Selectmen for general purposes and for the purpose of conveyanee, and to anthorize the
Board of Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest or any portion thereof, or to lease the property, on
such terms and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and
to execute any and all agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the
properties and any portion thereol and to authorize and /or reanthorize the Board of Selectmen to
sell and or lease the parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any manner said
pareels and/or buildings situated and or take amy legal action necessary to effectuate the sale, lease,
subdivision, and/or transfer of said land and buiklings situated thereon; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen)
Mr. McQuaid noted Article 21 is in response to the Architectural Preservation District
Commission's notice to the Board that they need to do something with the Old Primary School
Building or have someone else do something with it. It is an effort to avoid putting $2 million of
repair into the building. Ms. Adams stated this article is giving the Board permission to convey a
piece of historic municipal land. Previous articles to convey the land have failed. She found this
article extremely risky stating it's some type of power grab to take away power that belongs to
the people.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To not recommend approval of Article 21
===PAGE 13===
shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of
Selectmen for general purposes and for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of
Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest or any portion thereof, or to lease the property, on such terms
and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any
and all agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of amy of the properties and any portion
thereof and to authorize and /or reauthorize the Board of Selectmen to selland /or lease the parcel and/or
buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any manner said parcels and/or buildings situated and or
take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale, lease, subdivision, and/or transfer of said land and
buildings sitnated thereon; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of
Selectmen
Mr. McQuaid stated again the APDC expressed the first choice would be to have the building
stay there; the following article would be if nobody wants it and to keep it there and we try to
move the building and keep the land. This is to follow a successful model that took place with
the Jones House which was a result of the town trying to own property and lease it out and be a
terrible landlord and having the building fall into disrepair. We found someone who wanted to
fix it p and make it into a private residence. We went through the RFP process and put
stipulations in it that they had to do certain improvements laid out by the Historic Commission.
It is a great looking building in the center of town now.
Motion: K. Adams
• To not recommend Article 22
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Toale - nay, Mr. McQuaid- nay
The Board will not make a recommendation on this article.
2nd: P. Luck
ARICO 23. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the building
known as the Brooks House, located at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue, which property is shown on
Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen
for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to sell said building, and take
any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale of said building; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen)
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: D. McQuaid
To recommend approval of Article 23
Discussion: Ms. Adams stated the house is historical and had a hard time letting go of it.
Vote: In favor- 3, 1 against (Adams)
ARNOLD 24. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a
sum of money for the design and engincering to consolidate town offices, school uses, and community
space at the building and land known as the C Passios, located at 1079 Massachusetts Avenue,
shown ou Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental and related costs, including but not
limited to, site evaluation, engineering and final design services; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Seleetmen)
===PAGE 14===
be conveyed or otherwise transferred, so as to avoid compliance with, defer or curtail the applicability or
joint tenancies, tenancies in common or trusts with a commonality of legal or equitable interests) therein;
or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
Ms. Lemieux reported Article 33 as well as the citizens' petition warrant articles was deferred.
Motion: K. Adams
2°°: P. Luck
To recommend Article 33
Discussion: Mr. McQuaid stated he would like to have the information behind the article
presented before recommending it. Mr. Toale agreed. The motion and second were
withdrawn.
The Board will wait to hear from the citizen petitioners at town meeting before recommending
anything or not. In regards to Articles 40 and 41, which requests a zoning bylaw change and a
Special Event permit bylaw, Ms. Adams stated she would not be in favor of these articles. Ms.
Lemieux reported the petitioner for Article 43 was withdrawing their article.
Upcoming meetings: Mr. Toale stated Ms. Lemieux will not be at next week's meeting due to
vacation. Judging what is on the next agenda, he recommended the Board not meet on the 23rd.
We are trying to schedule the TCP abutters' workshop. He also wanted to post an 8:00 a.m.
meeting on the morning of annual town meeting (May 4*h).
PUBLIC COMMENT
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, commented on Article 24, regarding moving municipal
offices to the TCP. She did not believe it was accurate to refer to it as a consolidation. It is
more accurate to call it an expansion when you go from 12,500 square feet to potentially 55,000
square feet. She was also disappointed that the recent Selectmen meeting occurred at 1:00 p.m.
in the afternoon and was not recorded.
Ms. Adams stated she has always felt the TCP was too large for long-term maintenance and
utilities.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 10:06 p.m.
2'd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
