===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman;
Phyllis Luck, Clerk; Katey Adams, Member
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Jim
Marino, Police Chief
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Toale announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law, please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced the town is seeking a color photograph for the cover of the 2018 Annual
Report. Photos can be submitted via email to epeterson@lunenburgonline.com or you can call
the Board of Selectmen office at 978-582-4144 for more information. Please submit a photo, if
you are interested, by March 11t
The Town Caucus is Monday, March 11 at Turkey Hill Elementary School at 7:00 p.m. Anyone
interested in running for an elected office in the May 18, 2019 election should attend in order to
get the town caucus nomination. There are two open Selectmen seats; one is Bob Ebersole's seat
and the other is the position that Mr. Toale now holds. Mr. Toale announced he would not be
seeking a third term as Selectman, it has been his honor and privilege to serve the citizens of
Lunenburg for the last six years and he thanked everyone for their confidence and support during
his tenure. He will continue to fulfill his obligations during his current term and will serve until
the May 18 election.
Mr. McQuaid thanked Mr. Toale for his service to the Town; adding we will be losing a great
asset and I will be losing a great friend sitting next to me.
Ms. Luck thanked Mr. Toale for all his contributions during the six years. You definitely will be
missed.
Ms. Luck stated she was surprised to learn while watching the Town Manager's February 14
budget presentation to the Finance Committee that there are two new hires included in this year's
preliminary budget. She looked forward to hearing clear justification for identification for all
costs related to the proposed hiring of an Assistant Town Manager and a part-time or full-time
Recreation Director.
Mike Clark, 275 Cross Road, introduced Senator Dean Tran and Republican State
Committeewoman Susan Smiley who are here on behalf of deceased Cemetery Commissioner
Lance May. Senator Tran stated he was here to celebrate the life of Lance May, who loved and
was committed to the Town of Lunenburg. On behalf of the Senate, he presented an adjournment
to Mr. May's family. The family member, Donna, thanked the Senator and the Town for their
support. Ms. Smiley presented a citation from the Governor and Lt. Governor's office to the
family in recognition of Lance May's 48 years of dedicated service to the Town of Lunenburg,
===PAGE 2===
Daron Massey, 300 Holman Street, following on Ms. Obermeyer Simmons'
remarks, asked the
Board to have some provision in the special permit to exclude people having less than a certain
number people for run of the mill events so they don't have to be required to go through the
special permitting process and to provide some flexibility to determining what is required.
APPOINTMENTS
Joint Appointment with Planning Board to fill vacancy created by David Prokowiew's
resignation until the May 2019 Annual Town Election
This was passed over due to no candidates coming forward. Mr. Toale encouraged any who is
interested in the seat to come forward
Earth Removal Permit #14 renewal for P J. Keating Co.
Mr. Toale stated this is a continuation of the earth removal permit renewal process which has
been continued since August 2018. Land Use Director Burney stated he was here for Interim
Building Commissioner Rhodes and referred the Board to the site plans submitted by Keating's
engineer. He stated the land listed under permit #14 is adjacent to land listed on permits #18 and
#42. Permits #18 and #42 had been renewed until August 31, 2019. Mr. Rhodes recommended
revoking all three permits and reissuing a new permit with a new number that encompasses all
three permits. The plans that were submitted were satisfactory to both Mr. Rhodes and Mr.
Burney. Mr. Rhodes had recommended incorporating the following conditions from all three of
the permits:
1. A 100-foot buffer from both Leominster/Shirley and Fort Pond Road. The buffer zone,
with the exception of the entrance driveway shall be kept in a natural state. Markers and
signage shall be installed at the limits of the buffer.
Reasonable effort be exerted to curtail noise and dust with emphasis on safe and orderly
flow of traffic by the said company. P.J. Keating Co. shall address all such complaints
as may occur as directed by the Town of Lunenburg.
3.
This permit allows the P.J. Keating Co. to cross Fort Pond Rd. and Leominster-Shirley
Road with any and all of its vehicles associated with earth removal, stone processing
and stone handling operations.
A. This is an industrial operation that requires passage over town roads to obtain access
from one Keating owned property to another; the nature of this industrial business
requires these to be typically "off road" heavy construction vehicles. As a result,
they are unregistered, oversized, and overweight as it pertains to conventional over
the road vehicular traffic.
B. These vehicles shall be covered with general liability insurance as required by law.
C. P.J. Keating Co. shall assume the sole liability for the public safety of its operations
on these town roads.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Luck asked how high the quarry currently is. Mr. Burney stated 35 feet from the base
and another 35 feet from the road level. Discussion about moving the permitting process
to the Planning Board ensued.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: P. Luck
To approve earth removal permit #14 until August 31, 2019 and combine with earth
removal permits #18 and 42 to create a new permit encompassing the entire area as shown
on site plan prepared by S.J. Mullaney Engineering Inc., titled "Site Plan of Proposed
Earth Removal in Lunenburg, Massachusetts located on Leominster-Shirley & Fort Pond
Roads" and dated 12/26/2018 and to include the above listed conditions
Discussion: Ms. Luck suggested the buffer be more than 100 feet. Mr. McQuaid stated you can't
see into the pit while driving down the road except through the entrance and adding distance of
another 100 feet isn't going to affect the view. He added the applicant should be able to access
their material. Ms. Adams agreed. Mr. Toale did not see any advantage to adding additional
buffer. Ms. Lemieux requested changing the permit number to avoid confusion in the future
when reviewing all the earth removal permits.
Ms. Adams amended her motion to change the permit number to a new number on the
combined permit. Ms. Luck amended her second.
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 opposed (Luck)
Bring Your Own Bottle (BYOB) Permit Application- Whalom Kitchen-324 Electric Avenue
Owner Chris Lyons stated things are going well at Whalom Kitchen and he is interested in
getting a Bring Your Own Bottle permit as some customers had inquired. We generally are a
breakfast and lunch venue but we are going to do a fish fry on Fridays for the seven weeks of
Lent. We think this could enhance our business. He did come up with a list of some rules. He is
going to limit the size of containers brought into the restaurant. He wanted to ensure they could
open wine and champagne bottles for patrons; when people leave, we want to make sure
everything is sealed. He has already purchased clear sealable bags. His daughter, who is also his
Assistant Manager and a part-time bartender, has recommended placing a copy of the receipt
inside the bag in case anyone is pulled over they can show where they were and why they had it.
She is also TIPS certified. Mr. Lyons and his wife are in the process of getting TIPS certified
too. We will be checking ids. We will be posting these rules in the restaurant for the patrons to
understand what they are doing.
Currently they are open from 7:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday and from 7:00
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on Sundays. He stated he was not looking to work nights but they will be doing
the fish fry for Lent from 5:00 to 9:00 p.m. on Fridays and possibly some evenings during the
summer. We are going to see how it goes over the next six weeks.
===PAGE 4===
Discussion: Ms. Adams requested to place hours on the permit and she had concerns about
people showing up with large containers of liquor. Mr. Lyons stated management has discussed
and they will be discouraging anyone coming in with a lot of alcohol. They will be limiting the
container sizes to a liter and will be keeping an eye on patrons.
Ms. Adams asked about restricting the type of alcohol being brought in. Ms. Lemieux stated the
Board can place conditions on the permit. Mr. Toale clarified this is not an alcohol license, it is
to allow patrons to bring something in for themselves and be supervised by someone who is
TIPS certified. Mr. Lyons assured the Board he would not be allowing his restaurant to be a
place people come to drink because his business is family oriented. He noted there is a full
service bar, Kindred Spirits, in the same location as his business.
Vote: All in Favor
Draft Special Event Permit
Land Use Director Adam Burney stated he has received comments about the draft permit
regarding the cost of liability insurance and number of allowed events per year and deferred
them to the Board. He requested to add an amendment on page 2 under Tents/Sleeping Trailers:
to add "over 200 square feet" after the word Tents. This would eliminate requiring inspections of
smaller personal sized tents. Discussion ensued on types of trailers.
Mr. Burney changed the definition of a special event to any event/activity held on public
property or an event open to the general public on private property. We dropped the "50 people
of more," wording.
Ms. Adams noted the wording under Exemptions on Sporting events held in conjunction with
Lunenburg Public Schools might not cover every sports group. Mr. Burney offered to change it
to "with permission from LPS or Lunenburg Parks Department," in case it is an outside group.
Under Timing, Ms. Luck preferred changing the start time from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. Mr.
Burney deferred this decision to the Board members. Under Traffic, Mr. Burney stated this is
regulated by bylaw and added the following wording, "Traffic and Parking plans shall not violate
Chapter 332 of the code of Lunenburg. "
Ms. Luck asked if fireworks are licensed in Lunenburg. Mr. Burney stated one could apply for a
professional fireworks permit from the Fire Department which is covered under state regulations.
Mr. Burney stated we talked about what was reasonable for a buffer zone and he had changed it
to 100 feet from an abutting residential property. Ms. Luck believed the words "under reasonable
circumstances,"added to the second sentence of the buffer zone section was not needed. Ms.
Adams did not agree and thought it defined how the Board should act at their discretion. She
preferred consistency. Mr. McQuaid stated discretion is needed as circumstances for each event
will vary. Ms. Lemieux suggested "may reduce the distance based on the size and scope of the
event." Mr. Burney offered to remove "at their discretion," and replace it with Ms. Lemieux's
wording.
===PAGE 5===
and they want to do this once or twice a year? Can they get around the zoning part of that? Mr.
Burney stated we allow home occupations anywhere in town. We allow two people who don't
reside at the location to be employed there.
Discussion turned to what constitutes requiring a special permit. Mr. Burney stated his
recollection was that the Board wanted to review the draft one more time and then hold a public
hearing on it. He can have a clean copy to Ms. Lemieux by this Thursday, the 7h.
. Mr. Burney
asked if he was removing the word "sporting" from the second exemption listed on page one.
Mr. Toale was comfortable excluding sporting events because the Board of Selectmen does not
have jurisdiction over school property or parks properties. But taking that word out says all
events that have anything to do with any of those groups, and he was not comfortable with that.
Mr. Burney stated the other concern that was brought up was the liability insurance
requirements. This is a standard requirement in most towns. Mr. Toale wanted to ensure the
Town would not be held liable if it approved an event where something happened and someone
was seeking payment for damages. Ms. Lemieux stated they could insert an indemnification
clause in the application. Town counsel will be consulted.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, applauded the special event permit being brought forward. He
believed this criteria should be kept for all events. He referred to page two under Tents/Sleeping
Trailers, what is the criteria for the permits? A trailer owner is going to need three permits from
three different departments, and you are going to add a fee to each one of those permits at some
point. You don't identify what the criteria are for those permits and you are listing the elected
Board of Health in Lunenburg, not Nashoba Valley Associated Boards of Health. This is the first
I have seen this.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement: MassDOT Small Bridge Program Grant Award
The DPW Director had submitted an application to MassDOT's Municipal Small Bridge
Program to reconstruct the Pleasant Street Bridge over Pearl Hill Brook back in June of 2017.
Since then the Director, the Engineer, our state legislators, and I have all been in contact with
MassDOT representatives to find out the status of the application and advocate for its approval.
The DPW Director recently received notification from MassDOT that the application has been
approved for $379,000. I applaud the DPW Director for going after funding for this structurally
deficient bridge that is an important emergency route for our public safety responders to all the
residents of Pleasant Street. This grant equates to $379,000 less in local taxpayer dollars and
avails the Town to spend this on other necessary capital projects.
As the timeline of this project becomes known, there will be more information made public,
including detour routes. As with any detour, there will be some inconveniences, but the
reconstruction of this bridge is vital to the public's safety.
===PAGE 6===
1vis.
to the list of open seats.
DUUL
Pay As You Throw Trash Bags Complaint
Chairman Toale forwarded me a complaint from a resident about the quality of the Pay As
You Throw Bags, which was given to the bag vendor WasteZero, to both document the
complaint and is necessary for them to know which production run generated faulty
bags. Faulty bags will be replaced by WasteZero by sending a replacement sleeve. For
anyone that experiences faulty bags, please contact WasteZero Customer Service at 1-
800-866-3954 and provide the 5-7 digit code stamped on the bag.
Senior Work Off ProgramRegulations
The Senior Work Off Committee discussed at their last meeting the possible proposal to
amend the current regulations that determine a senior's eligibility to participate in the
Senior Work Off Program. Selectman Luck had brought up at a previous Selectmen's
meeting that she learned at the MMA Conference of a town that allows an approved
representative work on behalf of a disabled senior. The Senior Work Off Committee and I
are currently researching the mechanics of how that would work including who would file
the W-4 and if another town meeting vote is required since the town initially approved this
law in May of 2000, when that provision of the law did not apply. The Senior Work Off
Committee will also look at changing the income requirements and increasing the hourly
rate as allowed under the relevant MGL. The Committee meets later this month.
Contract Review Process and Centralization of Procurement Files (TM Goal H5, Actionii)
In order to streamline the process for procurement and that the engagement of services
has gone through all the proper procedures, departments were notified of a few changes
that took effect immediately. Any department that contracts out for services, software, or
other projects, were told that those contracts will need to be reviewed and signed off by
the Town Manager and a copy given to the Finance Director prior to engaging with a
vendor/contractor.
Also, our auditing firm has denoted in our last two management letters that the Town's
supporting documentation for procurements (i.e. bids, quotes and contracts) are being
kept by individual departments instead of in a centralized location. As the Chief
Procurement Officer, the logical centralized location for these files is in the Town
Manager's Office. Departments were told that all files related to procurement of goods
and services, building projects, design services, and public works projects will now need
to be provided to the Town Manager's Office.
===PAGE 7===
the budget process, we were told by MIIA to estimate an 8% increase in health insurance
for Fiscal Year 2020 and this past month MIIA released the rate ranges with a maximum
increase of 5%. We received our actual renewal rates and it will be a 2.45% decrease for
Fiscal Year 2020! To receive a decrease in our annual renewal is unprecedented and this
equates to roughly a $60,000 decrease from my preliminary budget recommendation
that had a 5% increase for health insurance.
This will positively impact the School budget as well. Thereduction in rates is
attributableto the surplus that the MIIA Trust that was redistributed to allthemember
communities. Another benefit ofthe insurancetrust isthat large loss claims get pulled out
and the cost gets spread across the trust.
Changes to Employee Optional InsuranceCoverages
Our health insurance consultant, the Payroll/Benefits Coordinator, our new optional
insurance broker through Boston Mutual and I met with the Public Employee Committee
in February and willbe offering an improved Voluntary Term Life Insurance, new
accident insurance, and enhanced coverage forshort and long term disability for
benefited employees. The changes will provide employees with more coverage for
less money. As these are optional, employees will have a choiceto enroll or continue
coverage during the open enrollment period in May.
Save the Date! Dementia Friendly Kick Off Event
Monday, May 20* at 6:00 p.m. at the Public Library
This will be the big kick-off event for announcing that Lunenburg is in the process
of becoming a recognized Dementia Friendly Community. Town officials, public,
and legislators will be invited to attend, as well as an invitation to the Governor's
Office and the Mass Council on Aging and Executive Office of Elder Affairs.
Community Solar
As a follow-up to our conversation about Nexamp's Community Solar available to
Lunenburg residents, the project at Northfield Road is the only community solar project
owned by Nexamp in Lunenburg, but there is also a community solar project in Fitchburg
that is also open to both Fitchburg and Lunenburg residents. Both projects have plenty of
availability for residents to sign up for discounted electricity. I have a call with Nexamp
this week to discuss putting a joint promotional mailer to increase awareness about the
program.
Department Head Meeting Updates:
Some highlights from the February Department Head Meeting:
===PAGE 8===
on how they will submit their budgets next year for fiscal year 2021.
COA: The COA has a number of events coming up including Ted Reinstein, a reporter for
Chronicle on Monday, May 6th at 7 pm; the St. Patrick's Luncheon on Friday, March 8th
at noon; Dementia Friendly Kick-off event on Monday, May 20th at 6 pm at the
Lunenburg Library.
Cable: A new monitor will be installed in the corner next to the right of the stage for
audience viewers to view presentations easier and the wireless microphones will be back
in working condition at meetings since the transmitter has been fixed.
Treasurer/Collector: Motor Vehicle Excise bills have been sent out and are due on March
25th. The Treasurer is planning on doing another Tax Lien Sale and an updated list will
be sent out well in advance for all relevant committees/boards to review.
Land Use: The Planning Board held their Public Hearing on Adult Use Recreational
Marijuana on February 25th and their next meeting on this topic will be March 4th. The
Planning Board will be reviewing the parking bylaw shortly.
Library: The Library Board of Trustees conducted interviews and appointed Muir Haman
to replace Martha Moore as the Library Director upon her retirement at the end of the
month.
Upcoming Meetings:
•
Charter Review is holding their second Public Hearing tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the
Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room in Town Hall.
• Finance Committee has budget meetings with the Sewer Commission and Monty Tech
this Thursday starting at 7:00 p.m. in the Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room in Town Hall.
• MMPA Meeting: I will be attending a MA Municipal Personnel Association meeting this
Thursday.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion of the Town Manager Evaluation Process and Timeline
Mr. Toale stated he sent a copy of last year's Town Manager review form to each of the
members this afternoon. There are certain items that we need to assign some dates. He requested
Ms. Lemieux provide a copy of the previous year's goals to them and for her to begin thinking
about completing a self-evaluation.
Each member should schedule a meeting with Ms. Lemieux and begin to complete the review
form. All of this begins after the April 15 start of the review process calendar.
Each Selectman will provide a copy of their input to the Chair. The Chair will compile all into a
composite without discussion with any of the board members. The Board will review the
composite at an open meeting. The individual reviews will become part of the Town Manager's
personnel file and are not public.
===PAGE 9===
Selectmen.
Ms. Luck stated she felt her input last year was not represented equally in the composite. How
can that be addressed if I feel that way again? Mr. Toale replied each of our input is one fourth of
the composite. We agreed two years ago to not make it a mathematical exercise but more of a
narrative exercise. Discussion about the review process ensued. It was decided to discuss further
on a future agenda after getting Town counsel's opinion on how it would affect the Open
Meeting law.
Filing of Demolition Delay Permit for old Primary School Building
Ms. Lemieux reported this was an action item after the last meeting. I have a question out to
Town counsel now that we have just received approval of last year's Special Town meeting from
the Attorney General's office. There was a warrant article that had an amendment to Chapter
134, entitled "Demolition Delay" that modified section 134-4.D and what is the subsequent
impact on us.
Mr. McQuaid believed the Demolition Delay bylaw does not apply to the Architectural
Preservation District Commission (APDC) and it gives them unequivocal ability to say "no"
forever. So there is no demolition delay to file for, just a permit. We would have to prove to
them we tried to do something but there is no way out.
Mr. Burney clarified the way that the APD bylaw reads, the APDC in the Architectural
Preservation District (APD) takes the power of the demolition delay from the Historical
Commission, but they reserve the right to permanently deny demolition. He confirmed Mr.
McQuaid's statement that the Board needs to demonstrably prove to APDC that the building
isn't salvageable for future reuse.
Update on Feasiblity Study for Regional Animal Control Building
Ms. Lemieux directed the Board to the study prepared that was part of a grant of $42,000, that
we received through the Efficiency and Regionalization Grant under the Community Compact
Program. The project was reviewed for animal control for the towns of Townsend and
Lunenburg. We put out a Request for Proposals (RFP) in March 2018 and it was awarded to Roy
S. Brown, Architects, in May 2018. He met with Police Chief Marino, the Townsend Police
Chief, the Townsend Animal Control Officer and our ACO, Kathy Comeau. He performed a
necessary space needs study on what was required based on how many animals we take in every
year. The land behind the Public Safety Building was identified as the best site for the ACO
facility, which has its own challenges. We need to hire a geotechnical engineer to do site borings
because some ledge was found in the area.
Based on the design, the cost for the facility is $1.6 million and meets the space needs of both
towns. She could not with a clear conscience recommend to voters to fund this building given all
our other building needs. She did not believe Townsend would vote to approve this as well.
===PAGE 10===
Mr. Toale stated he understands the situation, but they would need to discuss this further. Ms.
Lemieux stated selling other town property such as the West Street property could offset the cost
of purchasing the Mass Ave. property. We could clean up the existing building that is there. Ms.
Lemieux stated she has reached out to Townsend.
Minutes/ warrants/ Action File Issues
The Board approved Minutes of January 22 and February S, 2019. Mr. Toale noted they had a
letter addressed to the Town Clerk to notify her of the Planning Board vacancy created by David
Prokowiew's resignation so she could place the seat on the annual election ballot.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To notify the Town Clerk of the Planning Board vacancy
2nd; P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
The Board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $798,973.32; a payroll deductions warrant
in the amount of $585,204.71 and an accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$622,084.95.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Sign Council on Aging Contract with MART
Motion: D. MeQuaid
To approve the Transportation Services Agreement with MART
2nd: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discussion on FY20 Budget Priorities
Ms. Lemieux stated this was a follow up item from the last meeting where there was discussion
about the DPW fuel tanks and the Finance Committee meeting where a lot of that discussion
took place about the Capital Plan. She also wanted to add to the fiscal year '20 budget priorities
list based on a meeting held with Representatives Benson and Hay.
List of FY2020 Budget Priorities for Legislators
• $220,000 for the installation of new fuel tanks at the Department of Public Works
(in FY20 Capital Plan)
• $755,000 for abatement of asbestos at the TC Passios (in Capital Plan FY20 not funded)
• $45,000 for an HVAC upgrade at the Senior Center (in Capital Plan for FY22)
• $27,000 for the replacement of the handicap ramp at the Town Hall (In Facilities Bond
Bill)
• $40,000 for the installation of new LED lighting fixtures at the Library (In Facilities
Bond Bill)
• $50,000 for planning assistance to update the Town's outdated ADA Self-
===PAGE 11===
the Capital Plan and the DP W Director spoke about the need to address the intersection near
Turkey Hill Elementary School and Northfield Road. As always, we advocated for more Chapter
70 and 90 funding and unrestricted local government aid.
Ms. Luck believes there needs to be improvements to the Capital Planning process. She thought
there should have been more information presented on the request for $220,000 for gas tank
replacements at DPW. There was no presentation on possible alternatives. Mr. Toale stated the
people who are experts on our DPW and our tanks and the Fire Chief brought it to Capital
Planning who spent time reviewing it and compared it with other priorities and made their
decision. Then someone stated their opinion that they heard of something Fitchburg is doing that
may or may not work. The quality work was done by Capital Planning and if someone wants to
go sit at one of their meetings and provide input, that's fine. He stated he was at the Finance
Committee meeting and thought that discussion was a waste of an hour and a half and it was total
conjecture from people who have no expertise on the matter. Mr. McQuaid stated as far as the
Capital Planning process; we have Department heads come to us. They are the experts on fuel
tanks and public safety and public works. We did not just say here you go, part of the
conversation was should we just fund the engineering this year to get the actual cost of
construction. We thought it would be best to expedite the process, if it costs less than that, great.
It was an important request as it is in the Mulpus Brook area. We should not have leaky tanks
sitting around. We can only rely on our Department heads, who are Department heads for a
reason, to give us the information. We make the best decision we can on that. We are not just
volunteers; I am an architect. Who am I to second guess his day to day business when he is the
one making the recommendation? Ms. Lemieux stated in response to the question; DPW, Police
and Fire have spent a lot of time researching that program as an alternative and what it looks as a
cost benefit analysis to our fuel system and that data will be presented at a future meeting. She
stated she does agree with the concept that we hire professionals to give their recommendations
and that is why we hire them.
Motion: K. Adams
2'°:P. Luck
To add to the list of FY2020 budget priorities for legislators, a request to seek funding for
the safety items, the bidirectional amplifiers and the breathing apparatus
Discussion: Mr. Toale stated we have talked about these lists and we have people who are the
requestors for these lists. We have a role to play in terms of prioritizing these lists. We have to
build them into our own Capital Plan whether we spend the money on them, whether we raise the
money here or get it from the state.
• Vote: 3 in favor, 1 opposed (Toale)
===PAGE 12===
Due to the time and a scheduled Executive Session, Mr. Toale suggested the Board discuss the
Town Meeting warrant articles at the next meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he believed if the ACO facility is not going to go behind
the Public Safety Building, it would be a better location for the fuel tanks. Regarding the
demolition permit, he thinks it should go forward. The process should be begun simultaneously
with everything else you are doing.
Mr. Toale requested a Motion to enter Executive Session
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
To enter Executive Session under MGL c. 130, 821, Reason #3, to discuss strategy with
respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental
effect on the bargaining or litigation position of the public body as declared by the Chair
(Police) and not return to Open Session upon adjournment
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Mr. Toale-aye
**************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE*****************
The meeting adjourned at 9:59 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive to the Town Manager
