===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair; Damon McQuaid,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member; Michael- Ray Jeffreys, Member
Not present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Others present: Adam Burney, Land Use Director
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Alonzo asked for a moment
of silence following the shootings that occurred over the weekend in El Paso TX and Dayton,
Ohio.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked Steve Archambeault and all the players in the town band. Last night was the
final night of the summer concerts at the gazebo. He also thanked everyone who sponsored all
the events. Ms. Adams noted the Farmers Market was very busy on Sunday.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, attended the Lunenburg, Vermont Old Homes Day on
Saturday. They are actually our sister town. It was sponsored by their Historical Society; He was
hoping this could be mirrored in Lunenburg in the near future.
He thanked Joanna Bilotta for giving him a commemorative Lunenburg, MA cutting board
which was presented to Lunenburg, Vermont this weekend.
Steve Bean, 27 Fire Road 15, responded to Ms. Luck's public comment last week regarding the
Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation. He is on the LSIC board and moved to town in 2005. At
that time, the lake was weed-infested. The response was to treat the lake with herbicides. He got
involved and was at the meeting the LSIC bylaw was changed to indefinite terms for the
President position. It was done out of necessity as no one else would serve as President. He
agreed with Mrs. Luck that the two tributaries emptying into Lake Shirley are raising the
nutrients levels in the lake. He asked why it is the sole responsibility of LSIC to address what is
happening upstream or in the lake. Lake Shirley is owned by the town and the town is benefitting
from the property taxes due to the increased assessed values of the houses on the lake. Why is
there no help from the town? He requested a response from the Board about if anything is being
done or can be done by the town. He was here for the future of the lake and future cooperation
between all involved
He stated he does not read Facebook and apologized for any comment on the Facebook page of
the LSIC and to Mr. and Mrs. Luck for any disparaging remarks or unwarranted criticism that
has happened in the past between our Board and you. The goals of LSIC are simple, to improve
the quality of the lake for everyone to enjoy. He also believed an apology is due to LSIC and
many of the town residents present at the May 29'" Conservation Commission meeting. He stated
he was not present but had listened to the audio recording. He understood the meeting got heated
and agreed ending the meeting was an appropriate response. Upon reading the police report and
listening to the post meeting discussions, he was appalled by the unprofessional and inexcusable
comments of the Conservation Commission directed at the residents. He stated it was his
===PAGE 2===
the lake but its healt and ecology eic.
the town is addressing tose numents, as they are the
result of stormwater runoff. Mrs. Luck is working on part of that as a member of the Storm
Water Task Force, as well as the state. Controlling that as best as we can is something that the
town is doing as every town in the commonwealth. It is a very large project; it takes a lot of
resources.
Cindy Lee Gee, 143 Flynn Road, had concerns about the LSIC and the Conservation
Commission working together. Although we came to an emergency agreement at the last
meeting, Board member personalities on either side have not changed. She believed the best
thing to do going forward is training in communication. The meeting that we had held with
Acting Chair Todd Dwyer on the commission led to an extremely productive process of
rewriting the Order of Conditions (OOC). She requested more clarity on what remedial action
was taken in regards to the Open Meeting Law complaint.
Mr. Alonzo stated the Open Meeting Law complaint was responded to by Town counsel. Anyone
who filed official complaints should have received an official response.
Rob Bowen, 1686 Massachusetts Avenue, legal counsel for LSIC, stated there are some legal
concerns about the eight minutes of prepared remarks from the acting Chair which was not listed
on the agenda. There was no ability for LSIC to be prepared for the remarks and ask questions or
respond. He presented an Open Meeting Law complaint to the Board.
Mr. Jeffreys wanted to respond to some things that have been said. It was his belief that all of us
are held to the same standard; whether you sit on either side of the table, we are all residents of
this town. Just because some people are appointed or elected does not mean that they should
adhere to a higher standard. When I listened to the meeting with the Conservation Commission
and the residents of Lake Shirley, it was disturbing. All of us are adults and emotions get
heightened sometimes and in given situations we respond because we are passionate about what
we are feeling. But when we cross the point where we are calling names and accusing people of
corruption, to me those are words of assault. A lot of what I have been hearing over the last
couple of months has gotten to the point where it is very personal. It has shifted focus away from
the health of a lake. Speaking as a resident, those of us who don't live on Lake Shirley do not
have access to it. As far as I'm aware it is not publicly available to all of us, but it is town
property and we do understand that LSIC, as an agent of the town, is taking care of this for the
residents who live there. He found it difficult as a resident, when an agent of the town forces the
town to spend money without first coming to the town to have a conversation. It's fully within
your right, but there are other ways to resolve conflict without being adversarial. We can
disagree but we can sit down and work things out. A lot of things that have transpired over the
last couple of weeks are upsetting to a lot of people, not just the Lake Shirley residents but the
people watching at home. There was misinformation about what is going on and the meeting in
July clarified a lot of stuff. I encourage people to find ways to work together. We have a
responsibility as fellow citizens to sit down and try to work things out. That is the leadership that
is not just for us, but for all of us.
===PAGE 3===
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access
channel.
Steve Weaver, 288 Holman Street, regarding the special event permit policy, asked to not allow
camping at all and to please restrict amplified music and sound for only eight hours a day.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion about Lake Shirley re: July 17"h meeting, including status of weed
management and discussion about any potential conflict of interest by Conservation
Commission members that live on a town lake
Mr. Alonzo reported there was a meeting between some LSIC members and their legal counsel,
Rob Bowen, Town Manager Lemieux, two of the Conservation Commission members and
myself. We discussed the vegetation and algae control, as well as the Order of Conditions. One
issue brought up by LSIC was to revisit potential conflict of interest of three Conservation
Commission members that live on town lakes. Because they are an appointed body, their
disclosures have to be filed with this Board to be approved. It is the belief by some that they
should be directed by this Board to recuse themselves when discussing and voting on lake
matters.
Mr. McQuaid stated it made sense for people who live on water and near wetlands to be on the
commission because any rulings they make, they have to live with as well. Ms. Adams noted it is
a complicated situation. Ms. Luck stated we are always looking for volunteers and that would
not bode well for the town.
Discussion turned to what would constitute a conflict if you lived on a lake and made decisions
about the lake. Mr. Jeffreys reading the MGL definition of a conflict stated there are a variety of
things listed such as gifts and financial gain. Before we revisit this we need a very specific
request on what that conflict actually is. The general consensus of the board was to not revisit
this issue.
Mr. Alonzo asked for public comment. Attorney Bowen stated ownership of a home on lake
constitutes financial interest. For example, a board member could be voting on whether LSIC has
to spend vast amounts of money on the lake that you live on in order to help your property values
increase. That is the type of issue the conflict of issue law is intended to solve. That is what we
are asking the Board of Selectmen to take another look at.
Mr. Alonzo did not agree, everything LSIC is doing is discretionary, they don't have to do
anything. There are currently complaints before the State Ethics Commission, so whether or not
this Board takes any action, at some point the Ethics Commission will issue a determination
about whether we are right about this or not.
Mr. Alonzo noted disclosures were filed in 2015 with this Board. Can you point to a decision
that has been made since then that falls into the category of making a financial impact that was
not unanimous by the Conservation Commission? LSIC did not come here in 2016, 2017 or
===PAGE 4===
impact. If you want to treat the lake, LSIC has to spend between $30,000 and $50,000. Mr.
Bowen stated the commission is requiring more money be spent to treat the lake in order to
increase their property values. LSIC wants to treat the lake at a lesser cost. The corporation feels
it is possible and that is the nature of the dispute. Mr. Alonzo stated from what he heard LSIC
did not want to have as much oversight, which would lessen the cost to LSIC. Mr. Bowen stated
they believe the conditions are overly burdensome and that DEP would approve their less
expensive alternative. That is sufficient to protect the lake and environment without incurring the
additional cost that some conservation members have persuaded other members is necessary.
That is the conflict.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he was not persuaded by Mr. Bowen's argument for LSIC. I would look for at
least one instance in which there was a close vote. Here you have a body that is overwhelmingly
voting a certain way, so I am not clear here on what it is I am supposed to identify as the conflict:
Just the fact that you own a home on the lake is the conflict. Bowen responded it is a serious
financial impact that presents the conflict. He suggested watching the April 17 meeting. I did try
to reach out to Town counsel but we ran out of time. It was my opinion that the member steered
the commission toward their decision. Mr. Jeffreys respectfully disagreed with Mr. Bowen on
whether or not this represents a conflict. I do recognize that Mr. Luck owns land on Lake Shirley
as many people here have stated. To position ourselves to believe that the simple act of
ownership constitutes a conflict that requires action on this Board's part does not rise to this level
yet. Ms. Adams added it is a parcel of town-owned land and it puts it into a different category
other than personal property.
Steve Weaver agreed with Ms. Adams that it is town property. Because you own a house on
Main Street, does that mean you can't say what goes on there?
Todd Dwyer, 361 Mulpus Road, Conservation Commission Vice Chair, believed this is a conflict
for members that live on a lake and that is why they disclosed it to the BOS and allowed you to
make a determination on whether a conflict existed. Whenever a member has a conflict such as
abutting a property that is scheduled before us, we routinely recuse ourselves from the meeting.
That would not preclude us from commenting as a concerned citizen but you would not have any
voting privileges on that issue.
Mr. Alonzo stated he did not see a reason to revisit the conflict of interest following tonight's
discussion. He advised the members if they did, they should make a motion to do so. There was
none. He stated the Board would not be acting on this request but if the Ethics Commission rules
differently, we will abide by that.
===PAGE 5===
board members speaking confidentially with statt about the town Manager s pertormance so
there could be a report added that could assist with this.
Mr. Alonzo suggested discussing with labor counsel on how to do that. Mr. Jeffreys stated he
would support this but wanted to note his difference with the Board on section 7, rating the Town
Manager on her relationships with Board members.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2^°: P. Luck
To approve the Town Manager Performance Evaluation form as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/Warrants/ Action Items
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $398,124.18, a payroll warrant
in the amount of $649,911.18 and a deductions warrant in the amount of $32,137.22
Minutes of May 21, June 4 and 11, 2019 were approved.
Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force held a workshop and developed a survey for
residents about their knowledge of stormwater issues. Mr. Burney will place it on Survey
Monkey soon.
Ms. Adams reported she went on the walkability tour last week of the Whalom Area. It was a
small group but it was pointed out there was a need for sidewalks.
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo presented correspondence from the Finance Committee Chair proposing a host panel
with this Board, Planning Board and School Committee Chairs and them sometime in October. It
would include a presentation from Land Use Director Burney presenting planning to provide
trends in anticipated growth in population demographics over the past ten through the next ten
years, and representing the School Committee trends and goals following demographics. Also,
Town Manager Lemieux would present projected trends and anticipated needs for town services.
1. Review of the Special Event Policy with the Land Use Director
Mr. Burney presented the amended policy following the comments and suggestions from the July
16 meeting.
Wording in the Alcohol/Drug Use section was changed per Ms. Luck's suggestions. The word
"No" will be removed the following line "No Bring Your Own Bottle (BYOB) Licenses may be
issued for Special Events," and the sentence shall read "BYOB Licenses shall not be issued for
Special Events."
Ms. Adams noted if only question #3 in Category A was checked off, and no boxes were
checked off in Category B, then the applicant would not require a special permit, only
permission from the Town Manager office to use the town property.
===PAGE 6===
question #- in category A staung,
here shal be no camping allowed on town property. wir.
Jeffreys and Mr. McQuaid did not agree camping should be prohibited on town property.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: T. Alonzo
To prohibit camping on town property Vote: 3 in favor, 2 against (McQuaid, Jeffreys)
Mr. Burney asked if the Board would like to take the question checklist out of the policy and add
it to the application. The Board concurred. Mr. Alonzo suggested creating tables.
Under Alcohol/Drug Use, Mr. Jeffreys noticed marijuana is prohibited; does that mean we can
never allow a Hemp Fest in Town? Mr. Burney stated we have a bylaw that prohibits the use of
THC in public. Discussion ensued about smoking marijuana in public.
Mr. Passios noted if you have a circus coming into town, the circus employees usually live in
trailers. Are you going to make them move? You are creating a conflict in your wording
Mr. Weaver brought up restricting music to only eight hours per day. He wanted to see it printed
in the policy. Discussion ensued about this option but the general consensus of the Board was to
deal with music on each individual application. Mr. Burney will bring back the final version.
WORKSHOP: EARTH REMOVAL PERMITS
Mr. Burney started with the current earth removal bylaw. It includes parameters with which you
use currently to issue permits. It is triggered at 10 cubic yards, which is one dump truck load. It
has exemptions for septic systems, building permits and subdivision roads, which all generally
include more than one dump truck load of dirt. It does not address earth fill and has a limited list
of items for submission with the application. It requires a closure plan prior to sale, construction
or reuse of the property. Over the years, he believed the Board of Selectmen (BOS) has been left
needing more information. He presented a proposed bylaw to expand the definitions to include a
more expansive list of items that are related to earth removal. It increases the threshold to 1,000
cubic yards. The Planning Board is still discussing whether they want to drop the threshold down
to 500 cubic yards. What it does address is earth fill. It also expands exemptions a little bit.
Another proposed change is when the earth removal and replacement are contained with the
parcel. You often see this in agricultural settings.
We added some additional exemptions:
• Earth removal or the placement of fill proposed for land falling within the Town's
Floodplain Protection District, which shall be governed by §§ 250-4.8 of the Lunenburg
Zoning Bylaw and require a special permit from the Planning Board.
• Earth removal or the placement of fill proposed for land falling within the Town's
Wetland Protection Bylaw and associated buffer zones, which shall be governed by the
Wetlands Chapter within the Town's General Bylaws (Chapter 239), which is
administered by the Conservation Commission, and the Massachusetts Wetlands
Protection Act.
===PAGE 7===
natural drainage flow beyond the property; or to cause dust, silt, soll, or other materials to
be deposited on adjacent properties; or to otherwise cause nuisances, hazards, or other
objectionable conditions detrimental to health, safety, or property values in adjacent
areas.
• The excavation is not active for a period of time greater than is reasonable for the activity
being conducted
• Any earth removal or fill is limited to the necessary scope of the project.
Mr. Burney stated this proposed draft bylaw would go to Special Town Meeting for approval and
if approved by the Attorney General's office, and after being posted publicly for 90 days, the
Planning Board will take over issuing earth removal permits.
The draft bylaw has a provision for the continuation of existing permits and operations. Most
earth removal permits do not have one-year terms. We are proposing the initial term for permits
to be three years with two-year extensions as most earth removal operations are long-term.
Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr. Burney if he has discussed the proposed bylaw with Powell Stone &
Gravel and PJ Keating Co. Mr. Burney stated we started this process last year and discussed it
then. Currently Powell has only one permit which they will be closing out. We did offer both
companies an opportunity to review the bylaw when it was close to being completed. Interim
Building Commissioner Rhodes and I met with P J Keating last month. They have a whole new
team and we did extend the same to them. They would like to have a look at it. As we finalize we
will be sending it out to them. Mr. Jeffreys and Mr. McQuaid stated they would like feedback
from the stakeholders regarding the draft bylaw.
Mr. Burney stated regarding earth fill, we are trying to ensure we have documentation showing
where it originated and that criteria for how to fill in is in place. This bylaw grants the permitting
authority to create regulations. Mr. Burney stated the Planning Board would like to hold a public
hearing even though it is a general bylaw and they would probably meet with this Board before
Mr. Burney received the final information related to PJ Keating's permits today. It appears they
have done the work that was requested. There were three parcels on which they had outstanding
issues. I will be forwarding a memo on their renewal applications. On permit #15 which is the
north side of the railroad tracks and the west side of Reservoir Road as you go under the bridge,
a parcel there has a 250 foot buffer zone and they were required to place markers to indicate a no
removal zone. They have done that. There are some outstanding slope and reclamation issues,
===PAGE 8===
adding loam and secaing. • Acaung nad malcaled Decause ine Blanding s turue ukes to nest in
gravel areas, that leaving it open would be Natural Heritage's preference. We got a
communication from Natural Heritage that they were okay with loam and seeding and PJ
Keating could remove the material as long as they were outside of the area. That permit covers
their processing plant, the habitat area and the land with the remaining material. We had a
discussion with them about excluding the processing plant from the permit because they were not
removing earth but processing. Previous management had alluded that they were regularly
cleaning out serpentine detention ponds and sometimes creating new ones for the deep watering
they do at their quarry. But that is not earth removal; it is part of maintenance of a drainage
structure. That will probably one of the recommendations coming forth. Finally, they were
required to monument the 100-foot boundary in the gravel pit along Fort Pond Road and
Leominster-Shirley Road. They have indicated they have done that but it will have to be
inspected to confirm.
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule:
The Board will attend the Planning Board meeting on Monday, August 12 for the Unitil public
hearing on the Storm Resiliency Program.
Regular meetings this month will be on August 13 and 20.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams noted in regards to the earlier conversation about marijuana use; you can use it in
your car but not in public spaces.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 9:43 p.m.
2nd. K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elai In. Peters on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 0 4 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
