===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux; Ken Jones, Land Acquisition Committee member, Paula Bertram
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and requested a Motion to enter into Executive Session and to re-enter
Open Session after exiting Executive Session pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30 § 21, Renson #6, to consider the purchase, exchange,
taking, lease, or value of real property if such discussion may have n detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the
governmental body (Northfield Road, Howard Street, New West Townsend Road), Mr. McQuaid made the motion and Ms.
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Mr: Alonzo- aye
Ms. Luck referred the Board to the letter from Brandon Kibbe, Land Acquisition Committee Chair, to the Massachusetts Historical
Commission requesting a letter of support necessary to apply for PARC and LAND grants for the property known as the Saliba
property. The Saliba brothers had approached the Conservation Commission about buying this parcel. The grants would partially fund
acquisition of approximately 315 acres; 259 acres are located north of Northfield Road and include frontage on New West Townsend
Road and Howard Street. The other 56 acres is located south of Northfield Road. The northerly section will be for conservation and
the southerly portion will be for active recreation.
Mr. Jones stated we are in the process of having the property appraised and the grant application is due July 11". Ms. Adams entered
the meeting.
Ms. Bertram stated the PARC grant for the southerly portion is limited to $100,000. The LAND grant for the northerly portion is
limited at $400,000. The negotiated price for both parcels was $775,000. The sellers are not interested in selling both portions
separately. It meets several criteria set by the Open Space plan.
We have a verbal agreement currently but the sellers are looking for a purchase and sale agreement and we can't apply for the grants
unless that is in place. Ms. Luck added if we don't get the grant, we don't buy the property.
Mr. Jones stated this meeting was informational and we will be coming before you for signatures before the grant deadline of July 11,
2019.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2''d: D. McQuaid
That the Board supports signing the LAND and PARC grant applications for the Saliba property
Ms. Lemieux recommended authorizing cither the Town Manager or the Board Chair to sign the grant applications. Mr. Jeffreys
amended his motion to include authorizing the Chair to sign or the Town Manager in the Chair's absence, the grant
applications and Mr, McQuaid seconded the amendment.
Vote: Ms. Adams- ayo, Ms. Luck -ayc, Mr, Jeffreys -aye, Mr. MeQuaid -aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Motion: D. McQuaid
2°°: K. Adams
To exit Executive Session and return to Open Session
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck -aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr. McQunid -aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Mr. Alonzo stated they would recess until 7:00 p.m.
The meeting adjourned at 6:47 p.mm.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. reterson
Blaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
