===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Jamie Toale, Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Clerk; Katey Adams,
Member
Member not present: Damon McQuaid, Vice Chairman
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director; Rich
Benevento, WorldTech Engineering; Adam Burney, Land Use Director
Open Space Committee Members present: Brandon Kibbe, Chairman; Karin Menard, Richard
Brockelman, Sarah Cammer
The meeting opened at 6:30 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Toale announced Selectman McQuaid and his wife welcomed their second baby into the
world a week ago, so he is not present tonight. Ms. Luck congratulated the McQuaid family.
APPOINTMENTS
Introduction from Lunenburg Grange #169 Members
Chris Menard, 672 Page Street, Secretary for the Lunenburg Grange, introduced himself and his
two daughters, Elisa (Grange Asst. Steward) and Lauren (Grange Steward). Matt Allison, 188
Flat Hill Road, (Grange Lecturer), was present also. Mr. Menard presented a handout. See
attached.
Mr. Menard stated the Grange strengthens individuals, families, and communities through grass
root action, service, education, advocacy and agricultural awareness. We invited everyone to
attend the next meeting on March 1 at 7:00 p.m. at the Library. We meet the first Friday of the
month. We are here tonight to introduce ourselves for any future requests to the Town. We are a
long way from holding a Grange Fair, but would like to bring it back in the future.
Mr. Toale asked if there was anything we can do to make your start up easier, Mr. Menard stated
getting the word out about the Grange is a big one. Also, if you have any ideas on how we as a
community-based organization could help out here in town. He also informed everyone about
their Facebook page, Lunenburg Grange #169, to see their activities. If anyone has any further
questions, you can email us at LunenburgGrange@gmail.com.
In April, we plan to get our charter from the National Grange. Membership is open to anyone 13
years of age and older; there is also a Junior Grange for ages 4-14. Mr. Allison asked for
consideration of the Grange in a warrant article for utilization of the TC Passios Building. We
are seeking a permanent meeting/storage space. Ms. Luck thanked the Grange for getting this
going again.
Sunday Entertainment License for Kindred Spirits, 324 Electric Avenue for March 17,
2019
===PAGE 2===
the Planning Board. No one has applied as of today. Ms. Luck thanked Mr. Prokowiew for his
work with the Planning Board.
Meeting with DW Director and WorldTech Engineering regarding the Complete Streets
Tier 3 Application due April 1
Rich Benevento of WorldTech Engineering presented for the discussion. He and DPW Director
Rodriquenz met with the Town Manager to discuss the previous application and what we need to
do going forward. When the program first came out, there was more funding available because
they were trying to get people interested in Complete Streets. Now over the last several cycles, it
is over-programmed and funding is limited. Complete Streets has added an evaluation process to
the application.
We have reevaluated the proposed projects such as Main Street and Oak Avenue Sidewalk
Connection (#1 on the prioritization plan) and the Whalom Road area/Town Beach-General
Corridor Improvements (#3 on the plan). We believe the downtown project was still the most
viable because you are connecting school, the Senior Center and downtown. We would like to
articulate the fact that there is transit close by. He noted the proposed projects on the plan are not
prioritized in importance according to the numerical order. How many boxes are we going to
check off that reviewers are going to say this is a viable project? Because it is so competitive,
there are no guarantees with this.
In the very beginning of this process, the Town adopted a policy (Tier 1), that made it eligible for
technical assistance. Once the policy was approved, it made the Town eligible for technical
assistance funding, which you used to create the prioritization plan (Tier 2) and submitted it to
MassDOT, where it was approved. The Town is now eligible to apply for construction funding
(Tier 3). That application is due April 1.
Last time what we did was submit three projects. What we should do for this round is to put
some composite of that together and articulate better why these are good projects. He
recommended sticking with what they had. We need to evaluate what is the best way to
repackage this and try to fill in the gaps and figure out why it did not get approved
Discussion about project #3- Whalom Road Area/Town Beach-General Corridor Improvements
ensued. Mr. Toale asked what is the next step for us. Mr. Benevento stated we need to repackage
this. I will be working with Ms. Lemieux and Mr. Rodriquenz on this. After discussion about the
costs of the projects and finding they were very different from the numbers Mr. Benevento had
and the ones the Board were reading on the plan, the Board requested updated numbers for the
next meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS:
Revote to extend Earth Removal Permit #14 - P. J. Keating Company- until March 5, 2019
Ms. Lemieux reported this agenda item was pushed out to a later date as more time was needed.
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Lemieux noted there was nothing of major concern found by Town Counsel. The completion
date was changed due to the Board taking no action on the Right of First Refusal option for
removal from Chapter 61 status.
Motion: P. Luck
To approve the PILOT agreement for personal property with Settler's Solar, LLC, 994
Northfield Road
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/ Warrants/ Action File Issues
Ms. Luck requested the following changes to the January 8, 2019 Minutes: under the motion
discussion section to take no action on the Right of First Refusal for 994 Northfield Road,
change the word "in" to "since", and under Committee Reports (line 9) replace "from the route,"
with "on either side of the route."
Motion: P. Luck
To approve the January 8, 2019 minutes with the above corrections
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
The Board also approved Minutes of December 18, 2018 and January 15, 2019.
The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $108,346.43, a payroll warrant
in the amount of $785,965.88 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $171,195.18.
Action File Issue: Mr. Toale noted the Town Manager's evaluation is due no sooner than April
15 and no later than the May election. You can expect to get some forms with instructions. Due
to the Open Meeting Law, the Board cannot circulate the compilations among themselves before
a public meeting, as this would be considered deliberation and a violation of the Open Meeting
Law.
WORKSHOP ON TOWN FACILITIES: JOINT MEETING WITH CONSERVATION
COMMISSION, OPEN SPACE, AND PARKS COMMISSION
Mr. Toale directed the Board to the following agenda item:
1. Discusson on plan to use TC Passios for municipal offices/school central
offices/community space and workshop meetings with the following focus groups:
a. Conservation Commission, Parks Commission and Open Space Committee
This Board has already met with the Lunenburg Historical Society and Architectural
Preservation District Commission and some members of the Historical Commission. We are
planning to have meetings with the Library, Senior Center and Teen Center as abutters to the TC
Passios Building. Another group we plan to meet with will be Town employees, PACC and the
school, relative to their administrative offices in the TC Passios.
Mr. Toale stated the Parks Commission would like a statement read into the record
===PAGE 4===
Committee present. Mr. Kibbe stated there was a quorum of the Upen Space Committee but
there was no one representing the Conservation Commission. The Board recessed briefly at 7:33
pm to move down to the meeting floor table. The meeting resumed at 7:41 p.m.
Open Space Committee Chairman Kibbe stated that had called their meeting to order. Mr. Toale
stated as part of the five buildings process, we have a couple of warrant articles for Annual Town
Meeting. Per the Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) we are going to have
two articles for conveyance of the Brooks House and the old Primary School. APDC believes
we are in or about to be in demolition by neglect through lack of maintenance. They would like
the Town to inhabit them or find another use for them. The challenge will be to make it
restrictive enough to satisfy the historical nature of the buildings but attractive enough for
someone to want to come up with a use for the building and/or the space.
Ms. Lemieux read aloud one of the proposed warrant articles for the discussion:
Old Primary Building to sell/lease building/land: To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care,
custody, and control of the land and/or buildings known as the old Primary School Building, located at 30
School Street, shown on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076 from the Board of Selectmen for general purposes
to the Board of Selectmen for general purposes and for the purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the
Board of Selectmen to convey a fee simple interest or any portion thereon, or to lease the property, on
such terms and conditions as the Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and to
execute any and all agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and
any portion thereof and to authorize and /or reauthorize the Board of Selectmen to sell and /or lease the
parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any manner said parcels and/or buildings
situated and /or take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale, lease, subdivision, and/or transfer of
said land and buildings situated thereon; or take any other action relative thereto.
The Brooks House article is the same article. She did for discussion purposes, add the same
article at last Town Meeting, in order to provide an option for the Brooks House, if the Town
does not want to sell or lease the building and land, to just sell the building and retain ownership
of the land.
Mr. Toale stated what we are hoping for tonight is primarily brainstorming and to find out
whether your interests are predominately in the land, or the green space, or the buildings
themselves. He believed the 8.5-acre parcel that the TC Passios and Brooks House are located on
is big enough to support green space even if we make it a municipal building. It can be
rearranged in terms of parking spaces; there is no reason the gazebo couldn't be there also if we
choose it to be there.
Mr. Kibbe stated from the Open Space Plan perspective, the Town Center was clearly a resource
that people use, particularly for walking. There was interest in reconnecting Marshall Park to the
town center down Massachusetts Avenue and having a connection via Oak Ave and Highland
Street. This is a great opportunity for connecting our recreational spaces. So, anything that
would reduce that, would be a reduction of what we have for recreational opportunities now in
===PAGE 5===
for that use? Possibly, I don't want to forget that the Farmers' Market is an important component
of that parcel.
Mr. Kibbe asked Ms. Menard if the old Primary School area would be a good space for a
rectangular field, would Parks be interested in that. Ms. Menard stated without a Master Plan, it
is hard to say in what direction we want to go. After our meeting last week, our opinion is it's
prime location land. If there was no building there, it would be a perfect location for a field or an
open park.
Ms. Cammer stated most people go around the TC Passios and Brooks House already. The
number one thing on the Open Space survey was that (319) people want connectivity, sidewalks
and recreational spaces and more ability to use what we already have. When I look at the plan, I
think we have a lot of things in this town that we don't use. I remember being a new resident
here six years ago and driving into Marshall Park and thinking what happened here? I don't want
to overextend ourselves into having numerous additional responsibilities; we need to use what
we have better than we already do. She would hate to see the land around the TC Passios go
somewhere else; and felt the same way with the Brooks House space.
Ms. Menard, speaking as a citizen, stated the old Primary School land, TC Passios land and
Brooks House land to her is land that we shouldn't give away. When the new Middle/High
School was built, one of the things that they did not build was a baseball field. So they continue
to use Marshall Park. They are the only users of that field. They could easily put in a baseball
field on one of these pieces of property if it was still available to them. I don't think any of our
land should be sold
Mr. Toale stated it is important to note the project started with the name "reuse," it wasn't "sale."
By working with other committees, we are looking for visionaries with a passion on how to reuse
it within the confines of our fiscal possibilities. He did not think our first option would be to sell
everything, especially those within the center of town.
Mr. Kibbe stated one of his concerns was we continue keep "kicking the can down the road" and
when we have to finally do something it is going to be very costly. Deciding before we get to
that point is probably the most fiscally responsible thing we can do.
Discussion ensued about keeping municipal land rather than selling it for future uses. Mr. Toale
stated he wanted to take advantage of the Open Space Committee members meeting with the
Board and invited them to continue to join us because as we go forward this isn't going to solve
the problem in one great idea. It will evolve. He asked if there was anything the Board could do
to assist the Open Space Committee. Is there an opportunity here that we don't want to miss in
the short term?
Mr. Kibbe stated bringing it back to where it began; the connectivity and the value of town
center as an Open Space resource that townspeople use, whether it is passively through the
sidewalks and walking; whether it's actively with recreation fields that we have or the gym
===PAGE 6===
firmly stands behind it. She believes in retaining the Brooks House land and the TC Passios
Building and in moving municipal offices over there right now. If we remove the Brooks House
and make that area a green space, I would agree with Mr. Toale that our municipal center has
shifted. She spends a lot of time at Kid's Kingdom and used to spend a lot of time with her Dad
at the Senior Center and the Library. That space is incredibly walkable with the sidewalk and the
access to TC Passios (TCP). There is opportunity to park as well. If you look from Mass Ave. to
TCP, you can realign/remove that pavement, make that a park adjacent to the school property,
and make the TCP a municipal center and a recreation center. We have an opportunity for a
community kitchen and to turn that space into a community area. As far as the concern about
municipal campus and schoolchildren, personally I believe the more generations we can get to
collaborate and work together, the better off we are as a community. If we have our seniors
working with our Boys and Girls Club and our schoolchildren, we will all benefit. There already
is public activity in that area. We have our Library and Senior Center, and the playground.
As far as the old Primary School, I believe we need to retain a significant portion of that land
because I think we can lease the Ritter space (potentially a 10-year lease) with specific rules of
what can and cannot go there. We could potentially lease the back of the land for retail space.
I would like to see the revitalization of existing spaces, like Marshall Park. It needs a complete
overhaul. Before we start talking about additional parks, I would like to see us invest time,
money and grants into our existing facilities. We are financially constrained. Having to go to two
indıvidual municipal buildings with a handicapped individual is no easy feat. Parking itself is
difficult. I applaud what you are doing and I just want to say we have opportunity over at TCP
and opportunity to obtain the green space.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he agrees almost 98% with Ms. Bertram. There is one
step that we could be doing simultaneously. It may never happen but we should be applying for a
demotion delay permit for old Primary School right now. Get the APDC and the Historical
Commission what they want us to do to try to move or sell the building and go through that
process. Document everything we are trying to do. We may never take it down but if all of
everything you talked about tonight and what has been talked about up to now fails, what are we
going to do ten years from now?
George Martin, 522 Burrage Street, stated there are a lot of dedicated people working very hard
to make the best use out of all the options. In the end, it doesn't matter how many great ideas are
created; if it is not packaged up correctly when it goes to Town Meeting, it will crash. He
suggested a postcard mailing to poll feedback from residents.
Mr. Toale stated postcards and surveys are great, but if they don't show up at town meeting, they
don't count.
Ms. Menard stated there has to be a plan, the community has to come together to figure out what
that plan is, it (the old Primary School) just can't keep sitting there.
===PAGE 7===
other than for what it is currently being used. In addition, it is important to say that as part of the
Building Reuse Committee, we had several ideas that were floated and different things that were
looked at as possibilities, that included a gratis conceptual sketch of what could happen on
certain properties that happened to be done by someone who is now on the Board of Selectmen.
It was not a done deal; it was not done with any developers. It was not done as a subterfuge for
anything. It was a conceptual picture that was helpful to the group to see what one possible thing
could be done at one potential property. We also talked to people who had a vision of a village, a
village that included hotels, and a village that included a municipal office building that was paid
for by the developer. We found out that that is not legal according to procurement laws. We
spent six years working in great detail and someone that looks at it peripherally, draws
conclusions, and misleads the public is doing a disservice to the work that people have been
doing on this.
Ms. Adams stated the Vertex studies were 80 page reports on the buildings and they came and
did a very professional presentation. It was about keeping them in their current use, which is
important to point out because changing use is more expensive. The reports were paid for and
they were important. What they really identified was the maintenance and utility needs, and they
have been used for capital planning of each building. In terms of what was the cheapest, that
wasn't my point of bringing it up. They presented the percent of deterioration of the building
from 0% - 100%. This building (Town Hall) was given a 12%, 0- 10% was considered good.
The Ritter was the next best that scored on this percentage scale. It was based more on quality of
the building. The Tappe study was based on space needs based on square footage space. A
certain amount of square footage that I think is unnecessary.
Memo from Land Use Director Re: Adding 6t ballot question to the May 2019 Annual
Town Election on prohibition of marijuana researchers
Land Use Director Adam Burney referred to the memorandum sent recently:
The Planning Board has finalized the Draft Bylaw for the Regulation of Non-Medical Marijuana. As
part of the development process, the Planning Board was advised, through Town Counsel, to include
a sixth category of Marijuana Establishment, Marijuana Researcher.
For continuity, the Planning Board is requesting that the Board of Selectmen add a ballot question
for the prohibition of Marijuana Researchers. This would mirror the five ballot questions the Board
of Selectmen has already voted to include on the ballot.
Motion: K. Adams
2"d:P. Luck
To add the sixth ballot question to the May 2019 Annual Town Election on the
prohibition of marijuana for researchers
Discussion: Ms. Luck stated she thought it was ridiculous. Mr. Toale stated he believed the
Planning Board's strategy is to take all of the different marijuana zoning possibilities and
give the townspeople the ability to choose any one individually or all.
Vote: 2 in favor, 1 against (Luck)
===PAGE 8===
in place. The recommendation would be the maximum 3% local excise tax. This will be a
warrant article. Revenue collected would go into the General Fund
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To add to the Annual Town Meeting warrant an article: To see if the Town will vote to
accept G.L. c. 64N, § 3 to impose an excise on the retail sales of marijuana for adult use at
the rate of 3% percent of the total sales price received by marijuana retailers as a
consideration of the sale of marijuana or marijuana products; or take any other action
relative thereto.
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Town Facilities (TM Goal #2, Action ii)
Rental of Space at the TC Passios: Superintendent Burnham and I met to discuss the
possible use of four classrooms at the TC Passios for the Extended Day and Early
Childhood Learning programs and how this would provide a supplemental funding
resource for the operational costs of that building. One of the classrooms would be used
during the day for the preschool age program, which is currently housed at the Primary,
and all four classrooms would be used before and after school. There will be further
updates as Superintendent Burnham and I continue our discussions on this possible
transition.
Business Brochure (TM Goal #3, Actioni)
The digitized version of the Business Brochure is now up on our website under the
Business heading on the main menu on the homepage listed as "Explore Lunenburg
Brochure".
The Lunenburg Planning Board will hold a Public Hearing on February 25, 2019,
6:35 PM, Joseph Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA
01462 to make alterations to Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA, Chapter 250:
Zoning, (i) Article IV, 4.1.G. Use Table by adding Non- Medical Marijuana Uses; (i)
adding 4.1.O. Non-Medical Marijuana Uses; (iii) delete 4.15., Temporary Moratorium on
Sale and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana; (iv) create new 4.15. Non-Medical
Marijuana Establishments. Copies are on file in the Planning Office, 960 Massachusetts
Avenue, Lunenburg, MA.
Attendance at Meetings, Other Announcements,etc.
Town Counsel Office Hours:
Town Counsel will hold office hours on Monday, February 25 from 8 a.m. until noon.
===PAGE 9===
Agricultural Commission (regular member, - alternate member vacancies)
Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy for a design
professional/craftsperson)
Planning Board (1 regular member- jointly appointed until 2019 ATE)
Cultural Council (multiple vacancies)
Green Communities Task Force (1 vacancy-Citizen at Large position)
Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
More information
Public Announcement from the Town Clerk about the Citizens Party Caucus, Town
Census, and Dog Licenses:
In anticipation of the Annual Town Election on Saturday, May 18, 2019, the Citizens
Party Caucus will be held on Monday, March 11, 2019 at the Turkey Hill Elementary
School, 129 Northfield Road at 7:00 P.M.
Anyone interested in running for office should attend the Caucus, and if nominated,
will be placed on the ballot.
Those who are not nominated that evening may pick up nomination papers from the
Town Clerk's Office.
Recycling and the Contract with Casella
At the December 18 meeting, the Board had authorized me to negotiate the price for
recycling with the goal of not affecting the Fiscal Year 2019 budget. Casella agreed to
$50/ton for recycling that would go into effect July 1, 2019. I also asked and it was
agreed that if the market changes, as DEP is saying they believe it will, that it reverts
back to ouroriginalterms. Town Counselhas been asked to draft the Amendmentto the
existing contract with these terms.
Pay As You Throw Bags
As a follow-up to the December 1 8th meeting, during the discussion about recycling, a
question was asked about the cost of the PAYT bags and if there would be an increase. I
had stated that we would be increasing the cost of the bags as the costs of the bags from
our bag vendor would be increasing and the cost of trash disposal will be increasing up to
3% based on the Consumer Price Index for the Boston-Brockton-Nashua area. This will
be a future agenda item to announce the increase in bags fees, which will be only
increased enough to offset the increase in the contract price.
174 Northfield Road Rear
Deborah St. Vrain, the citizen petitioner of Article 23 at the May 2018 Annual Town
Meeting, has provided materials based on a title search performed on 174 Northfield
===PAGE 10===
notification letter from the Town's power supply program, Colonial Power Group, to
enroll them in the Town's Municipal Aggregation Program and an opt-out card for those
that do not wish to enroll. The mailing informs residents about the Town's Program,
shows them the savings over Basic Service and allows them a 30-day opt-out period
before being automatically enrolled. A public notice about the program is on the town's
website under News & Announcements.
Other Electricity Announcements:
Resident Cathy Clark passed along information about a search tool created by the
Department of Public Utilities for MA residents to search for electricity suppliers in their
area. The website is: https:/ www.energyswitchma.gov
Chris Clark from Nexamp confirmed that residents will be able to purchase power from
their community solar project. For more information go to:
https:/ www.nexamp.com/what-we-do/community-solar
Public Hearing on MBTA Fare Proposal
The MBTA Fare Proposal Public Hearing is scheduled for February 27, 2019 and is open
to all attendees from the public. The purpose of this hearing is for the MBTA to receive
feedback from the public on the proposed fare increase prior to it being considered by
the Fiscal and Management Control Board in March. The public is encouraged to attend.
https:/www.lunenburgma.gov/sites/default/files/field/files-
docs/2019_fare proposal_publicmeeting_opt3.pdf
Ms. Lemieux attended a dementia friendly action group meeting today. We discussed a variety of
trainings that will be occurring for public safety personnel. Training will also be scheduled with
Unitil, at one of their public safety meetings which covers about 40 employees and as well as
discussions with the business community about becoming dementia friendly. We are planning on
doing a tax bill insert flyer in June to promote dementia friendly as well as doing a May 13'h
kickoff event.
Ms. Luck asked if the mailing with the tax bills could also include trash/recycling information.
Ms. Lemieux stated yes. Ms. Luck stated she heard at the MMA Conference that some
communities were using college students in the summer to do the survey. Ms. Lemieux stated
she had talked to a teacher that does the community service program at the high school to see if
that could be a project.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Vote to extend closing of the Annual Town Meeting warrant until March 25 at 4 pm
===PAGE 11===
404
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town has received 35 warrant articles to date. There are eight (8)
Planning Board articles, with six ballot questions. There will be three (3) Town charter review
articles. We are assuming these will take a significant amount of time to debate. She stated the
Land Use Director, Mr. Toale, Town Moderator, Town Counsel, and I had a preliminary meeting
to discuss the concept of a two-day meeting, and we will dedicate one night to Charter Review.
Ms. Luck disagreed and believed they should address all the articles and if they go over, then go
to the next day. She thought placing the charter articles on one specific day would diminish
attendance for the other.
Ms. Lemieux noted in the past we have lost quorums through part of the Town Meeting and
knowing some of these will take a significant amount of time, we are helping people to prepare
and plan. Ms. Adams stated the Town Meeting went to 5:00 p.m. last year and there was never a
break for lunch or anything else.
Dave Passios stated this has never been done and did not believe it should be done now. Paula
Bertram stated in the 32 years she has been in town, it hasn't been done this way. We have
continued Town Meetings to the next day. Personally, it makes sense to put in the warrant that in
the event we run over, we will continue to a later date. If you state the Charter is on one specific
night, you will separate who attends and potentially have quorum issues. Mr. Toale
recommended the discussion be tabled until the March 5 meeting when we have a full Board. He
added at the preliminary meeting, the Moderator was driving this so he would know what he
would be dealing with and I would certainly want him to weigh in on this discussion.
a. Article to convey the old Primary building; tabled until March 5th
b. Article to convey the Brooks building; tabled until March 5th
c. Article for architectural and engineering services for TC Passios as Municipal-
School Central Offices-Community Building -tabled until March 5th
Discussion regarding request from Senator Tran re: Prioritization of Fiscal Priorities in
FY20
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board to a memo from Senator Tran's office.
With the recent release of the Governor's budget proposal for the upcoming
FY20 State Budget, we want to take this opportunity to reach out and learn
about your community's fiscal priorities for the coming year.
Senator
Tran wants to effectively represent each community's fiscal needs, but
will need your help in doing so.
If you have not already done so, please
send a detailed list of your budget priorities to me by February 15, 2019
so we can make sure to take them into consideration as the budget season
approaches.
I would also like to encourage face-to-face meetings with
Senator Tran and your financial team to discuss priorities if that is
something your municipality would like to do.
===PAGE 12===
To date, the Governor has not released a funding mechanism to fund these projects.
Therefore, my list of budget priorities would include a variety of current and future capital needs
that have been requested through the capital planning process, projects that were included in the
Facilities Bond Bill, and also includes a grant application amount that was not funded by the MA
Office on Disability:
• $220,000 for the installation of new fuel tanks at the Department of Public Works
(in FY20 Capital Plan)
• $755,000 for abatement of asbestos at the TC Passios (in Capital Plan FY20, not
funded)
• $45,000 for an HVAC upgrade at the Senior Center (in Capital Plan for FY22)
• $27,000 for the replacement of the handicap ramp at the Town Hall (In Facilities Bond
Bill)
• $40,000 for the installation of new LED lighting fixtures at the Library (In Facilities
Bond Bill)
• $50,000 for planning assistance to update the Town's outdated ADA Self-
Evaluation and Transition Plan (Grant application through Massachusetts Office
on Disabilities, that was not funded)
Ms. Lemieux stated she spoke to Nathan from Senator Tran's office today to get a sense of what
our range of requests should look like. He suggested listing a mix of projects. Discussion about
the handicapped accessible ramp at Town Hall and the associated needed sidewalk work and cost
ensued. Ms. Luck noted a resident's suggestion to research outsourcing fuel needs similar to
What the City of Fitchburg is doing. They use gas stations and they have a procurement plan.
Ms. Lemieux stated there was significant discussion at the last Finance Committee meeting about
this topic and suggested the Board view it. The DPW Director provided a cost breakdown of the
gas tanks replacement which includes engineering work, installation, etc. There are limited
options for Lunenburg under that program. Mr. Toale stated both chiefs expressed concerns
about accessibility to fuel after hours and during emergencies. A previous Capital Planning
Committee member who is now a Finance Committee member had stated looking at $330,000
looks like a lot of money initially, but the lifespan of the tanks is around 30 years. Also during
the 80's ice storm, there was no accessibility to gasoline, as most gas stations had no power to
pump their gas.
Discussion ensued about prioritizing the list. Ms. Lemieux read the list in order of priority:
• $45,000 for an HVAC upgrade at the Senior Center $
• $27,000 for the replacement of the handicap ramp at the Town Hall $
===PAGE 13===
she can always contact senator ran after that meeting to reconsider the last item.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Ms. Adams attended the MRC meeting last Thursday but had nothing to report. It is good to
attend because they cover many subjects such as what communities are seeking grants for and
other items. She noted she sees the communities that are involved versus the ones that show up
for the meetings. Lunenburg does utilize and participate in the existing programs.
Ms. Lemieux asked if the Board wanted to add demolition delay permit for the old Primary
School as an agenda item for March 5". Mr. Toale stated yes. She would like to reach out to the
Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) because at the meeting they attended,
they did not seem to be aware of the condition of the interior of the school. She could coordinate
a meeting with our facilities person for them to view it. The Board will meet again with World
Tech and the DPW Director at some time to review the Complete Streets plan again.
Mr. Toale reviewed their upcoming meeting dates: March 5, March 12 and March 19. We are
still going to try to meet with two focus groups concerning the TC Passios building.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, suggested addressing Ms. Adams as Dr. Adams. Dave
Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated one of the things not being discussed is the cost of maintaining
the new fuel system on an annual basis.
Ms. Adams did not understand why she hasn't earned the ability to comment when she has data
or information on an agenda item. She stated she was elected to be here and should be able to
participate in discussions.
Motion: P. Luck
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 9:49 p.m.
2nd. K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elairem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive to the Town Manager
===PAGE 14===
Education - Topics can be wide ranging based on interests of members
• Agriculture - Although not a political entity there are policies that Granges promote
• Grange's roots are in Agriculture and was established to protect Farmers against unfair railroad practices
• The Lunenburg Grange is classified as a Tax Exempt 501(c)(8) organization
Recent Activities
• Dec 7, 2018 Lunenburg Grange was re-established after closing in 2009 due to low membership (#169 was retained)
• Currently 12 Members have "obligated" themselves - many guests expressing interest and curiosity
• Current Officers include - Judy Halligan (Master/President), Chris Menard (Secretary), Matthew Allison (Lecturer),
Lauren Menard (Steward), Elisa Menard (Assistant Steward), Connie Allison (Treasurer), Jorge Marzuca (Chaplain) and
Karin Menard (Gatekeeper).
Mass State Grange members & Prescott of Pepperell Grange members are helping establish the Lunenburg Grange
Business Meeting occur on the first Friday of each month - Next meeting is March 1@7:00 at Lunenburg Library
• April 5th meeting is at a TBD location - we hope to receive our Charter at this meeting and, if so, will be joined by many
members of other Granges
Membership
• Full Membership is available to anyone, regardless of gender or religion, 131/2 years of age and older - Younger
members can hold offices
•
Junior Grange is available for anyone 5-14 years of age
• Lunenburg set its membership rates at $40 per person and $80 maximum per family
• The Lunenburg Grange welcomes interested local residents to join a meeting or attend upcoming events
Future
• Granges are typically slow in the winter months - use this time to organize and plan Spring, Summer and Fall Events
• Election of all Positions and Ceremony to receive charter from National Grange
Planning and conduct of community events
• Grow membership and promote the mission and goals of the organization
Relationship to Town Government
We welcome town leaders to join, attend meetings as guests or attend events - Also Help Promote us
• We will ask permission for use of town properties for various events
As a community organization - promote education & outreach on topics of interest to the town. Ideas include:
• Police & Fire - Facilitate education on health and safety
DPW, Parks, Conservation, Land Use - Volunteers to help with projects, educational venues for topics of interest to
the town (Foresting, Marijuana, Farming, etc.)
Library & Schools - Co-sponsor educational programming
Lunenburg Public Access - Advertising already, Record and broadcast events
Council on Aging - Volunteers to Assist our neighbors, continuing education
Meeting Hall - We are now looking for a permanent location - Ideally 600+ sq ft, Access to Kitchen, Allow food and
drinks (non-alcohol) to be served, Safe spot to lock up materials
