===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board of Selectmen present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair; Damon McQuaid,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Member; Michael- Ray Jeffreys, Member
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director;
The meeting opened at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Alonzo announced in
accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings Law please be advised that this meeting
is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Lemieux acknowledged long-time employee Lisa Normandin who was recently honored by
the Massachusetts Commission on the Status of Women as a 2019 Unsung Heroine. These are
women who don't make the news, but make a difference. She is an original member of the
Turkey Hill Family Lions Club and currently serves as their President. Thank you to Lisa for all
you do for the Town of Lunenburg.
Mr. Alonzo announced the Board of Selectmen are seeking a representative for the Montachusett
Joint Transportation Committee. The Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee (MJTC) is a
subcommittee of the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission (MRPC) that provides public
input to the transportation planning process in the Montachusett Region. Each community can
appoint two (2) representatives to the Committee; one to represent the Mayor or Board of
Selectmen; and one to represent the Planning Board. As part of the ongoing transportation
planning process in the region, it is important to have active participation from our member
communities. The MJTC plays an important role in the development of the Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP), the long range Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) and the
continued flow of information between the MRPC and its communities regarding various issues
of importance. In addition, information sharing between towns is a key aspect of the
Committee.
Appointees are at the discretion of the local community and their boards and as such they do not
have to be a board member or employee. The individual appointee is responsible to the board or
office and therefore should be someone who can actively provide communications to and from
the municipality. The term runs from July 1 to June 30, 2020. MJTC meets the second
Wednesday of the month at 6:30 p.m. at the MRC offices located at 464 Abbott Avenue in
Leominster. Interested parties should submit a letter of interest to the Board of Selectmen office
at 17 Main Street, 2'd floor.
Mr. Alonzo stated after the Pride events at 300 Holman Street were canceled due to the Zoning
Board of Appeals decision, NOWOCO tried to reschedule at the the Town Gazebo but could not
get their permits in place in time. There will be ongoing Pride events in Fitchburg.
Ms. Adams announced swim lessons started at the town beach this week.
===PAGE 2===
mimpic types l asaulities.
Committee meetings. She stated sitting in those chairs for three hours is a significant hardship for
Senior Citizens.
Special One Day Beer & Wine License Hearings for Dragonfly Garden Café - 3 Lancaster
Ave.
1) July 26- Wine Appetizer and Dessert Tasting
2) August 17- Community BBQ Family Style Dinner
Joslin Schneider presented for both events. She stated we hosted the farm to table dinner that was
very successful in June. It was a beautiful event. So we wanted to a summer dining series with
two different types of events. In August we are hoping to have 40 attendees and have a
brewmaster come in and talk about how beer is made. In July we would like to have Elena
Christopher of Elena's Gourmet Grocery as a guest speaker with a different type of experience
with appetizers and desserts. Mr. Jeffreys noted Ms. Schneider's TIPS server training certificate
and asked if she would be the only one serving alcohol. She replied yes and it is required by our
liability insurance. We do have one other employee who is TIPS certified and is over 21 yearsof
age. Mr. Alonzo stated for the record that both of these avents are from 5:00 - 8:30 p.m.
She confirmed and added bothe events are tasting events so they are not full-sized beverages.
Motion: K. Adams
2°: D.MeQuaid
To approve the July 26 and August 17, 2019 special one day beer and wine licenses
Vote: All in Favor
Update from the DPW Director
Mr. Rodriquenz reported there will be a culvert replaced near the intersection of Northfield Road
and West Townsend Road. Another culvert will be replaced on Sunset Lane between house
numbers 76 and 85. The work will start before the end of the month and detours should not last
more than a few days. At night both culverts will be covered with steel panels to allow traffic to
pass through. There will be signage posted as well.
Reappointment - Town Clockwinder- John Lynch
Motion: K. Adams
20c: D. MeQuaid
To reappoint John Lynch as town clockwinder with a term to expire June 30, 2020
Vote: All in Favor
Term Correction- Barbara Reynolds - Monty Tech School Rep-term expires June 30, 2023.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd.P. Luck
To amend the term for Barbara Reynolds to end June 30, 2023 Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
YAL•
YY18Y
hold either an open meeting or executive session. This will most likely occur in August.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Planning Board is holding a hearing on Unitil's Storm Resiliency
Program on July 22'd at 6:35 p.m. The Planning Board will hold a hearing that will coincide with
the Tree Warden because it is a scenic road. She was seeking the board's input on attending that
meeting for their role in that process. Mr. McQuaid believed it was important the Board review it
and address concerns from residents. Ms. Lemieux will post the meeting.
Ms. Adams noted a town beach employee mentioned to her they did not find out they had the job
until just before the beach opened. Is it possible for them to be notified sooner for planning
purposes next year? Mr. Alonzo suggested contacting the Parks Commission as they do the
interviewing and recommend to hire to the Town Manager.
2. Committee Reports
Ms. Luck reported the Storm Water Task Force will be meeting on Thursday to interview
contractors for Year 2 of the MS4 permit.
Mr. Alonzo reported there is an opening on the Finance Committee. Anyone interested should
submit a talent bank form to the Board of Selectmen office.
OLD BUSINESS
1. MRC Walkability and Parking Study: Discussion about dates for additional
public meetings to walk Town Center and Whalom areas
Ms. Lemieux presented tentative dates of July 15 or July 25 at 5:00 p.m. for the Whalom area.
July 25'h would be better so the public can be notified in a timely manner.
For the Main Street area, potential dates are July 18, July 29 or July 30, all at 5:00 p.m.
July 30" looked to be the best date.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Completion ofthe ADA Accessibility at the Lane, Cowdrey, and Small Town Forest
Conservation Lands
The ADA improvements at the Lane, Cowdrey, and Small Town Forest conservation lands that
were paid for with a MA Office on Disability project grant are now completed. The
improvements included installation of an ADA van parking space and signage and approximately
150 feet in ADA trail access at each of the locations. I want to thank Conservation Administrator
Matt Marro, the DPW for their assistance, and the contractor, Powell Stone & Gravel for
accomplishing this project in a short time frame.
Mass Trails Grant Award
I want to congratulate the Conservation Commission, specifically member Bob Pease, on
receiving an award of $21,267 from the state through the Mass Trails Grant program. The funds
===PAGE 4===
LILLY L
thank each of them for all they do for the Town.
Mr. Alonzo stated in the past we used to have an an annual volunteer appreciation event for the
volunteers and appointed boards. He would like to see that revived in September at Eagle
House. People who submitted talent bank forms will be invited as well.
Other Updates:
• The FY20 Road Materials bid opening was yesterday and I am in the process of reviewing
the bids to make sure they meet all the requirements and then we will proceed with
issuing award letters and contracts.
• Proposals for engineering services to comply with Year 2 of the MS4 Permit were due
June 13th and we receivedtwo proposals. The Land Use Director, the Storm Water Task
Force, and I willbe interviewing the two firms on Thursday, July 11.
OLD BUSINESS (CONT.)
2. Review of Town Manager Evaluation Form and Process
Mr. Alonzo referred the Board to the document with tracked changes. The first section was
Policy and Purpose. Discussion ensued over the following:
Individual performance evaluation forms prepared by members of the Board of Selectmen are
considered work product/personal documents, and shall not be publicly released. The only document to
be released will be this overview document, compiling the ratings and comments, prepared by the Chair.
It was decided to have Town labor counsel check with the Attorney General's office on the
statement.
Procedure #1
1. The Town Manager will be reviewed annually on the achievement of the agreed upon goals
established the previous year and performance standards. The performance standards will be
measured using a rating scale of "consistently exceeds expectations, "often exceeds expectations",
"meets expectations", and "needs improvement" and "unsatisfactorv". In addition to annual
goal(s) ten categories of performance standards and core responsibilities will be used to evaluate
the Town Manager:
Ms. Adams preferred a numeric rating scale system and felt the previous evaluation was too
subjective. More discussion ensued on the rating scale. Mr. Jeffreys asked Ms. Lemieux what her
preference was. She preferred the five levels of ratings listed in the draft. She did not think they
===PAGE 5===
document.
Ms. Luck suggested two Board members compile reviews or labor counsel do it. Ms. Adams
stated there should be another word other than consensus. Mr. Alonzo stated it should be a
composite overview document and a consensus from the board on the finished document.
#6 The Chairman will provide the other Board members and the Town Manager with the consensus
evaluation overview document at a scheduled Board of Selectmen meeting to publicly discuss the
evaluation.
Consensus will be changed to composite. Ms. Luck suggested having the document presented
one week and discussing the evaluation at a subsequent meeting. Mr. McQuaid was fine with that
but thought it should be brought up to town counsel because he had advised it being done in one
meeting.
The Board moved on to the rating scale. After some discussion the ratings will go from 0-4.
4 Often Exceeds Expectations:
Performance often exceeds expectations. Demonstrates the ability to take on progressive
responsibility showing high success and most annual goals were met.
3 Meets Expectations: Performance consistently meets expectations and the overall quality of
work is good. The most critical goals were met.
2 Needs Improvement:
Performance has not met expectations and improvement is needed. One or more critical goals
were not met.
1 Unsatisfactory:
Performance is inadequate and employee demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to
meet job standards and performance expectations of the position. Immediate and
sustained improvement is required.
N/O Not observed:
This rating is used when the reviewer has not directly observed the actions of the Town
Manager. It will not be counted in the compilation of scores.
===PAGE 6===
and of the public. Demonstrates accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and
honestly.
• Uses good judgment and common sense in making decisions Exercises good judgment.
(Moved from Criteria #2)
Displays enthusiasm, cooperation, and willingness to adapt.
Exhibits composure, appearance, and attitude appropriate for executive position.
Treats others in a fair, consistent, impartial, and professional manner. Is effective in dealing
with people without arousing antagonism and demonstrates an understanding of difficult
situations.
Maintains an open and approachable manner, presents a positive outlook and sets an example
for subordinates.
• Proactively seeks solutions and assumes responsibility.
• Organizes priorities and effectively handles a variety of projects, assignments, and people.
• Elicits respect from others and sets an example of professionalism within the organization.
Motivates and communicates well with staff. (Moved from Criteria #6 Supervisory Oversight
and Direction, speaks to professionalism
• Exchanges verbal and nonverbal messages with others in a way that demonstrates
respect for the individual and furthers organizational and community objectives.
(Moved from Criteria #3 Professional Skills and Knowledge)
Mr. Alonzo stated Ms. Lemieux requested the retitling change on #1. He asked if anyone had any
comments. Ms. Luck stated Motivates and communicates well with staff is something she would
not know about. She stated other towns have two Board members confidentially poll employees
about how they feel about the Town Manager. I think we need to do that or remove them.
Ms. Adams felt there were too many bullets and redundancy. She noted Under #1. Organizes
priorities and effectively handles a variety of projects, assignments, and people; and under #2
Identifies and isolates problems and solutions.
Mr. Alonzo stated the bullet points are just describing what the criteria are that add to the
narrative and score. Mr. Jeffreys noted the items were criteria for two different skill sets.
He also did not know if they should be reaching out to town employees as our Charter is pretty
clear on day-to-day management. We are limited on what we actually can do. He thought they
could get a good feel on whether or not a person is motivating and communicating with staff
based on what is said to her. I have related concerns to Ms. Lemieux and they were promptly
resolved. I can say she definitely must be communicating well and clearly is motivating people
to do what is expected of them. If we are going to do something like that then it has to be across
the board not just in one position.
Ms. Adams stated as you read through these bullets in different sections, they are saying the
same thing. Mr. Alonzo suggested everyone view the headings and see if they are okay and then
we can come back about the bullet points. You are not rating the person on each of those bullet
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Alonzo asked for the next meeting to come prepared with what bullets (limit of 4) you would
like under the eight categories. Town Manager will send out the updated document.
PART III OVERALL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY- No changes were suggested for this
section.
PARTIV TOWN MANAGER GOALS AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN
and PART V SIGNATURES had no changes.
Ms. Luck requested if the Town Manager's self-evaluation or parts of it are quoted to have it
explicitly stated that is what it is. Ms. Adams suggested having them as two separate documents.
Discussion ensued about having someone else other than a board member compiling the
composite. Mr. Alonzo will ask town counsel all the questions asked this evening about the
process.
3. Review of Board of Selectmen Goals for FY20
Mr. Alonzo referred the Board to the list following the last meeting's discussion.
1. Review of Board of Selectmen Goals for FY20
FY2020 Lunenburg Selectboard Goals
Objective 1:
To identify, define, discuss and finalize the criteria to be used in determining
the use and/or re-use of the following buildings: Town Hall, Kitter Building,
Old Primary School, Brooks House, T.C. Passios building.
i. Action: Schedule a variety of meetings and discussion sessions (at
Selectboard meetings, public charrettes, etc.) to get input from the
widest variety of voices possible and practicable.
ii. Action: Write a final report at the conclusion of those meetings and
discussions to be voted upon by the Selectboard. That report will
list AND prioritize the criteria to be used by the Selectboard and
other municipal bodies in evaluating any/all projects to be done
with the above named buildings and the land on which they lie.
Objective 2: To identify, define and propose at least one project to the 2020 Annual Town
Meeting regarding the use and/or re-use of the Old Primary School building,
and/or the land on which it sits.
===PAGE 8===
(as determined in the previous Objective). Establish options (more
than one but no more than four to be examined more closely.
iii. Action: Have open sessions with other boards, committees and
ommissions as well as with the general public in discussing th
ptions defined from Action ili. Evaluate the pros, cons and cost
for each option, potential variations as well as possible timelines.
iv. Action: Determine one (or two, if applicable) option(s) to be fully developed
into a proposed project for the building and/or site to be presented to
the 2020 Annual Town Meeting for vote.
Objective 3: To review, discuss and revise (where needed) the re-appointment process of all
annual Selectboard appointments and to formalize that process into a policy for distribution.
i. Action: Review the existing process step-by-step as well as any existing
written policies that might pertain to the re-appointment process.
Also review the Charter for exact list of Selectboard appointments.
ii. Action: Ask for initial input from all affected appointed bodies. Discuss
improvements that might be made to streamline, clarify and
strengthen the process. Write a draft policy and distribute to all
affected appointed bodies for their review, suggestions and
recommendations. Also make it available to the public for their input
as well.
ili. Action: Collect all input from the review cycle of the draft policy.
Finalize the reappointment process after discussing all the
suggestions and recommendations that have been made and
write the final policy for distribution.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To accept the Board of Selectmen goals for FY20 as presented
2n°: P. Luck
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo reviewed their upcoming meetings; July 16 (Policy Workshop) and July 23, 2019.
PUBLIC COMMENT: there was none.
Mr. Alonzo stated he would entertain a motion to enter Executive Session
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
===PAGE 9===
government's litigating position and the Chair so declares, namely National Prescription
Opiate Litigation Case No. 1:17-MD-2804 and not return to Open Session
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms.Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
The meeting adjourned at 9:19 p.m.
***********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate*********************
Respectfully submitted.
Elaine In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
