===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Others present: Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Emily DiFranco, Comprehensive Environmental Inc.; Steve
Walker, Todd Dwyer, Richard Bursch
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with the requirements of
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public
Access channel.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. McQuaid stated this was his last meeting and acknowledged Pat Slattery who welcomed him to the Historical
Commission years ago and Dave and Betty Macdonald who encouraged him to run for Selectman. He thanked the
amie Toile, over ager Heather emiu, his paras for al their help avertipars er the years, and his
wife and kids. He wanted to inspire and remind all the kids out there that you are never too young to get involved
in town government, there are lots of vacancies and you don't need to start at the top.
Ms. Adams thanked Mr. McQuaid and Ms. Luck for their service.
Ms. Luck thanked all the members of the board and all town boards who stepped up to serve our community as.
well as all the employees of the town.
Mr. Alonzo thanked both outgoing board members and presented a history of what boards they have served on,
noting all their time and commitment. He always thought they had the best intentions for the town even when they
disagreed on topics.
Ms. Lemieux thanked Mr. McQuaid and Ms. Luck for their service.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, thanked both board members and wished them well.
Mr. Alonzo announced town election on Saturday and announced a list is being circulated of people who are
running for elected positions and referred them to the Lunenburg 2020 Facebook page and gave instructions on
how to do a write in a vote.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated unfortunately the town cemeteries were not tended to and maintained as
they should have been tor Memorial Day. The commission has no say except for policy matters. he cemetery
superintendent was told to trim hedges and is not the problem here. Certainly cooperation is lacking. He requested
the BOS investigate the neglect and report on it in an open meeting. In addition, that the Town Manager delegate
custody and control of the cemeteries and their functions to the commission.
I. APPOINTMENTS
Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness Listening Session
Mr. Burney reported the Town was awarded a grant through the Municipal Vulnerability Awareness Program
established by Governor Baker's Executive Order 569 to establish a comprehensive statewide approach to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and prepare for the impacts of climate change. Community resilience building
workshops were held to have stakeholders work collaboratively to complete a climate change and natural hazard
vulnerability assessment and develop prioritized actions to address vulnerabilities and improve strengths. Upon
===PAGE 2===
• Bridges (in need of repair)
• Access to Critical Facilities (risk to emergency services)
• Electrical power lines (fallen tree limbs resulting in power outages)
• Septic Systems (in low lying areas being flooded)
• Sewer Pump Stations (in low lying areas being flooded)
Top concerns under Societal were:
• Vulnerable populations (Senior housing facilities)
• Emergency Shelters
Evacuation Routes/Emergency Response (flooding of key roads)
• Air Conditioning in Public Schools (or lack of)
•
Top Environmental concerns are:
• Phosphorus Loading (to Lake Shirley and Hickory Hills and nuisance algae growth/vegetation)
• Conservation Land (Lunenburg has no criteria for climate change)
Forest Management (many town forests do not have cutting plans
• Agricultural Lands (potential for impacts to land due to climate change)
• Wind Fetch (potential for vehicles to drift off roads)
• Cold Water Fisheries ( potential impacts)
Top Strengths were:
• Open Space Planning (recently updated and identifies priority parcels for conservation)
• Riverine Flooding (limited to forested areas around Catacoonamug and Mulpus Brooks)
• Tree-Trimming Program (Unitil has an aggressive program to protect power lines from outages)
Top Recommended Actions:
1. Stormwater Infrastructure : Assess, Replace, Maintain and Restore
2. Electrical Power Supply Infrastructure: Problem: aging structures and downed trees causing power
outages; Solution: Conduct a town-funded tree survey by a certified arborist to develop a prioritized
removal plan; continue to discuss adaptive management with Unitil
3. Public Safety Building Egress; develop a second route of egress possibly by purchasing adjacent parcel
Other High Priority Actions:
• Install a generator at the Senior Center to allow building to serve as a warming/cooling station for the
elderly population
• Conduct a study to determine a potential location for a second egress to DPW facility at 520 Chase Road
• Install central air conditioning and generator at Pearl Brook Apartments (housing authority)
• Continue to protect key lands and work towards adding climate resiliency to the list of criteria for open
===PAGE 3===
grant funding. The Board thanked Ms. DiFranco and Mr. Burney for the presentation.
Change of Manager for Lunenburg Zedas Inc. d/b/a Bad Larry's, License # 00049-RS-0636, 1
Main St., #4
Applicant/owner Alan Wernick was present for the request and stated his son was not able to fulfill the
manager role anymore. So he was applying to be the acting manager on record.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2'°: P. Luck
To approve the change of manager for Bad Larry's as submitted
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Review Applications for Outdoor Seating and Outdoor Liquor Sales from
Kindred Spirits (324 Electric Ave., #4 and Lakeview Club (449 Whalom Road), both requested to be
postponed to a later date.
1) Donnelly's Tavern, 43 Summer Street,
John Donnelly presented for the request. The Board reviewed his application that included a safety plan
and diagram that allowed for 32 patrons outside as well as personnel assigned to shifts to ensure
compliance. Parking is accommodated for up to 50 cars on the Summer Street side.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: D. McQuaid
To approve the application from Donnelly's Tavern
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2) Smokestack Roasters, 39 Massachusetts Ave., Jaclynn Nicoll presented for the request. Maximum
capacity would be for 36 patrons. The area is fenced in with egress accessible through a garage door.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the outdoor seating application form Smokestack Roasters
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
American Graffiti (113 Summer Street), Todd Jennison presented for the request.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the application for American Graffiti for outdoor service
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. FY21 Annual Appointments by Board of Selectmen & Town Manager
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the list of her appointments.
Animal Control Officer
Kathleen Comeau- 806 West Street
Building Commissioner
===PAGE 4===
Field Driver- 1 year term
Kathleen Comeau
Fence Viewers- 1 year term
Vacancies
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer
Heather Lemieux
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Gary Williams-34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Richard Kapenas
Pound Keeper- term expires June 30, 2021
Jean Larkin- 17 Highland Street
Public Weighers- term expires June 30, 2021 (provided by PJ Keating)
Rich Reynolds
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
Jay Valliere
Mike Reynolds
Britany Woodhouse
Inspector of Weights and Measures-term expires June 30, 2021
Stephen E. Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)
John (Jack) Biery- 15 Crescent Road
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)
David Stone-83 Arbor Street
RACES Control Officer -term expires June 30, 2021
===PAGE 5===
2nd: M. Jeffreys
Motion: D. McQuaid
To ratify the Town Manager appointments as presented
Discussion: Ms. Adams recused herself from the Wiring Inspector appointment.
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye (excluding wiring inspector), Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr.
Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Ms. Lemieux read the list of police officers up for appointment.
Full-time Officers
Chief James P. Marino
Lt. Thomas L. Gammel
Sgt. Sean J. Connery
Det/Sgt. Jeffrey M.Thibodeau
Sgt. Joshua B. Tocci
Sgt. Sean Zrate
Officer Jonathan J. Broc
Officer Ramon Cabrera
Officer Anthony Cappucci
Officer Jacob Lachance
Officer Kayla M. Leger
Officer Joshua M. Mathieu
Officer Bradley McNamara
Officer John Morreale, Jr.
Officer Kamerin Munroe
Officer Gage Russell
Officer John M. Wagner
Reserve Officers
Officer Benjamin Campbell
Officer Erin K. Considine
Officer Robert R. DaCosta
Officer Robert D. DiConza
Officer Donald A. Letarte
Officer Jonathan G. May
Officer Lisa M. Melnicki
Officer Amanda J. Moore
Officer Chad Stateler
===PAGE 6===
Kimberly Mattson
George Reidy
Mark Francis
David Phillips
Jeffrey Giles
Michael Marchand
Christopher Low
James Landi
Eric Modica
Christopher Tucker
Tony Brennan
Christopher Van Voorhis
Austin Cote
Thomas Kalil
James Marchand
Sergeant
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Patrol Officer
Reserve Officer
Reserve Officer
Reserve Officer
Reserve Officer
Reserve Officer
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. K. Adams
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments of Special Police officers to the Lunenburg Police Department
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo read aloud the following reappointments:
Architectural Preservation District Commission-term expires June 30, 2023
Richard McGrath- 22 Cushing Lane
2 vacancies
Agricultural Commission- 3 years
Ryan Stober-2023
Conservation Commission- 3 year terms-term to expire June 30, 2023
Catie Childs-14 Kimball Street
Richard Bursch-308 Electric Avenue
Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2021
Louis Franco-250 Arbor Street
Mike Kidney- 86 Lancaster Ave.
Tom Alonzo- 284 Lancaster Ave.
William Tyler-5 Graham St.
Chuck Venezia-1402 Massachusetts Ave.
John Lynch- 453 Page Street
===PAGE 7===
Diane walls islana dual
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC)-term to expire June 30, 2021
Steve Walker-227 Pleasant Street
Personnel Committee-term expires June 30, 2023
Susan Andrews- 81 Horizon Island Road
Erik Arnold- 105 Hemlock Drive
1 vacancy
Senior Citizen Property Taxation Work Off Program-term expires June 30. 2021
Myleen Mallari-Treasurer/Collector
Sue Doherty-COA Director
Sheila Craigen- Principal Assessing Clerk
1 vacancy
Town Counsel-term expires June 30, 2021
Mead, Talerman & Costa
Mirick O'Connell
Zoning Board of Appeals - term expires June 30, 2025
Alfred Gravelle-445 Townsend Harbor Road
PACC Chairman Steve Walker and Conservation Commissioner Richard Bursch were invited to speak. Mr.
Walker thanked the Board for the reappointment and noted the 3r° Public access channel for Education would
be coming on line on Thursday. He added an appeal for a permanent studio space for Public Access TV as
soon as possible. Mr. Bursch thanked them for the opportunity to serve.
Discussion ensued about the reappointment process. Mr. Alonzo noted this was an unusual circumstance year
due to the pandemic and reaching people was difficult. Ms. Lemieux reported the Executive Assistant had
contacted all the persons who have submitted talent bank forms in the past and informed them of the
upcoming appointments and had received no response back. Those same talent bank forms were forwarded to
the pertinent Chairs that they were interested in serving on.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the reappointments as listed
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2"d: P. Luck
2. Follow Up from Annual Town Meeting
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who made Town Meeting through the planning, the execution, the
attendees, etc., a successful event.
===PAGE 8===
• Accounts Payable #61 20 dated 6/9/2020 in the amount of $472,101.30
• Payroll Deduction #62 20 dated 6/10/2020 in the amount of $553,909.92
• Payroll #25 P20 dated 6/11/2020 in the amount of $835,525.18
5. Action Items- Ms. Adams asked about the town beach being opened and swimming lessons.
Ms. Lemieux stated last week she had reported the Parks Commission would be discussing this in July for
later in the summer. She suggested contacting them directly and noted the playgrounds and basketball
courts are open. Ms. Lemieux stated the guidelines for town beaches were more stringent than those for
playgrounds and basketball courts.
6. Committee Reports - there were none this evening
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Vacant Elected Positions for the Annual Election
Mr. Alonzo noted there is no one running for Commissioner of Trust Funds (3 year term) or Housing
Authority (4 year term) and there was still time to get your name out for a write-in campaign.
2. Authorization for BOS Chairman to sign the Purchase & Sale Agreement and closing
documents to effectuate sale of 17 and 23 West Street Property
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: D. McQuaid
To authorize the BOS Chair to sign the Purchase & Sale Agreement and closing documents to
effectuate the sale of 17 and 23 West Street Property
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATES
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 designprofessional; craftspersonor building contractor familiar
with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (2 positions appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Ms. Lemieux added there is also a vacancy on the Senior Tax Work Off Program Committee- citizen-at-large, 1 vacancy on
the Personnel Committee and vacancies for Fence Viewers.
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and can forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
===PAGE 9===
improvements should be implemented by their traffic signal contractor by the end of June.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, June 17th at 7 p.m.
• The School Committee has a meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, June 17th at 6:30 p.m.
• The Library Board of Trustees has a meeting via Zoom on Thursday, June 1 8th at 6:45 p.m.
• The Agricultural Commission has a meeting via Zoom on Thursday, June 1 8th at 7 p.m.
• The Planning Board has a meeting via Zoom on Monday, June 22nd at 6:30 p.m.
• The Sewer Commission has a meeting via Zoom on Tuesday, June 23rd at 5 p.m.
• Annual Town Election is on Saturday, June 20th at the TC Passios Building from 7 am until 5 pm.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update dated June 12th and it will be put on the COVID-19 Information Center
page on the town website under News & Announcements on the homepage. As of June 15th, there are 67 confirmed
positive cases in Lunenburg and one death.
Re-opening of Town/School Playgrounds, School Fields, and Town Beach:
• The town and school playgrounds are open, the town and school basketball courts are open, the school tennis courts are
open to singles play only, the MS/HS track and turf field is open, and all town fields have remained open throughout the
pandemic.
Town Facilities:
Town facilities re-opened to town employees on June 2'd in adherence with a number of state requirements and best
practices and opened to the public by appointment only on June 8th.
Tax Paymes are now also being accepted in the black box on the right side of the entrance outside of Town Hall. Tax
payments can also still be mailed to the town's lockbox or can be paid online.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 6/15/20):
As of June 15th there are 105,690 COVID-19 cases and 7,647 deaths 712,875 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Baker-Polito Administration Announces Pop-Up Testing Sites for Participants of Large Gatherings
The Baker-Polito Administration announced the availability of pop-up COVID-19 testing sites throughout the
Commonwealth for individuals who have recently participated in large gatherings. These free testing sites will be available
at over S0 Sites throughout the Commonwealth on Wednesday, June 17" and Thursday, June 18". The Administration is
urging anyone who has attended a large gathering in the past two weeks to get tested for COVID-19 at one of these sites.
Test results will be provided to each participant confidentially, and participants are encouraged to share these results with
their doctors. A full list of all testing sites is available at www.mass.gov/gettested.
===PAGE 10===
TOMI mayala, mr deleys state de respected mi dna appren des dan wo as pres has cannent to our
town. Mr. Alonzo added it was an honor to serve with (both of you and wished them well.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 9:01 p.m.
Vote: Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: P. Luck
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
