===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Phyllis Luck, Vice Chairman; Damon McQuaid, Clerk; Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Member participating remotely by telephone: Katey Adams
Members not present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance. Ms. Luck announced in accordance
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. Ms. Luck announced member Katey Adams is
unable to attend the meeting as her children are ill, but will be participating remotely by telephone.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. McQuaid announced he would not be running for reelection for Selectman this year. Ms. Luck
stated he would be missed and thanked him for his service over nine years of serving on the Historical
Commission, Planning Board, Building Reuse Committee and Capital Planning.
Mr. Jeffreys noted a new law prohibiting holding your cell phone while driving will go into effect after
March 23rd
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant St, talked about vacancies on town boards and having the ability to
participate remotely. Many of us travel and this should not preclude anyone from serving on a town
board. Two weeks ago he informed the Town Manager that he would be missing two Finance
Committee meetings due to work obligations and requested IT support in order to participate in the
nor I view this as the opinion of this current board. He stated he did participate remotely via telephone
for one meeting but missed some of the visual presentations given that night. He requested support for
the future and doing our best to encourage citizens' involvement.
Ms. Lemieux clarified the comment about administration not encouraging remote participation. The IT
Director had made it clear that was previous boards not the current one. The PowerPoint presentation
was in the hands of the Finance Committee Chair and was distributed to members prior to that meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys encouraged participation in any way we can. He believed participation is diminished over
the phone. He thought Mr. Beardmore brought up a good point about the video, there is probably some
follow-up due here.
Ms. Lemieux stated the IT Director did look into the request and tried to accommodate it. Working with
PAC he found it required technical and physical challenges to get to that point and was unable to
accomplish that within two weeks. Additional equipment and running cables would have been required.
for remote videoconferencing to happen; it has to be interfaced with the public, the people running the
meeting and the people participating at home. We continue to look into it.
Mr. Jeffrey pointed out we are in a building that does not meet our needs.
===PAGE 2===
of this year.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To approve the peddlers license for Kevin Clem for Vivint Solar
Vote: Ms. Adams- abstain, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye
2n°: M. Jeffreys
Public Hearing for License to Keep, Store and Sell Propane at 160 Massachusetts Ave (Maki
Corp.)
Dana Maki and Jim LeBlanc presented for the propane license. They would like to place some
additional tanks at 160 Mass. Ave. to assist in propane filling as the demand has increased. There are
two 1000 # tanks and five 40 # tanks bringing the total stored and sold at 2056.95 gallons. We have
relocated one 1000 # tank from 88 Mass Ave to 160 Mass. Ave.
The propane tanks are in the front parking lot and near the rear of the building. Mr. Jeffreys expressed
frustration waiting to get propane filled there. Ms, Maki stated this is one solution to alleviating the long
wait time.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: D. McQuaid
To approve the license to keep, store and sell propane at 160 Mass Ave. as presented
Vote: Ms.Adams-aye, aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye
Meeting with Library Director: Annual Town Meeting article re: Library Trust Funds
Muir Haman, Library Director, stated Library trust funds have historically returned low rates. The
objective of this warrant article is to allow the trust funds to get higher returns on those trust funds.
To see if the Town will vote to file a Home Rule Petition with the General Court for a special law authorizing the
investment of Library trust funds and any future bequests to the Library in according with the prudent investor rule
and related statutes. The proposed Special Act would read as follows:
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE INVESTMENT OF TOWN OF LUNENBURG LIBRARY TRUST FUNDS
SECTION 1. Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the treasurer of the town of Lunenburg may
invest library trust funds and any future bequests to the library in the custody of the treasurer in accordance with the
prudent investor rule and sections 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 of chapter 203C of the General Laws. The treasurer, in consultation
with the town's library trust fund committee, shall develop investment policies which shall include an asset allocation
policy and shall select professional investment advisors to manage such funds.
SECTION 2. Section 54 of chapter 44 of the General Laws shall not apply to the town of
Lunenburg library trust funds.
SECTION 3. This act shall take effect upon its passage.
Or take any other action relative thereto.
Other towns have had success in passing similar legislation. This would enable the Library Trustees to
consult with an investment advisor to manage the funds for better gains. Ms. Luck asked what is the risk
to the Town. Mr. Jeffreys stated there is roughly $70,000 to invest. Mr. Haman stated we have a very
large cushion and so can avoid touching the principal amounts. He added he would be present at Town
Meeting to present the article and at some point was seeking a recommendation for the article.
===PAGE 3===
• Timothy Foster, Videographer
• Peter Keto, Videographer
• Scott Finnegan, Videographer
• Kayla Reffitt, Videographer
• Meadow Galbo, Videographer
• John Dextraze, Senior Videographer
Ms. Luck asked how long the videographers have been working as independent contractors. Ms.
Lemieux stated for many years. This change is necessary now because an inquiry was placed by a
videographer and the Town could face labor law penalties if not addressed. According to the three
pronged definition given by the IRS, they meet that criteria to be classified as part-time, non-benefitted
employees.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2n°: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Managers appointments as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck-aye
The next appointment is for a Temporary Administrative Assessing Assistant due to the current
person retiring. This was posted in-house per the collective bargaining agreement for five days. Sheila
Craigen applied for the position. Ms. Lemieux was glad that she applied for the position because it
provides continuity in the department. Ms. Craigen will train with Ms. Paquette until she retires.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: D. McQuaid
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Shelia Craigen to Temporary Administrative
Assessing Assistant
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye
Town Clockwinder- Chuck Venezia-1402 Mass. Ave. -term to expire June 30, 2020
Mr. Venezia presented for the request. He has been accompanying Bill Tyler, another clockwinder on a
couple of occasions to wind the clock and is a member of the Historical Society.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To appoint Chuck Venezia as town clockwinder with a term to expire June 30, 2020
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 regular member and 3 alternate vacancies)
===PAGE 4===
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's
Office.
Board of Health Information on the Coronavirus(COVID-19):
Last week I reached out to the Board of Health to see if they had received any updates from the
Department of Public Health regarding the Coronavirus and information that we could share with the
public and staff. Our agent through Nashoba Associated Boards of Health sent an advisory with the links
to the Department of Public Health's website and the CDC's website that has the most up to date
information. This information, as well as preventative measures recommended by the CDC to stay
healthy, was shared on the town website, town Facebook page, sent to the Lunenburg Ledger, and sent
via thetown wide listserv. The COA Director posted the notice on the bathrooms, bulletin boards, kitchen
area, lunch room, on the Eagle House Facebook page and will have hard copies for clients and in
packages that go out to the Meals on Wheels recipients.
Any further updates from the Board of Health will be shared on the website, Town Facebook, emailed to
the town wide listserv, and the Ledger.
Active Shooter Trainings:
The Town Hall will be closed tomorrow, Wednesday, March 4th from 2-4 p.m. for an active shooter
training. The Police Department will be conducting these trainings at all our town buildings at dates to be
determined and then with larger commercial businesses.
The Town Hall will reopen to the public at 4 p.m. and any meetings scheduled after 4 p.m. will not be
affected.
Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness (MVP) Planning Grant:
The Land Use Director, who is the lead on this project, has been working with the consultant
(Comprehensive Environmental Inc.) and there will be a kick-off meeting with the appropriate staff on
Monday, March 9th. This core team includes the Land Use Director, Police Chief, Fire Chief, DPW
Director, Conservation Administrator, COA Director, and myself. Subsequent to the kick-off meeting there
will be two public workshops that will be scheduled in the spring that are an important part of the planning
phase.
Old Primary School Hazardous Materials Survey:
I received a copy of the final report for the Hazardous Materials survey that was performed and
forwarded to the Board on Friday, February 28th. The report identifies a cost of $37,875.00 to abate the
identified hazardous materials.
Update on Home Rule Petitions for Additional Liquor Licenses and Town Charter:
As relayed on to the Board in an email sent on February 13th, the two Home Rule Petitions for
additional liquor licenses were filed by Representative Hay and assigned bill numbers H. 4365 and H.
4366. H4365 for an additional liquor license for Lanni Orchards went to Committee and reported out of
Committee favorably this week. It will now have a second and third reading by the House and then go to
the Senate before being voted on.
===PAGE 5===
DEw koot roject.
Bids for the DPW Roof project were received on February 25th; there were a total of twelve bids
received with the low bid of $84,000 and a high bid of $137,500. This was a project in the FY19 Capital
Plan in the amount of $65,000 and we will need to subsidize the balance of $19,000 for this project
from the Facilities budget. The project schedule is to have this completed by the close of this fiscal year.
Update on Fuel Tanks located at DPW:
As mentioned previously, we have contracted with an engineering company for the removal and
replacement of the fuel tanks located at the DPW. They have performed the survey and submitted a
Request for Determination to the Conservation Commission to be on the Conservation Commission's March
18th agenda. As a requirement of the Special Pollution Liability insurance we are required to carry for the
underground tanks, I have notified the carrier that we have begun the process for the removal of the tanks
over the next few months so that they can witness the removal and be kept notified of the timing of the
removal.
District Local Technical Assistance Application for Self- Evaluation and Transition Plan (TM Goal #3, i.,
ill.):
On Friday, February 28th I notified the Board through email that the District Local Technical
Assistanceapplication that I submittedto MontachusettRegionalPlanning Commissionto complete
our ADA Self-Evaluation and Transition Plan for our facilities, public parking lots, and parks/open
spaces was approved. John Hume of MRC will be in touch shortly with the next steps.
Recycling Education and Enforcement Coordinator Position (TM Goal #3, i., ili.):
I attended the Board of Health meeting last night to discuss the Recycling Education and Enforcement
Coordinator grant through MassDEP. The goal would be to apply for a part-time grant funded position
that would be a $30,000 grant from MassDEP for a 24 month period and would require a 25% match from
the towns participating. If we shared this with one other town it would cost a total of $3,750 ($1,875
each year). If shared with two other towns it would cost a total of $2,500 ($1,250 each year). Under both
scenarios this cost would be paid out of the Recycling Dividends Program grant. The Board of Health
plays a vital role in this grant process because they would have to adopt comprehensive hauler
regulations that includes mandatory recycling for residential generators with an enforcement mechanism.
The Board of Health is moving forward and will be holding a workshop meeting on March 9th to
discuss the comprehensive regulations.
This position would provide outreach and education to private haulers about recycling rules and the
enforcement component, and implement enforcement protocol on private haulers as allowed by the
accepted regulations. It is not my intention that this position would be funded at the conclusion of the
grant. I am still looking into whether it would be allowable for this position to be an independent
contractor ornot.
Dementia Friendly Update:
The Dementia Friendly Action group met on Monday, February 24th and iscurrently looking into what is
involved in becoming an Age Friendly Community. We will be reviewing the criteria, what we are
currently doing or are planning on doing that would qualify as being Age Friendly with a goal of
applying to be an Age Friendly Community in the future. Our next meeting is Monday, March 23rd.
===PAGE 6===
this Thursday's Finance Committee meeting.
Secondly, the Finance Sub-Committee for the Nashoba Regional Dispatch Center voted on the
assessment and the assessment will be $198,530. The original estimate in the budget was $213,497, so
this is a decrease of $14,967.
We should receive Monty Tech's assessment amount this week and they will be presenting at Thursday's
Finance Committee meeting.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
•
I attended a portion of the Green Communities Task Force meeting on Thursday, February 27th
before heading to the Finance Committee meeting where the Police and Fire Chiefs presented their
FY21 budgets and I will be attending the Green Communities Task Force meeting this Thursday
at 6:00 p.m. until the start of the Finance Committee at 6:30 p.m. The Finance Committee will
be meeting with Monty Tech and the Public Access Committee this week.
• I will be attending the Board of Assessors meeting tomorrow to discuss their FY21 budget and
changes in the estimated New Growth amount.
• Reminder that the warrant closes on Monday, March 16th at 4 pm and Finance will hold their
public hearing on the budget on Thursday, March 26th at 6:30 pm.
• The Citizens Party Caucus will be Monday, March 16th at 7 pm in the Turkey Hill Elementary
School Cafeteria.
• The Special State Representative Election will be March 31st 7 am - 8 pm at the TC Passios
Building.
• Dog Licenses for 2020 are due by April 1st to the Town Clerk's Office.
Mr. Jeffreys stated Ms. Lemieux was away on vacation last week and at the end of the week we started
getting a bunch of emails from you. He wanted to make sure town employees enjoy themselves while
they are on vacation and not be involved in work.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Vote to accept the interest of STM Acceptance of Butterfly Lane as a Public Way
Mr. Jeffreys asked if the Town has been treating Butterfly Lane as a public way. Ms. Lemieux stated she
would have to inquire. Ms. Luck suggested creating a permit policy about storm water drain
maintenance and enforcement for future developments. Mr. McQuaid stated the adverse effect of that
would be no standard to make anyone do maintenance on them. This needs to be addressed in the site
plan at the beginning of the process. Ms. Luck stated it is something to think about for the future.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: D. McQuaid
I move that the Board accept for nominal consideration a deed of a fee interest of a certain
roadway known as Butterfly Lane, determined to be unique, for municipal purposes consistent
with those uses to which other public ways in the town are customarily put
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Luck-aye
===PAGE 7===
of $206,000. Ms. Lemieux stated this is to operate the Pay as You Throw Program for the Town's
portion of trash disposal and recycling pickup (through the operating budget).
Ms. Luck asked about the $191,000 requested for operating the Public Education Government
Enterprise Fund and $120,000 for the capital budget for the same enterprise fund. Are those town funds?
Ms. Lemieux stated no, they are amounts collected through their enterprise fund and the monetary
amount is there because that is how the article were submitted to Town Manager.
Discussion ensued about the warrant article concerning securing estimates for demolition of the old
Primary School Building and what to expect from the voters.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Green Community Task Force is coming to the next BOS meeting to present
for the warrant article requesting funding for conversion of the town street lights to LED. We will also
have an executive session next week at 6:30 p.m. on 635 Massachusetts Avenue. Mr. Jeffreys will not be
present but will call in for the session.
Minutes/Warrants/ Action Items
There were no minutes for approval. The Board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$374,364.44; a deductions warrant in the amount of $577,377.60; a payroll warrant in the amount of
$828,095.27.
Action Items: Ms. Luck read the November 17, 2018 minutes regarding the joint meeting betweeen the
BOS and the School Committee about a town representative participating in school union contract
negotiations and she noted it they stated," both boards agree that the Town Manager would be involved
in the negotiations." She requested scheduling a BOS Executive Session as soon as possible for an
update on the progress of the teachers' union negotiations.
Ms. Lemieux also read those minutes and watched the YouTube video of the meeting and the minutes
are not quite clear because what was said was the Superintendent will consult with the Town Manager,
not that she would have to be present at negotiations and that Town Manager would be included but not
at the negotiating table. Mr. Jeffreys stated he was very opposed to the BOS being involved in the school
teachers' union negotiations so he would not be attending that Executive Session.
Ms. Luck requested an update on the Senior Tax Workoff Program. Ms. Lemieux reported they did meet
recently and voted to increase the hourly wage to be the same as the state minimum wage. Ms. Luck
asked it they voted to align it with the state minimum wage when it increases automatically. Ms.
Lemieux will look into that.
3. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Board of Trustees met and they had concerns about the budget. Ms.
Lemieux has since then addressed those concerns and he thanked her for that.
Ms. Luck attended the Steering Committee meeting of the Central MA Regional Storm Water Coalition
===PAGE 8===
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, after listening to the Town Manager' report, acknowledged the
amount of work that is happening in the Town Manager's office. It is extraordinary and he commended
her. With respect to the roofing bids for the DP W, you mentioned that that delta would be addressed by
the DP W budget. Are those anticipated excess funds from the current fiscal year? Ms. Lemieux stated it
was. We had earmarked funds for engineering services to help with projects and that is not going to be
used for the remaider of the year.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 8:25 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye
2nd: M. Jeffreys
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine in. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
