===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Others present:
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with the requirements of'
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public
Access channel.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo congratulated and thanked Mr. Marino and Mr. Dwyer for running for election as Selectmen. He
thanked the Town Clerk and her team for running the annual town election. He thanked Chris Menard for pulling
together a write in list of candidates for the election and Dave MacDonald who handed out fliers with the write in
candidate information.
Ms. Adams welcomed the new members and thanked the Town Manager and Police Chief for implementing the
traffic change work by the state at the intersection of Mass. Ave and Electric Ave.
Mr. Dwyer thanked everyone who voted and supported him on the ballot. Mr. Marino also thanked the voters and
looked forward to serving on the Board. Mr. Jeffreys extended a welcome to the new members as well.
Sue Doherty, Council on Aging Director, updated everyone on a new program at the Senior Center. The MA
Council on Aging had sent out a request for applications to become a Discovery Center for civil engagement at
Senior center. This is a program for new retirees seeking volunteer opportunities within the community to meet
with trained transition navigators who can assesses their skills and match them with volunteer work in the non-
profit sector. This is also open to residents of Fitchburg and Leominster. Ms. Doherty has selected three transition
navigators; Jamie Toale, Lori Tessier and Susan O'Sullivan. They all come with great experience. Transition
navigators contact the people who want to volunteer and interview them. They will be holding hours at the Senior
Center one day a week.
Another required team for the Discovery Center is stakeholders. Mr. Jeffreys is serving as one as well as Muir
Haman, Julie Belliveau, Carolyn Sargent and Deb Lincoln. Stakeholders assist in advertising about the program to
different people.
Mr. Alonzo announced there would be line painting on various streets in town this evening.
I. APPOINTMENTS
Pole Petition Hearing for 23 Round Road
Mr. Alonzo read the hearing notice aloud:
To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are hereby
notified that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd Floor in the Joseph F. Bilotta
Meeting Room, Lunenburg, MA (or remotely via ZOOM, check the Board of Selectmen agenda on the Town
website calendar)[https://www.lunenburgma.gov] for directions on how to join the meeting), on Tuesday, June
===PAGE 2===
for distributing purposes.
Mark Frappier, a Unitil representative, was present for the petition. The intent is to install a new pole along the
frontage of the lot and run service along the driveway of the house. The abutter at 31 Round Road had requested
Unitil relocate his neighbor's service from his property. Mr. Alonzo asked for guidance on where the driveway
was. Upon closer examination the driveway could be discerned faintly on the drawing. There was no public
comment, for or against the petition.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: J. Marino
To approve the pole petition for 23 Round Road
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Frappier thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Review applications for Outdoor Seating and Outdoor Liquor Sales from:
Kindred Spirits (324 Electric Ave. #4)
Owner Rebecca Grifoni-Andrews explained the outdoor premises were located at the side of the building and
were also using up a couple of parking spots. Seven tables would be located there.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the application for extension of premises for Kindred Spirits
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Il Forno (494 Electric Avenue)
Owner Mike Mohammed stated there is a large tent outside adjacent to the building so we have easy access to
the kitchen. The tent is 30 x 60 feet, a good size to protect patrons from the elements and provide distance
between the tables. Mr. Jeffreys asked what is the difference between putting up a tent outside and having
patrons seated inside. Mr. Mohammed stated the tables inside the tent are six feet apart and fresh air is
circulating through it. We are all wearing masks and using sanitation products to meet CDC guidelines as well as
meeting needs for our patrons to keep everyone safe. The tent is only closed on one side to provide privacy for
the neighbors. There are twelve tables in the tent with an average of four customers per table. We are taking
reservations and names and contact information of who comes into the tent.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the application for extension of premises to Il Forno, 494 Electric Avenue
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mir. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Lakeview Club (449 Whalom Rd.)
Danielle Bettencourt stated she had an 18 x 26 foot area on the side of the building that was roped off. There are
six tables with four chairs each.
Mr. Jeffreys questioned the spacing between tables believing it was a tight area. Ms. Bettencourt offered to
widen the area. Mr. Jeffreys suggested doing 22 x 26 feet. Ms. Bettencourt agreed to do so.
===PAGE 3===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the weekday entertainment license for Il Forno
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Mohammed thanked the Board.
2nd: T. Dwyer
Resignation announcement: Dave Passios has resigned from the Board of Health effective June 25" due to
being elected to the Parks Commission.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Reorganization of the Board
Mr. Jeffreys nominated Mr. Alonzo as Chair and it was seconded by Mr. Dwyer.
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-abstain
Mr. Dwyer nominated Mr. Jeffreys as Vice Chair and it was seconded by Mr. Alonzo.
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- abstain, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo nominated Ms. Adams as Clerk and it was seconded by Mr. Jeffreys.
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo requested a list of board assignments for the next meeting agenda.
2. NoWoCo Virtual Pride Video Message Request
Mr. Alonzo stated this is a request from the No WoCo Pride of Fitchburg, to provide a video message from the
town for their virtual gay pride celebration. He opened it up for discussion.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he has been asked separately to submit a video as well. He believed someone or a group of
people representing the town. He did support the idea. Mr. Alonzo stated he was in support of the request. The
logistics of doing so were unclear however.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To work with PACC to create a video for NoWoCo
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Ms. Lemieux will contact Mr. Bovenzi about the video.
3. Town Manager Request for Vacation Carryover
Ms. Lemieux stated due to the Covid-19 pandemic since March she has been unable to take the remaining 4.5
days. So she is asking to either carry it over or have it paid out. After some discussion it was decided, the payout
was the better option.
Motion: J. Marino
2'd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the payout of vacation time to Ms. Lemieux
===PAGE 4===
weve past
Ms. Lemieux stated she did reach out to one colleague who works on a Diversity Task Force but has not heard
back yet, but will need to reach out to other communities.
Ms. Adams requested an update on the Town beach opening status and asked if we have taken steps to hire the
staff back. Ms. Lemieux reported all those positions were advertised and applications were received. We have just
not completed the process of hiring due to Covid-19. The decision will be made by the Parks Commission in July
whether the town beach will be opened. Discussion ensued about having staff ready if the beach opens.
5. Committee Reports- there were none.
OLD BUSINESS
1. FY21 Annual Appointments by Board of Selectmen & Town Manager (continued)
There was a correction to one term listed at the last meeting: Steve Walker's PACC appointment term should
be through June 30, 2023, not 2021 as listed.
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC)-term to expire June 30, 2023
Jeffrey Bajko- 14 Charlton Street
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To reappoint Jeffrey Batjko to the PACC and correct Mr. Walker's term to 2023
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-abstain, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATES
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 Alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 designprofessional; craftsperson or building contractor familiar
with historic renovation)
• Fence Viewers (vacancies)
• Finance Committee (2 positions appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Senior Tax Work Off Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The ZBA has a meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, June 24th at 7 p.m.
• The Finance Committee has a meeting via Zoom on Thursday, June 25th at 7 p.m.
===PAGE 5===
investigation of why this happened but some of it will not be revealed due to personnel issues. We are working to
make sure this doesn't happen again. Mr. Rodgers again requested that the Cemetery Commission have full
custody and control of the cemeteries and responsibility for the day to day operations.
Ms. Adams wished everyone a Happy Independence Day. Mr. Alonzo followed up with a cautionary statement
about shooting off illegal fireworks.
Motion: K. Adams
To adjourn the meeting at 8:36 p.m.
Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd.T.Dwyer
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peteson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
