===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chairman; Michael-Ray Jetfreys
Members not present: Damon McQuaid, Clerk and Katey Adams
Finance Committee Members present: Teri Burchfield, Chair; John Henshaw, Michelle
Walton, Dave Passios, Peter Beardmore, Jay Simeone
Also Present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux; Karen Brochu, Finance Director; Senator Dean
Tran, State Representative Stephan Hay; Mike Cassidy, Business Manager/HR Director for
Lunenburg Public Schools; Rebecca Lantry, Historical Commission Chair
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded
and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
The lown of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently tollowing
the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health
and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all
town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor's Order
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public
meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be broadcast live through local
access cable, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be
able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like
to participate in the meeting remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer,
please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or
From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174-
0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail
address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to
request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the "raise hand"
feature to request to speak.
Mr. Alonzo asked for a roll call attendance of the Board of Selectmen adding, "I am Tom
Alonzo, Chairman.
Mr. Jeffreys: "Here,"
Ms. Luck: "Here."
He stated Board member Katey Adams would not be attending this evening and Mr. McQuaid
could be joining the meeting at some point later.
===PAGE 2===
1 DUIU
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux reported Governor Baker announced he is extending the Stay At Home advisory,
the prohibition of gatherings of more than 10 people, and the closure of non-essential businesses
until May 18'h
!. As with previous orders, the closure of town facilities to the public will also be
extended until May 18" to fall in line with the Governor's Order.
APPOINTMENTS
Joint Meeting with the Finance Committee to meet with Representative Stephan Hay and
Senator Dean Tran including discussions on funding formula for Schools and Student
Opportunity Act and State Finances.
Ms. Lemieux reported this meeting was requested by the Finance Committee. Senator Tran
stated the Governor published his proposed budget in January for Chapter 70 at about $5.5
billion dollars. Right now we do not know how the legislature will react to the proposal. The
intent for now is we are in a holding pattern until we get past some obstacles. We are trying to
find a way for them to meet and vote in a formal session.
State Representative Hay concurred with Senator Tran in that everything right now is up in the
air. He believed the revenue projections are going to be different from what the Governor used
in his budget proposal in January. This could change once the House and Senate gets back
together and discusses the budget.
Peter Beardmore expressed thanks to both legislators for meeting with them. He did not belleve
anyone in lown expected the School Opportunity Act (SOA) would be a windfall but was driven
to improve education as a whole. But what we saw was the Governor's proposed budget back in
January and we know the proposed Chapter 70 numbers are formula driven. What was explained
to us at a Finance Committee meeting is the formula has been affected by the School
Opportunity Act. The formula increases for FY 21 were less than what they had been in the
previous years without the SOA; and without the reporting requirements etc. to even get that
money. So now we are getting less comparatively dollar for dollar and having to do more to
justify those funds. Another month went by and we met with the Monty Tech representatives and
we learned the formula had also adversely affected us. At that time we learned Lunenburg would
be paying double the increase, partially due to an enrollment increase.
Monty Tech informed us that was a small part of the increase but was mainly due to Lunenburg's
demographics. We are just expected to pay more largely as a result of this SOA. I feel like I
have been hoodwinked a little bit by this.
Discussion ensued on how to address the Governor's budget and reductions to it. Ms. Burchfield
asked if the Town should plan for a 10% reduction in state aid. Senator Tran could not answer
that as currently the numbers are fluid. Rep. Hay concurred with him.
Discussion ensued about how to plan the Town's budget based on limited information from the
State. Mr. Alonzo thanked the legislators for participating tonight.
===PAGE 3===
The Boards thanked her for doing so. The Finance Committee adjourned from their meeting.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Quarterly Update from Finance Director
Ms. Brochu stated she would read the memo and then answer any questions.
Below is my summary for thereports:
Revenues
Total collections to date are $33,388,925.48, or 78% of FY20 estimates through
3/31/20. Below is a summary of the individual categories:
• Local Receipts: We have collected $2,560,804.58 or 84% of the
FY20 Local Receipt estimate. There are several estimates that are
running over target at this time including Fees (79%), Fines &
Forfeits (124%) Other Excise/Meals Tax (118%), Motor Vehicle
Excise (87%), and Investment Income (120%). There are a tew
categories that are running below target at this time including
Departmental Revenue-Other (70%) and Departmental Revenue -
School (42%).
Taxes: At this time we have collected $21,296,585.69 (76%) of the
levy. This includes $202,760.81 in tax lien revenue.
• State Aid: We have received $6,766,279.96 (74%) of our state aid
estimate.
Expenditures
We have expended/encumbered $30,017,843.92 (70%) of budgeted expenditures as
of 3/31/20. Of note on the expenditure side is the following:
• Snow Removal - As of 3/31/20, there is a deficit in this account for
$98,307.36. This deficit can be eliminated prior to year-end via approved
transfers under M.G.L. c. 44, Section 338.
All other expenditures are at or near where they should be at this point in the fiscal
year. There are several appropriations that show percentages used of higher than 75%,
but that is largely due to the fact that many departments open blanket purchase orders
at the beginning of the fiscal year and use those purchase orders throughout the year.
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Brochu if she foresaw any problems with ending this fiscal year. Ms.
Brochu did not as we were so conservative with our local receipt estimates and overall on the
expenditure side we have appropriations that are sufficient for departments. She believed we
would meet our local receipts estimate and didn't anticipate any reductions in state aid. Mr.
Alonzo thanked Ms. Brochu for her report.
===PAGE 4===
economists and government journals. I believe the budget I am presenting is a conservative
approach and that our receipts are a conservative number as well as the surplus that we have as
excess levy capacity to fall back on as sufficient to address any decline in our state aid. I have
consulted with the Finance Director daily and we both concur that this recommendation is a
conservative estimate for our budget. Our local receipts are historically conservative allowing us
to not have to reduce them further from the FY20 figures. Our actuals are historically between 10
and 20 percent over the estimated receipts. We have made concerted efforts to build up our
stabilization accounts and this is a prime reason for tapping into those reserves if we need to at
the fall town meeting. That was also discussed by our legislators as an option. I went back and
reduced the new positions as well as the associated costs for them to the budget. The Lunenburg
public school budget was reduced from a 2.5% to a 1.58% budget and I cut the capital plan in
half as half of the funding was from tax revenues. We also reduced the additional pavement
management funding of $50,000. Our liability and workers' compensation actual renewal
premiums came in slightly less. After some other adjustments that would leave a surplus of
$982,156.32.
After again looking over the other accounts on the Town side, any further reductions with a few
minor exceptions would mean a reduction in services and staff. At the Finance Committee
meeting last Thursday it was asked if there was any expenditures from FY20 budget that would
be able to be paid and then be removed from the FY21 budget. Two items that may be possible
but may not be known until we have a Town Meeting in June, would be part of the Technology
budget and the expenditure in the Town Clerk budget for voting booths. If we have surplus funds
at the end of the year, we would be able to purchase those this year and defer that for FYi. Bul
possibility of reducing those at the fall town meeting. We have about $3 million in our
stabilization funds. We have made a concerted effort to increase these funds. This would be a
one-time expenditure in the fall to offset any further reduction in revenue sources.
She was encouraged by Senator Tran's and Representative Hay's positive comments this evening
about their priority to get as much local aid as possible and using the stabilization funds to
supplement the budget. They will be using earmark and federal funding to supplement the budget
as much as possible. She believed she were budgeting conservatively as they believed all cities
and towns should. Ms. Luck wanted to clarify regarding using stabilization there were two
differing opinions from each; one wanted to use it and the other did not.
Ms. Luck was concerned that Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) was not being eliminated
out of the budget adding the excuse was it would affect our bond rating but we got a letter that
clearly said not in this pandemic age. Ms. Lemieux stated that will be a discussion topic with the
Finance Committee on Thursday, regarding our financial policies. Ms. Luck stated she did not
believe the budget was conservative. Mr. Alonzo asked when we would appropriate to the OPEB
account. Ms. Lemieux stated the Finance Director could better answer that question but that
finding source is Free Cash not tax revenue, so we could defer it until a later date. But that Free
===PAGE 5===
for a one time expenditure.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he was satisfied with the changes. We roughly have a million dollar surplus if
needed. The other thing is if we need to access stabilization, we can. I think the answer you have
given is reasonable. I consider this to be a conservative budget. Mr. Alonzo believed this was a
very responsible budget under very uncertain times. The Town will have close to a million
dollars to allocate if needed.
Ms. Luck stated these are unprecedented times so looking at precedents is not helpful; I think we
need to be more conservative than we have in the past. Mr. Alonzo asked what number are you
looking for? Ms. Luck stated state aid and sales and meal taxes. They are going to be lower. She
found it hard to believe state aid would be level funded.
Ms. Lemieux in response to an earlier comment about taking guidance from the state, stated she
certainly would take guidance from the state, but they have not provided any. We have been
asking all along through this process. In regards to the previous Town Manager and the
percentage she used during 2010, we exceed that reduction if you apply what we have for a
surplus to our state aid number; an almost 11% reduction.
Mr. Jeffreys stated the real indicator he is waiting for is when taxes are due. Until we see what
comes in, that will be the beginning of the data of the impact on our Town. He appreciated Ms.
Lemieux's approach and supported her budget. There is a reasonable concern from teachers and
parents right now; teachers are working long hours. Parents are as well. This is not sustainable
and is difficult. How do we get to a point in the budget that we are saying to the residents that we
are giving you the best we can do? How are the schools planning on a typical curriculum for next
year or are they adjusting? Mr. Alonzo to Ms. Lemieux stated he assumed the Superintendent
and the School Committee have seen your adjusted budget and asked what their response was?
Ms. Lemieux stated they have provided me with scenarios and a budget. I already knew about
their critical staff position (SPED teacher) that they want funded, so this budget reflects inclusion
of that position as well as a Reading teacher, both at Turkey Hill Elementary. The school has
made continual adaptations to the current situation. Right now everything is geared to remote
learning. They are talking with state officials on what future education will look like.
It was noted the School Committee was meeting this week and they would also be attending the
Finance Committee this week to discuss their budget. Also at that meeting will be the Green
Community Task Force to discuss the led streetlight replacements or if not, the following week.
2. Review of Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles
The Board began with Historical Commission Chair Rebecca Lantry to discuss the Community
Preservation Act warrant article. Ms. Lantry reported the Historical Commission had met and she
also had the opportunity to speak with the MA Community Preservation Act Coalition. On the
coalition's recommendation they decided to go ahead with the warrant article but to request the
surcharge be reduced to 1 or 1.25%. There are still real estate transactions happening so the
===PAGE 6===
funds aside when we know we have to spend money on buildings or purchase land. We need to
start saving and have control on when we spend the money. It's going to cost the average person
around $45 per year since the percentage reduction to 1%.
Mr. Alonzo stated this is the voters' opportunity to make the decision. We are giving them the
opportunity to participate in a state program that is over a decade old and I trust that they will
vote what their individual circumstances are. This is one of the programs that actually brings in
additional money from what you put aside. It's not without its own reward. It's going to fund
specific things. He was completely for the program and confident that the townspeople would
vote what was in their interest as well as the Town's. We should get a vote with the whole Board
present. He appreciated Ms. Lantry coming back and told her she was more than welcome to
come back when the full board is present.
Discussion ensued about voting on these articles with a full board present. The next meeting will
be focused on the warrant articles and recommendations. Ms. Lemieux asked for any questions
on the warrant articles in advance of next week. Mr. Jeffreys preferred quickly reviewing them
tonight in case questions come up. Ms. Luck preferred to go over the simpler ones to save time.
When asked about the revolving funds article, Ms. Lemieux confirmed these were the same
amounts as last year.
Regarding funding the first year of the FY 20, FY 21 and FY 22 Police Officers Collective
Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2022 with IBPO Local 353, AFL-CIO, Ms.
Lemieux explained this was a required vote from last fall's Special Town Meeting and was
passed over based on legal counsel advice that because there was a zero appropriation it did not
need to be appropriated. However the vote was required since it was the first year appropriation.
Mr. Jeffrey's asked what amount would be appropriated. Ms. Lemieux stated $110,000 from
Free Cash. Ms. Luck repeated she would like to see the appropriation for OPEB removed from
the warrant.
Regarding the article that adds the positions of Videographer, Senior Videographer and Water
Safety Instructor to the Salary Administration Plan (SAP), Ms. Lemieux stated these are all
existing positions that are already in place and funded. The Parks Commission is meeting this
week to discuss the Water Safety Instructor position and plans for the Town beach this year.
Ms. Luck, regarding the article that reads: "To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate
or transfer from available funds the sum of $120,000 for the FY 2021 capital budget for the
Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise Fund"; it sounds like the money is
coming from the Town. Ms. Lemieux clarified the funding comes from PEG revenues in the
enterprise fund. It is written on anticipated receipts from cable fees and the wording is required.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the article, "To see if the Town will vote to secure estimates for
demolition of the old Primary School and a future design of the space. " There is no funding for
this so suggestion was made that when the full Board meets again to discuss deferring it until the
fall Town Meeting.
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Lemieux asked about the Finance Committee's suggestion to defer the remaining amount of
$664,800 for the Capital Plan until fall Town Meeting. Mr. Jeffreys asked for what items
remained. Ms. Lemieux read the following:
Revised
CIP#
Priority #
1 FM20-01
2 INFRA20-01
3 LPS16-19-C
4 PD19-01
5 FD17-05-B
6 FD16-20-A
7 PD20-01
8 FD20-01
9 PD16-18
10 LPS19-03-A
11 FM17-16A
Dept.
DPW
Highway
Schools
Police
Fire
Fire
Police
Fire
Police
Schools
DPW
Funding:
Project Name
Town Hall, ADA Ramp/Sidewalk
Flat Hill Culvert Design
THES Asbestos Abatement/Ceiling Replacement
Police Vehicle, 1 Marked New
SCBA Complement, Replacement (1/2)
ALS Equipment Phase 1
ACO Vehicle
Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3
Portable Radios
Design AC for Classrooms at Primary
Senior Center, Reconfigure Front Entrance
Total Capital Plan
Raise & appropriate
Free cash
Unexpended Capital
Premium Reserved for Capital
Total
Category
Facilities
Infrastructure
Facilities
Vehicle
Equipment
Equipment
Vehicle
Vehicle
Equipment
Planning
Facilites
Revised FY21 CP
for ATM
$22,000
$112,500
$123,500
$67,000
$115,000
$54,800
$26,000
$65,000
$45,000
$10,000
$24,000
$664,800
$664,800
$664,800
Mr. Jeffreys suggested keeping them as is. Ms. Luck preferred deferring some of the items. Ms.
Lemieux clarified she was looking for feedback on the overall bottom figure not the individual
projects and noted these are the Capital Planning Committee's recommendations. Ms. Luck
stated if that was the case, she would prefer to defer all of them. Mr. Jeffreys disagreed stating
the Town should not be postponing repairs that in his opinion are overdue. We have to maintain
our buildings.
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule; May 5, 12 and 19th.
===PAGE 8===
Motion: P. Luck
To adjourn the meeting at 8:40 p.m.
2nd: M. Jeffreys
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiie m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
