===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Damon McQuaid, Clerk; Katey Adams, Michael-Ray
Jeffreys
Not present: Phyllis Luck, Vice Chair
Also Present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Police Chief Marino, Fire Chief Sullivan and Town
Moderator Tim Murphy
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access channel/YouTube Live.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams thanked the Turkey Hill Garden Club for the beautiful garden in town center. She stated
someone had inquired about the status of the Town Hall weathervane and another person had
questioned how to get a motor vehicle excise tax refund. Ms. Lemieux stated the weathervane will
require a structural assessment before being put back up. Anyone wishing to communicate with the
Assessor's office can call the office directly.
Mr. Jeffreys stated, "I've been in reflection over the past couple of weeks. About what it is that we are
all doing. About what I'm doing. I'm frustrated. I'm angry. I'm trying to be hopeful but right now I
join the chorus that is fed up.
Although we say that America is a land of opportunity and that with hard work you can be whatever
you want to be — the reality is that too often economic opportunity is the privilege of being white. At
least 90% of Black people do not support the President of our country. Because all of us with brown
skin are trying to figure out that year we're trying to get back to, when America was great?
Was it in the 1800's when slavery was legal and when Jim Crow ruled supreme? Was it before 1955,
when separate but equal was the law of the land? Was it in 1968, at the height of the Civil Right
Movement? Was it in the 1970's and 1980's when crime rates were through the roof, when opioids
were ravaging Black communities, and when the government responded by accelerating the mass
incarceration of Black people and militarizing police? We all want America to be great. But when you
add the word again,"
you very specifically change your audience and it stops being about all of us
working together for a common good, and starts being about some of you.
This is the backdrop we all live under. For Black ears, Make America Great Again, is racist. And it's
not something anyone with brown skin would ever say. We can say, all lives matter. Because they do.
But we have to stop dismissing the cries, the screams, and too often the whimpers from those who feel
like society is on their neck-as we plead for our Black Lives to Matter Too. My grandfathers asked.
a thers acovid-19
My father hoped. And now I demand for Black lives to matter. Black people are dying from Covid-19
at 2 1/2 times the rate of white people. And generally, Black Americans are twice as likely as white
Americans to die from a treatable disease. White families have 7 times the wealth of Black families,
and unemployment is double the rate for African Americans as it is for Caucasians. And if you are a
poor black child, it's almost a guarantee that you will be in a school district where at least half of the
students are also from poor families. And half the time more than 75% of the other students are from
poor or low-income homes. And to quantify that, since the poverty line is an absurd measurement-a
family of four making $31,000 a year isn't considered to be in poverty. By the time a Black male is 23,
there is a 50% chance he will have been arrested.
===PAGE 2===
people and especially Black men. And as I think of my nephews, my cousins, and my husband-we all
share the common awareness that even in the comfort of our own homes, our skin color can get us
How much melanin your skin produces has no impact on your mental faculties and nearly every
American wants the same thing-to live in a free and just society and to have a fulfilling and rewarding
life in which our achievements and successes are directly related to our efforts. But there are
structures that sculpt and limit access. No one alive today created these systems. But there's no
denying that the poor stay poor, the rich stay rich, and black mobility is a unicorn only some of us ever
So these global protests are against every executive, whether Board or Body, who know people suffer
injustice because they are born brown, and who, aside from feeling badly, do nothing.
Our fellow citizens are demanding we stop anticipating violence when Brown people walk, run, or
jog down the street. Because when police and others are quick to pull out their guns, brown people
die. And when we hear that a protest is planned, we need to stop focusing on law and order and put
our energy toward having a conversation on how to resolve the problem that is pulling people out of
their homes to protest.
I understand that here in the Commonwealth, police are trained well. And here in our town, under the
excellent leadership of our Chief of Police, our officers are professionals focused on deescalating
situations, not perpetuating violence. If these protests come to our town and if people take to the
streets, we will not create barriers and throw tear gas at unarmed and unprovoked civilians. Our police
are not part of this problem and are here to be part of the solution. As a Black man, I have full faith
and confidence in the officers who serve our community.
I'm calling for a consortium. We need to gather, with the community leaders in our surrounding towns
and cities, and talk about race and what we can do to resolve local racial disparities and racial
injustice. In the words of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice
everywhere." It's no longer good enough to say I'm not racist. We all must be anti-racist to help heal
these wounds, to listen to one another, and move our communities and country forward."
Mr. McQuaid thanked Mr. Jeffreys for his eloquent thoughts on the current situation. He stated he went
to vote today and witnessed professionalism in the poll setup by the Town Clerk.
Police Chief Marino concerning the May 25"h death of George Floyd at the hands of a Minneapolis, MN
police officer, stated that the Lunenburg Police Department denounces the reprehensible act, or failure
to act of those four police officers.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who helped put together the virtual Memorial Day program. He
announced this Friday is National Donut Day and the Salvation Army is commemorating the service of
the donut lassies during the war and the history behind it. They are also recognizing all the professionals
working during the pandemic at three locations: Leominster Hospital (8-9 AM), Fitchburg City Hall
(9:30-10:30 AM) and in Lunenburg on School Street (11:00 - Noon).
He announced the passing of Bill Desaulnier or Bill the Barber as he was known for many years. Also,
Doctor lom Mulholland, a long-time resident and noted psychologist, who was an avid fan of the public
library.
George Martin, 522 Burrage Street, thanked Mr. Jeffreys and Chief Marino for their comments. He had
sent an earlier email out about problems he had with the trash pickup. For the past three weeks the
trucks coming down the street is leaking an unknown fluid and broken glass at every stop along the
street.
===PAGE 3===
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Sign 994 Northfield Road Conservation Restriction
Attorney Robert Bowen, 686 Mass Ave., representing Settlers Solar LLC, was here for the BOS to sign
the conservation restriction easement document for 994 Northfield Road.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: D.
McQuaid
To approve the conservation restriction access easement as presented contingent on the
execution of the subordination agreement and the conservation restriction access easement
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
I. OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Plan for Safety Precautions for the Annual Town Meeting
Ms. Lemieux reported the pertinent staff/officials met and reviewed all the following:
This safety plan includes maintaining social distancing procedures during entry, a seating plan,
use of the microphones for voters to ask questions, hand count voting instead of voice voting, and
social distancing while exiting town meeting.
Attendance
• If you are sick- stay home. If you are exhibiting a fever, cough, shortness of breath, chills, muscle
pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell - stay home. If you have been exposed to
someone with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 or have been told to isolate or quarantine- stay
home.
•
No hugging or hand shaking should occur.
• Attendees will not be allowed to congregate before, during, or after the town meeting.
•
All attendees must wear face coverings before, during and when exiting the building. The only
exceptions are when a person is unable to wear a face covering or mask because of a medical or
other disabling condition.
Anyone that does not have a face mask will be provided one. Those not wearing face masks will enter the
auditorium through a separate entrance and will be seated in a separate area in the auditorium.
Social Distancing Procedures
Entering and Exiting the MS/HS:
Every effort will be made to ensure the orderly arrival and exiting of individuals attending
the town meeting in a manner that adheres to social distancing guidelines.
• The Town Moderator will announce how people can safely exit in an orderly fashion to maintain
social distancing during their departure. Police officers will be present to assist in attendees
safely exiting the building maintaining six foot distances.
Check-in Procedures
• Check-in will begin at 8 AM. All attendees will enter at the main entrance of the Middle/High
School. Check-in will be outside the main entry, weather permitting, and if inclement weather
requires check-in to be inside, the check-in stations will be placed outside the auditorium in
large, open spaced area and social distancing will be enforced during this process.
===PAGE 4===
• Police Officers will be assigned to assist with the check-in process. One Police Officer will offer
masks to anyone in the check-in line without a mask. If the attendee indicates a medical
condition or disabling condition, a Police Officer will direct them from the check-in table to the
separate entrance to the auditorium for non-masked attendees to the separate seating area for
non-masked attendees.
•
The Registration Workers checking in attendees will use personal protective equipment
including masks, gloves, and face shields. They will supply attendees a copy of the warrant if
the attendee did not bring the copy that was mailed to them and a pre-stapled packet of any
handouts.
• At the time of check-in, voters will be given their voting card that they will need to keep as they
will not be issued a second one.
• Voters not wearing a face mask will be directed to enter the auditorium through the opposite
side of the auditorium and will be seated in a separate seating area than those wearing masks.
Discussion ensued about couples and family groups who want to sit together and how to address that
situation, how to exit the auditorium if an emergency arises during the meeting and having a health
official present to answer questions during town meeting as well as having face masks available for
those who do not have one.
Mr. Murphy noted he had asked Rose Beardmore to sing the national anthem before the meeting.
Speaking at the Microphone
• There will be two microphones for voters to use in front of the stage on opposite sides of the
Finance Committee table observing the 6 foot rule. (Measurements were taken to ensure that the
mics were six feet away from the front row and the finance committee table.)
• Microphones will be positioned at 5 feet high to minimize any adjustments. If a voter needs the
microphone to be adjusted, a public access employee will be available to make the adiustment so
the microphone is only touched by one person.
• The aisles that voters will get in line to speak at the microphone will be set up with spaced
markings on the floor in 6 feet intervals and two seats on either side of the aisle will be left
vacant to allow social distancing.
After a voter speaks at the microphone, they will be directed to exit to the right of the stage to get
back to their seat. This will ensure attendees are not passing each other in the aisles.
Face Coverings
• All attendees must wear face coverings before, during and after the town meeting. The only
exceptions are when a person is unable to wear a face covering or mask because of a medical or
other disabling condition.
Any person who refuses to wear a face covering or mask without a valid justification may be
denied entry. (Note: This line will be changed to say anyone who chooses not wear a face
mask will be directed to a separate seating area.
Seating
• Police Officers will be present to usher attendees to permitted seating areas and direct non-
masked attendees to the separate seating area.
===PAGE 5===
the front from the second row working towards the rear.
• Guests will be seated to the left lower seating area, facing the stage.
• Overflow seating and audio will be set up in the gymnasium in the event additional
seating is needed. Those seats will be spaced in 6 foot intervals to maintain social
distancing.
Voting
• There will be no voice votes during the town meeting. When the Town Moderator calls for a
vote, all registered voters will vote by raising their hands holding the voting card they received
during the check-in process, either in favor or opposed to the motion on the floor for each article.
Pre. During and Post Protocols
• The MS/HS Auditorium has maintained a regular cleaning schedule even through closure.
The Auditorium will be cleaned prior to the town meeting and will include a focus high
touch surfaces (e.g. bathrooms, microphones, door knobs).
• The restrooms will be cleaned every 30 minutes throughout the town meeting and will focus
on high touch areas.
• Attendees will not be allowed to congregate before, during, or after the town meeting.
• There will not be any food or drink for sale and no food or drink, other than water, is
allowed in the auditorium.
• Hand sanitizer stations will be set up in advance of the check-in area and at tables as voters
enter into the auditorium.
• No hugging or hand shaking should occur.
• Presentations during town meeting will be kept as short as possible.
A question was asked about air flow in the building regarding the transmission of the virus and the need
for some people to eat due to health conditions. Dave Passions, 56 Whiting Street, asked about how the
Finance Committee members would be seated. See notes above.
Signage was suggested for the key points of the above plan. Ms. Lemieux recapped the changes to the
plan.
2. FY 2021 Budget- Ms. Lemieux reported there were no changes to the budget since the last
meeting.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
2. Conducting the Pledge of Allegiance in Zoom Meetings
Ms. Adams thought this was a nice way to start the meeting. Mr. McQuaid stated if everyone talks at
once it will be a jumbled mess. He suggested Ms. Adams recite it. Mr. Jeffreys had no objections as he
has served out country, but thought it would be different thing when you are sitting at home and there is
no common flag where you are. So he was in favor of Ms. Adams reciting it for all. Mr. Alonzo stated
he was not a proponent of it at meetings, it is just something else to do. But if someone wants to vote on
it he would not stand in the way.
===PAGE 6===
To approve the awarding of the bid of $35,000 for the 17 & 23 West Street properties
Vote: Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Jetfreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
4. Advertisement of How to do a Write-In/Sticker Campaign and Announcement of Write-in
Candidates
Mr. Alonzo stated this came up as a result of the Town caucus not being held and a limited amount of
people being able to take out nomination papers. Ms. Lemieux stated she had compiled a list of
candidates that was in the Board meeting packet. Those names could be read aloud so people know who
is running, but this item had originated from discussion by the board members. Mr. Alonzo cautioned
about the Town appearing to promote certain individuals as it is not an official ballot. The candidates
need to promote themselves and get people to write in their names. Discussion ensued about whether to
announce any of the candidates and the need to fill these unfilled positions in order to keep the Town
government going. It was suggested to consult with Town counsel and provide a general document on
the process of running a write-in campaign.
5. FY20 CARES Act Reimbursement Request
Ms. Lemieux stated, as previously reported the State provided the total amount that each town is
eligibleto receive and Lunenburg'stotal eligible amount for FY20 and FY21 is $1,027,771. The first
round of submitting for CARES Act funding for FY20, bothalready spent and anticipated forremainder
ofFY20, is Friday, June 5th. The Finance Director is compiling all the eligible expenses (roughly in the
range of $140,000) that have been expended by all the departments and anticipated forthe remainder
ofthe year. The recommendation isto vote to approve proceeding with a reimbursement request for
FY20 CARES Act eligible expenses.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2'°: M. Jeffreys
To approve proceeding with a reimbursement request for FY20 CARES Act eligible expenses
Vote: Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
6. Letter of Support for Regional Proposal for CDBG-CV Grant Application
Ms. Lemieux stated last week she was contacted by the Director of MRC to see if we were interested
in participating in a regional Community Development Block Grant funds. Specifically through the
CARES Act there are finds for such things as microenterprise assistance for businesses, grant funds that
would be up to $10,000 for small businesses and assistance to food banks. She has reached out to the
Lunenburg Business Association but has not heard back from yet. She reached out the Lions' Club, the
Council on Aging for their Meals on Wheels program, the School Superintendent for their Food
Insecurity program and the Salvation Army, and received positive responses. The Lions Club is not in
need right now but the other three entities would be in favor of any kind of assistance. The lead
community is Shirley. Other towns interested in participating are Westminster, Royalston, Ashby,
Petersham and Townsend. She was requesting a letter of support that could be signed off by the BOS
Chairman.
===PAGE 7===
• Approval of Warrants
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week:
• Warrant #59 20; Accounts Payable - 5/26/2020 - $2,060,796.58;
• Warrant #60 20 - Deductions - 5/27/20 - $200,879.55;
• Warrant #24P20 - Payroll - 5/28/2020 - $837,282.11
9. Action Items:
Mr. McQuaid asked about the recent Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission advisory regarding extension
of premises for restaurants with on-premises alcohol licenses temporarily. Ms. Lemieux stated this would be
on next week's agenda. Ms. Lemieux stated four restaurants have already inquired with Executive Assistant
Peterson and she had asked her to contact all the pertinent restaurants to gauge interest. If the Phase 2
reopening occurs, the businesses will be able to reopen effective June 8" pending approval from the Board of
Selectmen.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the status of the Town fuel tanks with the Conservation Commission. Ms. Lemieux
will check in with them after their meeting tomorrow night. Mr. Jeffreys asked about the legislature review
of the Town charter. Ms. Lemieux will have to check on that status.
10. Committee Reports- there were none.
TOWN MANAGER COVID-19 AND REGULAR REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 designprofessional; craftspersonor building contractor familiar
with historic renovation)
Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
Municipal Vulnerability PreparednessPlanning Grant:
The Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness Workshopwas heldvia Zoomon Thursday, May 21stand the consultant did an
excellent job of walking the participants through the exercises to identify Lunenburg's vulnerabilities and actionsthat
wouldaddressthesehighpriority vulnerabilities. Thenext step in the process is to have a listening session that will be
conducted by the consultant with the findings from the Workshop and receive any feedback and input at that session as well.
The proposed date for the listening session will be the Selectmen's Meeting on Tuesday, June 16th.
===PAGE 8===
dre curleny ong worked on.
DPW Director: The DPW Director reported he will be receiving the detour for the Pleasant Street Bridge project within a
couple of weeks and will circulate that with the public safety departments and school first, then it will be advertised, and
all the abutters will be contacted. This project is expected to go out to bid through MassDOT in the next month and once
awarded the project will likely last into the fall.
Library Director: The Library staff has been working remotely and is currently gearing up for doing curbside checkout for
books. Returned items will be quarantined for 3 days in the community room.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Devens Household Hazardous Waste: The Center is reopening on June 3rd and June 6th; there are updated
procedures to adhere to social distancing, hygiene measures, and other safety protocols.
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, June 3rd at 7:00 p.m.;
• The School Committee is meeting via Zoom on Wednesday, June 3rd and I will be attending the Executive Session
portion of their meeting;
• TheParks Commission is meeting via Zoom this Thursday, June 4th at 5 p.m. and I will be attending theirmeetingto
discuss thereopening procedures needed forthe Town Beach
• TheTCP Building Design Committee is meeting via Zoom on Monday, June 8th at 6 p.m. and I will be attending their
meeting to receive an update from DiGiorgio Architects.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update dated May 29th and it will be put on the COVID-19 Information Center page
on the town website under News & Announcements on the homepage. As of May 30th, there are 63 confirmed positive cases
in Lunenburg and one death.
Re-opening of Town/School Playgrounds, School Fields, and Town Beach:
All school buildings will be closed for the remainder of the school year but the School has made the following
announcements about re-opening fields and tennis courts:
•
Tennis courts will be open to singles play only.
The Track and Turf Field will be open during Phase 2;
•
•
School playgrounds and basketball courts will open during phase 2;
Grass fields will be closed as the School typically keeps them closed in the summer for over seeding and to allow the
field to recover from heavy use in the fall.
The Parks Commission is meeting Thursday June 4" to discuss what is entailed for reopening the Town Beach. Playgrounds
and the basketball court will follow the State's guidance that will be issued shortly on reopening procedures during Phase 2.
===PAGE 9===
and other safety measures as we slowly re-open to the public.
UPDATES RECEIVED FROM THE STATE AND FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 5/29/20):
As of May 29th there are 95,512 COVID-19 cases and 6,718 deaths 571,745 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
VIII. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule.
• June 9, June 16, June 23
Annual Town Meeting June 13, 2020
• Annual Town Election June 20, 2020
IX. PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, spoke on the unkempt conditions at the North and South cemeteries over
Memorial Day weekend.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Passios for his comments this evening.
Mr. Alonzo stated all of us are anxious after watching the events going on in the nation this past week. He
stated there are just tears that nobody mends in the country. It's important to know what you stand for and
what you don't. I am for the right to protest for a cause and against those who use those opportunities to sow
seeds of chaos and anarchy. I am in support of people fighting for the equality that they are promised that were
written into our founding documents and against people who wish to exert supremacy. I am for people fighting
for their human rights and I am against violence and the abuse of power on any side. I am for people fighting
against oppression and I am against domination. I am for people fighting injustice and against people who are
intolerant.
Bookending Mr. Jeffreys' opening comments I have the same powerful quote, "Injustice anywhere is certainly
a threat to justice everywhere." He hoped everybody out there can maintain peace and make a point and fend
off those minor factions. I hoped we were better than all of this.
Motion: K. Adams
To adjourn the meeting at 9:21 PM
Vote: Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2": D. McQuaid
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
