===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Jeffreys
Member not present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Ms. Luck announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised
this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. with the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Luck reminded all of the Lions Club Pancake breakfast tomorrow morning at Eagle House Senior
Center. She also reminded all income eligible seniors of the opportunity under the Senior Tax Workoff
Program to reduce your property tax bill by up to $1500.00 annually. Contact the Senior Center for
forms and more information.
Ms. Lemieux announced the Town Clerk office has informed that the 2020 census forms have been
mailed to all resdients and need to be returned. Failure to return the census could result in your name
being removed from the voter list for the November election. The last day to register to vote or change
party affiliation for the March 2020 election is February 12, by 8:00 p.m. The Town Clerk office will be
open until 8:00 pm on the 12th.
. Dog licenses are due by April 1 and the forms will be available after
February 14th. If you need more information, call their office at 978-582-4131.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting St., expressed frustration regarding the process to certify the Town Charter
changes. We have elections coming up in May and two more Parks Commission slots and these willnot
be filled in time if the charter is not approved by then.
APPOINTMENTS
Change of Manager to Diego Comesana for Alcohol License 0016-PK-0636, Victory Distribitors,
LLC d/b/a Hannaford's Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388, 333 Massachusetts Ave.
Mr. Comesana was present for the hearing. Mr. Jeffreys stated he would miss Ms. Moore, the outgoing
manager and will miss her. Question was asked about Mr. Comesana's spelling of his last name. A
corrected license will be reprinted for BOS signatures later. Ms. Luck asked about purchasing alcohol at
the self-checkout. Discussion ensued about the process and Mr. Comesana will follow-up on the
checking of identifications for purchases.
Motion: K. Adams
To approve the change of manager to Deigo Comesana at Hannaford's Supermarket and
Pharmacy #8388
2nd: D.McQuaid
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
===PAGE 2===
Selectmen until the next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 regular member and 2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
925 Mass Ave Update (TM Goal #1, i, ii, ill):
Last month we submitted a Brownfields Nomination Form to Montachusett Regional Planning Commission to
apply for funding for Phase II site assessmentcosts. I will be attending the Montachusett Brownfields Group
meeting at MRPC tomorrow where they will review ourrequest and decide on funding the submitted
applications.
Planning and Project Grant Requests to MA Office on Disability:
I received notification this week that we did not receive the Planning or Project Grant requests submitted to
the MA Office on Disability to finalize our ADA Self Evaluation and Transition Plan or the accessibility
improvementsto the North Cemetery. Ms. Lemieux reported right now there is another round of DLTA
funding through the MRPC so she planned on submitting the remainder of the planning piece under that
program.
Chapter 90 Supplemental Budget Apportionment:
Wereceived notification that as part of the recent approval by the Legislature for a supplemental budget forFY20,
we willreceivean additional $41,465 in Chapter 90 funding forroad projects. This brings our FY20 apportionment
to $456,114.
Upcoming Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Tattended the Capital Planning Committee meeting today and willbeattending the TCP Building Design
Committee meeting tomorrow evening, and the Finance Committee meeting on Thursday.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the status of the DPW fuel tanks. Ms. Lemieux reported we have received proposals
on replacing them and are waiting for additional information on one of the proposals.
Ms. Adams asked about having a hazardous assessment performed on the old Primary School building.
Discussion ensued on the logistics of funding the assessment. Dave Passios suggested getting an estimate of
what it would cost.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote to open the Annual Town Meeting warrant on January 14thh and close the warrant on
March 16 at 4 p.m.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd. M. Jeffreys
To open the Annual Town Meeting warrant on January 14, 2020 and close the warrant at
4:00 p.m. on Monday, March 16, 2020
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Jeffreys reported he may be late next week because he is attending the Sewer Commission meeting
the same night on a personal matter regarding sewer access for his property.
Ms. Luck will be attending a meeting at the Doyle Center in Leominster this Thursday for a
presentation by Melissa Cryan of the Division of Conservation Services. DCS offers grants to
municipalities and nonprofit organizations for the acquisition of conservation and parkland, as well as
for park renovation and development. DCS also reviews Conservation Restrictions (CR), administers the
Conservation Land Tax Credit (CLTC) Program, and supports Conservation Districts. There will be a
question and answer period and a networking session on their grant programs, open space and
recreational planning for small towns in Massachusetts.
She will also be attending the MART meeting on the 14", the Central Mass Regional Stormwater
Coalition meeting on the 15th
', the Montachusett Planning Organization at 1 pm on January 22n and the
Storm Water Task Force meets again on January 23rd
UPCOMING MEETINGS
The Board meets again on January 14 and 21 this month. The meeting on January 28'" will be the public
forum regarding any more questions on the budget.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the status of the dangerous dogs hearing. The appeal is scheduled for January
. Mr. Jeffreys noted the traffic was backed up coming off Route 70 onto Leominster-Shirley Road. It
was very bad the other night.
Ms. Adams asked about any news from the state about the intersection of Mass Ave and Electric Ave.
There was none at this time. Ms. Adams informed that a tree had come down in the Townsend area near
where Unitil had cut the trees/brush on the street from the ground up, so noted that power outages will
happen no matter what you try to do to prevent them.
Motion: D. McQuaid
To adjourn the meeting at 7:34 p.m.
2nd: K. Adams
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
