===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Phyllis Luck, Vice Chairman; Damon McQuaid,
Clerk; Katey Adams, Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Also Present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux; Rebecca Lantry, Historical Commission Chair
The meeting commenced at 7:00 p.m. Mr. Alonzo announced this was the April 21st Board of
Selectmen meeting. In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel
and also being recorded as a zoom meeting.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the
guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and
the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town
tacilities are currently closed to the public.
In accordance with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting
Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be
broadcast live through local access cable, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be
able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to
participate in the meeting remotely:
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting
webinar: https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-
4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174-0347 #
Mr. Alonzo stated he would do a roll call to confirm that all persons anticipated on the agenda
are present and can hear me. When I call your name, please respond in the affirmative and then
state your name."
Mr. Alonzo stated, "I as the Chair am here."
Mr. McQuaid-"Here"
Ms. Adams-"Here,"
Mr. Jeffreys - "Here,"
Ms. Luck: "Here,"
Town Manager Heather Lemieux-"Here."
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. McQuaid stated he would only be joining the meeting for the public comment this evening.
As his wife tested positive for the Covid -19 virus on Saturday. She is self-quarantined in their
bedroom and he is taking care of their two children. She is doing fine and has had mild
symptoms so far. She would never have been tested if not for 10 other nurses where she works
being out sick, she hasn't had a fever at all and a low temperature. Mr. Alonzo asked him to give
her their best and for all to stay safe. If you need anything, you know how to reach us.
===PAGE 2===
not representative of our values as a town. I certainly do not get that vibe. I want to remind that
all of us need to be vigilant that in these difficult times when we are all going through pretty
equal things, that evil is right around the corner. So be mindful of that and continue to pray for
one another's strength and resilience during these difficult times. Stay focused on what matters,
which is all the people around us and that we love, because no matter what our skin color may
be, we all possess the same capabilities to love and want to be loved.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, in regards to a vote that the BOS took at their last meeting,
waiving late fees and interest on tax bills due on May 1. He believed it would have been more
appropriate to vote to change the due date to June 1st. Many people who are out of work now,
will most likely still be out of work on June 1" and maybe even July 1st. Many are going to have
trouble covering their tax bill even on the 29th of May.
Ms. Lemieux noted that the BOS voted to waive the late fees and interest through the 29th of
June and that is according to the Departmentof Revenue guidelines.
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, thanked Mr. Jeffreys for bringing up concerns about the proposed
location of the new fueling station at DPW during last week's BOS meeting. Although I am a
current member of the Conservation Commission and participated in last week's hearing on the
Request for Determination for this work, I am speaking tonight as a very concerned citizen.
My concerns lie in two key areas: The risks of this new facility being located within the
protected area of the Mulpus Brook and putting Hickory Hills in harm's way and the impact on
the schedule and cost of this project due to this choice of location.
When the Town voted to approve funding this project, the clear expectation was that the new
fueling area would be moved outside of the protected 200 foot riverfront area. It was therefore
quite a surprise to myself and others close to the process that the proposal submitted to
Conservation last week was for the tanks to be located in basically the same location as the
current ones, a little over 100 ft. from the Mulpus.
Given the sensitivity of the location being proposed by the DPW, the Conservation Commission
voted 6-1 that a Notice of Intent would be required. This is consistent with past applications such
as the new Unitil building and gas station on Electric Ave., both dealing with hazardous
materials adjacent to wetlands. In those cases there was less risk than this fueling station next to
the Mulpus. The Mulpus is an environmentally sensitive cold water fishery that empties into
Hickory Hills one and a half miles downstream. After the Conservation hearing, the DPW
Director sent an email to the Commission. In it he noted two key concerns with the decision to
require an NOI; first the impact to schedule and second the impact to cost. I fully agree with the
Director's assessment, putting this facility within the riverfront protected area will increase the
time and cost to the project. Our permitting process needs to be as rigorous, uniform, and provide
similar or better safeguards as was required for Unitil and the gas station. We, the Town, need to
hold ourselves to the same high environmental standards that we require of all other applicants.
The reality is, placing this fueling station within the riverfront and following the proper NOI
===PAGE 3===
this fueling station within the Mulpus riverfront protected area?
I firmly believe the answer is that we do not have to incur these delays, costs or risks. There has
to be another equally and perhaps more advantageous location on the DPW site that this fueling
station can be located that is outside the riverfront. For instance, there is a flat area at the
southwest corner of the lot that has about 3 times the area proposed, it is outside of the riverfront
and is currently only used for storage of 12 junk cars, a pile of 30 old TV's and various other
items that can be disposed of, or moved. When the engineer representing this project was asked
by the Conservation Commission if there were any alternate location on the site, he
acknowledged that he did not know as this had not been considered. It appears that there has
been no real, professional attempt to find an alternate location outside of the riverfront.
In summary, I am requesting the BOS and Town Manager to take the time and effort to become
educated on all of the issues surrounding this project, require a professional assessment of
alternate locations, get all stake holders' input and come to your own conclusions on what is
truly best for the Town. Of course do this in advance of investing more time and money into the
costly process of an NOI is based on this highly undesirable location of this fueling station.
There were no announcements at this time.
APPOINTMENTS
American Cancer Society-Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride Request- August 22, 2020
Mr. Alonzo stated the original date of June 14" had been changed to August 22n° due to the state
of emergency. He read aloud the request from Mark Walter:
"I'm once again working with the American Cancer Society to help coordinate the annual Bicycles Battling Cancer
ride which takes place this year on Sunday, June 14, 2020 and I'm writing to ask for your approval for this charity
ride to come through Lunenburg. The selectmen and chief have approved the ride in the past and we would
appreciate your continued support.
Before getting into the details of the ride (below), I wanted you to know that I recognize the coronavirus has
taken us into unchartered waters and the cancellation of events and public gatherings has been a prudent
decision under these circumstances (I had to cancel an event I manage that was scheduled for this past
Sunday). Hopefully, the situation is under control when our charity ride comes around 3 months from now, but
if it is not I understand an approval of our ride given now could be rescinded later if necessary in the interest of
public health and safety. Bicycles Battling Cancer is an outdoor cycling fundraiser that offers 30, 50, 70, and
100 mile route options to cyclists. The ride starts and ends in Marlborough, MA. This is not a race and cyclists
will be told to obey the rules of the road and ride single file. The ride utilizes about 2 miles of Lunenburg roads
which are miles 16-18 of the 50, 70 and 100 mile rides (the first 25 miles of these routes are the same; the 30
mile ride does not enter Lunenburg). We are expecting about 200-250 cyclists in these rides and I expect they
will be coming through town 8:00am-9:15am. You can see the complete 100 mile route
here: https://ridewithgps.com/routes/26476575. For convenience | have attached a map that shows just the
Lunenburg roads utilized for the event.
===PAGE 4===
atmosphere that would preclude us from having this.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: P. Luck
To approve the August 22nd Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride as long as the state of
emergency has been lifted and there are no further health and safety concerns
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated they are already advertising this and asked what kind of
support they are looking for from the Town. Mr. Alonzo stated he did not think were even
asking for a police detail, they are marking the route ahead of time for the riders. Mr.
Jeffreys asked if the Saturday date might be a problem as the event usually was held on a
Sunday. Mr. Alonzo did not believe so as the route in town is only a couple of miles.
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- abstain, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Meeting with Rebecca Lantry of Historical Commission re: Article and Ballot Question to
Adopt Community Preservation Act
Mr. Alonzo informed Ms. Lantry that there were questions from the BOS members last week
regarding the CPA Act.
Ms. Lemieux directed the BOS to an informational guideline release from the Division of Local
Services outlining the timeline for a town meeting and ballot vote. Town Meeting comes first
and determines the wording for the ballot vote. We cannot have a ballot vote at the Annual Town
Election for this question because there has to be a minimum of 35 days prior to the ballot vote
following the Town meeting. The next available election would be the fall state election. The
state needs 60 day notice for the ballot wording.
Mr. Alonzo stated there were concerns expressed by other BOS members as to the timing of the
warrant article due to the economic state caused by the pandemic.
Ms. Luck had submitted four questions and Mr. Alonzo read them aloud for the meeting
viewers:
1. What is the cost impact of this "surcharge", when including the $100k deduction from value, on the
owner of an "average" valued home in Lunenburg?
The average residential home value in Lunenburg is $332,447 and with $100k exemption and 3%
surcharge, and current tax rate the surcharge would be $126.35.
a. What is the cost impact on the owner of a home valued at 1/2 the average? ($166,223 value, minus
$100K, divided by 1,000, multiplied by 18.12, multiplied by.03 = $35.99)
b. What is the cost impact on the owner of a home valued at twice the average? ($664,894 value, minus
$100K, divided by 1,000, multiplied by 18.12, multiplied by.03 = $307.07)
c. What is the cost impact on the owner of a home valued at 3x the average? ($997,341 value, minus
$100K, divided by 1,000, multiplied by 18.12, multiplied by.03 = $487.79)
===PAGE 5===
precisely since several decile "3" communities have received less than 100% and one decile "4".
", Whately,
has received 100% in more than 1 year.
It based upon population of the community. Smaller towns would receive 100% match if they go for
maximum of 3%.
4. Based on the answer to question 3, what drives the statement that "Lunenburg will receive 100%
reimbursement"?
This is based on the maximum 3% and the size of our community.
Mr. Alonzo noted this is a guideline, there is no guarantee on the funding allotment. Mr. Jeffreys
thanked Ms. Lantry and Ms. Lemieux for the information. He asked about commercial property
being exempted. What do most towns handle that? Ms. Lantry stated it is up to Town Meeting to
determine whether commercial. Do we want to give them that option or do we want them to
share the burden equally? There is opportunity to do this at Town Meeting
Mr. Jeffreys asked what she would prefer. Ms. Lantry did not want to comment. Mr. Jeffreys
noted unemployment is projected to be on the increase going into the summer and asked if she
had any updates on the question he asked her about the value of the CPA to homeowners. Ms.
Lantry stated she had not had a chance to research that due to an educational commitment and
will try to get that information to him via email.
He asked her if it is denied this year do you think would people vote in favor of it in the future
and do you think we should postpone this until next year due to the economic climate.
Ms. Lantry stated it's difficult, when we started this it was due to many things that we could not
find the funding for. Whether it is to stabilize a building that is breaking down due to demolition
by neglect or to assure a senior can stay in their home because they need a wheelchair access and
they can't afford it this seemed like found money and we should get after it. We could go to as
little as .5% just to get on board and raise the limit later. We have already done stuff that we
could have paid half as much for. We just should do it.
Ms. Adams stated with so much uncertainty she felt it was a hard time for people to digest and
understand this. So many people are going to be asking for help. We can present them in a time
when we have a better understanding for what is happening. Ms. Lantry stated it also funds
housing assistance, it's percentages going to different options. It does offer people assistance in
these crazy times.
Ms. Luck agreed with Ms. Adams that we are experiencing a period we haven't seen in over a
hundred years and felt it was not the time.
Ms. Lantry asked Ms. Lemieux in the timeframe for the fall election, where does the fall town
meeting lie and would that be in the 60 day category? Ms. Lemieux stated mid-November, after
the state election so it would have to be at the 2021 annual town election. Mr. Jeffreys asked for
a recommendation from Ms. Lemieux. She did not have one and appreciated all the work that
===PAGE 6===
warrant goes to print. Mr. Alonzo stated the BOS would be meeting again next week but they
would not be rehashing this discussion because nothing will change between now and next week,
so a decision would be needed before the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
There were none this evening.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Town Manager COVID-19 Update
Ms. Lemieux highlighted the updates since last week.
The Board of Health is issuing weekly updates. The update received Sunday is dated April 17th
and has been put on the COVID-19 Information Center page on the town website and new
updates are on the home page under News & Announcements. As of today, there are twenty-
four confirmed positive cases in Lunenburg and one death.
Today Governor Baker announced that all schools would be closed for the remainder of the
school year.
No decisions have been made yet as to the extension of school fields and playgrounds
beyond May 4"h yet but the school will be evaluating closures as restrictions are lifted.
All town facilities and town playgrounds are currently closed until May 4th.
Based on a weekly briefing today, the Lieutenant Governor said that they will be announcing
further decisions about the May 4*h date later this week and addressing re-openings. Re-
openings will be triggered by data to which activities and places can re-open safely and they
will move away from essential and non-essential designations.
Eagle House staff is rotating between working at the Senior Center and working remotely and is
still be performing outreach, delivery of Meals on Wheels, and other vital services to our seniors.
Since March 13, 2020, the staff has made 385 wellness/telephone reassurance calls to check on
seniors. The COA has distributed 34 boxes and have 21 food boxes left that have food from the
Salvation Army, Lions Club and toilet paper from the Senior Center.
The COA has also received 22 donated facemasks from Lydia Gravell of the Library and 14
from a Lunenburg resident, Carole Redden. Please contact the COA Director Sue Doherty at
(978) 582-4166 or sdoherty@lunenburgonline.com to inquire about receiving a food box, a
facemask, or Meals on Wheels.
The Special State Election will be held on Tuesday, June 2, 2020.
The Annual Town Meeting will be held on Saturday, June 13 beginning at 9 a.m.
The Town Caucus has been rescheduled until May 13th at 7 p.m. to be held at the Turkey Hill
Elementary School.
===PAGE 7===
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 4/20/20):
As of April 20th there are 39,643 COVID-19 cases and 1,809 deaths. 169,398 patients have
been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial
laboratories. This information is now posted on the Department of Public Health COVID-19
website, with a breakdown of coronavirus cases by city and town. The page can be accessed
by going to: https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-response-reporting#covid-19-
cases-by-city/town-. The Department of Public Health has created a dashboard as well with
comprehensive, detailed COVID-19 data, including trend data, case rates, testing, and
breakdowns by age, sex, race, ethnicity and geography. https://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-
dashboard-
Today Governor Baker announced that all non-emergency childcare programs would remain
closed until June 29th
The Massachusetts RMV has implemented further extensions for expiring motor vehicle
inspection stickers, passenger plate registrations, professional credentials, and licenses and
permits, including Commercial Driver's Licenses and Permits (CDLs / CLPs).
While 60-day extensions had already been implemented for most credentials, passenger plate
registrations, and inspection stickers expired or expiring in March and April, this new action
will apply the same 60-day extension to those expiring in May. Additionally, credentials
expiring in March 2020 that previously were extended by 60 days will have an additional 60-
day extension applied.
The Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA) has released helpful new resources and
guidance to support individuals seeking to claim unemployment benefits. The Pandemic
Unemployment Assistance program is now accepting applications; this program provides up to
39 weeks of unemployment benefits to individuals who are unable to work because of a
COVID-19 related reason, but are not eligible for regular or extended unemployment benefits.
This includes the self-employed, independent contractors, workers with limited work history,
and others. Individuals can review eligibility scenarios here and apply for PUA here.
The programs and initiatives in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES)
Act passed by the U.S. Congress were intended to assist business owners but the funding through
the Small Business Administration has run out of funding and the Small Business
Administration's Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), Economic Injury Disaster Loan (EIDL),
and the EIDL Loan Advance are not accepting new applications. While the PPP is not actively
accepting applications, businesses should consider working with their SBA lender and preparing
a loan application in the event that additional funding is made available.
===PAGE 8===
....
4. Action File Issues
Ms. Luck wanted to put the location of the fuel tanks discussion on a future agenda
with the pertinent parties. Mr. Alonzo stated he would confer with Ms. Lemieux but it
will not be on next weeks' agenda.
Mr. Jeffreys echoed what Ms. Luck requested and looked forward to that discussion.
Ms. Adams asked for any state updates regarding the intersection of Mass. Ave. and
Electric Ave. Mr. Lemieux stated she did reach out but currently everyone at
MassDOT is working remotely.
5. Committee Reports- there were none this evening.
1. OLD BUSINESS
1. Proposed ballot question for the Annual Town Election regarding Adoption of the
Community Preservation Act- this was passed over as not being done due to state
deadlines
2. Review of Annual Town Meeting warrant articles
This will be discussed at the April 28 meeting. Ms. Luck stated she attended the Finance
Committee meeting last week and felt it was still too aggressive. After some discussion,
Ms. Lemieux stated the recommendation she provided last week is a very conservative
approach. There is $812,000 excess levy capacity in that recommendation, which means
that we are not raising it at the Annual Town Meeting and it allows us to see 1s' quarter
revenues of fiscal year 2021 and go to the fall special town meeting and make
adjustments. Further discussion ensued about the budget. It was determined that Ms.
Luck, Ms. Adams and Mr. Jeffreys wanted to see a budget consisting of the following:
no 2.5% increases, capital purchases put on hold, and budgets reduced short of letting
staff go.
Teri Burchfield, Finance Committee Chair, via telephone, stated she is confused by what
you are asking Ms. Lemieux to do. You need to provide a dollar amount you want to see.
There are no new positions in the budget for next year, From my perspective, it is a
conservative budget in terms of local receipts. The Finance Committee feels the Town
Manager is moving in the right direction and answering all the questions that we have
going forward. I don't want to see people cut but you may see that if you want money in
there for the buildings to be maintained. I think Town Manger is working to present a very
conservative budget. Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Burchfield for her feedback.
3. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, FY21 Capital Plan, and Five Year
Financial Forecast-
===PAGE 9===
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 design professional; craftsperson or
building contractor familiar with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing
Committee
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Planning Board (1 position appointed by the remaining members of the Planning Board
and the Board of Selectmen until the next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's
Office.
Fuel Tank Update:
The Conservation Commission had a public hearing on a Request for Determination of
Applicability to determine if the fuel tank project will require a Notice of Intent to be filed and
determined that it will in fact need to need to file a NOI.
FY 2021 Financial Updates:
I met with the Capital Planning Committee on Thursday, April 16th and based on a revised
budget that I provided them of only using the free cash amount provided for the original plan
and postponing any use of tax revenues until the fall Special Town Meeting, the Committee
voted to revise the FY21 Capital Plan recommendation for the Annual Town Meeting. I also
sent a recommendation on adjustments to be made for the Annual Town Meeting and Revenue
Expense worksheet that reflects adjustments that include revised revenue estimates and
postponement of additional positions and additional hours for employees, as well as a School
budget reflecting a 1.58% increase.
I am awaiting a confirmed New Growth estimate of $173,000 from our regional assessing firm
that would be an increase of $43,000 from the estimate I have adjusted downwards to
$130,000. This figure is based on our regional assessing firm's discussions with our Building
Commissioner on current projects that are ongoing.
Other Department Updates:
The Sewer Commission will have a meeting on Thursday April 23rd a 4 pm to finalize the
Request for Proposals for Sewer Operations and Maintenance and to finalize their budget.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
===PAGE 10===
vla Luvlll.
• There is a Finance Committee meeting on Thursday, April 23rd at 7:00 p.m. via
Zoom.
• There will be a joint meting with the Finance Committee on Tuesday, April 28th at
7:00 p.m. with State Representative Stephan Hay and State Senator Dean Tran to
discuss fiscal questions, including state funding for schools.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo stated this Board will meet again on April 28".
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Adams expressed best of luck to Mr. McQuaid and other families dealing with the
coronavirus.
Mr. Alonzo stated they would be going into Executive Session for the following reasons and then
adjourning following them:
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To enter Executive Session Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21, Reason #3, to discuss strategy with
respect to pending litigation and the Chair so declares that an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the governmental body (Elizabeth Guglietti,
Dangerous Dogs) and to enter Executive Session Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30A, § 21, Reason #3, to
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and the Chair so declares that an open
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the governmental body and
to adjourn the meeting after exiting Executive Session (Clerical, Fire, and Teacher Unions)
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
*********************Executive Session Minutes reSeprte****************************
The meeting adjourned at 7:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peters on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
