===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer, Jim
Marino
Member not present: Katey Adams, Clerk
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 6:35 p.m. and announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the Governor's Order
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are
being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information for anyone who would
like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present by roll call. Mr. Alonzo led the Pledge of
Allegiance.
Public Comment: there was none
The Board discussed Draft #7 of the Tax Increment Finance Agreement with Bright Farms, also
known as MA Greenhouse LLC. Two amended items were permanent, full-time employees could not
be reduced to lower than 48 people or the company would be considered in non-compliance of the
agreement and in the event of a future Phase II project, the Town would consider the possibility of
additional TIF support. Ms. Lemieux added there were some other changes concerning the maximum
exemption; once it has reached $996,000 or eight years, the exemption ends at the end of the current
fiscal year. Another change was to the project completion date, which would be December 31, 2021
rather than June 30". Some other minor wording changes were made.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To accept the TIF agreement as amended for Bright Farms and recommend approval of the
warrant article to Special Town Meeting
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Public Comment: there was none
Mr. Alonzo reminded Special Town Meeting is tomorrow and check in starts at 5:30 p.m.
Motion: J. Marino
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
2nd: M. Jeffreys
The meeting adjourned at 6:49 p.m.
Respectfully submitted.
She is ecson elerson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
