===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Sean O'Neill, Paul Fortin, Adam Burney, Land Use
Director
Board of Health members: George Emond Jr, Warren Mayhew, Perry Jewell, Evan Watters
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting will be broadcast live
through local access cable, and will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube
channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and asked if everyone was present and could be
heard.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Marino stated some members of the community have posed a question, "How can a Police Chief
hold an elected position in the same community?" As a selectman and police chief I am a municipal
employee, covered by the conflict of interest law, MGL c. 268A, § 20, Municipal employees;
financial interest in contracts; holding one or more elected positions, This section shall not prohibit
an employee or an ojjicial of a town from holding the position of selectman in such town nor in any
way prohibit such employee from performing the duties of or receiving the compensation provided
for such office; provided, however, that such selectman shall not, except as hereinafter provided,
receive compensation for more than one office or position held in a town, but shall have the right to
choose which compensation he shall receive; provided, further, that no such selectman may vote or
act on any matter which is within the purview of the agency by which he is employed or over which
he has official responsibility; and, provided further, that no such selectman shall be eligible for
appointment to any such additional position while he is still a member of the board of selectmen or
for six months thereafter.
I choose to take my police chief salary as the Board does not receive a salary.
Bill Tyler, 5 Graham Street, Cemetery Commissioner, referring to last week's statement by Mr.
Alonzo regarding the lack of preparation of the cemeteries for Memorial Day, though appreciated it,
did not believe it went deep enough on why there is a communication problem at DPW between
management and staff.
Ms. Lemieux announced the town band summer concert series will be postponed until the summer of
2021. There will be encore Lunenburg concerts broadcast every Monday at 7 p.m. on public access
channel 9 throughout the summer.
From the desk of DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz, "As I became aware the Summer Street
rehabilitation project was clear to begin, I planned for my retirement to coincide with the conclusion
of this project; one that I had worked on for the better part of twenty years. Since work extended into
the holiday season 2019, DP W winter operations were at full speed. There is no greater
responsibility than clearing the streets of ice and snow to allow for the safe passage of public safety
===PAGE 2===
high price. I have been fortunate to procure millions of government dollars towards infrastructure
improvements serving as liaison to the community during construction but this has taken valuable
time away from the needs of staff. Truly it has become two full-time jobs. It is impossible for one
individual to take on that much responsibility no matter how strong the dedication, extended hours or
the weekend work. Throughout my tenure I have advocated for an increase in staffing and the other
necessary resources, but neither has grown exponentially with the ever expanding responsibilities of
the department. One need only to view the organizational chart. I'm aggressively pursuing the
retirement protocol of this time with the appropriate government agency, unfortunately this has
become difficult with the current pandemic and as such I am unable to offer a definitive retirement
date at this time. I will continue to work closely with the Town Manager to ensure a seamless
transition to new leadership within public works. There are numerous projects in the que; Complete
Streets, Pleasant Street bridge replacement, culvert construction, a new fueling station at 520 Chase
Road and a continuation of our comprehensive pavement management plan. My date of retirement
once determined will remain solid regardless of project status. "
Ms. Lemieux stated she met Jack during her interview process for the Town Manager position in the
fall of 2016. I had the opportunity to meet face to face with various department heads to learn more
about the challenges they faced in their roles in the town and how they functioned. Jack made a
lasting impression. What I remember about that day was Jack's candidness, a true interest about
reached out to me through town email with a warm welcome and offered to help when I was ready to
move into my office at town Hall. He was a man of his word and when I showed up on a Friday with
my son along for the ride and a car full of plants and pictures, he was right there to help me. This
past year marked Jack's 25th year with the town. He began in May of 1995 as the Superintendent of
Streets and later became the Director of Public Works. His role has grown to encompass many
important components of government including oversight and care of our roads, bridges, storm water
infrastructure, parks, recreation areas, cemeteries, the curbside trash program, our sewer system, and
our town facilities. All too often we can focus on the never ending to do list and changes that could
be made. Jack's lengthy career in public service deserves to focus on his many successes along the
way. In my mere 3+ years in Lunenburg I have worked on numerous projects with Jack ranging from
road and bridge infrastructure, the pavement management plan, grant programs such as complete
Streets, Stormwater, ADA, and a mold remediation project at Town Hall, are alones that come
immediately to mind. But there are so many more. Jack has twenty-five years of helping people and
being a pivotal part of community altering projects like the Summer Street road reconstruction
project that helped make Lunenburg a better place to live, work and visit. Twenty-five years of
dedicated public service to a single town is exceptional and a rarity. I want to thank Jack for being
always being available to assist my department, the other departments is town and assisting the
residents of Lunenburg the last 25 years.
Mr. Alonzo stated working for the same town for 25 years is pretty rare. I think it is commendable
and I thank him for sending the notice in advance I have always appreciated the job he has done
here.
===PAGE 3===
Vote: Mr. Dwyer- aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Mayhew-aye, Mr. Emond-aye, Mr. Watters-aye, Mr. Jewell-aye
Mr. Alonzo congratulated Mr. Fortin and thanked him for continuing to serve on the board. Mr.
Fortin thanked everyone. The Board of Health adjourned their meeting.
Meeting with Bright Farms re: Major Lettuce Greenhouse
Ms. Lemieux introduced Sean O'Neill of Bright Farms. Mr. O'Neill stated Bright Farms is one of the
country's leading indoor greenhouse grown lettuce companies. They also grown some herbs and
about twelve different kinds of lettuce. We grow the lettuce in water with no pesticides or herbicides.
Our clients are Walmart and Hannaford's Supermarkets and others. We are not going to out any local
farmers out of business. We are looking at the land behind the Walmart plaza on Massachusetts
Avenue for the location.
What We Do
We give more people access to the best quality, freshest, tastiest, cleanest, more responsibly grown
produce available
Our Promise
• Respect: We will treat our growers, customers, retailers, planet and each other with care
• Food Democracy: We intend to make our first class product available to anyone who wants
it
• Trustworthy in word in deed
• Believers in our work, in our team, and our mission
• Environmental Stewardship: we are committed to minimizing our impact on the earth
through the way we grown and share our produce
• Community-Oriented; each BrightFarms location is our home
Benefits to Lunenburg
• Zoning: Agriculture as of right in a right-to-farm community; preempts (costly) residential
for a tax revenue- positive business.
• Revenue: Contributes to town tax base, sewer and water system
• Local Food & Jobs: Brings CA food production to MA
Generates 50 - 60 jobs in Phase 1, double that in Phase II
• Emissions Reduction: Potential for unique, exemplary district energy system using waste heat
from electricity generation for the greenhouse and the groceries.
Status of Site Exploration
Complete:
• Zoning analysis
• Test pits/preliminary geo-tech
• Test Fit
===PAGE 4===
Financial feasibility
Schedule:
6/17/20 Land Optioned
8/19/20 Cons Com (estimated)
8/28/20 MassWorks Application
9/14/20 Planning Board (estimated)
9/30/20 Land Purchase
100% Design
Groundbreaking
Town Meeting (TIF)
Our dream scenario is to break ground in October.
Support Requested of Lunenburg
There are two areas where we hope Lunenburg could help:
For those of you who don't know, the state has a program called MassWorks and it is specifically
designed for infrastructure to promote economic development.
Public Infrastructure can be funded by MassWorks: (with an Ok from the Board of
Selectmen)
Water line extension
• Sewer line extension
• New well/pump house
Tax Increment Financing (An agreement in principle to develop and present a TIF at Town
Meeting.)
• An abatement that allows the town to capture inflation on base taxes and gradually ramps up
payments on new taxable value.
===PAGE 5===
would also like to keep sheltering vegetation there as well. In general, the board members thought it
was a good project. Mr. O'Neill thanked the Board and signed off.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Timeline for Town Manager Performance Evaluation
Mr. Alonzo noted this had been postponed due the pandemic and only three board members would
be doing the evaluation and voting on her evaluation.
Action:
TM Self Evaluation
Members Send Draft Evaluations to TM, and Schedule Meeting with TM
Members Send their Final Evaluations to BOS Chairman
BOS Chairman Compiles Evaluation into Composite Evaluation
BOS Meetings to review and accept evaluation
Date:
July 27th
August 6th-13th
No later than August 20th
August 20th-August 27th
Sept Ist and Sept. 8th
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the timeline as presented
Vote: Mr. Dwyer- abstain, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo -
aye
2. Review Timeline for finalizing FY21 Board of Selectmen and Town Manager Goals
Mr. Alonzo requested the previous year's goals be sent to all the board members. Ms. Lemieux will
also send out the status of her previous year's goals.
Review schedule of upcoming meeting agenda topics
July 21st: Workshop on BOS and TM Goals (Review FY20 and Discussion on Setting FY21 Goals)
August 4th: Flammable Storage License Hearing, Continuation of BOS and TM Goal Setting; Bus Transportation
(tentative): Discussion on upcoming renewal of earth removal permits.
August 11th: Workshop on BOS Policies (Annually done), Continuation of Goal Setting (tentative),
August 18th: Renewal of Earth Removal Permits
September 1st: Set date for fall Special Town Meeting in November and Deadline for Article Submission end of
September, Review of Town Manager Performance Evaluation (tentative)
September 8th: Workshop (TBD)
September 15th: Review STM Warrant Articles
September 22nd: Review STM Warrant Articles
October 6th: Review STM Warrant Articles
October 13th: Workshop (TBD); Sign STM Warrant and Vote on Recommendations (tentative)
October 20th:
November 3rd (Election Day):
November 10th: Workshop (TBD)
November 17th: Tax Classification Hearing (Tentative); Midyear Update from TM on Annual Goals; Discussion on
FY22 Budget Priorities
December 1st: Annual License Renewals
December 8t: Workshop (TBD)
===PAGE 6===
March 10':
keview A lM Arucies and vote on recommendatons
March 23rd: Review ATM Articles and Vote on Recommendations
March 25: Finance Committee Public Hearing
March 30": Sign ATM Warrant and Vote on Recommendations (tentative)
April 6'h: Meeting with Auditors
April 13": Workshop (TBD) April 20th:
May 1: Annual Town Meeting
May 4th: Town Manager Performance Evaluation
May 11'": Workshop (TBD); Town Manager Performance Evaluation (continued)
May 15'": Annual Town Election
May 18'h: Reorganization of the Board; Board of Selectmen Committee Appointments
June 1s: TM and BOS Annual Appointments
June 8th: Workshop on BOS and TM Goals
June 15". TM and BOS Annual Appointments (continued)
June 22nd:
4. Warrants:
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants:
• Payroll Deduction W #2 21, dated 7/8/2020 in the amount of $79,448.86
• Accounts Payable Warrant #2 WP 20 dated 6/30/2020 in the amount of
$131,523.57
• Accounts Payable Warrant #1 WP 20 dated 6/30/2020 in the amount of
$285,273.64
• Payroll Warrant #1P21 dated 7/9/2020 in the amount of $688,964.16
5. Action Items
Mr. Jeffreys thought it might be helpful to review changes to the Charter once it is approved.
6. Committee Reports- there were none this evening
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies) Fence Viewers (vacancies)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Senior Center Property Tax Work Off Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
===PAGE 7===
report on the results is expected by September.
Financial Trend Monitoring System:
The Finance Director, Treasurer-Collector, School Business Manager, and I have a kick-off meeting tomorrow
with the Collins Center to begin the process for creating a Financial Trend Monitoring System. The end
product will be both a written report that we can update and integrate into our existing ClearGov budgeting
Continuity of Operations Plan:
Thekick-off meetingto begin working with the UMass Collins Center on the Community Compact Grant to
create a Continuity of Operations Plan will be during the week of August 3rd.
Principal Assessor Position:
As previously reported, the Board of Assessors, through the Town Manager's Office, had solicited responses
to a Request for Proposals for Tax Assessment Services to continue outsourcing this serviceand
simultaneously advertised fora Principal Assessorposition. Therewereno responsesto the RFP for Tax
Assessment Services, including from RRG, who has been our current firm for this service for many years.
RRG responded that they are not structured to provide a full-time Assessorto the town, as this would be cost
prohibitive.
We proceeded with interviewing multiple candidates for the full time Principal Assessor position and
ultimately chose Sue Byrne for the position. Sue comes from the City of Gardner as their City Assessor with 16
years of experience and highly recommended for the position. Sue has experience with negotiating solar pilot
are es rage is ere with he polite yet the posite a let an in toard of
assessments, GIS, and all aspects of assessing. I appointed Sue Byrne to the position last week and the Board of
Assessors affirmed the appointment at their meeting yesterday per the process in the Town Charter.
Throughout this process it has been stressed that any changes would need to stay within the confines of the
budget, inclusive of other employee related costs such as health insurance. This remains the case.
We thank RRG for their many years as the hired firm to perform assessing services to the Town and we are
excited to welcome Sue as our full time Principal Assessor. Sue brings a wealth of knowledge, is highly
recommended from her previous community, and is known for her positive interactions with residents in the
community she works in. Sue's start date is July 27th.
Other Department Updates:
DPW Equipment Operator Vacancies: The Assistant Town Manager/HR Director is currently re-
advertising for the three vacant DPW Equipment Operator positions in various locations like
Indeed.com, the Ledger, and town website. We are also looking into the possibility of partnering with
vocational schools to reach out to post-graduates with these employment opportunities.
Ladder Truck: The ladder truck was delivered to the dealership last week and is currently being
lettered, outfitted, and having all the equipment mounted. We expect to receive it at the station in
about 2-3 weeks.
• Audit: The auditors from Powers & Sullivan were on site last week for their preliminary work and will
be back in the fall to finalize the FY20 audit.
• Extended Curbside Pick-up at Library: The Curbside Pick-up hours at the Library will be extended to
include Monday evening until 7:45 p.m. For a schedule of the extended times for curbside pick- up,
please visit the Lunenburg Public Library's website.
===PAGE 8===
• The Planning Board has a meeting via Zoom on Monday, July 13th at 6:30 p.m.
Ms. Adams reported some people are saying they are getting the wrong size trash bags. Ms. Lemieux
stated she had looked into that the last time you brought it up and reached out to Waste Zero, who
makes the bags and they had one wrong size bags shipment to Hannaford's. Anyone who has an
issue can contact the office to get the contact information for Waste Zero. Ms. Adams asked about a
schedule for when the municipal buildings will reopen. Ms. Lemieux stated not at this time.
Mr. Alonzo noted this Board will meet again on July 21s and August 4th
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams stated last week was a difficult meeting. People reached out to me via social media and
telephone and felt really bad that the meeting had such a negative moment. She wanted to make sure
the Board could commit to when discussions occur that it is not acceptable to bring up personal
information. She also felt badly that no one spoke out against a personal attack and she found it
remarkable that it was just let go.
Mr. Alonzo stated when he felt it got personal, he did intervene. Everything up to the point when I
thought it got personal I intervened and ruled it out of order. Certainly someone can voice their
objection to nominees, I don't think that part was personal.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting at 8:31 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
