===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Clerk; Katey Adams, Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Karen Brochu, Finance Director; James
Marino, Police Chief; Frank Serreti and Ben Adsit of Powers & Sullivan, LLC; Rebecca
Lantry, Historical Commission Chair
The meeting commenced at 7: 01 p.m.
Mr. Alonzo announced this was the April 7h Board of Selectmen meeting. In accordance
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel and also being recorded as
a zoom meeting.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following
the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public
Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread
and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.
In accordance with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open
Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This
meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable, on FacebookLive on the Public
Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-
157427270975305/) and will be able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel
within 24 hours after the meeting.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to
participate in the meeting remotely:
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public
meeting webinar: https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number
(888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174-0347 #
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to
request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the "raise hand"
feature to request to speak.
Mr. Alonzo announced he would be in control of all the mutes for the Zoom meeting to
prevent Zoom "bombing."
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys stated he was driving on Lancaster Avenue and noticed the large amounts of
trash on the side of the road. He went back home and picked up trash for about500 yards on
Mass. Ave. near his house and came back with five full trash bags. 90% of it was recyclables.
He suggested with everyone being home, this would be a good time to go out with your
gloves and masks and pick up some trash adding it could be a family activity. He encouraged
everyone to help keep the town clean.
===PAGE 2===
To approve the two stops signs as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. MeQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo asked Chief Marino if he had anything he wanted to say to the public regarding
the current situation.
Chief Marino following up on Mr. Jeffreys' public comment, stated he has noticed discarded
masks on the ground. There has been an uptick in a few incidents but nothing remarkable.
He asked everybody to comply with the Governor's stay at home orders.
FY 2019 Audit Report from Powers and Sullivan, LLC
Ms. Lemieux introduced Frank Serreti and Ben Adsit to present their findings after the audit.
Mr. Serretti stated Mr. Adsit has worked on the audit for the town for the past couple of years
and thought he should attend a BOS meeting. Adsit works with Ms. Brochu during the
process. Serreti thanked the Town Manager and the Finance team because they had received
cooperation and assistance from them. We were able to issued an unmodified opinion on the
financial statements, which is good. All reporting deadlines were met and the information we
received was accurate. We received timely responses to our questions and we did not note
any internal deficiencies or weaknesses that we need to be concerned about. We look very
closely at cash controls. In Lunenburg, we have always experienced very good controls on
cash and receivables. There is a monthy reconciliation and they are accurate. That is always
very good to see. The Town is always timely with its reporting and accurate. We tested over
100 transactions and found no issues. The Town maintained its AA+ credit rating. You have
good healthy reserves. Your general stabilization funds total 1.9 million dollars and that has
steadily increased since 2013. You have a zoning stabilization fund with $229,000 in it and
you also have a vehicle equipment stabilization fund with $644,000.
Your collection rates still continue to be strong at 98% of your commitment. From a
budgetary standpoint, you ended the year with a surplus of $12,000 even though you had
budgeted a decrease of $663,000. Revenues came in $81,000 over budget and expenses came
in $38,000 under budget. The only overexpenditure was due to state and county charges
which you have no control over.
Mr. Serreti reviewed Enterprise funds, OPEB fund amounts, and other miscellaneous account
balances, noting everything has increased at a healthy rate.
From a debt standpoint, you have 2.1 million dollars in short term debt outstanding and that
was for the school construction project. That debt will be paid off when you get your final
payment from the MA School Building Authority. They will make that payment once they
finish their final review of the project.Any final additional funding that is needed will
probably be funded by long term debt. He went on to cover bonds and general debt service.
Mr. Serreti reviewed the Federal Awards Fund report which is required when an entity
spends more than $750,000 in federal funding in a fiscal year. The Town expended $835,000;
$173,000 was on school lunches and $630,000 was on education grants. We were required to
===PAGE 3===
Comment We noted that the bank reconciliation for the vendor account reported outstanding
checks greater than three months old totaling $125,270, some going back to 2010, as
reconciling items. In most instances, checks not cashed timely after the issue date indicates
that the checks were either reissued, lost or are being held. As part of internal controls over
cash disbursements and expenditures, the aging of outstanding checks should be monitored to
ensure they are true outstanding checks.
Recommendation
We recommend that management establish a formal, written policy concerning uncashed
checks based on current State laws. Such a policy should specify aging milestones with
required actions. For example, this policy might specify that when checks are past 60 days
old, the payee should be contacted. After 90 days, the checks should be moved to the
tailings account or written off.
ABANDONED PROPERTY - TAILINGS
Comment
The Treasurer's Office does not currently maintain a comprehensive and up to date listing
of all items considered to be tailings. We also noted there has been no activity within the
tailings liability account in the current year and the Town has not completed the
requirements related to the final disposition of tailings as stipulated in the Massachusetts
Abandoned Property Laws in the past few years.
Recommendation
We recommend that the Treasurer analyze the items that are being carried as part of the
tailings balance. We further recommend that the Treasurer follow the Massachusetts
Abandoned Property Laws, as applicable to municipalities, to determine the most
appropriate course of action to arrive at a final disposition tailings liability.
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION FOR HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Comment
When an employee enrolls in the Town's health insurance plan, a member enrollment form
is completed and turned into the Town's Human Resource department. We noted during
this process that birth certificates are requested for employees, but marriage certificates,
spouse and dependent birth certificates are not. Proper source documentation should be
retained throughout employment for active employees and throughout the life of retirees
and surviving spouses to ensure that any insurance benefits and corresponding liability are
properly supported.
Recommendation
We recommend that the Human Resource department maintain marriage licenses and
birth certificates for all spouses and dependents that are receiving benefits through
===PAGE 4===
reimbursement request form. We believe that utilizing a standardized reimbursement
request form and standardizing procedures would strengthen the current process. The lack
of formal policies and procedures increases the risk that an ineligible expenditure may be
reimbursed.
Current Status
In 2019, the Town developed and adopted a reimbursement policy and formal procedures.
DOCUMENTATION OF INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FEDERAL GRANTS
Prior Year Comment
In December 2013, the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards
(Uniform Guidance) in an effort to (1) streamline guidance for federal awards while easing
the administrative burden and (2) to strengthen oversight over the expenditure of federal
funds and to reduce the risks of waste, fraud and abuse.
The Uniform Guidance supersedes and streamlines requirements from eight different federal
grant circulars (including OMB Circular A-133) into one set of guidance. Local governments
were required to implement the new administrative requirements and cost principles for all
new federal awards and to additional funding to existing awards made after December 26,
2014 (fiscal year 2016).
Management is responsible for internal controls and to see that the entity is doing what
needs to be done to meet its objectives. Governments have limited resources and constraints
on how much can be spent on designing, implementing, and conducting systems of internal
control. The COSO Framework can help management consider alternative approaches and
decide what action it needs to take to meet its objectives. Depending on circumstances,
these approaches and decisions can contribute to efficiencies in the design, implementation,
and conduct of internal control. With the COSO Framework, management can more
successfully diagnose issues and assert effectiveness regarding their internal controls and,
for external financial reporting, help avoid material weaknesses or significant deficiencies.
Current Status
Management has completed a draft report on internal controls over federal awards in
accordance with the COSO Internal Control Framework.
There are four other old comment. One relates to Receivable Balances. The Town is
carrying old receivable balances in motor vehicle excise and personal property taxes that are
greater than fifteen years old, dating back to 2003 and 2000, respectively. As a result of
maintaining these old receivable balances and the detailed reports associated with them, the
reconciliation process is made more cumbersome and time consuming.
===PAGE 5===
WRITE-OFF UNCOLLECTIBLE AMBULANCE RECEIVABLES
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we recommended that the Town actively pursue the collection of past-due
ambulance billings or write them off if they are deemed to be uncollectible. The existence
of large past-due receivables impedes cash flow and increases the risk that these
receivables will be uncollectible. The ambulance receivables increased by$16,000 in 2018
and totaled $760,000 at year-end.
Current Status
In 2019, the Board of Selectmen voted to write-off ambulance receivables that were
determined to be uncollectible. This reduced the outstanding receivable balance from
$760,000 to $567,000, of which $476,000 (84%) has been outstanding for 180 days or more.
There is a comment about FRAUD RISK ASSESSMENT. The Town is still considering its
options. There may be an outside party that complete that for them.
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we indicated that the opportunity to commit and conceal fraud exists
when there are assets susceptible to misappropriation and controls are inadequate to prevent
or detect fraud. To address this risk, we recommended that the Town perform a risk
assessment to identify, analyze, and manage the risk of asset misappropriation. Risk
assessment, including fraud risk assessment, is one element of internal control. Thus,
ideally, the Town's internal control should include performance of this assessment, even
though our annual financial statement audits include consideration of fraud.
Current Status
The Town did not complete and document a fraud risk assessment in 2019.
Continuing Recommendation
We continue to recommend that the Town conduct and document a risk assessment to
identify, analyze, and manage the risk of asset misappropriation.
Finally the last comment. Mr. Serreti believed it is being worked on.
DOCUMENT KEY ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL FUNCTIONS
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we indicated that there are limited written policies and procedures for key
administrative and financial functions of the Town. Because there is a limited number of
staff supporting key positions, a formal manual that identifies and documents key areas of
administration and operations would reduce the risk to the Town in the event that personnel
have extended absences. We recommended that the Town document all key managerial and
financial functions in manuals that include, among other items, 1) daily, monthly, and
yearly work procedures; and 2) other specific information relative to the function being
documented.
===PAGE 6===
in order. Mr. Adsit and Mr. serrel exiled the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Town Manager Update on COVID-19
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health will be issuing weekly updates every Tuesday. The update received
today is dated April 3r° and has been put on the COVID-19 Information Center page on
the town website. As of today, there are nine confirmed positive cases in Lunenburg.
The COVID-19 Information Center page can be found here.
Information and Resources for Businesses due to COVID-19:
I consolidated all the relevant information and resources for our local businesses and sent this
to the Lunenburg Business Association and it is now posted on the COVID-19 Information
Center page on the town website.
Closure of Town Facilities, Schools, Town/School Playgrounds and School Fields :
All town facilities, schools, town and school playgrounds and school fields are currently
closed until May 4th
Communications with Town Departments:
Most staff is working remotely but continues to monitor their phone lines and e-mail. Please
contact us if you have questions, we are here to help if at all possible.
If you need to contact a particular department, please visit the town's website at
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/ and each individual department's web page includes contact
information, including the phone number and e-mail address.
Board/Committee/Commission Meetings:
Please check the town website calendar for the schedule of meetings at
https://www.lunenburgma.gov.
Senior Center Updates:
As with other town facilities, the Eagle House will be closed to the public until May 4th and
this includes all activities at the Senior Center and off-site. Eagle House staff is working
remotely but is still be performing outreach, delivery of Meals on Wheels, and other vital
services to our seniors. The COA Director has a variety of programs and updates that she
has been sharing through the Eagle House Facebook Page. Van Transportation Service has
been cancelled until further notice. The Eagle House staff is delivering the Meals on Wheels
to households. Deliveries are made on Mondays and Wednesdays only, with meals for
multiple days. Clients are being asked to put a cooler outside their door to place meals in so
there is no contact when the delivery is made.
There is also another meal delivery service called Heart to Home Meals for Seniors aged 60
and older. Their contact information is hearttohomesmeals.com or call 508-658-3000. Due to
an increase in requests for the Salvation Army food boxes for seniors, Salvation Army will be
===PAGE 7===
appointment only. To make an appointment call 978-342-3300. Pickups are scheduled
Monday thru Friday 9-11 a.m.
Public Safety Department Request for PPE Donations:
The Police and Fire Departments are accepting donations of personal protective equipment
that can be delivered to the Public Safety Building lobby. This includes gloves, disposable
gowns, masks and goggles.
Curbside Trash and Recycling: Casella is still on their normal schedule of picking up trash
and recycling.
Information on Town Meeting and Town Elections:
• The Special State Election will be held on Tuesday, June 2, 2020.
• The Annual Town Meeting will be held on Saturday, June 13"h beginning at 9 a.m.
• The Annual Town Election will be held starting at 7 a.m. on Saturday, June 20" at
the TC Passios. Due to the Court Order that was filed on Thursday, April 2nd to
extend the deadline for the submittal of nomination papers and was granted by the
judge on Friday, April 3ra,
, the deadline for the submittal of nomination papers to
the Board of Registrars is now 5 p.m. on May 1.
Update on Municipal Relief Bill signed into Law
After weeks of deliberation and multiple versions through the legislature an, "Act to
Address Challenges Faced by Municipalities and State Authorities Resulting from
COVID-19," was signed into law by the Governor on Friday, April 3rd. The Act is now
known as Chapter 53 of the Acts of 2020. Note that an earlier provision allowing a waiver
of town meeting quorum requirements was not included in the final law. Here is a
summary of the Act:
• Town Meeting Delay beyond June 30. Allows Town Meetings to be delayed
beyond June 30 if Governor has declared a state of emergency related to public health
or safety. (Section 1).
• Recess and Continuance of Town Meeting. Allows the Moderator to recess and
continue an already-called Town Meeting during (and until 5 days after) a public
health, safety or weather emergency for upto 30 days, renewable for up to 30 days at
time during the emergency, but not to a date more than 30 days following the
rescission of the state of emergency. If a town does not have a moderator, the Select
Board may recess and continue Town Meeting accordingly. A public safety or public
health official designated by the Select Board shall submit a report to the Attorney
General providing justification for the recess and continuance. These changes are
effective as of March 10, 2020. (Sections 2, 3 and 4).
• Adoption of Temporary Fiscal 2021 Budgets. If Town Meeting is unable to adopt an
annual budget by June 30 due to a declared emergency, the Select Board shall notify the
Director of Accounts at DLS, and the Director may approve expenditures from any
===PAGE 8===
undesignated fund balances in enterprise funds or special revenue accounts. (Section 6).
• Amortization of Fiscal 2020 Deficits. Allows cities and towns to amortize its fiscal
2020 deficit resulting from the COVID-19 emergency over fiscal years 2021 to
2023, to be funded in equal or more rapid installments, such amortization to be
adopted prior to setting the fiscal 2021 tax rate. (Section 7).
• Use of Revolving Funds. Allows cities and towns that are unable to adopt their fiscal
2021 annual budget due to the COVID-19 emergency to expend amounts from revolving
funds not to exceed the authorized expenditure in fiscal 2020. The legislative body shall
vote on the total amount to be expended from each revolving fund when the annual
budget is adopted. (Section 8).
• Tolling Required Action on "Chapter" Lands. Suspends the time period that
municipalities are requiredto act, respond, effectuate or exercise an option to purchase
Chapter 61 forest land, Chapter 61A agricultural land, or Chapter 61B recreational land
until 90 days after the governor's March 10, 2020 emergency declaration is terminated.
(Section 9).
• Option to Delay Property Tax Due Date to June 1. Allows the municipal chief
executive to delay the due date for municipal property tax bills to June 1. (Section 10).
• Option to Waive Interest and Penalties for Late Payments. Allows the municipal
chief executive to waive the payment of interest and other penalties on late payments that
were due after March 10, 2020 and paid before June 30, 2020, for any excise, tax,
betterment assessment, water or sewer bill, or other charge added to a tax. (Section 11).
• Non-termination of Services to Residents Due to Late Payment. Cities and towns shall
not terminate an essential service of a resident, including water, trash collection or
electricity, for nonpayment of taxes or fees due on or after March 10: 2020 and paid after
the due date but before June 30, 2020, if the nonpayment resulted from a demonstrated
inability to pay due to the COVID-19 outbreak or the March 10, 2020 emergency
declaration by the governor, provided that the inability to pay shall include a
demonstrated financial hardship
of a resident, including but not limited to loss of employment, serious illness or death of
someone within the home. (Section 11).
Section 11) nose deadline for no morsell.
• State Income Tax Deadline Delayed. Postpones the deadline for filing Massachusetts
state income tax returns and payments from April 15, 2020 to July 15, 2020. (Section 12).
• Sale of Alcohol by Take-Out Restaurants. Allows restaurants licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages on- premises may sell sealed containers of alcoholic beverages for
off-premises consumption as part of take-out food transactions. (Section 13).
• Facilitating Return to Service by Retirees. Allows state and municipal employees to
return to work for the state or a municipality regardless of mandatory retirement ages or
a statutory limit on hours worked and earnings received, to help with workforce needs.
Those on disability retirement are not eligible. (Section 14).
• Remote Meetings for Shareholder Corporations. Allows public corporations
(private shareholderentities) to hold annual or special meetings of shareholders
===PAGE 9===
failure of a permit granting authority to act within timelines that would otherwise be in
effect. This section also clarifies that permit granting authorities may conduct meetings
and public hearings remotely during the COVID-19 emergency, consistent with the
Governor's March 12 Executive Order regarding the Open Meeting Law. This section
also applies to the conduct of public meetings, public hearings or other actions taken in a
quasi-judicial capacity by all local boards and commissions during the emergency
declaration by the governor. (Section 17).
Ms. Lemieux reported next week the Board will be discussing the option to delay personal
property taxes and sewer bills until June 1st and waive any penalties or interest on those.
Ms. Adams requested further clarification on the sale of alcohol by takeout from
restaurants. Ms. Lemieux stated any on premise restaurants can sell alcohol (beer and wine
only) in the original container.
Ms. Luck asked if the delay of personal property taxes was the only item on this list that the
BOS would discuss next week. She added we could also delay town meeting as well? Ms.
Lemieux stated believed only if the Governor's state of emergency was still active but she
will confer with Town Counsel.
Tax Payments:
Tax payments should not be left in the box outside of Town Hall due to staff working
limited hours in the building and working remotely. Tax payments should only be mailed
to the town's lockbox or can be paid online. The online bill payment link is
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/departments/resident-services/online-services and the
lockbox address is: Town of Lunenburg, Department 1260, P.O. Box 986500 Boston, MA
02298-6500. For any questions, please contact the Treasurer/Collector Myleen Mallari at
(978) 582-4130 x 135 or mmallari@lunenburgonline.com.
Unitil Customer Assistance and Recovery Effort (U-Care Fund:
Unitil announced the creation of the Unitil Customer Assistance and Recovery Fund (U-
CARE) by working with the local Community Action Program (CAP) agencies to create a
fund in an effort to aid Unitil customers who have been economically impacted by
COVID-19. Unitil has committed $150,000 to this fund, plus an additional $75,000 to
COVID-19 related programs at the United Way and other local agencies. Customers with
financial challenges should reach out to their local CAP Agency or Unitil's representative
at 1-888-301-7700.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 4/6/20):
As of April 6th there are 13,837 COVID-19 cases and 260 deaths. 76,429 patients have
been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial
laboratories. On our weekly briefing with the Lieutenant Governor today, we should
===PAGE 10===
is asking the local Boards of Health to address complaints and that they should try
to resolve them with the local stores instead of punitive measures.
More information is on the town website at https://www.lunenburgma.gov/ and in the
Lunenburg Ledger.
Mr. Jeffreys stated a couple of people have reached out to him asking about
unemployment. I relayed back to them that the state website states that the federal
government has not issued their guidance yet on the new law, The Cares Act, that has
passed. Currently all those extra provisions for contractors and Uber or Lyft drivers and
such still cannot file for unemployment yet. He suggested people should continue to check
the Dept. of Unemployment website for updates.
Mr. Alonzo took agenda item # 3 as Chairman Lantry was present.
2. Proposed ballot question for the Annual Town Election regarding Adoption
of the Community Preservation Act (CA)
Ms. Lemieux noted Ms. Lantry had provided information and it was in their meeting
packet. Ms. Lantry stated I am from the Lunenburg Historical Commission and our
Commission has placed the Community Preservation Act ("CA) on the town warrant.
We are placing the CPA on our warrant because the Town of Lunenburg needs money to
solve the problems of our aging governmental infrastructure. We also need to preserve and
create recreation space for our Town in order to enjoy the great outdoors. Additionally, we
hope to serve our community's need for affordable housing for low-income earners—
including both young families and the elderly-so that they can continue to live in
Lunenburg. We need to provide money to adapt housing for handicap accessibility,
whether it is a wheelchair ramp or grab bars in a bathroom or shower. We believe the
Community Preservation Act is the vehicle of government to get this done. Since 2000, the
CPA has provided funding for 176 other communities in Massachusetts. Lunenburg last
attempt at CPA was in 2008. This presentation hopes for Lunenburg to once again pursue
CPA funding.
The Town of Lunenburg
Lunenburg was established as a town in 1728. This is means out town nearly goes
back to before the starting of our nation. Quite old! We have old buildings for municipal
government. Our town center and beyond into our community is historic, all adding to the
character and beauty of our Town.
Currently, there is a committee already formed to study the logistics and cost of
moving our town's government to T. C. Passios Elementary school. This would abandon
the Town Hall, and the Ritter Building in the center of Town. It is important to ask
whether this makes sense for our Town. Ultimately this will be a matter for the people of
===PAGE 11===
Consequently, this is why we need the Community Preservation Act. We need to be
pro-active. We need to be the change that puts our money into a savings account for the
future, doubling our returns with a match from the State. We should pair with other state
and preservation grants to get the most for our community. Change is coming but, if we
don't reimagine what we do with our historic buildings and how we plan to readapt them
for community needs going forward, they will become an eyesore. I am tired of wringing
my hands. I am showing you the money. I am showing you a way forward. Will you get on
Board?
So let's get to the specific: To do that lets spell it all out with the "who, what, when,
where and how."
Who - The Community Preservation Committee:
If this bylaw passes, we will need to set-up a town Community Preservation Committee
("CPC"). The CPC will require between 5-9 members; the length of their terms will need
to be determined; and the method of selecting committee member will either be by
designation, election, appointment or both. Our local government will help in each of
these organizational decisions. According to the CPA, our CPC must include one member
from each of the following: the local conservation commission, board of park
commissioners, historical commission, planning board, and housing authority. If our
Town has not established one or more of these boards or commission, a representative
serving in a similar capacity can be appointed to the committee.
What is the Community Preservation Committee charged with doing?
The CPA will come up with projects that will go back to the Town Meeting for the
people of Lunenburg to decide which projects to apply our CPA funds to. If the people of
Lunenburg vote yes, funds get spent. If the people vote no, the money goes back in the pot,
gains interest and waits for another viable recommendation from the CPC that majority of
people of Lunenburg deem worthy to spend the money. The control of the money lies with
the people of Lunenburg at the Town meeting.
What kind of projects will the CPC fund?
First, not less than 10% of the money is to be set aside for open space. An "open
space» "shall include, but not be limited to, land to protect existing and future well fields,
aquifers and recharge areas, watershed land, agricultural land, grasslands, fields, forest
land, fresh and salt water marshes and other wetlands, ocean, river, streams, lake and
pond frontages, beaches, dunes and other coastal lands, lands to protect scenic vistas, land
for wildlife or nature preserves and land for recreational space."
Second, not less than 10% of CPA funds must be used for historic space. A
===PAGE 12===
housing "shall include but not be limited to, programs that provide grants, loans, rental
assistance, security deposit, interest -rate write down or other forms of assistance directly
to individuals and families who are eligible for community housing, or to an entity that
owns, operates or manages such housing, for the purpose of making housing affordable."
Any remaining funds may be used for recreational use or rehabilitation projects.
"Recreational use" is defined as "active or passive recreational use, but not limited to, the
land for community gardens, trails, and non-commercial youth and adult sports, and the
use of land as a park, playground or athletic field." However, "recreational use" shall not
include "horse racing or dog racing or use of land for a stadium, gymnasium or similar
structure."
A "rehabilitation" project is defined as "rehabilitation, capital improvements, or making of
extraordinary repairs, to historic resources, open space, lands for recreational use and
community housing for the purpose of making such historic resources, open spaces, lands
for recreational use and community housing functional for their intended uses, including,
but not limited to, improvements to comply with the American Disabilities Act and other
federal state or local or access codes; provided with respect to historic resources."
Furthermore, "rehabilitation" projects shall "comply with the Standards of Rehabilitation
stated in the United States Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Treatments of Historic
Properties." Additionally, with respect to land for recreational use,
"'rehabilitation' shall
include the replacement of playground equipment and other capital improvements to the
land or the facilities thereon which make the land or the related facilities more functional
for the intended recreational use."
How does CPA funding work?
Half of the money will come from the residents of Lunenburg through the
"imposition of a surcharge of not more than 3% of the tax levy against real property."
This does not raise the tax rate for our Town. Rather, we will "assess a surcharge on
property tax bills after they have been calculated based on the community's current tax
rate." Our contribution will be calculated according to the Distribution Formula (see link
below). Depending on our contributions, the other half of the fund has the potential to be
matched up to 100% by the State of Massachusetts.
Example: Home Assessment = $380,000
First, subtract the first $100,000 in residential property value (assuming the
community adopts an optional CPA exemption).
$380,000-$100,000 = $280,000 as the value to be surcharged. Then, apply the town's tax
$280,000 x (18.12/$1000) = $5,074. Finally, apply the elected CPA surcharge. We'll
===PAGE 13===
• Our Town will also decide the initial exemption amount to be applied. Traditionally,
an initial
$100,000 exemption is applied to all properties. However, an additional pro-rated
exemption may be applied to qualified individuals.
Where Does CPA Funding Come From? https://www.communitypreservation.org/funding
Understanding the Distribution Formula
https://www.communitypreservation.org/distribution-formula
This concludes my presentation. I'm happy to take questions at this time.
Ms. Luck asked about the distribution formula, Round One. Ms. Lantry stated
her understanding was in Round One they give out 80% of the funds to the 3%
communities and each of the CPA communities will receive the same
percentage match to funds raised locally with their CPA surcharges. If a
community's CPA surcharge is less than 3%, it is not eligible to advance to the
second and third round. Then there are other rounds to other communities
under 3%.
Mr. McQuaid thanked Ms. Lantry for bringing this forward. It will be
interesting to see what the reaction at town meeting. You say it is not a tax, but
it raises the taxes. Ms. Lantry stated you need to look at this as a savings
account for the town to spend on things we have already spent money on in the
past. We are only going to spend that money if the town agrees to spend it and
we will only spend half of the money rather than all.
Mr. Jeffreys broadly supported the concept. He stated next week we will be
discussing postponing tax payments for a month and then in June we are going
to vote on whether there is going to be a 3% on everyone's tax bill. I think for
some people who are going through a difficult time right now that no matter
what they are going to vote no on that. He asked about the community housing
conditions and how seniors would be eligible. Ms. Lantry stated it is based on
income. He asked what the threshold is that would qualify a person. Ms.
Lantry replied it is based on the same formula used for the current senior
housing in town. Mr. Jeffreys stated it would be beneficial if people could
know what the threshold is in order to get favorable votes. What has the town
done in the last five years that would have qualified?
Ms. Lantry stated the Town Hall being painted, the handicap access ramp to
Town Hall, purchasing the Lane Property. Even with the low income housing
at TriTown would have qualified. He suggested having numbers in order to
===PAGE 14===
they are at. Mr. Alonzo thanked her for her presentation.
3. Review of Annual Town Meeting warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux recommended removing the four First Right of Refusal (ROFR) article and the
purchase of land located at 635 Massachusetts Avenue. She did not believe it was fiscally
prudent to purchase the 635 Mass. Ave. property. Ms. Luck agreed with Ms. Lemieux on
removing that article.
Motion: P. Luck
2n: D. McQuaid
To remove the warrant article (DD) that would approve purchasing 635 Mass. Ave.
property
Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. MeQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- nay, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Mr. Jeffreys asked if this would eliminate the option to purchase for the future, Ms. Lemieux
stated no but we should not ne borrowing at this time.
Motion: P. Luck
2n°:D. McQuaid
To remove the four ROFR articles (EE-HH) from the Annual Town meeting warrant
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr.
Alonzo -aye
Discussion about reducing amounts on other articles ensued.
4. Approval of Minutes:
•
November 19, 2019,
•
December 10, 2019
•
December 19, 2019
• January 7, 2020
• January 14, 2020
• January 21, 2020
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: P. Luck
To approve the minutes as listed
Vote: Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr.
Alonzo -aye
5. Mr. Alonzo announced he signed the following warrants on behalf of the BOS:
Payroll #20 P 20: $810,649.65
A/P# 50 20: $263,083.03
A/P #51 20: $60,188.65
Deductions #51 20: $48,397.68
6. Action Items: Ms. Adams asked what became of the hunting requests from the
Conservation Commission after this board denied it. Ms. Lemieux will follow up.
===PAGE 15===
Mr. Alonzo noted that Conservation Commission was not interested in any of the above
properties. Ms. Lemieux stated they had not heard from any other boards to date. It was noted
that on the Holman Street and Northfield Road property the 8 acre parcel (Tract A) was not
delineated well on the Assessors' map that was submitted with the notice. Mr. Alonzo asked
if the location was important if no one is interested in purchasing it.
Ms. Adams stated the Planning Board had some other reservations about the property. Mr.
Jeffreys referred to part of a memo in their packet, page 2, from the Land Use Director stating
the Planning Board was not interested in three of the properties but regarding the Holman St
and Northfield property...
"The Planning Board was concerned about the following items in relation to the packet
provided by the applicant.
1. There appears to be a significant number of contingencies included in the
Purchase and Sale. The most concerning is 24(h) and the obligation of the seller
to provide additional land to the buyer in the event that a suitable well is not
available on the land included in the agreement. The Board is concerned that
providing this additional land may change their analysis of whether to exercise
the ROFR.
2. The packet submitted does not include a plan stamped by a Registered
Professional Land Surveyor. The Planning Board is concerned that it is
difficult to adequately review the proposal without having an accurate
depiction of what land is proposed to be removed.
3. There was no property meets and bounds description included in the submitted
packet.
The Planning Board expressed concern that not having this information left too many
unknown aspects to the proposed removal from the chapter and left them unable to render
any recommendation to the Board of Selectmen."
Mr. Jeffreys pointed out Town Counsel Adam Costa had provided an opinion, "that
while there are several contingencies within the P&S, none of these are related to the
final purchase price, which is the threshold for an offer to be bona fide. In 2006 the
Chapter 61 statute was amended to include language that defined a bona fide offer, this
language reads: 'For the purposes of this chapter, a bona fide offer to purchase shall mean a
good faith offer, not dependent upon potential changes to current zoning or conditions or
contingencies relating to the potential for, or the potential extent of, subdivision of the property
for residential use or the potential for, or the potential extent of development of the property for
industrial or commercial use, made by a party unaffiliated with the landowner for a fixed
consideration payable upon delivery of thedeed."
Discussion ensued on whether to wait to hear from the Conservation Commission when
two boards are already of the opinion that they were not interested.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To not exercise the Right of First Refusal for the four properties presented
2nd: D. McQuaid
===PAGE 16===
Road parcel. It will be discussed again at another meeling.
2. Discussion on the Town Manager Performance Evaluation process and timeline
Ms. Lemieux stated she had considered the offer to move her evaluation up and appreciated
it, but wanted to try to meet the original deadline.
3. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, FY21 Capital Plan, Five Year
Financial Forecast and Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
No discussion occurred.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1
vacancy)
• ArchitecturalPreservationDistrictCommission(1 designprofessional; craftspersonor
building contractor familiar with historic renovation)
• FinanceCommittee(1 positionappointedby theFinanceCommitteeAppointing
Committee
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Planning Board (1 position appointed by theremaining membersof the Planning Board and the
Board of Selectmen until the next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of
Selectmen's Office.
Update on Saliba Property Grant Requirements:
The deadlines for the LAND and PARC grants that the Town received towards the purchase of the
Saliba property on Northfield Road will not be extended beyond the June 20 deadline. We are on
track for a May closing date on the property and are in the process of doing the following:
• I coordinated the hiring of an environmental consultant to perform an environmental
assessment on the property and this will be completed by the end of April;
• The Conservation Administrator will coordinate the purchase of a sign designating the
name and how it was cooperatively purchased with the Commonwealth;
• The Conservation Administrator will create a management plan that will need to be
submitted to the State;
===PAGE 17===
provides added features, and a larger provider network. This information will be sent out to employees at
the end of the month in time for the Open Enrollment period during May and will go into effect on July 1$.
This is a completely employee-funded optional insurance.
Green Communities Competitive Grant:
Prior to the closing of town facilities, the Green Communities Task Force had been meeting to discuss
various projects to submit for this year's Competitive Grant including LED lighting project at the Middle
School, replacement of appliances with energy efficient appliances at Turkey Hill, replacement of
appliances at various town buildings with energy efficient appliances, and funds towards the purchase
of hybrid police cruisers. I am working on trying to get estimates related to a Retro- commissioning
Report that was done during the last Green Communities Grant that had a number of recommendations
to be done at the Public Safety Building that would result in energy savings. We have until May 1st to
submit an application.
Neighborhood Clean-up of Roadside Trash:
The DP W is providing regular trash bags to volunteers that wish to participate in helping clean up their
neighborhoods by picking up roadside trash. Once the bags are full, volunteers can contact the DP W to
pick up the bags at an identified location. Please contact the DPW to request bags at 978-582- 4160.
FY 2020 Updates:
TheFinance Directorand Treasurer/Collector puttogether aprojection ofrevenues for theremainder of
this fiscal year and based on their projections using FY19 revenue figures, which would be
conservative for the remainder of the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter ofFY 20, there would be a
positive cash flow for the remainder of the fiscal year.
FY 2021 Financial Updates:
There was a virtual economic roundtable scheduled for this morning with the Chairs of the
House and Senate Committees on Ways and Means, the Secretary of the Executive Office of
Administration and Finance and other guests such as the State Treasurer, President of the
Boston Federal Reserve, the MA Taxpayers Foundation, and others to discuss the impact of
the current public health crisis on the Massachusetts economy. Due to technical issues with
the broadcasting system, it is being postponed it until next week to ensure that the system is
fixed and they are able to broadcast a live feed. Based on today's weekly briefing with the
Lieutenant Governor, the Senior Deputy Commissioner of the Division of Local Services Sean
Cronin, and officials from MEMA and the Department of Public Health, the State has not
formalized any revenue projections and they are continuing to monitor, plan and advise as
they develop their analysis.
As I relayed to the Finance Committee at their meeting on Thursday, my approach to revamping
the FY 2021 budget will be to reassess our revenue projections and FY21 expenditures as
follows:
• I have asked RRG, our assessing services firm, to work with the Land Use Director and
Building Department to review the projected New Growth figure, even though that has
been reduced twice during the development of the FY21 budget.
• To use a level funded amount from FY20 for State Aid;
• To use a level funded amount from FY20 for Local Receipts and examine if these need
to be pulled back further.
===PAGE 18===
quarter revenues of FY21 comein.
Other Department Updates:
The Assistant Town Manager and I are assisting the Assessors Department in putting together a
Request for Proposals for Tax Assessment Services as well as drafting a position description for a
Principal Assessor. The plan is to go out to bid for Principal Assessing Services at the same time
as advertising for a Principal Assessor and based on the response to both the RFP and to the Principal
Assessor position, determine the best course of action for that department.
Dueto the notice from Solid Waste Sewer Services thattheyare terminating their contract with the
Town, the DP W Director secured a new firm that will provide this service until June 30". In the interim, a
RFP isbeing developed by the DP W Directorand Sewer Business Manager that willgo out to bid and
secure a firm for the start of the new fiscal year on July 1st
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Town Counsel is holding his office hours via Zoom tomorrow with everyone that signed
up through the Doodle Poll and office hours in May will be on May 20th; 12-4 p.m.
• Disposal of Yard Waste at the old landfill off of Youngs Road will commence Saturdays from
9a.m. until 4 p.m. on April 11th until May 16th.
• I will participate in the Board of Assessors meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, April 8th at
1 p.m. via Zoom.
• The School Committee is meeting tomorrow, Wednesday, April 8th at 7:00 p.m. via a
Zoom meeting.
• I will participate in the Finance Committee will be meeting on Thursday, April 9th at
7:00 p.m. via Zoom.
• I will participate in the Sewer Commission's meeting on Tuesday, April 14th at 3
p.m. via Zoom.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENT SCHEDULE
This Board meets again on April 14 and April 21.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, was disappointed the BOS voted without input from the
Open Space Committee on the ROFR properties.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: P. Luck
To adjourn the meeting at 9:07 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Mr. Alonzo thanked all the participants of this evening's meeting.
Respectfully submitted,
clairem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
