===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Acting Police Chief Tom Gammel
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is recorded
and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel, but advised that Comcast public
access channel was experiencing technical difficulties. We are looking to stream this live over
YouTube at YouTube.com/c/lunenburgaccess/live. It can also be viewed on the YouTube
Lunenburg public access channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and asked if everyone was present and could
be heard. The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Susan Whalen, 377 Flat Hill Road, wanted to bring to the Board's attention the storm water
flooding issues on her road. The Town Manager had provided some photos of the flooding and
damage that has occurred over the years on her property. She outlined some of the actions that
were done by the Town and DP W since it was brought to their attention initially in 2002. She
believed it was time for the town to correct all the past mistakes. She added it is getting worse
progressively. Mr. Alonzo suggested Ms. Lemieux coordinate a meeting to find a solution.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
From the Town Clerk office: the last day to register to vote is Saturday, October 24th.
", the Clerk's
office will be open from 2:00-4:00 p.m. and 6:00-8:00 p.m. There will also be opportunity to
vote early on the 24th from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
Mr. Alonzo noted early voting has started and you can check the town website. He urged
everyone to vote. He thanked the Town Clerk office and her staff for all their hard work.
He thanked everyone who participated in the Lobsters for Lunenburg fundraiser for public
safety.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Administrative Assessing
Assistant, Sheila Craigen
Ms. Lemieux stated Ms. Craigen has worked for the Town for a number of years as the
Principal Clerk. She stepped into the role when Louise Paquette retired in the spring
and she has done a phenomenal job. Our Principal Assessor Sue Byrne commented that
she hasn't had a better assistant in her career. I am very pleased to offer this
recommendation to the Board.
===PAGE 2===
daniel
Ms. Lemieux read aloud her memo regarding this appointment:
I am extremely pleased to make the recommendation to the Select Board requesting the Board ratify my
appointment of Interim Police Chief Thomas Gammel to the permanent position of the Chief of Police in
Lunenburg. Interim Police Chief Thomas Gammel has been a law enforcement officer for close to 30
years. Tom attended Curry College where he earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in Criminal Justice
Administration. He began his career in Law Enforcement with the Honolulu Police Department, then
moving closer to home taking a position with the Pepperell Police Department. Tom was later hired by the
Lunenburg Police Department where he has served for 20 years, 16 years as a Sergeant, 2 years as
Lieutenant and the last 2½ months as the Interim Police Chief. During the last couple of months Tom has
seamlessly stepped into the position of Interim Chief and this opportunity has provided proof of his
abilities to become the next Chief of Police.
I would like to discuss the process that led to the decision to offer Interim Police Chief Gammel the permanent
position. Due to former Chief Marino's retirement at the end of July 2020, the Assistant Town Manager/HR
Director advertised the position at the beginning of July on the town website, MMA, the local newspaper, and
Indeed.com and we received a total of 45 applications. The Assistant Town Manager pre-screened these
applications to eliminate any applicants that did not meet the advertised minimum qualifications, including a
Bachelors in Criminal Justice, a minimum of 10 years' experience in police work with 5 of those years in a
supervisory/command role, certification as a full time MA Police Officer, and having a Class A License to Carry
Firearms. For the next step in the process I asked a panel to review the remaining applications and participate in the
interview process. This panel included Fire Chief Pat Sullivan, Fitchburg Police Chief Ernest Martineau, Ayer
Police Chief and Lunenburg resident Bill Murray, and the Assistant Town Manager Julie Belliveau. The panel
reviewed the remaining pool of applicants, which were then ranked by the panelists according to the presentation
of their application materials, the level of their education, the skills that were identified in their application, their
related police work history, their references, and the overall completeness of their application. Based on these
results we agreed on interviewing 7 of the 12 candidates. Prior to the interview, each candidate was asked to
provide a two page written response to a question that addressed a hypothetical question about the positive and
negative impact of the use of body cameras on the citizens of Lunenburg and how to respond to concerns from the
administration and privacy concerns of the public. The in- person interviews were held on October 5*h and October
6th and all candidates were asked the same questions by the panelists and each panelist ranked the response to each
question on a scale of 1-5. Although we had qualified applicants, the panelists all agreed unanimously that Interim
Chief Gammel stood out from the rest and was the best person for this position. Tom's responses to the questions
highlighted his intimate knowledge about the town, our citizens, his staff, and how his years under former Chief
Marino have prepared him for this role. He spoke about collaboration, keeping the tradition of an open dialogue
with the community through a forum like Coffee with the Chief, spoke of recruiting candidates from the Step
Internship Program that has been successful, the positive impact of community events that the police attend, and
"coaching up" to help them be prepared to be future leaders in the department. Another comment Tom made in his
final closing remarks was that no matter what the decision was, he planned on remaining with the department as he
recognized that the Town has invested in him and he was invested in remaining in Lunenburg until the end of his
career. In my opinion, this comment demonstrated his level of commitment to not only his profession but in
particular to the Lunenburg Police Department and was a testament to his character.
I have discussed Tom's background but it is also important to highlight other attributes such as his professional
approach that is also welcoming, his love of football and the St. Bernard's High School Football team where he is
the Assistant Varsity Football Coach and Defensive Coordinator, and how highly he speaks of his wife and grown
children. To have an internal candidate that has worked with the Town for the last twenty years and under former
Chief Marino's leadership, we are fortunate to have an internal candidate that can continue the positive influence
on the department and within the community.
===PAGE 3===
forward
Mr. Alonzo stated it was an incredible tribute to the department to be able to appoint from
within. He thanked the prior chief and the one before him for creating that environment.
Mr. Dwyer echoed everyone's comments and lauded Ms. Lemieux's hiring process. He
thanked Mr. Marino for creating the environment as well.
Chief Gammel thanked the Board for all the kind words and support. He stated we have an
outstanding police department. The mentorship, friendship and support provided to him by
former Chief Marino is what helped and guided him in this direction. He thanked Ms. Lemieux
for her continued confidence in him and looked forward to working with her in the future. He
thanked his family, his wife and children, who gave him the foundation for the person he is
today. He assured the Select Board and the citizens of the community that they will get the best
that he can offer every day adding he loves the department and the community and this is an
honor that humbles him.
Motion: K. Adams
2n: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Tom Gammel to Police Chief.
Vote: Mr. Marino- abstain, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr.
Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Chief Gammel thanked everyone and exited the meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
Vote on Special Town Meeting Warrant and remainder of recommendations on articles
Ms. Lemieux directed the Board members to the remaining articles:
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from
available funds, all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2021
Budget, under Article 7 of the June 13, 2020 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.
FY21 Budget Adjustments from 6/13/20 ATM to
11/17/20 STM
Article 1, 11/17/2020 STM - FY21 Budget Adjustments
Line #
Appropriation
Voted 6/13/20
11/17/20 STM
Adjustments
6
Group Health
2,415,326.19
(57,871.00)
29
Technology Dept.
232,444.40
11,745.00
39
Police Department
1,807,654.69
30,161.00
43
Fire Department
1,104,714.36
38,928.00
54
General Health
36,400.60
3,816.00
Expense
Amended
237 458.187
244,189.40
1,837,815.69
1,143,642.36
40,216.60
===PAGE 4===
Program
OPEB Funding.
Special Purpose
Stabilization Funding
Prior Year Expense
476.21
Purchase of Streetlights in order to
91,000.00
convert to LED
Regular Stabilization Account
212,252.00
Total Expenditure Adjustments
6/13/20 ATM Revenue Surplus - Raise & Appropriate
Change in New Growth
Unexpended Capital Reappropriated
Total Revenue Adjustments
Current Surplus Available
110,000.00
250,000.00
150.00
110,000.00
250,000.00
626.21
91,000.00
212,252.00
1,198,583.00
1,056,425.41
135,332.00
6,825.61
1,198,583.02
0.02
The top section addresses all the changes to the budget in Article 1.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd:M. Jeffreys
To recommend Article 1 as presented
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate all sums of money ($494,333)
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the FY 2021 Capital Plan, under Article 6 of the June 13,
2020 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met prior to this meeting and voted
unanimously to recommend approval of the amended Capital Plan.
Ms. Lemieux presented a chart of the deferred capital plan items.
FY21 CP Deferred Projects
Category
CIP#
PD17-02-A
DPW17-11
FM16-02
FM20-06
LPS19-02
FM16-11
FM20-07
FM20-02
FM20-10
Dept.
Police
Highway
DPW
DPW
Schools
DPW
DPW
DPW
DPW
Project Name
Police Vehicle, 1 Marked Replacement
One Ton Dump with Plow
PSB, Carport Reconfiguration
Senior Center, Kitchen Remodel
Admin Air Conditioning, THES
Library, Carpet
Ritter, Kitchen Remodel
Ritter, ADA Ramp Design
Cemetery Parking Lot
Vehicle
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
for consideration at STM
$67,000
$58,833
$135,000
$22,000
$28,000
$126,000
$12,000
$25,500
$20,000
Total Capital Plan
$494,333
Funding:
Raise & appropriate
Free cash
Unexpended Capital
Premium Reserved for Capital
Total
$487,507
$6,826
$494,333
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Lemieux stated the recommendation for this ties into the purchase of street lights, in the
amount of either $66,000 (Option 1) or $$91,000 (Option 2), so it was recommended to place the
street light article (below) before the regular stabilization article.
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money, for the purpose of converting the Town's existing streetlights to energy
efficient and long lasting LED fixtures or, alternatively, acquiring said streetlights for potential future
conversion to energy efficient and long lasting LED fixtures; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Green Communities Task Force)
Discussion ensued about recommending the street light article or not, centering around the cost
of conversion, maintenance and overseeing the vendor for DPW while operating with reduced
staff and a transition to a new DPW Director.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article 19
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Town Manager)
The Board will defer a recommendation until the final monetary amount is determined
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 21, FY 22 and FY 23 Lunenburg Professional
Firefighters Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2023 with PFFM Local
5358A; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 21, FY 22 and FY 23 Lunenburg Municipal Employees
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2023 with AFSCME, Council 93; or
take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
These two articles' recommendations were deferred due to an Executive Session being held
following tonight's meeting regarding them.
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $68,097.59 into the Reserve
Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer
Commission)
Ms. Lemieux reported the Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund for the Sewer Enterprise was
created in FY2016 as their regular stabilization fund. This article is asking to deposit $68,097.59
===PAGE 6===
"Salary Administration Plan,"
as follows: the position of Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator to be
added and assigned Grade 9; and the position of Principal Assessor to be added and assigned Grade 15; or
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Recommendations for Articles 13 and 14 regarding 250 Howard Street were deferred due to an
agreement not being finalized. Recommendation for Article 15 regarding the Bright Farms TIF
agreement was also deferred; as well as Article 20 regarding Stormwater Management; NPDES
Phase II Permits.
2. Discussion on Bright Farms Tax Increment Financing Agreement
After some discussion it was decided to negotiate for an 8 year TIF agreement. Ms. Lemieux
reviewed the tracked written agreement with the Board. Suggestion was made to solicit
Lunenburg residents for the available positions by holding a job fair in town. Ms. Lemieux noted
this will be reviewed by the state and language should not mandate things that are not achievable
to meet or does not meet the confines of the law. The draft will be presented to Town counsel
and Bright Farms for review.
he Board neviewed ahe polesy for sine age on soug pested at the previous meeting
Motion: J.Marino
2"°: M. Jeffreys
To adopt the approval signage policy for town property
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye •
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Warrants: Mr. Alonzo reported he had signed the following warrants:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #17 21, dated 10/13/2020, in the amount of
$2,404,348.39;
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #18 21, dated 10/14/2020, in the amount of
$578,938.48;
• Accounts Payable Warrant #19 21, dated 10/13/2020, in the amount of
$39,245.41;
• Payroll Warrant #8P21, dated 10/15/2020, in the amount of $830,109.36
2. Minutes
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the mintes of September 15, 2020 as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
3. Action Items
===PAGE 7===
she wanted it to have.
4. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee voted unanimously to recommend approval
of the articles that were deferred from the Annual Town Meeting warrant. In November we will
be reviewing requests for the next fiscal year. We also discussed what constitutes a capital
expense versus an operating budget expense.
Mr. Dwyer reported the Planning Board meeting in September addressed the site plan and storm
water management plan review for a special permit for Bright Farms. They are currently
reviewing the engineered drawings. They are also working on some amendments to the ANK
approval process. They are discussing who is going to be on the TCP Building Design
Committee as no one has stepped up to represent them.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and as of October 16th there are 84 confirmed positive
cases in Lunenburg and one death.
Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission(1 vacancy)
• Parks Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by Select Board and Town
Moderator for member at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Ms. Lemieux reported Executive Assistant Peterson is in the process of updating the talent bank
form.
Trunk or Treat:
The Parks and Recreation Director has been organizing a Trunk or Treat event that will be a drive by
Trunk or Treat for Lunenburg families. There will be 25 businesses/organizations participating as
the "trunks" that will be set up around the MS/HS parking lot passing out treats. There were a
number of families on the wait list for this event that have now been included in the 250
maximum participants. The event will be held on Saturday, October 31st from 10:30 a.m. until
2:30 p.m.
===PAGE 8===
Drive, the pedestrian crossing from the Kitter to town Hall, and the Main Street at Wak Avenue
Sidewalk connection is $560,000. The engineer's fee for this project, which covers the design tor
the whole project ($560,000) is $45,000 (approximately 8%). This is well below the typical 12-
15% of projects of this size and type. The scope covers all survey work needed, design,
preparation of contract bid documents and bid phase assistance. The grant will cover $258,460 of
the total cost, $22,000 of the cost will be covered by the capital project for ADA Ramp and
Sidewalk improvements to the sidewalk in front of Town Hall, and the remainder (estimated
$324,540) will be paid out of Chapter 90 funds as was discussed at the various meetings the
Board has had on this topic when developing a Complete Streets construction project application.
Grant Received by the Town Clerk:
The Town Clerk applied for and received a grant for $5,000 from the Center for Tech and Civic Life
for the purpose of planning and operating a safe and secure election in 2020. These funds can be
used towards ballot drop boxes, poll worker recruitment, hazard pay, training expenses, polling
place rental, cleaning expenses, temporary staffing, vote by mail or absentee voting equipment
and election administration equipment.
Post65Program:
Our Health Insurance account representative and the Health Trust Project Manager under MIIA
approached us in late September about participating in the Post 65 program that would move a
small subset of retirees over age 65 that are not eligible to receive free Medicare Part A, as they
were hired priorto 1986 and were not required to contribute to Social Security to a Medicare plan.
Therefore, this small group of retirees did not earn the required 40 quarters to qualify for free
Medicare Part A. These retirees became known as "Medicare ineligibles" and remained on the
HMO and PPO plans with the active employees and under 65 retirees.
The Post 65 program was a concept that originated with Blue Cross Blue Shield of MAquite a
few years ago and it was first introduced in the Town of Wareas a pilot program. MIlA has since
rolled it outto much larger groups with some hepfrom Social Security. MIIA has transitionedover
300 retireesto date and estimates that the program is now saving these municipalities closeto $10
million dollars annually combined.
Keepingthissmallsubsetofretirees in our HMOand PPO population isa contributing factortoour
overall claims costs. In general they require more medical care and are prescribed more
pharmaceuticals. Medical cost and prescription trends have increased dramatically overthe past
decade and MIIA estimates that this population incurs $2 in claims costs for every $1 of premium
dollars that is paid toward their coverage by the municipal entities and the retirees themselves.
MIIA has worked with BCBS on claims analysis and continues to monitor the cost impact
annually. On average each individual retiree and spouse in this population will incur about
$20,000 in medical and prescription costs per year, directly impacting the claims and premium
increases for the Town. This program allows us to shift these claims to Medicare.
As part of participating in the program, the Town would agree to pay the Part A premium, Part A
and B penalties for these retirees and MIIA would offer a 2% discount on our active health
insurance rate renewal for FY22 in order to offset the initial costs of making this transition on
July 1,2021. By moving these retirees from our active to retiree plans it is estimated this will shift
===PAGE 9===
this cost will be far less than the cost of the claims that the associated retirees are expected to incur.
Our actuary estimated this will yield an approximate $5-6 Million reduction in OPEB liabilities.
This change must be agreed to by the Public Employee Committee, which we have a meeting
tomorrow and if agreed to, we would need to notify MIlA by the end of the week.
Fraudulent Unemployment Claims:
A number ofmunicipalities across the state have been receiving fraudulent unemployment
claims filed inthe names of current employees and according tothe Departmentof
Unemployment Assistance this is part of a national unemployment fraud scheme. As of
October 19th
, a total of21 unemployment claims have been identified as fraudulent. The
Payroll/Benefits Coordinator receives notice of new claims, contacts the employee to verify
if a valid claim and if it is fraudulent notifies the employee of the process they need to
follow. The Payroll/Benefits Coordinator also notifies the Department of Unemployment
Assistance that the claim is fraudulent, and the employee has been told to notify the Police
Department as well to file a police report. To datethe Town has not been charged forany of
these fraudulent claims but if we were to becharged it would be follow the standard appeal
process under the Department of Unemployment Assistance.
Sale of Surplus Vehicles through Municibid:
The Department of Public Works Administrative Assistant advertised surplus vehicles and
equipment on Municibid, an online auction site, and four vehicles and one piece of equipment was
sold for a total of $12,455. The DPW Administrative Assistant is proceeding to advertise 10
surplus police cruisers on Municibid with the auction going live tomorrow. This will be a general
fund receipt and will be considered surplus revenue taken in during F Y21.
Update on DPW Director Search:
After receiving the DP W Director's written notice on September 21 st that his last day before
retirement would be on October 30th, the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director advertised the
position that same week on the town website, the American Public Works Association, the
newspaper and on Indeed.com with a preference given to applicants that submitted applications
by October 14th, but the position will be open until filled. To date we have received 7
applications and after pre-screening the applications we will be interviewing the 4 candidates that
met the qualifications.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• School Committee is meeting through Zoom on Wednesday, October 21st at 6:30 p.m.
• Conservation Commission ismeeting through Zoom on Wednesday, October 21 st at 7:00
p.m.
• TCP Building Design Committee is meeting through Zoom on Thursday, October 22nd at
5:30 p.m.
• Historical Commission is meeting through Zoom on Monday, October 26th at 6:30 p.m.
===PAGE 10===
WORKSHOP: SELECT BOARD GOAL ON THE OLD PRIMARY BUILDING
To identify, define and propose at least one project to the 2021 Annual Town Meeting regarding the use and/or re-
use of the Old Primary School building, and/or the land on which it sits (a continuation of last year's Select Board
i. Action: Have open sessions with other boards, committees and commissions as well as with the general
public in discussing the options defined from last year's goal. Evaluate the pros, cons and costs for
each option, potential variations as well as possible timelines.
il. Action: Review exist information and documents and/or engage the appropriate professionals to create such
documents that provide for the accurate assessment, including cost, of, at least, (a) the demolition of
the existing building; (b) removal of hazardous materials from the building and site; (c) conceptual
rendering(s) of the property post-demolition; (d) a design (or designs), prepared by a landscape
architect, of potential concepts for the property, specifically focusing on open space and a "Town
Common" theme
ili. Action:Determine one (or two, if applicable) option(s) to be fully developed into a proposed project for the
building and/or site to be presented to the 2021 Annual Town Meeting for vote, including
approximate costs, plans and necessary funding.
Discussion ensued about the previous board's consensus to recommend demolishing the old
Primary School due to the deteriorated condition of the building. Mr. Alonzo stated the obstacle
to this is there are two committees (Historical Commission and APDC) we have to deal with as
far as demolishing it. We need to meet with them and come to mutual agreement. Mr. Jeffreys
added if we have a vision for a park and we should also include the Parks Commission. Ms.
Adams suggested a rendering showing what could be there. Mr. Marino agreed with Mr. Jeffreys
and Ms. Adams. Mr. Alonzo stated there is no funding available for a rendering. Ms. Lemieux
noted the Board needs to start with the type of space. For example, is it going to be an open
space or memorial park?
Mr. Alonzo would like to have a warrant article on the 2021 Annual Town Meeting that provides
funding needed to demolish the building, remove contaminated materials, etc. Suggestion was
made to do a site walk of the area. It was decided to go October 31s at 9:30 a.m., then meet with
the other boards in December. Conceptual drawings could be done in January.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo stated their next board meetings are November 3rd and 10th; the special town meeting
is the 17" at 7:00 at the middle/high school auditorium.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, invited the Select Board to the Finance Committee meeting on
October 29'". Green Community Chair Dave Blatt will also be attending. Ms. Adams read her
Open Meeting Law complaint aloud. She stated she tried to bring it up a couple of times with
this board and that frustration led to her filing the complaint.
===PAGE 11===
article submission.
Mr. Alonzo stated they would be entering Executive Session pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30, Section
21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open meeting may
have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the chair so declares.
(Municipal Employees and Fire Unions) and to not return to open session.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd:M. Jeffreys
To enter into Executive Session for the above stated purpose
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo reminded everyone watching that Halloween hours are posted and asked everyone to
adhere to the safety guidelines.
*****
***************Executive Session Minutes are Separate******
******
The meeting adjourned at 9:57 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
