===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director; Rich
Benevento and Bill Mertz, both of World Tech Engineering; Sue Doherty, Council on Aging
Director
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting will be
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. It can be viewed on the
YouTube Lunenburg public access channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and asked if everyone was present and could be
heard. The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave MacDonald, Island Road, commented on the fundraiser Lobsters for Lunenburg. All profits
will go to the Lunenburg Police & Fire Association. It will be a "Grab and Go" event due to
Covid -19. Pick up is October 17, Noon -3:30 P.M. at the TC Passios Building. $30 each
includes 1 cooked lobster, potato, cole slaw, and corn muffin. To order visit
lakeshirley.com/lobsters.html or email: davebettymacdonald@comcast.net. Orders must be
received by 10/12/20. There is a limit of 500 lobsters, so order early. There is a raffle for (2)
$250 landscaping gift cards from Lakeview Nursery and Powell Stone & Gravel; $5.00 for one
of a book of five for $20.00. Michael Nault, 56 Brookview Terrace and Corinne Scouten,
President of the Lunenburg Lions Club, both advocated for the fundraiser as well.
Mr. Jeffreys joined the meeting at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
From the Town Clerk office: the last day to register to vote is Saturday, October 24*
", the Clerk's
office will be open from 2:00 - 4:00 p.m. and 6:00 -8:00 p.m. that day. There will also be
opportunity to vote early on the 24th from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
The informational voting booklet that was mailed out by the Secretary of the Commonwealth
includes a form to register to vote for new voters. If you need more information, please contact
the Town Clerk office. Early voting has changed from the TC Passios Building during the week
to the United Parish Hall located at 39 Main Street. Voting on the weekends will continue at
Town Hall.
APPOINTMENTS
Meeting with WorldTech Engineering re: Complete Streets Project Design
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town had been awarded $258,460 through the Complete Streets
program and Mr. Benevento and Mr. Mertz were here to present the next step of the process.
===PAGE 2===
Highland Street and along Oak Avenue by providing a new sidewalk and wheelchair ramps
through a grassy area which includes some grading to make it all ADA compliant. Mr. Mertz
congratulated the Town on getting the Complete Streets grant.
Next steps will be to get a design contract executed with the town and completing a topographic
survey in order to start the design. Then we will prepare contract bid documents to put the
project out to bid. The idea would be to have a spring construction start.
Mr. Alonzo thanked them for their update and they exited the meeting.
Requests to Extend Temporary Outdoor Liquor Service per Governor Baker's Order
No. 50: 1) Smokestack Roasters (39 Massachusetts Avenue)
2) American Graffiti (113 Summer Street)
Ms. Lemieux stated a new order from the Governor extends the outdoor alcohol liquor service
for an additional 60 days past the end of the state of emergency.
Motion: J. Marino
2°: K. Adams
To approve the requests to extend the outdoor liquor service per the Governor's Order
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
Update from the Council on Aging Director on Eagle House Activities
Ms. Doherty reported the Council on Aging files an annual report to the Executive Office of
Elder Affairs. Due to the coronavirus pandemic, everything came to a halt in March of 2020.
Staff began working remotely from home making wellness phone calls and coming in to take
over the Meals on Wheels deliveries. Ms. Doherty stated she continued her 40 hour work
week from both the Senior Center and home. Van service was stopped after March 20 but
continued again for medical appointments and prescription pickups in May. The outpouring of
offers of help from community organizations has been overwhelming. The Salvation Army
gave us food boxes to distribute to people. We had volunteers making face masks. There were
no layoffs in their department. The only cut was one four-hour shift of a kitchen aide and
another two hour cut due to the fact there was no one in the building preparing meals; we gave
them other jobs to do on the "drive through" programs. We have collected $4,565 in grant
donations from different organizations. We are really grateful for that. We have started a few
indoor wellness programs with no more than 10 people at a time, such as chair yoga, grief
support and watching a movie. We are also doing outdoor events such as a parking lot concert
and the Memory Café, which is limited to 20 people which includes the clients and their
caretakers. We have a musical performer coming in for them.
Currently there is no eating in the building. But we served more seniors this year than last.
The Police Department has assisted in the drive through programs and the Fire Department
will be running a Fire Safety program in October. We have an Alzheimer's/dementia family
===PAGE 3===
Committee
Ms. Lemieux reported Ms. Mallari had resigned due to her work load and requested Assistant
Treasurer/Collector Sue Murchie be appointed in her place.
Motion: M. Jeffreys this to the Senior Tax Work Off Commito
2': T. Dwyer
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
• Appointment of Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Julie Belliveau to Senior Tax
Work Off Committee
Ms. Lemieux noted Ms. Forest was inadvertently not reappointed in June to the committee but
does not want to continue. Ms. Belliveau has volunteered to serve in her place.
Motion: J. Marino
2": M. Jeffreys
To appoint Julie Belliveau to the Senior Tax Work Off Committee
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Temporary Telework Policy-this was tabled until the next meeting
2. Amended Emergency Family and Medical Leave Policy
Ms. Lemieux reported this section only is amended to go along with the collective bargaining
agreements' wording.
CALCULATION OF EFMLA BENEFITS
The first ten (10) workdays of EFMLA are unpaid. However, during this time, an employee may be eligible to receive
Emergency Paid Sick Leave under the FFCRA (refer to the Town of Lunenburg's Emergency Paid Sick Leave
Policy). Alternatively, an employee may elect to use existing vacation, or personal, or sick leave in accordance with
the Fown of Lunenburg's FMLA Policy employee's applicable union contract or Salary Administration Plan.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To accept the amendment as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Approval of Minutes of August 4, 2020
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of August 4, 2020
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Warrants a week he sioned the following warants
Mr. Alonzo reported last week he signed the following warrants:
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Jellreys reported the Boara of Library rustees met last week. The Beanstalk Pole Reading
challenge began last week and there are 47 readers signed up. They are also trying to increase
their social media activity. Budgetary-wise, things are looking good. Slots to come in to the
library are being filled up and it is going well. The Charter change regarding their duties was
approved and they were excited to learn that. Their request for administering their trust funds is
currently being reviewed by the legislature.
The TCP Building Design Committee is looking at the general footprint of the building and it
continues to be a work in progress. Right now the committee is still identifying what all the
needs for the building are from the Town and School departments and community organizations.
There are more needs than space to accommodate all of them. Discussion had ensued on getting
their minutes posted.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met. Request forms have been sent to
departments. There will be a warrant article on the Special Town Meeting (STM) to address
items not funded at the Annual Town Meeting and we will be reevaluating those and making
recommendations for the STM.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Policy on approval process for signage on town property
Mr. Alonzo stated this was discussed at the last meeting. He read the draft aloud:
TOWN OF LUNENBURG DRAFT SIGN POLICY
The purpose of this policy is to designate the authorized location, size, and organizations that can
request temporary placement of signs on town property.
1. This policy applies to non-profit and civic organizations advertising events on town property.
Municipal and School events are exempt from this policy but must adhere to the town's sign bylaw.
2. There are
designated sites within the Town of Lunenburg that temporary signs can be placed.
An organization can request only one of those locations at the same time to allow other
organizations the opportunity to advertise their events. A designated area along Main Street
adjacent to the Ritter Memorial Building will be assigned to your request. Requests will be made
on a first come, first serve basis and if all designated sites are being used, the request will not be
granted until there is available space.
3. Signs may be placed two weeks prior to an event and must be removed the day after the event.
4. Requests for placement of a temporary sign advertising an event must be for events thatare
located in the Town of Lunenburg.
5. Signage must meet all the requirements under the town's sign bylaw.
6. Any display of signage not following this policy or not approved by this office, the violator will
be immediately notified to remove the sign or if the party cannot be located the town will remove
the sign.
7. Sign requests will be approved by the Town Manager according to the guidelines of this
policy.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo read the key points of the document into the record. He noted only Mr. Jeffreys, Ms.
Adams and himself had performed the evaluation due to the fact that Mr. Marino and Mr. Dwyer
were recently elected.
PERFORMANCE ON PRIOR YEAR GOALS
Town Manager: Heather Lemieux
Date of Evaluation:
Review Period From: 7/1/2019 to: 6/30/2020 (Lunenburg FY20)
Type of Review:
MAnnual
1. Goal: Develop and Implement Steps towards Redevelopment/Reuse of 925 Mass Ave
Annual Assessment:
Complete
In Progress
Not Undertaken
2. Goal: Implementation of Recycling Contamination Enforcement Program
Annual Assessment:
M Complete In Progress
Not Undertaken
3. Goal: Identify. Plan. and Implement Accessibility Improvements
Annual Assessment:
Complete
LIn Progress
Not Undertaken
RATING SCALE
4
The following scale will be used to rate the Town Manager's performance in all categories.
Consistently Exceeds Expectations:
ormance consistenty exceeds expectations. The ee ml quality of work is excellent, resus far
Often Exceeds Expectations:
Performance often exceeds expectations. Demonstrates the ability to take on progressive
responsibility showing high success and most annual goals were met.
===PAGE 6===
Performance is inadequate and employee demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to meet job
standards and performance expectations of the position. Immediate and sustained improvement is
required.
N/O
Not observed:
This rating is used when the reviewer has not directly observed the actions of the Town
Manager. It will not be counted in the compilation of scores.
1. Individual Characteristics/Professionalism
• Is dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public and personal relationships in
order to merit the respect and confidence of the elected officials, other officials and employees,
and of the public. Demonstrates accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and
honestly.
•
Treats others in a fair, consistent, impartial, and professional manner. Is effective in dealing
with people without arousing antagonism and demonstrates an understanding of difficult
situations.
•
Maintains an open and approachable manner, presents a positive outlook and sets an example
for subordinates.
RATING -3.6 (Between Often/Consistently Exceeds Expectations)
Professional towards the Select Board, staff and residents at all times. Communication
is always kind and respectful even though it is not easy to collect concrete data in
regards to a variety of personal requests. Exhibits the highest levels of integrity, honesty
and ethics. Respects the office and consistently displays an unwavering commitment to
the residents of Lunenburg. Holds herself accountable to the same high standards that
she expects and demands from others.
2. Problem Solving/Decision-Making/Planning:
• Anticipates and analyzes problems to develop effective approaches for solving them. Willing
to try new ideas proposed by the Board members and/or staff.
• Anticipates future needs, organizes work operations, and establishes timetables for work units
or projects. Is aware of technological advances and changing standards; identifies and
understands trends. Effectively allocates resources and predicts the impact of service delivery
• Knows when to take actionand what type of action is appropriate.
• Effectively allocates resources to provide service to the community. Anticipates stakeholder
needs and attitudes, and the impact of policies and procedures, and responds appropriately.
RATING -3.3 (Between Often/Consistently Exceeds Expectations)
===PAGE 7===
2. Professional Skills and Knowledge:
• Maintains knowledge of current developments affecting the practice of local government
management and is familiar with applicable local, state and federal legislation and
regulations related to Town services.
• Demonstrates skill in listening, speaking and writing, persuading without diminishing the
views of others.
• Has a full working knowlodge of the administrative and management systems and procedures.
Understands and implements long-range and strategic planning techniques; identifies trends
that will affect the community; demonstrates an understanding and ability to analyze and
facilitate policy choices that will benefit the community in the long run.
RATING -3.3 (Between Often/Consistent/y Exceeds Expectations)
Clearly knowledgeable in all aspects of municipal governing including applicable legislation at all
levels while also knowing what makes us unique as a community. When she doesn't have an answer
directly, she commits to following up with an answer and/or explanation and does so in a timely
manner. Listens and communicates very well, always with an eye to furthering the discussion
without alienating any involved party.
3. Organizational Leadership and Personnel Management:
Builds cooperation and consensus among and within diverse groups, helping them identify
common goals and act effectively to achieve them; recognizes interdependent relationships and
multiple causes of community issues; and anticipates the consequences of policy decisions.
• Encourages the development and high-level performance of staff and employees throughout
the organization. Effectively selects and hires employees for position vacancies.
• Professionally manages the compensation and benefits plan.
• Develops and executes sound personnel procedures and practices. Seeks to foster high
morale and cohesiveness among employees.
• Effectively plans, organizes and delegates work. Monitors results and evaluates performance
of those supervised, and provides feedback in a timelymanner.
RATING -2 (Meets Expectations)
All staff respect and have confidence in the Town Manager and view her as fair and equitable. Works
well with all Town departments and certainly encourages morale and employee development. Uses
sound employment practices and hires strong, qualified people. But personnel management is complex
to evaluate, especially when the Select Board is only likely to encounter information when something
has been escalated to our attention.
Improvements are to be had in work delegation (which, with the addition of the Asst. Town Manager,
should be possible) as she takes on a workload that may be unsustainable. Due to her investment in
people and processes, the Town Manager is sometimes defensive of personnel when there are clear
===PAGE 8===
customer service in staff.
• Communicates effectively with the public. Maintains respectful, polite, and civil speech
and demeanor in dealings with all.
• Maintains good working relationship with legislators, media, and public groups/organizations,
as well as with other regional, state, and federal governmentagencies.
RATING - 3.3 (Between Often/Consistently Exceeds Expectations)
Maintains strong relationships with groups, organizations and leaders that represent the various parts
of Lunenburg. She treats everyone respectfully and fairly and the community has overwhelming
confidence in her. Fully understands the service aspect of municipal government and the need for clear,
concise communication and targeted public outreach. Responds in a timely manner to all town resident
correspondence and seeks input and advice from others, when needed, to form those responses.
5. Fiscal Management:
• Prepares and administers the budget; shows knowledge of budgeting principles and practices, revenue
sources, projection techniques, and financial control systems; presents information in an intelligent and
accessible format.
• Makes the best possible use of available funds, conscious of the need to operate the local
government efficiently and effectively. Determines the cost effectiveness of programs, and
compares alternative strategies.
• As Chief Procurement Officer, effectively manages Town purchasing of supplies and services,
disposition of town property, and construction projects
• Establishes and manages sound fiscal policies including Five Year Financial Forecast, financial policies,
and Capital Plan.
RATING -3.3 (Between Often/Consistently Exceeds Expectations)
The only real split in the Select Board. Some view the Town Manager as having strong abilities and
financial "know-how" in analyzing, building and executing all financial aspects of the Town, both short
and long-term; some believe that not enough attention has been paid to the potential of an economic
downturn due to the pandemic.
She has, during her tenure, effectively managed the budget through the use of realistic objectives,
reasonable forecasts and principled budgetary policies. Flexible in the face of new data and
emerging trends, but not prone to overreacting to non-supported conjecture and wild speculation.
Her performance during the pandemic has highlighted those skills and qualities.
6. Relations with Members of the Board:
• Maintains effective communication with the Board. Maintains mutual trust and treats all
Board members equally.
• Offers professional advice to the Board on items requiring board action, with
===PAGE 9===
modes of communication (phone, email, and in-person) and always makes the time to be available and
helpful even during these times of so much change. Follows up with all requests, listens carefully to
advice and suggestions and has remained calm, professional and effective, even in the face of harsh
criticism and undue negativity. She is a pleasure to work with.
7. Reporting
• Provides regular information and reports to the Board concerning matters of importance to
the local government, using the Town Charter as a guide.
• Reports produced by the Manager are accurate, comprehensive, concise and written to
their intended audience.
• Produces and handles reports in a way to convey the message that affairs of the organization
are open to public scrutiny.
RATING -4 (Consistently Exceeds Expectations)
The Town Manager communicates well and consistently. Provides detailed weekly reports as well as
supplemental information between meetings. Information is always clear, concise, accurate and of the
highest standards. When important decisions are being faced by the Board, she supplies all requisite
data and analysis for us to make an informed decision and is always willing to do further research
when asked by members.
This is always welcome, of course, but is especially important this year with the ongoing pandemic and
the volumes of ever-changing data and information from a variety of sources.
OVERALL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
Best Achievement:
There are numerous to choose from but the Select Board has singled out two:
(1) Her ability to navigate the Town through uncharted and unsettled waters of the COVID-19
pandemic. Things were not as anticipated but, as a Town Manager, she moved us forward. What caught
everyone off-guard created an avalanche of new work for every department in Town, all of it to be
orchestrated by the Town Manager. Policies, procedures, legislation, Governor's Executive Orders,
health regulations and countless other recommendations were changing daily sometimes faster than
that) while she had to determine how to keep the Town running through it all.
The way we operated was changing at a moment's notice. It took incredible amounts of time and almost
Herculean effort to keep up, but she managed to do it. The effort and the achievement are both highly
commendable and surely need to be singled out and recognized.
(2) The financial management of the Town. Progress has been made on Town goals, like the Pavement
Management Plan, the Capital Planning Budget and adding strategic personnel as needs require. All
the while maintaining healthy reserves and the second highest bond rating. The annual audits of the
===PAGE 10===
morale, performance and efficiency would be welcome. Also, an evaluation of the current organizational
chart with a look toward how departments might/should look in the next 3, 5 or 10 years could be very
helpful in strategizing what is needed. Employee guidelines and policies regarding performance and
evaluation should be reviewed and, whenever necessary, revised and enforced. All personnel need to
know that the Town Manager is fair but alsofirm.
(2) Work with the Select Board in researching additional ways for a wider variety of voices to be heard
and understood within the town government process. Lunenburg could benefit from an environment
where nobody has the feeling that their voice isn't being heard.
(3) The concern that we (or the Town Manager) are demanding too much and that a sustainable
work/life balance is not being established or maintained. Communications that consistently come on
weekends, while on vacation and late at night are warnings of someone working too hard for too long.
The national desire to be "exceptional" notwithstanding, we know that there is much to do but we feel
that having a proportionate sense of productivity would better (and longer) serve the town and Town
Manager both.
General Comments:
We are highly pleased with the amount and quality of work that she has achieved. Highly knowledgeable and
unwaveringly reliable; does her work diligently and responsibly; doesn't promote conflict but doesn't shy away
from it when it inevitably arises; asserts her positions clearly with no editorializing or grandstanding. A very
impressive and extremely competent leader that serves Lunenburg well. Overall, the Select Board believes the
Town Manager often exceeds expectations.
Review Special Town Meeting warrant articles and vote
Ms. Lemieux reported additional articles had been added to the STM warrant. Article (C.) was to
pay any prior fiscal year bills and was requested by the Finance Director. Another (J.), is to add
two positions and their grades (interim heavy equipment operator and principal assessor) to the
Salary Administration Plan. This was requested by the Personnel Committee. Article (K.) was to
purchase 250 Howard Street property. Article (L.) is to place the TIF (Tax Increment Financing
Agreement) for Bright Farms on the warrant. (M.) is to allow the TC Building Design
Committee to submit a report at STM. She anticipated three additional warrant articles to come
in.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve placing Article K on the STM warrant
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Motion: J, Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
===PAGE 11===
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• ArchitecturalPreservation District Commission(1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Parks Commission (2 vacancies)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy-member at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Talent Bank forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board Office.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1, ii):
I submitted a Brownfields Redevelopment Fund grant application for the maximum award amount of
$250,000 to MassDevelopment by the deadline of Friday, September 1 8th. Notification of selection of
sites is anticipated to be made sometime in November.
Fuel Tank Bids:
Two Bids for the Fuel Tank Removal and Installation project were received on September 21st. The low
bidder, Green Site Services Group, had a base bid of $345,500 and there are 4 other unit prices that if
needed be are an additional $17,000. Fortunately given the two capital articles and the earmark that was
secured by former Representative Benson and Representative Hay, we have sufficient funds to move
forward with this project. The DPW Director and I have a meeting tomorrow with our engineer to review
the bids to make sure the low bidder meets all the requirements so we can move forward with awarding the
bid.
Requests to Purchase Town Properties:
On August 18th I informed the Board about an inquiry I received from an abutter to purchase a 100 × 150
foot portion of town owned land at 671 West Street. In 2010 the Town sold 5 similar sized portions of
671 West Street to abutters and to make that parcel more uniform. I notified Conservation and Open
Space and both committees will be providing their recommendation at one of their upcoming
meetings. Recently I havereceived four other requests from individualsabout purchasing town owned
land that include:
• 51 Parmenter Road: This is a corner lot about .3 acres in size that has access to Lake Shirley.
• 247 Highland Street Rear: This property is 3.7 acres in size that was taken through tax title. A
resident on Chestnut Street inquired about purchasing this property.
• 860 Reservoir Road: An abutter inquired about purchasing this 6.7 acre parcel. This parcel was
taken through tax title.
• 690 Goodrich Street Rear: An abutter would like to purchase this is a 3.7 acre parcel that was
taken through tax title.
===PAGE 12===
website, the MIMA website, with the American public works Assocton, the paper and onl
Indeed.com.
The culvert installation at the entrance of the DPW is now complete.
• The paving of Electric Avenue is now complete and permanent striping will be installed by P J
Keating in the next couple of weeks.
• The DPW Administrative Assistant willbe putting up old surplus vehicles on Municibid shortly to
dispose of old DPW and Police vehicles.
• The DPW Director and I had a conference call with the engineering firm for the Pleasant Street
Bridge project at the end of last week and this will be put out to bid within the next couple of
weeks and due at the beginning of November. The chosen contractor will do their submittals over
the winter and the construction will occur in the spring.
Police:
Interim Police Chief Gammel has received quotes for body cameras and will be submitting a grant to the
Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG) for $36,400 for the cost of
implementing body cameras.
The IT Director will be submitting a grant application to the Community Compact IT Grant that issues
awards up to $200,000 for IT infrastructure that will aide remote learning instruction at the Lunenburg
Public Schools. This grant program supports the implementation of innovativelT projectsforonetime
capital needs such astechnology infrastructure, upgrades, or purchases of equipment or software.
After working with the School Superintendent and IT Director on an identified need for additional IT
assistance for a Remote Meeting Coordinator that could be paid with CARES Act funding until December
30th, the School Committee approved posting this position. This part time position, once hired, will be
responsible for scheduling all Zoom meetings, training new users to Zoom, moderate large Zoom
meetings, and be available to transfer the host over to Committee Chairs at the beginning of their
meetings.
Assistant Town Manager/HR Director:
Interviews for the Police Chiefposition will beheld on Monday October 5th and Tuesday October 6th. We
received 45 applications and we narrowed it down to 7 candidates.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
•
Conservation Commission has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, September 23rd at 7:00 p.m.
• The Sewer Commission is meeting on Zoom on Thursday, September 24th at 5:00 p.m.
• I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on Zoom on Thursday, September 24th at 7:00
p.m.
• The Planning Board has a meeting on Zoom on Monday, September 28th at 6:30 p.m.
• The Sewer Commission has a meeting on Zoom on Tuesday, September 29th at 5 p.m.
• The TCP Building Design Committee has a meeting on Tuesday, September 29th at 6 p.m.
• The Special Town Meeting warrant closes on Tuesday, September 29th at 5 p.m.
• Reminder: Montachusett Regional Planning Commission is accepting applications from Small
Businesses that were adversely impacted by COVID-19. Interested persons should contact
===PAGE 13===
10 people. There will also be guidelines about reusable menus and protocol for self-serve beverage
stations. There was an announcement about deferring sales and meals taxes until May 1, 2021. The Dept.
of Local Services has a tentative meeting scheduled for next Thursday for guidance about the second
round of reimbursements under the CARES Act, which now includes fiscal year 2021. They are in
discussions about the current budget and preparing for next year's budget.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Alonzo stated upcoming meetings would be October 6, 13 and 20"i.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, regarding the sign policy, noted the Lunenburg Lions Club
ocasionally holds events outside of town and asked the Board to consider this during their
drafting of the policy. He asked about the total cost of the Complete Streets design and
construction but Ms. Lemieux did not have those figures available.
Regarding the Town Manager performance review, he thought the board's review was fair and
he concurred with them. He thanked the Town Manager for doing a good job.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: J. Marino
To adjourn the meeting at 9:21 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, MIr. Alonzo-aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine mn. Peles or
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
