===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Finance Committee members: Dave Passios, Peter Beardmore
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with the requirements
of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting will be broadcast live through local access cable,
and will be able to be found on the Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams stated there are still a lot of questions about the Town Beach and she heard it is opening on July 13t.
There was also other information posted on Facebook but people just don't know what is happening and they don't
know where to look to see what's happening. Is there any connection between the town FB page and the other link
about the Parks? Do we have the best communication possible through our webpage? Ms. Lemieux stated the
Recreation Director was using software and not a web page to post news. It's just a matter of putting a link to it.
She stated she would set it up tomorrow.
Mr. Alonzo hoped everyone had a good Independence Day.
Ms. Lemieux stated the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation announced they are performing their aquatic
herbicide treatment on the lake on Thursday, July 16". It will be closed to all water uses that day. Complete
information about this can be read at http://www.lakeshirley.com/
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
The resignation of Rebecca Lantry from the Historical Commission effective June 18, 2020 was announced. Mr.
Alonzo thanked Ms. Lantry for all her efforts over the last 21 years. As announced at the last meeting, Dave
Passios has resigned from the Board of Health effective June 25" as he was elected to the Parks Commission. Mr.
Alonzo requested letter of thanks be sent to both from the Board for their years of volunteerism.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Parks Commission voted to open the Town Beach on July 13"". She was requesting the
Board ratify her appointments of seasonal staff; Genevieve Nass as Beach Coordinator, Elizabeth Simeone, Paige
Gengler, Ethen Gengler, Cheryl Shaw, Lynn Major, Keena Kelly and Jarrod Bowser as seasonal lifeguards.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: K. Adams
To ratify the Town Manager appointments as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Dave Passios, Park Commissioner, reported there will not be swimming lessons this year due to the restrictions set
by the state.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
===PAGE 2===
VLiu
recommendation to the School Committee to pay a portion of the remaining contract to our two vendors. The
School Committee voted to approve that Dee Bus Service would receive a payment not to exceed $90,000 and Van
Pool Transportation would receive a payment not to exceed $41,112. It is now in the Board's hands to discuss and
vote.
Mr. Cassidy clarified that the proposed payments would go towards operating costs during the closure. Dee Bus
Service did apply for the payroll protection program (PPP) and was able to keep employees on for some time, but
not the entire period. Once the money ran out, the employees were laid off. Van Pool was not eligible for the
payroll protection program but they did get an $8,000 credit to offset some of their expenses. Their employees
have been furloughed since May.
Discussion ensued around whether to pay the vendors while the Town was uncertain about its financial stability.
Ms. Lemieux stated loans and grants are part of the new legislation so it would be reducing that amount already
allotted by the additional funds they received. One suggestion was made to pay the vendors only for the time
period when school was closed temporarily until it was canceled for the rest of the year while the vendors were
"on hold." Another scenario presented was what if the vendor is not able to continue to provide services even with
the payment and goes out of business leaving the Lunenburg schools without transportation in September.
Mr. Alonzo asked how the monetary percentage to award to the vendors was calculated. Mr. Cassidy reported we
came up with 45% of the operating expenses plus 5% for extracurricular services. Mr. Alonzo asked if there was a
future plan if there is another outbreak again during the upcoming school year. Mr. Cassidy noted there is a district
wide task force developed by Supt. Burnham and he will be meeting with the transportation task force tomorrow to
discuss some of these possible scenarios.
Another point made was if the Town has a contract and does not pay them, could this be a breach of the contract.
Mr. Cassidy pointed out this is a service contract and the vendor did not provide the service, so we are not
obligated to pay for something we did not receive. This special legislation allows the districts to compensate these
bus companies for services not rendered, but we are not required to do so.
When asked, Ms. Lemieux did not believe this service was reimbursable under the CARES Act because that
covers unbudgeted expenses due to the pandemic.
There were several questions that could not be answered at this time. Mr. Cassidy stated this was a conversation
that needs to occur with the bus company. His understanding was the money is for services that would have been
provided in FY20.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To not approve the payments to the vendors as requested
Discussion: Mr. Marino did not believe a vote should be taken at this time and more information should be
obtained such as understanding why other towns have offered to pay it. Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Dwyer agreed.
Mr. Jeffreys withdrew his second.
Motion: J. Marino
To table this discussion until a later date
Vote: Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2': T. Dwyer
===PAGE 3===
of influence are to be run. The implementation of those policies and regulations are relegated to the hired employees of the Town who
are under the supervision of either the Town Manager or, in the case of the schools, the School Superintendent. Again, these
determinations and delegations are clearly stated in the Charter.
In short, elected bodies promulgate policies and regulations and employees implement them. No entity has all the authority or
oversight to run autonomously.
For this all to work, there must be clear, concise and frequent communication between all involved parties. Without that
communication, nothing can be done which will satisfy all parties and meet their objectives and the collective objectives of the Town.
Such is the case with the deplorable condition of the cemeteries over this past Memorial Day weekend. The one thing that has been
agreed upon by all parties AND the public was that this was a complete debacle that embarrassed the Town as a whole and disgraced
the fallen who the holiday commemorates. It was completely unacceptable and must not ever be repeated.
The Town Manager and the Asst. Town Manager/HR director have undertaken their own inquiry in determining what occurred. That
involved personnel matters that cannot, legally, and will not, ethically be discussed at an open meeting, including this one. Instead, this
statement provides a broad overview not of that inquiry but a broad assessment of assigned responsibilities and how lack of
communication is at the core of the problem.
First, the Charter directly states that "The day-to-day care and maintenance of the cemeteries shall be under the supervision of the town
manager." Since 2001, that supervision has been delegated by the Town Manager to the DPW department, under the direction of the
DPW Director. Since this responsibility has been under this department for 19 years or so and, as it is an annual event, the
responsibility first and foremost lies here. As the Memorial Day weekend approached, it would be expected that the condition of the
cemeteries and their preparedness would've been discussed, determined and planned by the DPW Director with his staff. Clearly, this
did not happen.
Next, there exists a Cemetery Superintendent who, as the job description states, "works under the direct supervision of the Director of
Public Works, performing skilled work requiring independent judgment and discretion" and among whose essential functions are to
"Maintain cemetery buildings and grounds, supervising and performing mowing, grading, loaming, seeding, shrub and tree
planting/pruning; operates tractor, truck, mowers, trimmers and other various equipment; performs minor and preventative maintenance
on equipment." As someone who spends most of their time involved with all the happenings at the cemeteries, it would logically follow
that the Superintendent would have known that the cemeteries would not be properly prepared for the holiday. Yet that message did not
seem to be communicated to the proper people.
Lastly, is the elected Cemetery Commission. While the cemeteries should always be well-maintained to the best of the Town's
ability, Memorial Day especially spotlights them. Again, it could be reasonably expected that they would check in with
someone (DPW Director or Cemetery Superintendent) to make sure all would be ready by Memorial Day.
These multiple checkpoints should have been sufficient for the problem to be recognized and remedied by the holiday.
However, that did not happen. And, sadly, it did not happen because the communications between these three parties is, for the
most part, almost non-existent. And so the problem was left unaddressed until many in the public were outraged by what they
saw as they went to pay respects to the graves of their loved ones. Some posted on social media and that is when I was made
aware of the issue (on either Friday evening or Saturday morning of the holiday weekend). I immediately asked the Town
===PAGE 4===
speculate or project intentions as to why it happened that way, but it is clear to me that the statement is nonetheless true.
In the end, finger-pointing will not be productive, but reminding everyone what their assigned roles and responsibilities are
might be. Additionally, brokered discussions with all parties to work with them in drastically improving their communications
and expectations amongst themselves are in order.
The Town Manager has already worked to have them create a one-year work plan detailing all the cemetery
tasks/projects/holidays to be addressed over the next year. All parties have received and accepted it and the Town Manager will
periodically check in to ensure things stay on track.
This single event may have revealed more serious problems among these parties and the Town Manager and a BOS
representative will reach out to schedule a meeting with all cemetery stakeholders to see if we can set things back on a more
even and constructive course. While that is underway, we expect everyone to be on heightened alert to any further issues that
the cemeteries might face and ask everyone's cooperation in righting this ship.
Discussion ensued on how to proceed going forward for the management of the cemeteries. Town
Manager and Asst. Town Manager will work will be done to improve communication and interpersonal
relationships between the involved parties.
3. Discussion on House Bill 4820 addressing Voting Options in response to COVID-19
Ms. Lemieux reported this is for informational purposes for the Board, which provides for increased voting
options due to COVID-19. She stated we reached out to our legislators to see if there would be reimbursement for
the additional costs but we haven't seen any definitive yet. Discussion ensued about the advantages and the
disadvantages of mail-in voting.
4. Vote to petition the State Legislature for Home Rule Petitions for Investment of Library
Trust Funds and additional All Alcohol liquor license for Jaxx Country Variety
Ms. Lemieux requested the Board authorize the Chairman to sign a letter drafted by legal counsel to
Senator Dean Tran and State Representative Danillo Sena, asking them to adopt special legislation for the
home rule petitions that was approved at annual Town Meeting, (Articles 17 & 24).
Motion: K. Adams
2°°: J. Marino
To authorize Chairman Alonzo to sign the letters requesting the legislature adopt special legislation
for an Act authorizing the investment of Town of Lunenburg library trust funds and an Act
authorizing the Town to grant an additional license for the sale of all alcoholic beverages not to be
drunk on the premises for Jaxx Country Variety
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated he would be abstaining due to previous business relationships with Jax
Country Variety, however he did support the vote for the Library.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- abstain, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 5===
committee. here were no objecuons.
Metropolitan Montachusett Planning Committee (MPO) -Mr. Jeffreys stated he would serve. There
were no objections.
• MART Advisory Board- no one was interested in this position
Storm Water Task Force- Mr. Dwyer was willing to serve. There were no objections.
Discussion returned to the Capital Planning Committee. Mr. Jeffreys deferred to Mr. Alonzo.
TCP Building Design Committee- Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr. Dwyer about his professional background. Mr. Dwyer is
an engineer. He stated he would be happy to serve. Ms. Adams stated there is currently an engineer serving on this
committee, she noted there was not a woman or mother on the committee. She spent many years looking at the
concept of using town buildings, adding it is good to have someone on it looking from a different perspective.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To nominate Mr. Dwyer as the TCP Building Design representative
There was no second to the motion.
Motion: K. Adams
To nominate Katey Adams as the TCP Building Design representative
There was no second to the motion.
Mr. Dwyer withdrew his request to serve on the TCP Building Design Committee as he would be serving on two
other committees. Mr. Jeffreys expressed his objection to Ms. Adams serving on the TCP Building Design
Committee stating it does not appear that she supports the charge of the committee. Ms. Adams stated it was up to
the Town to make decisions on the building. Mr. Jeffreys offered to serve on the committee. Mr. Dwyer
seconded that.
Vote: Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo- nay
Discussion ensued about making an appointment to the committee to block another member from being appointed
and alleged inappropriate comments made following it. Ms. Adams requested etiquette be discussed at a future
meeting.
6. Approval of Minutes of April 28, 2020
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of April 28, 2020 as presented
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Adams-aye
Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Marino were not present for the meeting, so did not vote to approve.
7. Warrants
Ms. Lemieux reported the following warrants were signed by Mr. Alonzo last week.
#67-20 dated 6/29/20 in the amount of $259,102.15
#1-21 dated 7/1/20 in the amount of $1,507,561.60 Ms. Lemieux noted this warrant included the
===PAGE 6===
reasonable norm for example, is keeping track of heating systems, what kind they are, when they were installed,
the average lifespan, when it was last serviced etc. He suggested creating quarterly maintenance logs. Ms.
Lemieux stated those do not exist either. He suggested creating quarterly maintenance logs.
He also asked an approved line item budget for all departments, not including the schools, just to see where we are
currently. Ms. Lemieux will provide that later in the week.
9. Committee Reports- there were none this week.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies)
• Board of Health (1 vacancy)
• Fence Viewers (vacancies)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large) Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
•
Senior Center Property Tax Work Off Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Board of
Selectmen's Office.
Fuel Tank Update
The Conservation Commission approved the Notice of Intent for the installation of new above ground fuel tanks
located at the DPW at their meeting on July 1st. The project engineer will now move forward to putting the bid
package together for the project to go out to bid. I willupdatethe Board when the advertisement date is known.
Saliba Property Acquisition and Submittal of PARC and LAND Grant documents:
The last few weeks I have worked with Town Counsel, Open Space Chairman Brandon Kibbe, the Conservation
Administrator Matt Marro, Finance Director Karen Brochu, the DPW (for the installation of the parking lot), and
the Chairman of the Board to ensure we had everything lined up for the closing of the Saliba property at 994
North field Road on June 24th and in orderto submit a reim bursement request by June 30th. Subsequent to the
closing there was a significant amount of coordination to put together the reimbursement submission for the
$400,000 LAND Grant and the $100,000 PARC Grant by June 30th. I submitted all the required documents on
June 26th and received confirmation of receipt by the Grant Programs Supervisors at the Executive Office of
Energy and Environmental Affairs shortly thereafter. Thank you to all parties involved in order to finalize the
acquisition andreimbursement request.
===PAGE 7===
by releasing a total of $25 million of reserves back to the membership in the form of a premium holiday forthe July
Health Insurance premiums.
This means that the July 2020 medical premiums for all HMOand PPO plans will be reduced by 50%. Thisaffects
both employees and the Town positively, as employees only had to pay 50%oftheir health insurance premium for
the month of July and the Town and School will have to pay 50% less forthe premiums that are due in July. This
equates to approximately $50,000 savings on the Town side and $118,000 on the School side. We will reserve this
money as surplus funds that can be reduced or reallocated at the fall Special Town Meeting.
We also received participation and dividend credits from MIIA totaling $16,778 that will go towards reducing our
FY 2021 insurance payment.
FY21 Budget Updates:
The legislature passed a compromised Chapter 90 bill for municipal road and bridges totaling $200 million.
Lunenburg's apportionment for Fiscal Year 2021 is $415,929. This past fiscal year our appationmentbegan at
$414,649 and then was increased to $456, 114 dueto a supplemental budget that added $20 million in Chapter 90
funds in January of2020.
On June 26th Governor Baker signed a $5.25 billion interim budget for Fiscal Year 2021 that will allow the state to
pay its bills beginning July 1st in the absence of a final appropriations bill. The interim state budget will fund
local aid payments based on the Fiscal Year 2020 Cherry Sheet estimates for the month of July unless a final state
budget is approved.
On today's weekly call with the Lieutenant Governor, it was relayed they will be focusing heavily over the next
couple of weeks on the FY 2021 budget and will have more information on incoming revenues by the end of the
month, as well as having our US Senators and Representatives actively trying to create more flexibility with federal
relief packages to cities and towns.
925 Mass Ave
The firm that is conducting the Phase II site assessment of 925 Mass Avenue submitted the Quality Assurance
Project Plan in Aprilas required to the EPA. This is a written document that outlines the procedures a monitoring
project will use to ensure the data it collects and analyzes meets project requirements. The EPA respondedtoday
that they willbeapprovingthe Quality Assurance Project Plan. I will have further updates afterthe Montachusett
Brownfields Group Meeting scheduled for July 16th.
Police Chief Position:
Due to Chief Marin o's retirement on July 31st, the Police Chief position has been posted and we will be accepting
applications until July 23rd. When conducted, the interviews will be conducted by a panel that will consist of a
current Police Chief from another community, a retired Police Chief, the Fire Chief, the HR Director, and myself. I
fully expect that a decision will be made after Chief Marino's retirement and therefore I expect to be presenting an
appointment request to the Board at an upcoming meeting for an Interim Police Chief until the position is
permanently filled.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The Finance Committee has a meeting via Zoom on Thursday, July 9th at 7 p.m.
• The Planning Board has a meeting via Zoom on Monday, July 13th at 6:30 p.m.
===PAGE 8===
set up an appointment with by contacting them through contact information on the town website.
The town and school playgrounds are open, the town and school basketball courts are open, the school tennis courts are
open, the MS/HS track and turf field is open, and all town fields were never closed. Organized groups that wish to use
town fields need to go through the Recreation Director Kayla Wright at kwright@lunenburgonline.com for scheduling
field time.
Council on Aging:
The Meals on Wheels volunteer drivers are back as of July 6 and are still delivered twice per week. The COA Director
and staff are assisting with bringing the meals out to drivers from the Eagle House. The Drive Through events have been
going very well. Starting on July 20" there will be a limited number of indoor programs of no more than 10 people.
Program attendees temperatures will be taken, social distancing protocols will remain in place, and the Director has
acquired new vinyl chairs that have been antibacterial treated
Attendees will be asked to leave directly after events and all chairs will be sanitized after use. On July 20" at 1:30 p.m.
there will be a monthly grief support group meeting, on July 21" at 1 p.m. there will be a "Stronger Seniors" Chair Exercise
video, and on July 22'd at 1 p.m. there will be an indoor movie.
Library:
Curbside pick-up for books began on June 15"h and is going well. Staff is back in the building and any returned books are
quarantined for at least 3 days. Beginning June 2nd, all borrowed items that have been checked out and picked up through
the curbside pick-up process, reflect their actual due dates. All digital materials are still available and the Library Wi-Fi can
be accessed through their parking lot. The Summer Reading program began June 28" through July 25" and can be found at
lunenburglibrary.org. All staff can still be reached by phone or email between 9-5 Monday to Thursday, and 9-2 on
Saturdays.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 7/6/20):
As of July 6th there are 104,659 COVID-19 cases and 7,983 deaths; 893,939 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Transition to Third Phase of Four-Phase Approach
On July 2, 2020 the Baker-Polito Administration announced that Phase III of the Commonwealth's reopening plan would
begin Monday, July 6'h and updates on gatherings would go into effect on July 6th.
Step One of Phase II!:
On May 18, the administration released a four-phased plan to reopen the economy based on public health data, spending at
least three weeks in each phase. Key public health data, such as new cases and hospitalizations, have been closely
monitored and have seen a decline allowing for Phase III to begin on July 6th.
The following businesses will be eligible to reopen in Step One of Phase III, subject to industry-specific rules concerning
capacity and operations:
• Movie theaters and outdoor performance venues;
• Museums, cultural and historical sites;
===PAGE 9===
Outdoor gatherings in enclosed spaces are limited to 25 percent of the facility's maximum permitted occupancy, with a
maximum of 100 people in a single enclosed outdoor space. This includes community events, civic events, sporting events,
concerts, conventions and more. This order does not apply to outdoor, unenclosed gatherings if proper social distancing
measures are possible. This revised order does not supersede previously issued sector guidance, and is effective beginning
Monday, July 6.
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule. This board will be meeting on July 14 and 21.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, congratulated the BOS for questioning the bus contract payout and seeking more
information. He encouraged everyone to contact our legislators to request they take action on the approval of the
Town Charter. He encouraged the BOS to correct the issues at DPW regarding the cemetery problems and look
into a continual revolving door of employees exiting DPW.
Motion: K Adams
To adjourn the meeting at 9:54 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
2°: T. Dwyer
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine In. Pelers on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
