===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Fire Chiet Patrick Sullivan, Attorney Jett Aveni, Mohammed A.
Mohammed, Randy Grosser, Lena Grosser, Ken Ricker, DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz, Police Chief Jim
Marino, Amanda Moore, Brian Marchetti
Conservation Commission Members: Richard Bursch, Bob Pease, Ken Jones, Jack Rabbitt, Carl Luck
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and announced in accordance with the requirements of
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over YouTube Live.
Look under the Lunenburg Access YouTube Channel.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Adams stated she was thinking of everyone during the pandemic, particularly students and teachers and the
Class of 2020. Ms. Luck wanted to make sure voters were aware they could apply for absentee ballots for any of
the 2020 elections due to the pandemic. Contact the Town Clerk office for details.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Alonzo stated due to the Governor's Order being extended to May 17', the Town caucus has been canceled.
Ms. Lemieux reported six people submitted nomination papers for six different seats. The rest are open so the only
way to be elected is to have a write-in or a sticker campaign.
APPOINTMENTS
Public Hearing for Transfer of All Alcohol Restaurant License from SE-Flan Inc. to Il Forno Lunenburg
Bar, Inc. 494 Electric Avenue
Mr. Alonzo read aloud the hearing notice:
"The Lunenburg Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on May 5, 2020 at 7:05 PM in Town Hall, 17 Main St., 2nd
Floor, Lunenburg, MA on the application submitted by Il Forno Lunenburg Bar, Inc., for a transfer of an All Alcohol
Restaurant license (812) from SE-Flan, Inc. located at 494 Electric Ave., Lunenburg, MA. The premises is described as a
one-story concrete building with two entrances/exits on Electric Ave., one entrance/exit on Pierce Ave., containing a dining
room, kitchen, storage room and boiler room."
Attorney Jeff Aveni was representing his client, Mohammed "Mike" A. Mohammed. Mr. Alonzo asked if
everything was in order and Ms. Lemieux confirmed. She noted the license was being pledged to the bank so the
Board would have to vote to approve the pledge as well. Aveni explained that as part of the finance package with
the bank there is an obligation to place a pledge on the license. Mr. Alonzo asked if anyone was present to
comment on the application. Since there was no comment other than the discussion about the pledge, Mr. Alonzo
closed the hearing.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the transfer of the all alcohol license from Sean Flan Inc. to II Forno for the 494 Electric Avenue
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the applicant for the well written alcohol service policy. Mr. Mohammed thanked the Board.
===PAGE 2===
Motion: K. Adams
To transfer the alcohol license from Randy and Lena Grosser back to Embers Pizzeria
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Meeting with DPW Director, Police Chief, and Fire Chief regarding Town Fuel Tanks
Ms. Lemieux stated there were questions about the location of the Town fuel tanks and had invited all concerned
to this discussion. The Conservation Commission opened their meeting.
DPW Director Rodriquenz has followed this through the Capital Planning Committee process. The project funding
was approved at last year's Town meeting. We provided a Notice of Intent to the Conservation Commission. We
are in the process of providing more information.
Mr. Alonzo asked the DPW Director, Fire and Police Chiefs if they were comfortable with where these tanks are
to be located. All three stated they were.
Mr. Jeffreys watched the video of last year's Annual Town Meeting (ATM) and there was 45 minutes of
discussion. It was stated at ATM that the old tanks would be removed and the new ones located elsewhere.
Mr. Alonzo also watched the video and some environmental concerns were mentioned briefly. He requested the
department heads address why the tanks are being put where they are. Chief Marino recalled a discussion about
alternate locations for the tanks and the engineer had stated it was not feasible to move the tanks to the other side
of the building. Chief Sullivan confirmed Chief Marino's recollection. Chief Sullivan stated he had also expressed
concern then about putting the tanks farther away due to security issues and having to run additional utilities.
Mr. Marchetti from McCarty Engineering was contacted by the DPW to file the Notice of Intent. He stated the
location of these tanks has to be based on input from the end users. Mr. Rodriquenz stated the other engineer
couldn't make it tonight. Another location suggested at the rear of the public safety building was not an optimal
location having only one means of egress. Another location was to the southerly side of the DPW garage. There
are a number of reasons it is not feasible.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Marchetti for the chosen location, can it be properly engineered and safely installed and
operated? Mr. Marchetti said yes, it can certainly be designed to work.
Carl Luck's concern was that there wasn't any further investigation into alternate sites. Mitigation costs money.
Jack Rabbitt cited the Wetlands Protection Act criteria as they relate to the tanks' location. If there is no alternative
location you have to cite the reasons why and be prepared for a hard analysis.
Mr. Jeffreys asked why no one talked to the Conservation Agent in advance; it just seems prudent that we do
everything to avoid being in the buffer zone.
Mr. Pease stated at the Conservation Commission meeting it became clear the Town was going to have to file a
N.O.I.
Ms. Adams asked what is under our jurisdiction? Mr. Alonzo stated Town meeting approved a project.
Conservation has a job to do. The chiefs have made a decision and I am not here to question their choice.
Further discussion ensued about the project's location. Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for their participation. The
Conservation Commission adjourned their meeting.
===PAGE 3===
changed on the Town Meeting floor, would Mr. Wernick be willing to try again at the fall Town Meeting. Ms.
Lemieux will report back after talking to Town counsel.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Town Manager COVID-19 Report
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update dated May 2nd and it has been put on the COVID-19 Information Center
page on the town website under News & Announcements on the homepage.
Closure of Town Facilities, Schools, Town/School Playgrounds and School Fields:
All school buildings will be closed for the remainder of the school year and all school fields and school playgrounds are
closed until further notice.
Per the Governor's most recent order extending the prohibition of gatherings of 10 or more people, the stay at home
advisory, and extension of closure of non-essential businesses, all town facilities and town playgrounds are currently closed
to the public until May 18"h.
Re-Opening Task Force:
I have put together a Re-opening Task Force that consists of our Board of Health agent from Nashoba Associated Boards of
Health, the Police and Fire Chiefs, the DPW Director, our Facilities Director, the Town Clerk, the Council on Aging
Director, the Library Director, and myself. This group will formulate a plan to address the unique concerns of the various
departments and how to re-open that protects both our employees and the public. Our first meeting will be May 6th. Re-
opening to the public will look different for different departments and we continue to ask for the public's patience as we deal
with these challenges.
Information and Resources for Businesses due to COVID-19:
Relevant information and resources for our local businesses is posted on the COVID-19 Information Center page on the
town website. A new list on the local businesses that are currently open that is being updated by the Lunenburg Business
Association has been posted on the town website and on the Town Facebook page. Any businesses that are open and want
to be included on this list can contact the LBA President Wendy Drennan at wendydrennan487@gmail.com. To see a list of
the businesses open in the Lunenburg area go to: https://www.lunenburgma.gov/sites/default/tiles/field/files-
docs/businesses_open_for takeout in_lunenburg_area.pdf
Board/Committee/Commission Meetings:
I have assisted all the committees and boards that have needed to hold Zoom meetings by providing the necessary
documents to run an entirely remote participation meeting, practice Zoom meetings upon request and signing on at the
beginning of all meetings to transfer the host to the Chair. Currently boards and committees or paid staff in those
departments need to contact me to schedule these meetings as we cannot overbook timeslots as having two zoom accounts
equates to only being able to hold two Zoom meetings simultaneously.
Persons interested in the meeting schedule should visit the town website calendar for the schedule of meetings at
https://www.lunenburgma.gov and can also subscribe to get notifications of meetings of boards and committees they are
interested in attending.
Senior Center News: On Monday, May 4" Van Transportation Service resumed limited transportation to routine medical
appointments and pharmacy prescription pick-ups only. Social distancing and other safety practices will be strictly enforced
for both the drivers and clients utilizing the van transportation service. Since March 13, 2020, the staff has made 443
wellness/telephone reassurance calls to check on seniors, have delivered 1,067 meals on wheels to 42 clients, distributed 39
===PAGE 4===
Absentee and Early Voting: Chapter 45 of the Acts of 2020, the special legislation that allowed the Town to postpone the
2020 election and increase voting options in response to the declaration of emergency to respond to COVID-19, expands
the reasoning for voting absentee because of a physical disability to include that any person taking precaution related to
COVID-19 in response to a declared state of emergency or from guidance from a medical professional, local or state
health official, or any civil authority shall be deemed to be unable by reason of physical disability to cast their vote in
person at a polling location.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 4/20/20):
As of May 4th there are 69,087 COVID-19 cases and 4,090 deaths 324,268 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
This information is now posted on the Department of Public Health COVID-19 website, with a breakdown of
coronavirus cases by city and town. The page can be accessed by going to: https://www.mass.gov/info-details/covid-19-
response-reporting#covid-19-cases-by-city/town-. The Department of Public Health has created a dashboard as well with
comprehensive, detailed COVID-19 data, including trend data, case rates, testing, and breakdowns by age, sex, race,
ethnicity and geography. https://www.mass.gov/doc/covid-19-dashboard-
Governor Baker's May 1" Order Requiring Face Coverings in Public Places Where Social Distancing Is Not Possible:
On May 1s Governor Baker issued COVID-19 Order No. 31 requiring any person over age two who is in a place open to the
public, whether indoor or outdoor, and is unable to or does not maintain a distance of approximately six feet from every
other person shall cover their mouth and nose with a mask or cloth face covering, except where a person is unable to wear a
mask or face covering due to a medical condition or is otherwise exempted by Department of Public Health guidance. This
includes wearing a mask at all times inside grocery stores, pharmacies, and other retail stores and transportation services. This
Order goes into effect on Wednesday, May 6" and violation of the terms of the order or Department of Public Health
Guidance may result in a civil fine of up to $300 per violation.
Congress and the President signed a new stimulus and relief bill on April 26th. This legislation is a $484B package which
will replenish the dollars in the Small Business Administration's Paycheck Protection Program and EIDL programs, as well
as provide additional funding for hospitals and coronavirus testing.
The Paycheck Protection Program will receive an additional $310B to offer relief to small businesses. Of this total, $60B
will be set aside to fund PPP loans made by small and community financial institutions to reach underbanked communities.
Ms. Luck asked about procedure for previously approved events and wondered how these would be handled. Ms.
Lemieux stated as long as the Governor's order is still in effect, those events would not be able to be held. Ms.
y april in effect,
Adams asked who would be enforcing the mandatory wearing of face masks. Ms. Lemieux stated the Board of
Health would be the entity enforcing it as it is a public health issue.
2. Minutes of February 18, 2020 and March 3, 2020
Motion: P. Luck
2nd:M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of February 18 and March 3, 2020 as presented
Vote: Ms. Luck-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
===PAGE 5===
Coordinator positions as discussed at the March 3° meeting. Ms. Luck requested contract negotiations with the
teachers union be placed on the next agenda for a discussion. This topic is especially timely due to the ongoing
teacher's union contract negotiations as well as the uncertainty and the potential cost of reopening school in the
fall.
Ms. Lemieux stated the Saliba property closing will be in a couple of weeks. As far as the tax assessment services,
there is a Request for Proposals (RFP) out right now for those services as well as the job posting for the principal
assessor. The Board of Assessors wanted to do a dual track for both.
The Recycling Education and Enforcement Coordinator position has been put on hold due to Covid-19. The Board
of Health would have to update their trash hauler regulations but that has been put on hold also.
5. Committee Reports-there were none this evening.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Fiscal Year 2021 Budget
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board to the adjustments to revenues reflective of the final enterprise numbers
for the Sewer Department budget as well as the operation for the solid waste and water enterprise.
The expenditures retlect a reduction in the Technology Dept. budget for sottware and the Sewer,
Solid Waste and Water enterprise funds. We also have two prior year bills totaling $476.21 that will have
to be approved at town meeting. This brings the surplus (deficit) amount to $998,492.11.
She moved on to the Revenues/ Expenditures FY21 Budget Worksheet which showed debt exclusions for
the estimated cost for the Middle/High school project and Pavement Management ($2,864,738.45). Sewer
Enterprise Retained Earnings, which includes capital reserve and their contribution for Other Post
Employment Benefits (OPEB) that totaled $230,656.00 and Enterprise Funds for Solid Waste ($302,000),
Water ($25,000) and total budget for Sewer ($1,820,203.44).
Sh 9221042017, interest Costs on the in the he unt or lisa reneral or enemie
of $3,229,642.07
amount of $1,590,980.65, which are inclusive of the estimated Middle/High School debt and Pavement
Management project. We should have final figures for those by next week. General Government reflects
the reduction from the Technology Dept. budget of $18,063. Further down reflects the Sewer Capital
Reserve transfer ($30,000) as well as the Sewer OPEB Liability transfer ($656.00), the prior year expense
of$476.21 and the Solid Waste ($302,000), Water ($25,000) and Sewer enterprise ($943,191.54) budgets
Ditterent from last week is $110,000 transferred to the OPEB Liability. I am going to recommend that this
article be deferred to the fall Town Meeting but that amount be placed in Stabilization Fund so we can
access at a later date.
2. Review of Annual Town Meeting warrant articles
The Board reviewed the draft warrant articles and discussed.
Motion: K. Adams
To remove articles "H" and "I" from the warrant
Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: P. Luck
Motion: P. Luck
2"d: K. Adams
To remove article "K" from the warrant
Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 6===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n; P. Luck
Ms. Adams-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Articles D, F, G, J, L, U, X, Y, Z, AA, BB, CC and II will be discussed at the next meeting.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
•
Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 design professional; craftsperson or building contractor
familiar with historic renovation)
• Finance Committee (1 position appointed by the Finance Committee Appointing Committee)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Planning Board (1 position appointed by the remaining members ofthe Planning Board and the Board of
Selectmen until the next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
TC Passios Building Design Project:
The TC Passios Building Committee met last night with the architects and we are proceeding with tasks that do not
require access to the building nor in person contact, including of review of all relevant building and planning
documents, building code for architectural and structural issues triggered by renovation concepts, assess
existing building systems, and performing the civil/land survey that will also locate storm water drainage and site
utilities. The next meeting of the TC Passios Building Design Committee is Monday, June 1st to check-in with the
architects.
Town Hall Handicapped Ramp Project (TM Goal #3):
Bids for the Town Hall Handicapped Ramp were received last week and the project was awarded to Cornerstone
Builders of Holyoke for a total of $46,619. Twenty-seven thousand dollars of this project are being paid for
through an earmark from the State and the remainder is being paid out of the Facilities budget.
DW Roof Project Update:
The DP W Roof Project is now complete and the final cost came in $7,200 less than the allotted total of
$84,000 due to less replacement roof decking than was provided for in the bid. The project went smoothly and the
contractor did a good job on the final product.
Route 2A and Route 13 Intersection Update:
I reached out to MassDOT again to check on the status of whether they were able to access their program required
to complete theirevaluation of making changesto the traffic signalsat the Route 2A and Route 13 intersection and
was told that one of their engineers went into the office last week to analyze the traffic signal system and prepared
===PAGE 7===
villa
retro-commissioning repairs at the Public Safety Building, replacement of appliances with energy efficient
ap ands an austeirepay bid police crisers heral grant and wit incentives inad fanees,
$108,962.75.
Community Compact Grant Awards:
At the April 14th meeting I had reported there were still funds in FY20 for Community Compact Grants. The
program allows submitting up to two best practices to implement and I submitted a grant request to implement a
Continuity of Operations Plan and implement a Financial Trend Monitoring System modeled after the
International City Management Association's Financial Trend Monitoring System. I was contacted this week by
the Department of Revenue and both applications were approved, totaling a $50,000 grant award. The DOR
representative did say they thought the two projects would be very useful to the Town given the current situation.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Town Counsel office hours in May will be on May 20th 12-4 p.m.
• Disposal of Yard Waste at the old landfill off of Youngs Road is occurring each Saturday until May 16th
and is open 9 a.m. until 4 p.m.
• The Conservation Commission will have a meeting Wednesday, May 6th at 7:00 p.m. via Zoom.
• The Finance Committee is holding their public hearing on the budget and ATM articles on Thursday, May
7th at 6:30 p.m. via Zoom.
Ms. Lemieux reported a tew weeks ago the Board had offered to postpone her evaluation and she would like
to take the BOS' offer to do it after the election.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
May 12, May 19
May 7 (Finance Committee Public Hearing)
PUBLIC COMMENT: there was none by the public.
Mr. Jeffreys in reference to the earlier discussion about the town fuel tanks, stated people need to have confidence
we are making the best decisions that are as economical as possible and for any expense we make, we should be
Jeffreys' comment and appreciated the Town Manager's decision to postpone the OPEB funding until the fall
town meeting and place the money in stabilization.
Mr. Alonzo advised if the pandemic situation remains prolonged, he urged people to be patient, remain calm and
understand that while there may be different opinions as to what is going on; it's okay to have an opinion and to
voice them. Being violent does not help anybody.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: P. Luck
===PAGE 8===
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
