===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Karen Brochu, Finance Director: Jim Marino, Police Chief
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with the requirements of
the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over YouTube Live.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and everyone was present and could be heard.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams was thinking of all the parents and students during this time. She inquired about bringing the Pledge
of Allegiance to their Zoom meetings. Mr. Alonzo offered to place it on the next agenda. Mr. McQuaid thanked
everyone for their patience while he was absent from meetings. Mr. Alonzo responding to an anonymous letter
sent stated he believed the Town was in very good hands with the Town Manager and Finance Director and their
staff. The Board does not spend money, Town Meeting approves spending. He stated the letter was not true or
helpful and if the person had concerns they should come forward in public to ask them.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, as a citizen who is also on the Finance Committee, suggested using Free Cash as
a funding source for the Annual Town Meeting warrant article that addresses purchasing street lights.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Kesignation: Ms. Lemieux announced Marissa Thompson resigned from the Planning Board effective
ımmediately as she is relocating out of state for her job. Discussion ensued about how to let the public know who
is interested in being elected this year.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
Vote to sign Bond for MS/HS and Pavement Management
Ms. Brochu reported the $1,695,000 bond is comprised of two projects; the final payment for the pavement
management plan and the final bond for the Middle/High School project. Of that, $1,020,000 is for pavement
management and $675,000 is for the final borrowing for the Middle/High School project. In summary the total
authorization for the pavement management plan was $4 million. Total premiums received on the project are
$155,000. The total authorization for the school was $72,975,321; actual expenditures were $68,106,474. Total
reimbursements received from the Massachusetts School Building Authority was $33,924,327. Total premiums
applied to this project were $170,832. Unexpended articles applied were $30,000 and the total amount of the
project that we did not spend was $4,868,846. The true interest cost for this 15 year bond issue is 1.99%.
Motion: D. McQuaid
I, the Clerk of the Board of Selectmen of the Town of Lunenburg, Massachusetts (the "Town"), certify that at a
meeting of the board held May 12, 2020, of which meeting all members of the board were duly notified and at which a
quorum was present, the following votes were unanimously passed, all of which appear upon the official record of the board
in my custody:
Voted: that the sale of the $1,695,000 General Obligation Municipal Purpose Loan of 2020 Bonds of the
Town dated May 21, 2020 (the "Bonds"), to Robert W. Baird & Co., Inc., at the price of $1,775,850.76 and accrued
===PAGE 2===
Further Voted: that the Bonds maturing on January 15, 2029, January 15, 2032 and January 15, 2035 (each,
a "Term Bond") shall be subject to mandatory redemption or mature as follows:
2029*
Amount
$115,000
120,000
*Final Maturity
Term Bond due January 15, 2032
Year
Amount
2030
$125,000
2031
125,000
2032*
125,000
*Final Maturity
Term Bond due January 15, 2035
Year
Amount
2033
$130,000
2034
130,000
2035*
135,000
*Final Maturity]
Further Voted: that in connection with the marketing and sale of the Bonds, the preparation and distribution
of a Notice of Sale and Preliminary Official Statement dated April 28, 2020, and a final Official Statement dated
May 6, 2020 (the "Official Statement"), each in such form as may be approved by the Town Treasurer, be and
hereby are ratified, confirmed, approved and adopted.
Further Voted: that the Bonds shall be subject to redemption, at the option of the Town, upon such terms
and conditions as are set forth in the Official Statement.
Further Voted: that the Town Treasurer and the Board of Selectmen be, and hereby are, authorized to
execute and deliver a continuing disclosure undertaking in compliance with SEC Rule 15c2-12 in such form as may
be approved by bond counsel to the Town, which undertaking shall be incorporated by reference in the Bonds for
the benefit of the holders of the Bonds from time to time.
Further Voted: that we authorize and direct the Town Treasurer to establish post issuance federal tax
compliance procedures and continuing disclosure procedures in such forms as the Town Treasurer and bond counsel
===PAGE 3===
Further Voted: that each member of the Board of Selectmen, the Town Clerk and the Town Treasurer be
and hereby are, authorized to take any and all such actions, and execute and deliver such certificates, receipts or
other documents as may be determined by them, or any of them, to be necessary or convenient to carry into effect
the provisions of the foregoing votes.
I further certify that the votes were taken at a meeting open to the public, that no vote was taken by secret ballot,
that a notice stating the place, date, time and agenda for the meeting (which agenda included the adoption of the
above votes) was filed with the Town Clerk and a copy thereof posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the
public at all hours in or on the municipal building that the office of the Town Clerk is located or, if applicable, in
accordance with an alternative method of notice prescribed or approved by the Attorney General as set forth in
940 CMR 29.03(2)(b), at least 48 hours, not including Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays, prior to the time of
the meeting and remained so posted at the time of the meeting, that no deliberations or decision in connection with
the sale of the Bonds were taken in executive session, all in accordance with G.L. c.30A, §818-25, as amended,
and all as further amended, suspended, supplemented or modified by the Executive Order of the Governor of The
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, Chapter 30A, $20
dated March 12, 2020.
Clerk of the Board of Selectmen
Ms. Luck seconded the motion
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Alonzo- aye
Mr. Alonzo thanked all concerned for putting this all together.
I. OLD BUSINESS
1.
Fiscal Year 2021 Budget
Ms. Lemieux reported two updates to the budget, the final figures for excludable debt for pavement management
and the MS/HS project, as well as the Saliba property and ladder truck debt. Those are final figures that are
included on both the revenue side and the expenditure sides. The other updates are the PEG Access Enterprise
figure, as well as on the expenditure side. Surplus now is at $1,055,949.20. Ms. Luck stated she would not be
supporting the budget as presented.
2. Review of Annual Town Meeting warrant articles
The Board reviewed warrant Article D. (amending FY20 budget)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: D. McQuaid
To defer making a recommendation on Article D until Town Meeting
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"°: P. Luck
To defer making a recommendation on Article F until Town Meeting
Mr. Alonzo was not in favor of deferring it as there is a final monetary amount.
Vote: Ms. Adams-nay, Mr. McQuaid- nay, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo - nay
(Motion failed)
===PAGE 4===
Article J transfers $210,000 to Stabilization
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'°: D. McQuaid
To recommend approval of Article J as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Article L is for the Sewer Enterprise Fund
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: P. Luck
To defer making a recommendation on Article L until Town Meeting
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck -aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Article U authorizes the Board of Selectmen to solicit demolition and a future design estimate for the old
Primary School. Mr. Alonzo noted Town Counsel has stated Town Meeting action is not needed to do this.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To remove this article from the warrant
Discussion ensued about whether to leave it on the warrant.
2™°: D. McQuaid
Vote: Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Luck- nay, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article X updates the Dog kennel bylaw.
Motion: P. Luck
2": M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article X
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Article Y amends Chapter 1, § 1-3 of the Town's General bylaws "General Provisions" by adding
Chapter 100, §3, dog kennels
Motion: P. Luck
2': M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article Y
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article Z accepts the Community Preservation Act bylaw
Motion: P. Luck
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To remove Article Z from the warrant
Discussion ensued about adding the bylaw during this time.
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Article CC adds the Planning Board as the issuing authority for earth removal permits.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd:P. Luck
To recommend approval of Article CC
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-nay, Ms. Luck - aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Article BB amends the Earth Removal Permit bylaw.
===PAGE 5===
Country Variety store.
Ms. Lemieux stated Town counsel believed it would be difficult to amend the article at Town Meeting
because Home rule petitions are very specific in their language that the legislature may not be satisfied with
wording of the original article. Town Moderator would allow it.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n°: P. Luck
To defer making a recommendation until Town Meeting
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. MeQuaid-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Article AA recommends funding to purchase and convert existing street lights to energy efficient LED
fixtures. Ms. Lemieux confirmed that she had mentioned using FY20 free cash to the Finance Committee.
Green Community grant money would be available once the Town owns the street lights. Discussion ensued
about future unknown maintenance costs and additional staff hours. Ms. Lemieux stated the PowerPoint
presentation noted an annual savings of $26,500 for maintenance and another document had the cost of the conversion
and that savings was $24,315. Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant St, speaking as a citizen, stated yes there is some
additional work but not substantial for the DPW. He noted the extraordinary amount of volunteer hours to get to this
point for the Town to save money.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2nd: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of the article
After some discussion, Mr. McQuaid withdrew his motion. Mr. Alonzo withdrew his second.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: P. Luck
To defer recommendation on article AA until Town Meeting
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. McQuaid-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
Motion: D. McQuaid
To sign the Annual Town Meeting and Annual Election warrants
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. McQuaid- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck-aye, Mr. Alonzo - aye
2n°:K. Adams
3. Discussion on G.L. c. 150E, Section 1: Town Manager participation as voting member on
school collective bargaining agreements.
Ms. Luck had requested this for discussion and had brought up in the past that the Town should
consider changing labor counsel. Ms. Luck asked how Ms. Lemieux would be participating in the
school negotiations. Ms. Lemieux stated the involvement would be the actual vote on the
agreement just as a School Committee member. Mr. Alonzo requested Ms. Lemieux contact the
Superintendent office and request to be informed of any upcoming negotiation meeting dates.
Further discussion ensued on how involved the Town Manager should be in the school teacher
contract negotiation process versus the School Committee members.
4. Minutes of March 10, 2020
Motion: P. Luck
2": M. Jeffreys
===PAGE 6===
property unless they are within 500 feet of a development. This situation is contusing because two
conservation areas abut each other. Signage on town land was suggested. Ms. Adams requested having an
agenda item for the Pledge of Allegiance at their meetings.
TOWN MANAGER COVID-19 AND REGULAR REPORT
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update dated May 8th and it has been put on the COVID-19 Information Center
page on the town website under News & Announcements on the homepage. As of May 11th, there are 44 confirmed
positive cases in Lunenburg, 21 of which have recovered and one death.
Closure of Town Facilities, Schools, Town/School Playgrounds, School Fields, and Town Beach:
All school buildings will be closed for the remainder of the school year and all school fields and school playgrounds are
closed until further notice.
Per the Governor's most recent order extending the prohibition of gatherings of 10 or more people, the stay at home
advisory, and extension of closure of non-essential businesses, all town facilities and town playgrounds are currently
closed to the public. Playgrounds will be closed until further notice and will follow the guidance of the State.
The Town Beach will remain closed until further notice.
Re-Opening Task Force:
The Re-opening Task Force, which consists of department heads and staff, met last week to discuss what re- opening will
require and address unique concerns of each of the main departments. We discussed the necessary supplies, increased
cleaning requirements, and protocols for both employees and public that would need to be in place to re-open safely. As I
stated last week, re-opening to the public will look different for different departments and there will be certain town
departments that will come back to town offices prior to others based on a number of factors including the availability of
supplies, being able to maintain social distancing of six feet, and meet all the state's Orders regarding gatherings and public
health guidance requirements. We will not be re-opening on May 18 as we do not have sufficient supplies on hand, need to
address the workplace standards that include posters, and when we do re-open to the public, it will be by appointment only
Our re-opening will be a slow, phased approach that will be determined by having the necessary protocols, supplies, and
protections in place to do so safely. The Governor released information on the four phased approach to reopening the
Massachusetts economy along with mandatory workplace safety standards. These standards will be incorporated into the
re-opening plan for our town facilities. The Governor's appointed Re-opening Advisory Committee will be issuing their
full report on May 18" so we will have more guidance to inform our re-opening plan at that time. More information on
the four phased approach is included in this report under updates from the state and federal government.
Senior Center Updates:
On Monday, May 4'h Van Transportation Service resumed limited transportation to routine medical appointments and
pharmacy prescription pick-ups only. Since March 13, 2020, the staff has made 493 wellness/telephone reassurance calls
to check on seniors, have delivered 1,291 meals on wheels to 44 clients, distributed 41 food boxes to 37 people, and 56
facemasks to 52 people.
Information on Town Meeting and Town Elections:
===PAGE 7===
Discussion about being prepared for Town meeting ensued and will be an upcoming agenda item.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 5/11/20):
As of May 11th there are 78,462 COVID-19 cases and 5,108 deaths 394,728 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Governor Baker's May 11" Guidance on Re-Opening:
On Monday, May 11th the Baker-Polito Administration announced a four-phase approach to
reopening the Massachusetts economy amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, and published Mandatory
Workplace Safety Standards that will apply across all sectors and industries once reopening begins.
The goal of the phased reopening, based on public health guidance, is to methodically allow certain
businesses, services, and activities to resume, while protecting public health and limiting a resurgence of
new COVID-19 cases.
Phase 1 will be "Start:" limited industries resume operations with severe restrictions.
Phase 2 will be "Cautious:" additional industries resume operations with restrictions and capacity limits.
Phase 3 will be "Vigilant:" additional industries resume operations with guidance.
Phase 4 will be the "New Normal:" development of vaccine and/or therapy enables resumption
of new normal.
Unemployment Assistance:
The Department of Unemployment Assistance (DUA) has released helpful new resources and guidance to support
individuals seeking to claim unemployment benefits.
New Guidance for Fulfillment of Remote Orders by Retail Businesses:
Earlier this week, the Administration provided new guidance for retail businesses. Under this guidance, non-essential
businesses are allowed to bring in a small number of employees in order to remotely fulfill online or phone orders, provided
they can meet safety protocols.
US Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration Funding: Economic Adjustment Assistance
Program:
On May 10th, the U.S. Department of Commerce's Economic Development Administration announced the availability of
$1.5B in funding through an Economic Adjustment Assistance program. This funding will support communities in economic
recovery through planning and technical assistance grants, grants for recovery and resilience strategies, capitalizing or
recapitalizing revolving loan funds, and innovation grants. Ms. Luck suggested having a Selectman and other community
oriented personnel on the reopening task force. She also suggested opening the town offices on Fridays.
===PAGE 8===
next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness Planning Grant:
The Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness Coreteam met with the consultant hired through the Planning Grant wereceivedandreviewed
questionsrelativetoourenvironmentalvulnerabilitiesand the format that the workshop would take. Theworkshop isscheduled for
May215;8:30a.m. until 12:30 p.m. via Zoom.
CARES Act Funding:
The Town has begun to receive some relief funds from the CARES Act Relief Fund; we received $7,035.89 from the
Department ofHealth and Human Services Emergency ReliefFund. These funds haverestrictionsonuse butcanbeused to prevent,
prepareforandrespond tocoronavirus for healthcarerelated expensesor lost revenuesattributableto the coronavirus. The
Superintendentwas notified by the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education on Friday that emergency relief funds for
schooldistricts(ESSER Fund under CARESAct) willbeprovided in the formofa grant totaling$198,000. Funds may be used for
FY20orFY21 COVID-relatedcosts. The Federal Grants Officewillbeholdingwebinarsto providemoredetailed informationinthe
nextfew weeksso untilthen the School won't have a clear idea as to how exactly we will be ableto use the funds.
Request for Proposals for Tax Assessment Services and Principal Assessor Position:
The Board of Assessors met on Monday to discuss how to proceed with the lack of responses to the Request for
Proposals for Tax Assessment Services and how to proceed with the applications for the Principle Assessor
position. The firm that currently provides Tax assessment Services, RRG, replied that they would not be
responding to the RFP that requests a full-time Assessor, as their firm is not structured that way and it would be cost prohibitive.
The HR Director, the Chairman of the Board of Assessors and I will proceed with interviewing the applicants in the next couple of
weeks and in the meantime get a proposal fromboth Tyler Technologiesand RRGto providea quote to provideservices for upto six
months. RRG will beaskedto providea quote that would continuethe method they have been providing servicesto date and this would
allowustonothaveany disruption indeadlines for interimvalue adjustments and otherassessing services until adecisionis made
regarding whetherwewill proceed withhiringa fulltime Principal Assessoror continuingto outsource this function.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Town Counsel office hours in May will be on May 20th 12-4 p.m.
• Disposalof Yard Waste at the old landfilloffof Youngs Road is occurring each Saturday until May 16th and is open 9 a.m.
until 4 p.m.
• The Finance Committee has a meeting this Thursday, May 14th at 7:00 p.m. via Zoom.
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Chief Marino stated he believed the current Town labor counsel was probably one of the most brilliant lawyers he has
worked with having dealt with him on both sides of the negotiating table. He added that he has saved the Town a lot of
money.
===PAGE 9===
Respectfully submitted,
claim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
