===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-kay veltreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, ACO Kathy Comeau, Attorney Mike
Kennefick and Attorney Adam Costa; Town Counsel; Officer John Morreale Jr., Acting Police
Chief Tom Gammel; Land Use Director Adam Burney
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded but broadcast live due to technical difficulties, and will be able to be found on the
Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and asked if everyone was present and could be
heard.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams asked about the security for zoom meetings as the school reopening meeting had
been hacked. Mr. Alonzo stated zoom has some vulnerabilities, but he as host mutes all
participants and is always checking the screen to see who is on the meeting. He was confident IT
was doing all they could from their end as well.
Mr. Alonzo congratulated all the 2020 school graduates as their outdoor ceremony was this past
weekend.
He extended his personal thanks to retired Police Chief and recently elected Selectman Jim
Marino. Mr. Alonzo stated Marino's leadership skills and ability to deal with the public have
been amazing throughout his career. He became friends with him and his family. The things that
he has done professionally and behind the scenes is a real testament to how he feels about
Lunenburg. As Chief he has left his indelible mark on the morale of the department and has
unceasingly hired first rate excellent people and provided them the tools and the training that
they need and that exists to this day. Mr. Alonzo stated, "I couldn't have asked for a better chief
during my tenure. I appreciate all you have done for the Town and I am glad that we get to have
this kind of involvement with you as a fellow Selectman. I look forward to that chapter, so thank
you." Mr. Marino thanked him for his words and looked forward to working with him,
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, applauded Ms. Lemieux's fiscal year 21 goals of succession
planning and enhancing facilities management and maintenance, but thought the same should be
applied to the town cemeteries and parks commission.
===PAGE 2===
store and sell 6000 gallons of diesel fuel underground on the property located at 451-453
Massachusetts Avenue.
Ms. Lemieux stated everything was in order for the application. Ms. Parker stated back in
November of 2019, the station had three existing 12,000 gallon tanks in the ground. They took
one tank and compartmentalized it making it into two tanks and adding diesel to one of those
divided tanks. But they also had an old fire suppression system from the 1970s and she did a new
fire suppression plan to bring it up to UL standards. When she went to find the license to send it
off to the State Fire Marshall, she found it was not matching what was in the ground, therefore
bringing her into this hearing. The amount is basically the same except they added 6000 gallons
of diesel and three plus one dispensers at the property. So an amended license is needed to send
to the State Fire Marshall. Discussion ensued about the lapse between the installation and the
license amendment application dates. Ms. Parker stated basically you have a license that could be
thirty plus years old and you renew it annually. The town sends out annual renewal forms and no
one had updated the license. I usually find this out when I am updating systems. Ms. Parker
stated the license from 2003 was issued to a different company but the license goes with the
land; it was not intentional and slipped by. Mr. Alonzo stated one would think someone from the
company would have alerted the town when installing the diesel.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: J. Marino
To approve the amendment to the license for addition of the underground 6000 gallon tank
of diesel fuel at 451-453 Massachusetts Avenue
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo -
aye
Ms. Parker thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Meeting with Interim Police Chief re: Amendments to the Traffic Rules & Regulations
Acting Chief Gammel stated this traffic rules modification was recommended by the DPW
Director and former Police Chief Marino.
We hereby recommend the following modification to the Town of Lunenburg Traffic Rules
and Orders Issued by the Board of Selectmen under the authority of Massachusetts General
Law, c 40 $ 22:
To Schedule IV- Isolated Stop Signs
Add - On Goodrich Street east of the delta traffic island facing the intersection of
Reservoir Road. On Good Rich Street on the southeast side of the delta island facing
Reservoir Road replacing the Yield Sign.
To Schedule IV-B Yield Signs
Remove- A yield sign south of the delta island on Goodrich Street at Reservoir Road.
Acting Chief Gammel stated this was brought to our attention for the safety of the motoring
public on those two roadways, so we recommend that this be accepted.
===PAGE 3===
appointment. Acting Chief Gammel read his letter:
Effective August I, 2020, 1 was selected to be the Acting Chief of Police. This will create
a vacancy in the Lieutenant's position. This position is essential to the daily operations of
the Police Department. It is my intention to fill this vacancy as an acting position.
To fill this vacancy, I respectfully request that Det. Sgr. Jeffrey Thibodeau be elevated to the
rank of Acting Lieutenant. Det. Sgt. Thibodeau has been a member of the Lunenburg Police
Department since 2011, and obtained the rank of Detective Sergeant in July of 2014. Det. Sgt.
Thibodeau has been a police officer since 2001 when he was hired by the Townsend Police
Department. Prior to becoming a police officer, Det. Sgt. Thibodeau worked for the Bureau of
Federal Prisons. Det. Sgt. Thibodeau holds a Bachelor's Degree of Science in Criminal Justice
from Fitchburg State University. During his tenure with the Lunenburg Police Department
Det. Sgt. Thibodeau has completed numerous investigative classes and trainings which led him
to be assigned to the Federal Bureau of Investigations High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area
(HIDTA), and the North Worcester County Drug Task Force. Det. Sgt. Thibodeau has also
received leadership training through HIDTA, and has completed two sessions of the FBI
LEEDA course. I believe with Det. Sgt. Thibodeau's work experience, education, and
leadership skills he is extremely qualified for the position of Acting Lieutenant. I highly
recommend Det. Sgt. Thibodeau for the position of Acting Lieutenant.
Det. Sgt. Thibodeau thanked the Board members, Acting Chief Gammel and retired
Chief Marino for the opportunity. Mr. Alonzo stated he thought this was a great choice
and looked forward to his work as the Interim Lieutenant.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Jeffrey Thibodeau to Acting
Lieutenant
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino- abstain, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo congratulated Detective Thibodeau.
Dangerous Dog Hearing; Owner Katelynn Newton of 7 Cross Street, Leominster and dog
housed at 964 Flat Hill Road, Lunenburg
Mr. Alonzo stated this is an official hearing; everyone testifying has to be sworn in and they need
to affirm that they are raising their hands when they do so. The complainant will present his
testimony first. Then the owner and/or the keeper of the dog will present her testimony.
Witnesses will testify next. The Board will also hear from the Animal Control Officer (ACO)
and Police Department. This will be followed by Board questions and then the Board has to
===PAGE 4===
and Attorney Michael Kennefick representing the Town.
Mr. Alonzo swore in all but Attorney Kennefick and all affirmed they would be telling
the truth. The complainant, James Hazel, was not present.
Officer Morreale reported, "On Thursday, July 9, 2020, I was dispatched to 125 Hemlock
Drive for the report of a dog bite. The dog was reported to have bitten the victim in the neck.
Upon arrival, 1 spoke with the owner of the dog, Katelynn Newton, 25, and her friend,
Megan Huckins, 24. Ms. Newton and Ms. Huckins stated they were on the Hickory Hills
private beach with "Ace"
'. The beach is located across the street from 125 Hemlock Drive.
Ace was on a leash and was being held by Ms. Huckins. While on the beach, Mr. Hazel
approached them to tell them dogs were not allowed on the beach. It should be noted that
there is a large sign on the beach that reads "NO ANIMALS." As he did so, Ace began
barking and growling at him. Hazel asked if Ace was "ok" and Newton told him, "He's
never bit anyone". Hazel reached in with his hand stretched towards Ace. At that point, Ace
jumped up and bit him in the neck. Hazel provided the same series of events to Officer Broc.
Newton stated she has never had any issues with Ace before. It should be noted that on April
4,2020, an Amazon delivery driver reported Ace ran at him and tried to bite him. The driver
was able to get in his vehicle without being injured. Ms. Newton informed me Ace is up to
date on all his shots and is licensed in Leominster. He currently stays at Carla Mangiacotti's
home. James Hazel was transported to the hospital. Animal Control Officer (ACO) Kathy
Comeau was contacted. She spoke with Katelynn Newton and Carla Mangiacotti over the
phone. The dog was placed under a ten-day quarantine at Mangiacotti's residence.
Ms. Comeau reported after receiving the message, she called Mangiacotti and told her she
would be coming down to quarantine the dog. She did go down, quarantined the dog and
spoke with her. Comeau called the hospital and spoke with Mr. Hazel. She spoke with the
attending doctor who said he was going to give him stitches and that it was a pretty bad bite.
He said it was one bite looking like the throat was grabbed and released. She called Mr.
Hazel and talked to him a few times afterwards and he said he was getting better and was
traumatized. She called Leominster and got Ace's license number and then called the
Leominster ACO to confirm the rabies shot was good until 2022. The Leominster ACO
reported no past incidents with this dog. Ms. Comeau stated that is all I know about the dog.
There is an electric fence at Carla Mangiacotti's home. I talked to the UPS delivery man and
he said the dog never left the property but he was scared of him, got into his truck and called
the Police to report it. He was on their property and said he should have abided by the
posted signs, but he didn't and went to the door. The dog came flying out.
Attorney Kennefick recommended accepting the incident reports filed for the record of this
hearing in the event of an appeal. Mr. Alonzo read the following to be entered into the
record: Incident report dated April 4, 2020; reference number 20Lun-313-OF, Call # 20-
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo asked if the dog at any time while leashed, had pulled away and was not being
held by the leash. Officer Morreale stated he did not know.
Mr. Jeffreys asked ACO Comeau and Officer Morreale about the signage mentioned earlier
at the house. Ms. Comeau stated the signs read "Beware of Dog," and there are notices
stating the electric fence was present. Mr. Jeffreys asked if there were other dogs there. Ms.
Comeau stated yes. Jeffreys asked if there were any other witnesses at the beach. Officer
Morreale stated yes, there was a friend of Newton's, Megan Huckins.
Ms. Adams wondered why the dog was not licensed in Lunenburg instead of Leominster.
ACO Comeau stated it was explained to her that Ace, owned by Katelynn Newton and her
boyfriend, is housed by the boyfriend's mother, Carla Mangiacotti at Flat Hill Road because
of some "problems."
Mr. Jeffreys asked for a description of the injuries sustained by the bite. ACO Comeau
stated the doctor told her it was near the Adam's apple of the throat and it was deep and
needed stitches. Mr. Alonzo noted Officer Melnicki's narrative is on the last page of
incident report, reference number 20Lun-670-OF, Call # 20-42065. When asked by Mr.
Marino how many dogs were at 964 Flat Hill Road, Ms. Comeau replied three.
Carla Manglacotti, 964 Flat Hill Koad, stated she was not present during the dog bite. Mr.
Alonzo requested Katelynn Newton to testify. Ms. Newton stated she and Ms. Huckins took
Ace to Hickory Hills; we weren't really aware of the signage on the beach. We took Ace for
a little walk, we grabbed food and sat down at a picnic table and we were eating. While we
were eating I noticed a car watching us for a few minutes and the person was sitting in the
car watching us on the beach and I thought that was a little strange. I felt uncomfortable and
called Carla Mangiacotti and told her. Twenty minutes to a half hour later, my friend was
sitting on the beach and I went to get Ace a cup of water. Megan Huckins was holding Ace
and I heard a barking noise and I grabbed his leash and I noticed Mr. Hazel was approaching
us. I had the leash which has two handles on it and I was holding Ace with both hands. Mr.
Hazel asked if Ace was friendly. I said he was friendly but with the coronavirus etc. going
on and being creeped out by the guy getting near us, I did not want him to touch the dog.
Before I could say any more, Mr. Hazel (Ms. Newton showing how) bent over and put his
face into my dog's face and that is when Ace nipped him and Ace then came next to me and
sat down. I asked Mr. Hazel if he was okay and he said he bit me. I instantly put Ace into
the car and Mr. Hazel went to his house. He was gone for about 15 minutes and I walked
onto the property and asked him if he was okay. He came out of his house with a fury and
was yelling at me and saying my dog bit him and he better have all his paperwork and
getting all mad at me. I said he (Ace) has all his paperwork and he had everything he
needed. He then kept following me and my friend around and being argumentative and at
that point I just walked away from him and I said I have everything to show you. I showed
him my dog's rabies paperwork on my phone and he said if he has everything we need, then
===PAGE 6===
aver blower va bille belli
up on us and approaching us out of nowhere. He made me feel very uncomfortable because there
was nobody else on the beach except for me, my friend and the dog. For somebody to be sitting
in that car for 10 minutes just staring at us is kind of uncomfortable.
Mr. Marino asked Ms. Newton if the victim was a resident of the Hickory Hills area. She replied
she did not know but he was in a house across the street. Mr. Marino asked how long he was
there. She stated he was in the car for ten minutes, then went in the house and came back out
after around twenty minutes. She added since the incident Mr. Hazel has driven slowly by 964
Flat Hill Road and it makes her uncomfortable because she has an eight month old baby there.
When asked she added Dean Mangiacotti did report to an officer who dropped off paperwork
that Mr. Hazel had been driving by the residence. Mr. Marino stated that was not in the report.
She stated she did relate that to the officer and added Mr. Hazel did not punch her dog as
reported. If he had, I would have been angrier. After he nipped Mr. Hazel my dog refrained back
and I had no problem getting him into the vehicle. He never tried to go after Mr. Hazel. Mr.
Marino asked if she had read the medical report. She stated no.
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Newton to describe the dog. She showed the dog, a large white and black
mongrel laying on the rug, adding that he weighed about 85-90 pounds.
Mr. Jeffreys asked how many times she had been to this beach before. She stated she was only
there that one time with Megan Huckins. Her aunt is a resident and she was staying with her at
the time. He asked for confirmation that she saw the sign. She stated she only noticed it when the
officer pointed it out to her. He asked if it was normally the case that when you have taken the
dog to parks that there are signs that state that dogs are permitted or not? Ms. Newton stated
typically I do pay attention but Ace has service paperwork for my boyfriend, so is usually
allowed to go anywhere. But Dean wasn't with us.
He asked about her reference to the bite as a nip. Can you describe what it looked like to you?
She stated it was a mark where you could see the flesh a little bit and I only saw it quickly, there
was no blood. She indicated closer to the side of the neck under the ear. Mr. Jeffreys thought it
would be helpful if she saw the police report; the bite mark is in the middle of the neck around
the Adam's apple. Ms. Adams asked where the dog is being kept tonight. Ms. Newton stated he
resides at 964 Flat Hill Road.
Mr. Alonzo asked if you had to assess how long the incident took from the time he asked if the
dog was friendly to the dog bite and he stands up and he and the dog are separated, how long did
that take? Ms. Newton replied it was not even five seconds, it was quick. Mr. Alonzo asked if
Mr. Hazel went back to his house after. Ms. Newton stated yes and he went back to his home for
about fifteen minutes. I went on to his property after about ten minutes and I was yelling to him,
"Sir, sir. " I did not know what was going on or if he was okay. From what I saw of the wound it
looked like he was okay and I was like what's going on? He eventually came out and he said he
was calling the ambulance and the cops. I said okay, if that is what you need to do and that is
when the police showed up. Mr. Alonzo asked if Mr. Hazel had ever approached you or did you
===PAGE 7===
Ms. Newton to Mr. Jeffreys, clarified an earlier statement that she would have been more angry
if Hazel had punched her dog. She stated she has talked to two insurance agencies and a lawyer
and this is the first time I heard that he had said he punched the dog. I was very calm and
collected the whole time. He told one of the insurance companies that I had to physically rip my
dog off him because he kept attacking him. If that was the case Hazel would have had more bites
and if my dog was attacking him there is no way I could have pulled the dog off of him. He also
told another insurance company that he was bitten in the face by my dog and that did not happen.
Mr. Dwyer asked Ms. Mangiacotti to confirm that Ms. Newton had called her. Ms. Mangiacotti
stated yes, she called me and said there was a creepy guy watching her and her friend and she did
not feel comfortable and she wondered if I could come pick her up and the dog up and bring her
home. On my way to pick her up I got another phone call and she was crying but we got
disconnected and then I arrived there on the scene.
Ms. Adams noted the dog breed should not be considered and the dog under that presented
situation could have sensed Ms. Newton's discomfort and been protective. She asked ACO
Comeau if dogs are looked at differently in these situations if the dog was being protective
versus attacking someone outright. Ms. Comeau believed the dog was being protective under the
circumstances. Dogs can sense anxiety. Both girls were anxious and the dog was feeling that and
then with Hazel leaning over in front of him, I am sure that is the reason he bit him.
Ms. Mangiacotti added that she has known this dog since he was very young and lived at her
house. He along with my other two dogs are on an electric fence and are all very well behaved.
Ace is the most laid back and friendly dog. They (Ms. Newton and her son) take the dog
everywhere. People come up to him and pat him. He barely even barks, he is so mellow. I trust
him around my granddaughter, never had any feelings about him being aggressive, he is just a
good boy. I saw this man (Mr. Hazel) and he was jumping around before he got in the
ambulance. There was no blood coming from his neck, not that I am minimizing the bite at all.
If he had to punch him off his neck, he would have torn his neck. The fact that he is lying about
one thing, tells me he is lying about other things. I believe Ace was protecting the girls.
As far as the Amazon driver, there are signs posted and he was not supposed to enter the yard. I
will add Hazel is trying to sue me and Hickory Hills. He has not had an income in so many years,
we investigated him; he has eight active court cases. As a dog person I know nobody who would
go up to a dog whether they are familiar with them or not and stick their face in front of them.
Especially if the dog barks at you at all, you would just stand still. He clearly was not thinking at
all. No, he should not have been bitten but he was pretty foolish. If he had a problem with the
girls on the beach, he should have called the police. Why would you get out of your car and go
up to them after watching them? No reason especially with Covid-19, to be walking up to
people. I appreciate you allowing me to speak. I really hope you will take the whole picture into
consideration.
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Marino asked Ms. Mangiacotti about the phone call from Ms. Newton when she was crying.
Was that because of the creepy guy watching them? Ms. Mangiacotti stated no, the second call
was when she was driving over to pick them up and she was crying because the dog had bitten
Mr. Hazel. Marino asked Mangiacotti if she had called the police when Newton said there was a
creepy guy watching them. She stated no, she did not think to. Marino asked Ms. Newton did
you not say earlier the guy asked you if he could pet the dog. Ms. Newton stated no, he asked if
he was friendly and kept walking up to us and before I could say I don't want you touching him,
he shoved his face into the dog's face.
Discussion ensued on whether to continue the hearing or not. Acting Chief Gammel noted they
nave been in contact with Mr. Hazel prior to this hearing and he was adamant about appearing
and had specific requests on what he wanted to see done. He offered to have an officer serve him
a notice by hand delivery for next week.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd:T. Dwyer
To continue this hearing until August 11' at 7:10 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo -
aye
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Resignation: Personnel Committee- Michael Fiorentino-effective July 23, 2020
Ms. Lemieux reported Mr. Fiorentino has moved out of town. Mr. Alonzo accepted his
resignation on behalf of the Board and asked that a thank you letter be sent.
Joanna Bilotta - Simeone, 362 Sunset Lane, was requesting to be appointed to the Personnel
Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2022.
Ms. Bilotta - Simeone stated she was volunteering to help within the community and had served
on the Planning Board for ten years. She is on the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation
election committee. She has HR experience with the North Middlesex Regional School District.
She has sat in on union negotiations and created job descriptions. She has been watching the
Personnel Committee zoom meetings.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To appoint Joanna Bilotta - Simeone to the Personnel Committee with a term to expire
June 30, 2023
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Appointment to Agricultural Commission Associate:
Stephanie Scofield- 870 Massachusetts Avenue-term to expire June 30, 2023.
Ms. Scofield is a small farm owner in town. She has horses and used to be a 4-H leader. She
grew up farming and wants to offer her services to the Town. She met with the commission at
their last meeting.
===PAGE 9===
Ms. Lemieux read her memo to the Select Board aloud: At the March 10th meeting, prior to the
shutdown of town offices related to the pandemic, I had reported to the Board that at the end of fiscal
year 2020, we would be completing three years with Mead, Talerman, and Costa providing Town
Counsel Services and they have not increased our retainer for those three years. Mead, Talerman and
Costa is proposing an amendment to their retainer agreement that would increase our monthly retainer
$455/month. The proposed fee increase is to adjust for inflation since 2017 and is based on their
amended agreement reflecting this increase which is included for the Board's review.
It would be my recommendation to continue services with MIC at the proposed retainer fee that
increases the average hourly rate by $10.95/hour. I have reviewed the Legal Expense account and
based on the previous year's expenses and the current year's projected expenses, there are sufficient
funds in that account barring any extraordinary unforeseen legal expense.
The proposal is to increase the $6,500/month fee to $6,955/month, an additional $455/month,
or 7%. The $156.47/hour average from the last two (2) calendar years equates to
approximately 41.54 hours/month. Based on the average and approximate hours/month, the
proposed adjustment is expected to increase the rate to $167.42/hour, i.e. an hourly increase of
$10.95.
Attorney Costa stated the firm evaluates their rates annually for all their clients by calculating
their effective hourly rate. The hourly rate for 2018 was $142 per hour. In the municipal world
most towns are being billed between $180 to $225 per hour for legal services, so $140 was a
bit low for that first year. For the second full calendar year (2019), the average hourly rate was
$170 per hour. We are proposing to adjust the annual retainer amount to reflect a cost of
living increase, usually around 2.5%. It is about a 7% increase over three years.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the increase of the monthly fee to $6955.00 for Mead, Talerman and Costa
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Costa thanked the Board.
l. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Renewal of Earth Removal Permits
Ms. Lemieux stated this agenda item was added in anticipation of the upcoming renewal of earth
removal permits on August 18th. Mr. Jeffreys asked why the Building Commissioner was
recommending the completion of the rear berm at the site of 1325 Massachusetts Avenue by
November 30th. Property owner Dan Proctor stated that would not be a problem. Mr. Alonzo
suggested the Board members send any questions to Mr. Burney in advance of the renewals
related to his memorandum recommendations for the earth removal permits as he would not be
===PAGE 10===
Motion. o. Marine
- •Ia. dellreys
To authorize Chairman Alonzo to sign the IMA on behalf of the Board
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The Board returned to OLD BUSINESS
2. Review of FY21 BOS and Town Manager Goals
Mr. Alonzo noted Goal # 2 was amended as follows:
1. Goal #2: Enhance Facilities Management and Maintenance:
a. Objective: To look at the feasibility of creating an independent facilities department and
improve the long term maintenance and repair plan for town facilities.
i. Action: Review the current organizational structure and determine if a
reorganization that separates Facilities from the Department of Public Works
would create greater efficiencies. Follow the process in the Town Charter as
required for any reorganization.
ii. Action: The Facilities Director utilizes SchoolDude, a computerized maintenance
management software, for building users to schedule repairs or other building
related issues. The Town Manager will work with the DPW to look into utilizing
other modules offered by SchoolDude our current maintenance management
software or a different maintenance management software in order to create
preventative maintenance schedules and track the management of the town's
assets. This would inform the long term strategic plans for town facilities and that
would be used to create preventative maintenance schedules and asset management
that would informassist the Town each year during the capital planning process for
facilities.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d: J. Marino
To accept the amended Town Manager goals for FY21
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo presented the Select Board goals as drafted and discussed at a previous meeting.
Objective 1:
To identify, define and propose at least one project to the 2021 Annual Town
Meeting regarding the use and/or re-use of the Old Primary School building, and/or
the land on which it sits (a continuation of last year's Select Board Goal -
Objective 2, with additional actions)
i. Action:
Have open sessions with other boards, committees and commissions as
well as with the general public in discussing the options defined from
last year's goal. Evaluate the pros, cons and costs for each option,
potential variations as well as possible timelines.
===PAGE 11===
Objective 2:
Objective 3:
on open space and a "Town Common" theme
ili. Action: Determine one (or two, if applicable) option(s) to be fully developed
into a proposed project for the building and/or site to be presented to the
2021 Annual Town Meeting for vote, including approximate costs,
plans and necessary funding.
To review, discuss and revise (where needed) the re-appointment process of all
annual Select Board appointments and to formalize that process into a policy for
distribution.
i. Action: Review the existing process step-by-step as well as any existing
written policies that might pertain to the re-appointment process. Also
review the Charter for exact list of Select Board appointments.
ii. Action: Ask for initial input from all affected appointed bodies. Discuss
improvements that might be made to streamline, clarify and strengthen
the process. Write a draft policy and distribute to all affected appointed
bodies for their review, suggestions and recommendations. Also make it
available to the public for their input as well.
ili. Action: Collect all input from the review cycle of the draft policy. Finalize
the reappointment process after discussing all the suggestions and
recommendations that have been made and write the final policy for
distribution.
To analyze, discuss and strategize how to get more people actively interested
and involved in volunteering for Town elected and appointed positions.
i. Action: Review all existing methods and practices presently in place that inform
and/or encourage people to volunteer. Discuss what is currently
effective and what is not with an eye to determining why, as well. Talk
about potential obstacles, challenges or hurdles to more widespread
involvement. Work to determine how to improve existing methods,
what new methods might be tried, and how obstacles might be removed
to garner more active involvement from the public.
ii. Action: Ask all current elected and appointed bodies for their input in
determining the same issues as the Select Board will discuss in the
previous action. Ask each elected and appointed member for a short
===PAGE 12===
Was de a St t proving volunteerson.
Ensure that all changes are made public with an outreach campaign
utilizing available media resources (public-access TV, newspaper,
social media, etc.).
iv. Action: Establish objective success criteria to accurately measure whether
the actions taken did improve the situation.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd. K. Adams
To accept the BOS FY21 goals as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
3. Approval of Minutes of May 5, 2020; May 12, 2020
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the Minutes of May 5 and May 12, 2020
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
4. Warrants:
Mr. Alonzo reported he had signed the following warrants the previous week:
• Payroll W #2P21 dated 7/23/2020 in the amount of $639,220.22
• Payroll Deduction W #5 21 dated 7/22/2020 in the amount of $447,206.66
• Accounts Payable W #4 21 dated 7/21/2020 in the amount of $248,716.06
• FY21 15 Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $7997.46
5. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo wanted to ensure the following items stays on the agenda list: discuss the
establishment of a Tricentennial Celebration Committee and discuss reinstituting the
liaisons to other appointed and elected boards/committees.
6. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Council on Aging is continuing their Meals on Wheels program via
home delivery on Mondays and Wednesdays which includes bulk meal deliveries for other days.
There is also Drive Through Coffee pickup on Tuesday mornings and the Drive Through Brown
Bag lunch pickup on Thursdays. There are some group programs/gatherings for 10 people or less
at the Senior Center. During this time one concern about the senior community is keeping in
contact with people as not everyone has a computer. There are farmers' market coupons
available from the Senior Center. Starting this week on Wednesday there will be Tai Chi in the
Park.
===PAGE 13===
boilers are in good condition and has more heating capacity than is needed, however new alt
handlers will be needed. The ventilation system does not meet code requirements. All plumbing
fixtures need to be replaced. The existing generator is working, but its size will need to be
reassessed based on the redesign of a new interior layout. We are awaiting the detailed
engineering analysis, civil, structural and mechanical, and the results of the hazardous material
testing. There will be a building code review to identify all areas that should be modernized to
meet current coding requirements.
They firm has held interviews with town employees to see if there have been program changes
since the 2015 Tappe Study. Three key items that stood out from staff requests were improving
accessibility, an efficient and functional building and for it to be a "one stop shop." There was
discussion about community use, specifically for the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club, who are
looking for additional space. The committee is asking this Board if it is within their purview to
explore relocation or program expansion with the Boys and Girls Club or does another process
need to proceed for that engagement. Mr. Alonzo believed it was within the committee's
purview to discuss if the capacity exists to accommodate requests.
Ms. Adams questioned what is the actual charge of the committee. Mr. Alonzo reminded this is a
committee report not an agenda item for discussion. Mr. Alonzo stated the charge can be
provided at the next meeting. Mr. Jeffreys stated part of the committee's charge is to get a better
understanding of what is needed by town departments. We are still going through a detailed
analysis of what the building needs.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
.
Agricultural Commission (1 alternate vacancy)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (3 vacancies)
• Fence Viewers (vacancies)
• Historical Commission (3 vacancies)
• Library Board of Trustees (1 vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Senior CenterProperty Tax Work Off Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
Update on State Aid:
We received notification on Thursday, July 30th that the Baker-Polito Administration and the
Legislature have committed to no less than the Fiscal Year 2020 level of funding for Unrestricted
===PAGE 14===
The engineer will also prepare an application for the Small Bridge Program to apply for
construction funding.
THES Asbestos Abatement: This project is in progress.
Marked Police Cruiser: Bids were solicited and this will be ordered shortly.
Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus: This order is in progress.
ALS Equipment Phase 1: This is on hold right now.
ACO Vehicle: This vehicle has been ordered, but is backordered and it will be many monthsbefore
wereceive it.
Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3: This is on hold right now. The pump may need to be repaired soon
and would be approximately $15,000 out of the $65,000.
Portable Radios: Fourradioswillbepurchased(approx. $2,000 outofthe $45,000) fornew
officers. Others on hold now due to possible need for frequency changes.
AC Design for Primary School: Currently is out to bid.
Senior Center Front Entrance Reconfiguration: Design in progress and then will need to be put out
Infrastructure Bond Bill (House No. 4932):
The Legislature passed an Infrastructure Bond Bill that included $150,000 for the acquisition of
turnout gear for the Lunenburg Fire Department and $100,000 for a fire alarm upgrade at the
Lunenburg Primary School. This was sent to the Governor for approval on August 3rd and is
waiting for his approval. I had notified the Board in May that Representative Hay had notified me
of this bond bill that required a list of any projects by the next day so I had provided the list we had
formalized for our legislators in February and two of the four projects were chosen out of that
list with reduced amounts for each project.
A Bond Bill is not like an earmark in that it is guaranteed funding. We would need to formally
request these funds be released through a bond and it would require the Governor's approval. I have
requested additional information from our Senator and Representatives on the formal process to
make these requests and if any projects from prior bond bills have been requested and funding
released.
Community Development Block Grant Award:
In April I had reported to the Board that I had read the federal stimulus package at that time
had Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding so I had reached outto Montachusett
Regional Planning Agency (MRPC) to see if they would be able to assist us with putting
together a CDBG application. In June I requested the Board authorize the Chairman to sign a
letter of support for Lunenburg to participate in a regional Coronavirus Community Development
Block Grant Application. MRPC put together this regional application that included Lunenburg,
Shirley, Royalston, Townsend, and Westminster. The application request was for $264,500 for
microloans for small businesses and support for local food banks. We were notified recently that
we received an award of $296,100. The Town of Shirley will be the lead community that
administers the grant and we are currently awaiting all the grant documents from the Department
of Housing and Community Development. I will update the Board as this progresses.
===PAGE 15===
employees attending paramedic school have seen a delay in completing the program but the
classes are expected to re-start in the fall.
Treasurer/Collector: The Treasurer/Collectoris currently advertising the listof unclaimed checks
on the town website. Asrequired by MGL, in order to return the funds to our general fund for
checks that were never cashed, the Town is required to advertise on the website for 60 days,
advertise in the paper twice for a period of time, and after a one year period at the end of the
newspaper advertising can void the checks. The Treasurer/Collector is working towards another
tax lien sale and auction for foreclosed properties.
Land Use: The Land Use Director reported on a major greenhouse proposal from Bright Farms and
a 2.5 MW solar project being developed by Nexamp on Electric Ave. that is currently going
through the permitting process. The process for updating the Master Plan is moving forward; the
Collins Center will be the consultant to conduct a new population study as the first step in the
process.
Cable: Public Access has seen a 9% increase in local programming. The Cable Manager and IT
have ordered and will be installing the equipment needed to move towards having in-person
meetings that we can also conduct Zoom meetings. The third channel, an educational channel, is
up and running and we will be able to run Library programs and information on Storm water to
meet one of the requirements in our MS4 permit.
Library: The Library Directorreported that curbside check-out is going well. All returned booksare
quarantined in the Community Room. The summer meal program called Project Bread that has
operated out of the Library Community Room in the past is doing meal pick-ups at the TCP
building Monday-Thursday 11 am-12:30 p.m. The summerreading program ends July 25th.
COA: The Councilon Aging Directorreported therewillbean Armchair Travel program on August
3rd with a 10 person limit, Tai Chi in the Park on Wednesdays beginning on August 5th, and they
have been having much success with their Drive Through events. Bingo will start up on August
6th and will be every Thursday 2-3 pm and on Fridays 10-11 am.
Finance: The Finance Director is working on closing out Fiscal Year 2020 and has posted all
Fiscal Year 2021 budget accounts to MUNIS.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, August Sth at 7:00
p.m.
• The School Committee has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, August 5' at 6:00 p.m.
• The Planning Board has a meeting on Zoom on Monday, August 10th at 6:30 p.m.
• Town Counsel will hold office hours on August 26th from 9 a.m. until 1 p.m.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and as of July 31st, there are 73 confirmed
positive cases in Lunenburg and one death.
Town Beach:
The Town Beach opened on Monday, July 13". Initially the system required registration 24 hours in
===PAGE 16===
and additional isolation barriers to be installed at the relevant buildings. The Facilities Director has
installed additional wall mounted sanitizer units at all the entrances of town buildings and has ordered
additional PPE for town facilities. Starting Monday, August 10" we will open Town Facilities,
excluding the Library and Eagle House, to the public during limited hours. Starting Monday and until
further notice the public hours will be 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. We will continue serving the public by
appointments outside those hours. Any persons entering a town building will be required to wear a
facemask and maintain their social distance of six feet. Hand sanitizer units have been installed at each
entrance of each building and the public will be asked to use hand sanitizer upon entry. We are
required to keep a log of every employee and visitor to each department and have thus far been
utilizing Google Sheets to maintain this log. Departments will be asked to continue to maintain this log
and therefore any public entering the building should expect to be asked their name and relevant
contact information. Anyone that cannot wear a facemask due to a medical condition will need to
contact the relevant department and an accommodation will be made to provide the service needed.
Those entering the Town Hall and Ritter Buildings will be asked to enter in the front door and exit
through the side entrance to make it a one way entry/exit. I will be monitoring how this goes with the
departments and will make adjustments as needed.
Use of Town Fields:
Organized groups that wish to use town fields need to go through the Recreation Director Kayla Wright
at kwright@lunenburgonline.com for scheduling field time.
Public Meetings:
At this time public meetings will continue to be held virtually. There are a number of considerations to
be resolved before public meetings can be held at town buildings, including:
• Our IT Department and Public Access has ordered the necessary equipment and is waiting on
a few items that are expected to be delivered by the end of this week. The installation of the
equipment is expected to begin next week. Until this is installed and tested out we cannot
hold an in-person meeting that also has participants on Zoom.
• The current gathering order for our town facilities is 8 people per 1,000 feet of enclosed space
and given that the Town Hall meeting room where we are planning hybrid meetings is around
1,400 feet, this would equate to a maximum of 11 people social distancing.
• Our guidance is different than the guidance issued by DESE for school re-openings and we
*than the guida.
do not have the ability as schools do to have control over the number of people in the building
unless we had a designated person keeping track of capacity.
• We are working with our cleaning company to see if we could have an increased cleaning
schedule for them to come in on days after meetings but this has not been finalized.
As the situation progresses, I will update the Board and the public on any changes in public meetings.
Schools:
Schools were required to submit three versions of re-opening plans to the Department of Elementary
and Secondary Education by July 31s!. This included a fully remote learning plan, a hybrid model, and
===PAGE 17===
The store is currently trying to deplete their supply of plastic bags and build up their inventory of
paper bags. At this time Hannaford is not charging a fee for the use of paper bags. Effective August
17, 2020 Hannaford will no longer provide single use plastic shopping bags and a fee for the use of
paper bags will be reinstated.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 7/30/20):
As of July 30th there are 109,400 COVID-19 cases and 8,375 deaths and 1,161,454 patients have been
tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Travel Order:
Effective August 1, 2020, all visitors and returning residents entering Massachusetts must follow new
travel orders. All visitors entering Massachusetts, including returning residents, who do not meet an
exemption, are required to:
• Complete the Massachusetts Travel Form prior to arrival, unless you are visiting from a
lower-risk state designated by the Department of Public Health.
• Quarantine for 14 days or produce a negative COVID-19 test result that has been administered
up to 72-hours prior to your arrival in Massachusetts
If your COVID-19 test result has not been received prior to arrival, visitors, and residents must
quarantine until they receive a negative test result. Failure to comply may result in a $500 fine per day.
Current Status: Step One of Phase II:
On July 2, 2020 the Baker-Polito Administration announced that Phase III of the Commonwealth's
reopening plan would begin Monday, July 6i. Currently the following businesses are able to be open
in Step One of Phase III, subject to industry-specific rules concerning capacity and operations:
• Movie theaters and outdoor performance venues;
• Museums, cultural and historical sites;
• Fitness centers and health clubs;
• Certain indoor recreational activities with low potential for contact;
• Professional sports teams, under the authority of league-wide rules, may hold
games without spectators
Current Gatherings Order:
Under the updated gatherings order issued by the Governor on July 2nd, indoor gatherings are
limited to eight people per 1,000 square feet, but should not exceed 25 people in a single enclosed,
indoor space.
Outdoor gatherings in enclosed spaces are limited to 25 percent of the facility's maximum permitted
occupancy, with a maximum of 100 people in a single enclosed outdoor space. This includes
community events, civic events, sporting events, concerts, conventions and more. This order does not
apply to outdoor, unenclosed gatherings if proper social distancing measures are possible. This revised
order does not supersede previously issued sector guidance, and is effective beginning Monday, July 6.
===PAGE 18===
circulated to the Board, Open Space Committee and Conservation Commission. She was
contacted by Representative Sena's office. They have requested a complete copy of the current
Town Charter and received it. She has a call scheduled with Rep. Sena tomorrow.
Ms. Lemieux stated the Capital Planning Committee member at large position is appointed by
the Town Moderator. Mr. Passios will be talking to him later in the week.
Mr. Alonzo stated he would entertain a MOTION TO ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION
pursuant to MIGL c. 30 § 21, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining and
the Chair so declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the
negotiating position of the governmental body (Lunenburg Education Association) and
adjourn the meeting after exiting.
Mr. Jeffreys made the Motion and it was seconded by Ms. Adams
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
The meeting adjourned at 10:12 p.m.
***************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE****
***
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
