===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Bob Pease, Conservation Commission chair,
Jack Rabbit, Conservation Commissioner; Jeffrey Viviano, Mike Larouche
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. It can be viewed on the
YouTube Lunenburg public access channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information and asked if everyone was present and could be
heard. The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
There were no public comment or announcements from the public or board.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Appointment to Conservation Commission: Jeffrey Viviano, 338 Sunset Lane, term to expire June
30,2022
Jeff Viviano thanked outgoing Conservation Commission member Todd Dwyer for his service
on the Conservation Commission and added he had learned a lot from him. Mr. Viviano noted he
had applied last June for the commission and the incumbents were reappointed and he totally
understood and held no animosity. Since then he has a served as an unofficial associate and has
been attending some of their meetings and site walks. He summered on Lake Shirley as a child
so is familiar with the town. He has lived on the lake since 2017, and is a member of the Lake
Shirley Improvement Corp. He related in detail his education, professional life and recreational
activities and believed these would contribute to his service on the commission. Positive
comments came from the board members regarding the appointment. Mr. Pease stated very often
full members served as associates.
Mr. Alonzo stated it was brought to his attention that another talent bank form was submitted late
last night and the applicant is attending the meeting. Mike Larouche cannot be interviewed this
evening as it is not on the agenda. He asked the board members if they wanted to wait until next
week's meeting to interview him as well. He stated this information was presented to be
transparent but he was prepared to vote on Mr. Viviano's appointment this evening. After some
discussion and comments from Mr. Rabbitt, the Board decided to proceed with the appointment.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: T.Dwyer
To appoint Jeffrey Viviano to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire June 30,
2022
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Viviano thanked the Board and exited the meeting. Mr. Larouche was encouraged to begin
attending meetings to become an unofficial associate. Mr. Pease will email him the next agenda.
Mr. Larouche stated he understood the process. He is interested in becoming an associate
member and will try to attend the meetings and site walks.
===PAGE 2===
habitat by the DEP.
111 Mulpus Road Rear (6 acres) is surrounded on three sides by Small Town Forest land and is
an "owner unknown" property. It also contains critical habitat.
Discussion ensued on whether these articles could wait until the 2021 Annual Town Meeting and
then evolved into whether Open Meeting Law was followed regarding the Conservation
Commission meeting agenda posting or the warrant articles.
Motion: J. Marino
2°°: T. Dwyer
To have the two articles submitted by the Conservation Commission remain on the
warrant
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-nay, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2. Review Special Town Meeting warrant articles including FY2021 budget
discussion
Ms. Lemieux referred the Board to the budget adjustments first. She noted under Revenues the
amended and certified New Growth amount has changed. Under Expenditures there was addition
of two new police officers. Health insurance amounts have not been amended due to two vacant
DPW positions, so additional funds are not necessary at this time. Additional costs for personal
protective equipment (PPE) and cleaning services due to Covid-19 at town buildings was added.
Additional costs for IT due to Covid-19 are for the remote meeting coordinator position. She
moved on to the Deferred FY21 Capital Plan projects adding there is a police cruiser that was
scheduled for replacement of the canine cruiser, but it was a Tahoe and does not come in a
hybrid version. We received Green Communities grant funds and part of that was $5,000 towards
a hybrid cruiser, so if we switched out a FY22 cruiser for the canine cruiser we would save
$5,000 on that purchase. Under Unexpended Capital an additional $6,000 would further reduce
the capital plan project amount. Under the Stabilization Fund, that amount is under review until
we get a final figure for the street lights LED article and whether that will stay on the warrant.
She was recommending depositing $250,000 to the Special Stabilization Fund because there is
approximately $500,000 in requests for vehicles and equipment in FY22. This could be a
supplemental source for that funding. Today we found a bill amounting to $150 for a prior's year
bill so that has been added.
===PAGE 3===
School Health insurance savings reallocated to other lines in school budget
Cost to Add in Police Officer from Jan 2021-June 2021
Cost to Add in Firefighter from Jan 2021-June 2021
Cost of Health insurance for addy PO and FF absorbed due to 2 vacant DPW Po
Cost for additional hours for BOH
Additional Cost for PPE for Jan-July 2021
Additional Cleaning Costs at Town Buildings due to COVID-19 for Jan-July 2021
Additional IT Costs due to COVID-19 for Jan.-July 2021
Deferred FY21 Capital Pian Projects
ADA PROW Improvements
OPE Trust Fund
State Assessments and Charges
Stabilization Fund
Special Purpose Stabilization Fund
Converting Streetlights to LED
Payment of Prior Year Bills
115,544.00 Updated on 10/8/20
30,161,00
38,928.00
0.00 Health Insurance $9,375 for each new employee but offset by 2 vacant DPW Positions
3,816.00
9,000.00
24,000.00
11,745.00
494,333.00 Does not include the $170,000 Trackless to be paid out of Chapter 90 funds
27,000.00
110,000.00
(45,931.00)
Current Surplus/(Deficit)
44,800.402.11 Special Town Meeting FY21 Budget
296,426.41
Ms. Lemieux moved to the warrant. The first five articles cover the budget adjustments
mentioned above.
Article F transfers $110,000 to the Other Post Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund. Article
G& H still needs to be voted by the Board.
Article I funds the PAC Enterprise Fund in the amount of $120,000.
Article J transfers $68,097.59 into the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund.
Article K. appropriates all or a portion of the premium paid to the Town upon the sale of the
Town's $1,695,000.00 General Obligation Municipal Purpose Loan of 2020, Bonds, dated May
21, 2020, to pay costs of projects financed by such bonds and to reduce the amount authorized to
be borrowed for such projects by a like amount, and/or to reserve all or a portion of the net
premium to be appropriated for future capital projects.
Article L amends the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled "Salary Administration Plan," as
follows: the position of Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator to be added and assigned Grade
9; and the position of Principal Assessor to be added and assigned Grade 15.
Articles M. and N. address the Right of First Refusal of 250 Howard Street and the donation of
land.
Article O approves a Tax Increment Financing (TIF) Agreement between the Town and MA
Greenhouse LL.C., for property shown on Assessors Map 57, Parcel 31, and located at 361
Massachusetts Avenue (the "TIF Agreement"), which TIF Agreement provides for real estate tax
exemptions at the exemption rate schedules set forth therein; (b) to authorize the Select Board to
execute the TIF Agreement. This is the next item on tonight's agenda.
Article P allows an interim report from the TCP Building Design Committee to be presented.
Article Q and R addresses the transfer of the two properties discussed earlier this evening.
Article S raises and appropriates, a sum of money for the purpose of converting the Town's
existing streetlights to LED fixtures or, alternatively, acquiring said streetlights for potential
future conversion to energy efficient and long lasting LED fixtures.
Article T votes to amend the Code of Lunenburg -Chapter 204, entitled "Stormwater
Management; NPDES Phase II Permits," as depicted below, with additions underlined and
deletions stricken through, submitted by the Planning Board.
===PAGE 4===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n°:T. Dwyer
To recommend Article F. ($110,000 deposit to OPEB account)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-nay
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend Article I. ($120,000 deposit into the PAC Enterprise Fund)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd:J. Marino
To recommend Article K. (appropriates the premium paid upon the sale of the Town's
$1,695,000.00 General Obligation Municipal Purpose Loan of 2020, Bonds)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mo recommend Article L. (amends the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, entitled, «Alory
Administration Plan)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend Article P. (interim report from the TCP Building Design Committee)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend Article Q. (transfers care/custody of 111 Mulpus Rd. Rear from Select
Board to Conservation)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-nay, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend Article R. (transfers care/custody of 970 NW Townsend Rd. Rear from
Select Board to Conservation)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-nay, Mr. Alonzo-aye
3. Discussion on Bright Farms Tax Increment Financing Agreement
Ms. Lemieux noted the Select Board had requested two TIF Agreements; an 8 year and a 10
year, which she presented. She also presented a draft TIF agreement. Mr. Jeffreys asked if they
might consider providing some part-time jobs for senior citizens. After some discussion the
majority of the Board decided to negotiate for an eight year agreement. M. Lemieux will send
her draft to town counsel for review.
===PAGE 5===
74Ubb
advocate for funding as earmarks in the state budget. The Board voted on the following
projects to submit as priorities:
1. $355,000 for hazardous materials abatement and demolition of the old primary
school building and feasibility and design for future use of the space.
2. $127,000 for fire alarm upgrade at the Lunenburg Primary School.
3. $180,000 for Firefighting Turnout Gear that would provide each firefighter two
sets of gear so that after each fire, gear is cleaned of hazardous materials.
4. $40,000 for the installation of new LED lighting fixtures at the Library.
As the Board is aware, the state budget for FY 2021 has not been finalized and the
legislature is currently working on finalizing the budget for FY2021 and our legislators have
once again asked for a list of budget priorities. I am asking the Board to review the prior
submittal and make a prioritized recommendation on projects to submit.
Mr. Dwyer suggested switching #1 and #2 in order of request. The Board concurred.
2. Amended Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy
Ms. Lemieux stated this is similar to the Emergency Family Medical Leave Act; it is changed to
reflect what corresponds to our Salary Administration Plan and other union contracts.
"As a result of the Coronavirus pandemic, the United States Congress has enacted the Families First
Coronavirus Response Act ("PFCRA"), which includes, among other things, Section 5101, et seq., known
as the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Act (the "EPSLA"), which provides for temporary emergency paid
sick leave benefits for employees of public employers, including the federal government, state
governments, and political subdivisions thereof for purposes relating to COVID-19 and its effect on the
workplace. The temporary Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy (the "Policy") provides for up to a
maximum of two weeks of paid sick leave for the reasons specified in "Purposes for which EPSL may be
taken" which may be used by eligible employees before using other paid leave, if any, provided to such
eligible employee by Town of Lunenburg ("Town"), subject to the terms and conditions noted below. This
Policy shall take effect on April 1, 2020 and any rights to EPSL shall expire on December 31, 2020, or
earlier upon written notice from the Town."
The only change is on page four and reads as follows:
For reasons 4, 5, 6 of this policy, an employee may supplement 1/3 of pay with accrued time, in accordance
with the Salary Administration Plan, or Employment Contract, as applicable.
The reasons listed are:
• The employee is caring for an individual who either is subject to a federal, state, or local
quarantine or isolation order related to COVID-19, or who has been advised by a health
care provider to self-quarantine due to concerns related to COVID-19;
===PAGE 6===
To approve the Amended Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
3. Approval of September 1 and September 8, 2020 Minutes
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the minutes of September 1 and September 8, 2020 as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
4.
Action Items
Mr. Marino requested the Talent Bank Form be amended to add additional space for
experience/biography. Mr. Alonzo suggested a date and line for signature of the applicant be
added too.
Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Council on Aging met this morning. They have difficulty meeting on
Zoom due to technical issues but they will meet again in December. Participation in the online
programs through Eagle House Senior Center is good as well as the "drive through" programs.
He encouraged everyone to reach out to persons ages 55 and up and the best thing you can share
with them is your time.
The Library Trustees will be meeting this week at 6:45 p.m. and he will have a report on that at
the next meeting. The TCP Building Design Committee meets again on October 22" at 5:30.
Mr. Alonzo reported Capital Planning Committee meets again October 20th at 5:30 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS (cont.)
Policy on approval process for signage on town property
The Board reviewed the policy. The first line (#1) was changed to "Only non-profit and civic
organizations can advertise their events on town property."
The second line (#2) was amended to read as follows," An organization can request up to
three of those locations at the same time to allow other organizations the opportunity to
advertise their events. Organizations can only advertise one event at a time. Requests will
be made on a first come, first serve basis and if all designated sites are being used, the
request will not be granted until there is available space."
Line #3 was amended to, "Signs may be placed up to two weeks prior to an event and must be removed
24 hours after the event.
Line #4 shall read as follows, "Requests for placement of a temporary sign advertising an
event must be for events that are located in the Town of Lunenburg or for a Lunenburg non-
profit or civic organization holding an event outside of Lunenburg."
Line #7 shall read as follows,
"Requests to place a temporary sign on the designated sites on
town property may be denied if the applicant/organization has previously violated this
===PAGE 7===
Eviction Diversion Initiative:
The Baker-Polito Administration announced a comprehensive set of resources, known as the Eviction
Diversion Initiative, to support tenants and landlords during the financial challenges caused by the
pandemic. The goal of this initiative is to keep tenants safely in their homes and to support the ongoing
expenses of landlords once the Commonwealth's pause of evictions and foreclosures expires on
Saturday, October 17th.
The Administration is making a $171 million total commitment this fiscal year, with $112 million of
new funding to support new and expanded housing stability programs during the remainder of the
fiscal year, including:
$100 million commitment this fiscal year to expand the capacity of the Residential Assistance
for Families in Transition (RAFT) program to provide relief to renters and landlords
impacted by COVID- 19
•
$48.7 million to HomeBASE and other rapid rehousing programs for when tenants are evicted
and are at risk of homelessness
• $12.3 million to provide tenants and landlords with access to legal representation and related
services prior to and during the eviction process, as well as community mediation to help
tenants and landlords resolve cases outside of court
• $6.5 million for Housing Consumer Education Centers (HCECs), the "front door" for
those facing a housing emergency
• $3.8 million for the Tenancy Preservation Program (TPP), to provide case management
support and to act as a neutral party to help tenants and landlords come to agreement.
In order to ensure tenants are aware of available resources, the Administration has kicked off a public
information campaign, including a new option available to call the Massachusetts 2-1-1 information
hotline, effective Tuesday, October 13th. Operators for 2-1-1 are trained to answer questions and
connect residents to the agencies that administer RAFT and ERMA. An easier path to important
information has also been launched on the state's website: mass.gov/CovidHousingHelp.
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Parks Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by Select Board and Town Moderator for
member at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application formson the Town Website and completed forms can besent to the Select
Board office.
===PAGE 8===
Electronic Voting Equipment:
Thavebeencorresponding with the Town Clerk on quotes for electronic voting equipment that could be used for town
meetings. The sot of the equipment is an eligible expense under the CARES Act funding the Town can submit
for reimbursement. Theequipment does not require WiFi or internet to collect votes as thesystem iscompletely
separated from the web to guarantee security. The way the system works is that each voting member is handed a key
pad. The key pad has 5 voting buttons including buttons marked Yes, No, Abstain. Prior to the event, motions or
warrants are typed into the voting software that comes with the system. When it is time for a vote the warrant item
is displayed on a main screen, the moderator thenopensthevoteand the participantspressthe button on their voting
deviceto approveofor disapproveofthe warrant item. Theaudience can see within the softwarethat votes are being
registered in the system. When the moderator closes the vote, the system automatically calculates the votes
and displays if the warrant item has passed or failed. The cost is approximately $18,000 for 600 voting
devices.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
The ZBA has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, October 14th at 7:00 p.m.
• Iwillbeattending the Finance Committeemeeting on Zoom on Thursday, October 15th at 7:00
p.m. This meeting includes their public hearing on the Special Town Meeting.
• The Library Trustees has a meeting on Zoom on Thursday, October 15th at 6:45 p.m.
• TheAgricultural CommissionhasameetingonZoomon Thursday, October 1 5that7:00p.m.
• TheAPDChas a meeting on Zoom on Monday, October 19th at 6:30 p.m.
• The Parks Commission has a meeting on Zoomon Monday, October 19th at 6:30 p.m.
• TheBoardofflealthhasa meetingonZoomonMonday, October 19that 7:00p.m.
• TheCapitalPlanning Committeehasa meetingonZoomon Tuesday, October 20that 5:30 p.m.
• TheOpen Space CommitteewillbemeetingonZoomonTuesday, October20that6p.m.
• The Special Town Meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 17th at 7 p.m.
• Therewillbea fluclinicon Wednesday, October 14, 2020 from 3-6 p.m. at the High School.
Mr. Alonzo informed the public that at last week's Executive Session, the Select Board discussed
the Town Manager following her annual evaluation in regards to any salary adjustments. In light
of her composite evaluation and her work and incredible effort during the pandemic, the Board
voted to award a 4% increase. Her fiscal year 2021 salary will now be $134,955. He added every
cent of it was well earned. Ms. Lemieux thanked the Board and they also expressed thanks for
her hard work.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reviewed the upcoming meetings for the Board.
Their next meetings are on October 20, November 3 and November 10, 2020; Special Town
Meeting is November 17th
===PAGE 9===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Deluson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
