===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
The meeting commenced at 7:04 p.m.
Mr. Alonzo announced this was the Board of Selectmen meeting. In accordance with the requirements of the
Open Meeting Law, please be advised this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public
Access channel and also being recorded as a zoom meeting.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from
the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and
steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.
In accordance with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A,
§20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be broadcast live through local access
cable, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-
Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within
24 hours after the meeting.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting
remotely:
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar
ID: 909-174-0347#
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the "raise hand" feature to request to speak.
He stated, "I am Tom Alonzo, Chair of the Board of Selectmen. I will do a roll call to confirm that all persons
anticipated on the agenda are present and can hear me. When I call your name, please respond in the affirmative
and then state your name."
Mr. Jeffreys - "Yes, I am here,"
Mr. McQuaid- "Yes, I am here"
Ms. Adams-"Yes, I am here,"
Ms. Luck: "Yes, I am here,"
Town Manager Heather Lemieux-"Yes, I am here,"
Mr. Alonzo announced he would be in control of all the mutes for the Zoom meeting to prevent Zoom "bombing."
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Mr. Alonzo announced Hannaford's Supermarket, Massachusetts Avenue, has announced new store hours
effective March 28th
===PAGE 2===
Here are a number of updates specific to Lunenburg that will also be posted on the town website, town
Facebook page, the "town wide" listserv, sent to the Lunenburg Ledger and to Public Access:
COVID-19 in Lunenburg and Board of Health Notices:
I was advised by our Board of Health official that given the concern with how such information is being used and the
potential for negative consequences for those testing positive, the Department of Public Health is drafting guidance for
Boards of Health on how to present information on the number of positive COVID-19 cases within towns to
communities. Our first responders are receiving the location of the confirmed positive cases so they can be protected if
needed to respond to those locations.
We should expect that as the number of people tested increases, so will the number of positive cases in our community.
With the Governor's projection announcement yesterday about reaching the peak between April 7' and April 17", we ask
residents to strictly adhere to social distancing protocols and to follow the Department of Public Health and CDC's
guidelines.
The Board of Health issued an update on March 27 and can be found on the town website.
COVID-19 Information Center: On Tuesday, March 17" I created a page on our town website that includes all the public
service announcements and other important documents and links to information related to COVID-
19. This includes Board of Health updates and a link to the Lunenburg Public Schools with all informational releases from
the School. The page can be found on the town website.
Closure of Town Facilities, Schools, Town/School Playgrounds and School Fields
On March 16" all town facilities were deemed closed to the public until April 7". Today the Governor amended the
Order regarding Prohibition of gatherings of 10 or more people from noon on April 7' until May 4" and this will extend
the closure of town facilities as well until May 4'.
On March 25'", the Governor ordered all schools closed until May 4'
On March 17% it was announced that all public playgrounds in Lunenburg would be closed to the public until April 7th.
Today's announcement by the Governor will extend this closure until May 4". This includes Wallis Park, Kids Kingdom,
Marshall Park and school playgrounds. All school playgrounds and fields will also be closed to the public until further
notice.
The Police Department has been asked to monitor these areas during their patrols to enforce closure.
Communications with Town Departments:
Most staff is working remotely but continues to monitor their phone lines and e-mail. Please contact us if you have
questions, we are here to help if at all possible. If you need to contact a particular department, please visit the town's
website at https://www.lunenburgma.gov/ and each individual department's web page includes contact information,
including the phone number and e-mail address.
Board/Committee/Commission Meetings:
Boards and committees were asked only to meet to conduct essential business and delay meetings, if possible, to a
===PAGE 3===
homes and an additional four seniors were added. A new meal delivery service has been identified as well by the COA
Director called Heart to Home Meals for Seniors aged 60 and older. Their contact information is hearttohomesmeals.com
or call 508-658-3000. As of March 18th
', volunteers are no longer being used to deliver meals and meals will now be
delivered by the COA Director and two other staff members. Deliveries have also shifted to every other day so that
deliveries will be made on Monday and Wednesday only, with meals for multiple days. Clients are being asked to put a
cooler outside their door to place meals in and maintain social distancing.
Any questions can be directed to COA Director Sue Doherty at (978) 582-4166 or
sdoherty@lunenburgonline.com
Salvation Army Donations and Food Pantry:
On Friday, March 27'h the Salvation Army donated and delivered 30 boxes of non-perishable food for residents aged 60
or older to the Eagle House. If you would like to pick up a box call the Council on Aging at 978-582-4167 to make an
appointment to pick it up. There is a limited supply left and there is a limit of one per household.
The Salvation Army Food Pantry is also operating at their 739 Water Street in Fitchburg by appointment only. To make
an appointment call 978-342-3300. Pickups are scheduled Monday thru Friday 9-11 a.m.
Big Lots Donation to Eagle House:
Big Lots had given their employees gift cards and in turn those employees donated those to purchase gift bags of toilet
paper, paper towels, and bottled waters, which was split up and went out to Meals on Wheels delivery recipients.
Public Safety Department Request for PPE Donations:
The Police and Fire Departments are accepting donations of personal protective equipment that can be delivered to the
Public Safety Building lobby. This includes gloves, disposable gowns, masks and goggles.
Curbside Trash and Recycling:
Casella is still on their normal schedule of picking up trash and recycling.
Information on Town Meeting and Town Elections:
The Special State Election will be held on Tuesday, June 2, 2020.
The Annual Town Meeting will be held on Saturday, June 13 beginning at 9 a.m.
The bill that the Governor filed a House Bill 4572 on March 16" has now become House Bill 4580. This bill will provide
flexible solutions for communities caused by COVID-19 including options to address postponing Town Meetings 30 days
due to a public health emergency, allow for delays to extend the date of annual Town Meetings beyond June 30"", and
reduce quorum requirements, among other municipal finance and operational issues. House Bill 4580 has been ordered to a
third reading in the House, and it is likely they will take action on the bill soon.
Tax Payments:
Tax payments should not be left in the box outside of Town Hall due to staff working limited hours in the building and
===PAGE 4===
website at: https://www.lunenburgma.gov/departments/police.
Updates from the School Superintendent: The Superintendent has sent out a number of updates over the last week regarding
school closures, continuity of education, food insecurity program, and other responses related to COVID-19. All
communications from the School and School Superintendent can be found at https://www.lunenburgschools.net/ and will be
pushed out through School Messenger and automated calls.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 3/30/20):
As of March 30th there are 5,752 COVID-19 cases and 56 deaths. 42,793 patients have been tested to date by the MA
State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Governor Baker's March 31s Order Extending the Closure of all Non-Essential Businesses, Stay at Home Advisory
and Prohibition of Gatherings of more than 10 People:
As of the time of writing this update, a copy of the Order had not been released but had been announced a 2
press conference held by the Governor. The revision also includes an updated list of essential businesses that will be
available at https://www.mass.gov/covid12
Ms. Lemieux announced the programs and initiatives in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security
(CARES) Act that was just passed by the U.S. Congress are intended to assist business owners. When
implemented, there will be many new resources available for small businesses, as well as certain non- profits
and other employers. She will be posting resources for businesses on the tow n website. available from the
Small Business Administration (SBA) to address these needs, as well as some additional tax provisions that are
outside the scope of SBA.
American Red Cross Facing Severe Blood Shortage
The Red Cross is facing a critical shortage of blood products due to cancellations of blood drives across the
Commonwealth because of implementation of necessary prevention and mitigation actions during COVID-19 outbreak.
Visit RedCrossBlood.org, or call 1 - 800-RED CROSS
2020 Federal Census Update:
Based on continuing assessments of guidance from federal, state and local health authorities, the U.S. Census Bureau is
suspending 2020 Census field operations for two additional weeks to April 15, 2020. The Census Bureau is taking this
step to help protect the health and safety of the American public, Census Bureau employees, and everyone who will go
through the hiring process for temporary census taker positions.
The Census Bureau continues to evaluate all 2020 Census field operations, and will communicate any further updates as
soon as possible.
The 2020 Census is open for self-response online at 2020Census.gov, over the phone, and by paper through the mail. The
phone number for English speaking persons is 844-330-2020 and for Spanish speaking persons it is 844-468-2020. For a
list of numbers that provide support in 12 other languages go to 2020Census.gov.
Mr. Jeffreys asked if the special legislation addressed long term the issue of the deadline for submitting nomination
papers. Ms. Lemieux stated no, it is more finance and town meeting related.
===PAGE 5===
Purpose: Many residents, organizations, and businesses of Lunenburg make outstanding contribution(s) to the community and/or have
achievements that brings great credit to the Town. To promote goodwill and charity, each year the Select Board may recognize up to six
(6) of these residents, organizations, or businesses who uniquely add to the character of our community.
Awards:
Distinguished Citizen of the Year
Awarded to a resident of Lunenburg
Distinguished Organization of the Year
Awarded to a non-profit organization based in Town
Distinguished Business of the Year
Awarded to a business based in Town
Junior Citizen of the Year
Awarded to resident students or students) enrolled in Lunenburg High School.
Criteria for Selection
Recipients are those who make a significant contribution during the year to: The well-being of others
Individuals with cognitive and developmental disabilities Arts, Music, or Humanities
Science, Mathematics, Engineering, or Technology Agriculture
Community Building Seniors
Diversity and Inclusivity Conservation
Education
Athletics
Presentation: needs to be developed
A Certificate and Medal
Mr. Jeffreys stated this was to start the conversation. Mr. Alonzo asked the board for any comments regarding
this. Mr. McQuaid thought it was a great idea and asked if it was going to be a BOS process, who is going to
select them? Mr. Jeffreys saw it as a BOS process. The framework of having six gives us the framework of having
compromise. Mr. Alonzo liked the idea, he liked the categories and criteria. The next step would be to figure out
how it would work. Ms. Adams thought it was a good idea but expressed concern about public conversations at
meetings on who would be awarded the award. She did not want to create any uncomfortable moments while
===PAGE 6===
uruo bruce
would be more involved in the process. Ms. Luck stated the town needs to be involved as they took a beating the
last time there were contract negotiations. It's the biggest payroll in town by far. I would like for you to find out
what is going on and then hold an Executive Session and be briefed on it. Mr. Alonzo stated it's going to be hard
to get information during these circumstances. He noted legally any involvement by the town in the negotiations
is purely by courtesy. The School Committee and the Superintendent have the authority to conduct negotiations
and we cannot force ourselves into them.
Ms. Lemieux added the Superintendent and I speak frequently and she knows the limits of the budget. Ms. Luck
stated the school budget is 70% of the Town's total budget and last time they negotiated a $1 million increase
over three years for payroll. Then they come back to us and say they don't have any money for other school items.
Mr. Alonzo stated we can ask for an update. Mr. Jeffreys restated his opposition to this suggestion believing this
was outside the bounds of what the BOS does and wanted no part of it.
Three were no committee reports at this time.
I. OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on postponement of the Annual Town Election
Mr. Alonzo recalled that special legislation has allowed rescheduling of the annual election which was voted on at
the March 28th
meeting. Now we need to set a new date. Annual Town Meeting is scheduled for June 13t and I
believe we are looking at June 20" for the annual election. Ms. Lemieux confirmed adding she had a department
head meeting today and Town Clerk stated that was the date they were looking at. Ms. Adams was surprised the
Annual election wouldn't be held the same day as the special stated election for health safety issues and to save
money. Ms. Luck agreed with Ms. Adams. Ms. Lemieux noted there is the option of absentee voting. The earlier
the date for the election, the earlier the town caucus has to occur. If it is later there is more time to plan. Mr.
Jeffreys asked for confirmation that the Town Clerk preferred the June 20" date which Ms. Lemieux confirmed.
Mr. McQuaid pointed out if the election were held on June 2nd
, there would be two new members going to Town
Meeting that were not involved in the review or the background of the warrant article. Mr. Jeffreys agreed.
Mr. Alonzo believed the state was premature in setting the June 2n° date. He did not know where we will be at the
end of April. The further we can get it out the better and safer although costs more. It also allows more time to
submit nomination papers. Also, any write-ins have to be reviewed individually after the polls close.
Ms. Lemieux pointed out the town caucus would have to be April 25'" and nomination papers would be due by
April 14* if the annual election were on June 2. At the department head meeting today the Town Clerk indicated
three sets of papers have been submitted and the Library Director stated the Trustees were having trouble getting
signatures.
Motion: D. McQuaid
2n: M. Jeffreys
To hold the Town election on June 20, 2020
Mr. McQuaid-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Luck- nay, Mr. Alonzo -aye
Ms. Lemieux will notify the Town Clerk and Attorney Costa of the date.
===PAGE 7===
WAA:
Manager has to deal with at this time. Mr. Alonzo noted these are contractual obligations that requires us to do
this. He wasn't sure it was useful to waive but if we push it off there would be new members evaluating the
Town Manager. Ms. Lemieux thanked them for that consideration especially at a time like this, stating
obviously her focus primarily is on issues around covid-19. She would also be focusing on the budget which is
usually settled by now in a normal situation. She will check with Labor Counsel on the terms of her contract
and report back to the Board
3. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2021 Budget, FY21 Capital Plan, Five Year Financial Forecast and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux pointed out a couple of updates in her Town Manager report regarding the FY20 and FY21 budgets.
She added the ATM warrant has a number of articles that could be removed, such as the four Right of First
Refusal articles. She would also be recommending at the next meeting due to the current financial situation that a
number of the financial warrant articles be removed, including the acquisition of the 635 Mass. Ave. property.
Mr. Alonzo read aloud a message from Jeff Bingham, town caucus member, stating if the election is held on June
20", we can hold a caucus on May 13'h
Ms. Luck asked if there was any possibility the warrant articles for OPEB, Capital Reserve or changing the
streetlights to LED could be removed. Ms. Lemieux stated she wouldn't know until she is redoing the budget.
The LED article could potentially save the Town money. Revenue projections will have to reviewed as well.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (2 alternate vacancies)
• Americans with Disabilities Act Commission (1 vacancy)
• ArchitecturalPreservationDistrictCommission(1 designprofessional; craftspersonorbuilding contractor familiar
with historic renovation)
• FinanceCommittee(1positionappointedby theFinanceCommitteeAppointing Committee)
• Open Space Committee (1 vacancy-citizen at large)
• Planning Board (1 position appointed by the remaining membersof the Planning Board and the Board of Selectmen until
the next Annual Town Election in May)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 Associate vacancies)
Talent bank forms can be obtained on the Town Website and forwarded to the Board of Selectmen's Office.
===PAGE 8===
we would have the funds in our account within a couple of business days. I received confirmation today from the Treasurer/Collector
thatthose funds weredeposited into thetown account. The project itselfismoving forward with some delays dueto the cancellation
ofthe March 18th Conservation Commissionmeetingrelatedto COVID-19; therescheduleddateis rescheduled Aprill 5th.
DW Roof Project:
The DPW Roofproject that was bid earlierthis year will commence shortly. This was a capital project from Fiscal Year 2019.
Town Hall Handicap Ramp Project:
The TownHall Handicap Ramp project will beadvertised shortly with bidsdue in late April. Perthe state'sruling inresponseto COVID-19,
thisbidopening willbeavirtualbidopening. Thisprojectis being paid for with an earmark that was in this year's state budget.
Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness (MVP) Planning Grant:
As our Planning Workshop wasscheduled originally for Tuesday, March 24th, we haveputthis on hold until furthernotice. The Land
Use Directorreached outto the agency that wereceived the grant from to notify them of postponing our workshopandthey
responded that there willlikelybemore news fromthem on program adjustments given the current circumstances.
Green Communities Competitive Grant:
The Green Communities Competitive Grant that was due March 27th has been extended untilMay 1st due to COVID-19.
PY 2020 Updates:
As relayedatthe March 24th meeting, on March 23rdI instituteda hiringand spending freezeonall non-essentialhiringand
expenditures dueto the fiscal uncertainty and to be fiscally prudent. This doesnotincludeutility expenses, currentcontractual
obligations, andexpensesrelatedtothecurrent pandemic. Thehiring freezeexcludespolice, fire, andotherpositionsrelatedtopublic
safety. Allother departments willneedto request a hiring exemptionifaprospectiveemployeewould fillanessential serviceand
request an exemption for all non-essential expenditures.
TheFinance DirectorandTreasurer/Collectorarecurrentlyworkingonprovidinga projectionof revenues for the remainder of
this fiscal year. The Finance Director did relay that based on a preliminary review, she believes we willhave a positive cash flow
fortheremainder of the fiscalyear. As I receive additional information I will provide updates.
FY 2021 Financial Updates:
Asl indicated to the Board at the March 24th meeting, the FY 2021 budget willneed to essentially start fromscratch.I emailed Sean
Cronin, who is the Senior Deputy Commissioner of the Divisionof Local Services, questionson whether forecastingonitems
suchastheMealsTaxand forecastingforthe FY21 budget have been done on the State levelto help inform us on the local level what we
can expect for State Aid, etc. but he replied that no formal forecastinghadbeendone atthestate level yet.I attendedabriefing
today with paneliststhat includedthe Lieutenant Governor and Sean Cronin, and he indicated that the Secretary of Administration and
Finance ismeeting with the House and Senate Ways and Means Committee next week to discuss the impact on State Aid.
===PAGE 9===
Public Access: The PACManager has been working with the IT Director on remote meetings and will be live broadcasting meetings
remotely starting this week.
ITDirector: TheITDepartmenthas been working on setting all departmentsupto work remotely, workingonremotepublicmeetings, and
with the Schoolongettingout Chromebookstofamilies.
Finance Director: The Finance Director is working on the cash flow analysis with the Treasurer/Collectorandlookingatallend
ofyearreceivablesand grantstomakesurereimbursements have been submitted.
Land Use: The Land Use Department is working remotely and are working on items such as regulations. The Building
Commissionerisstilldoing inspectionsaslongassocial distancingprotocols can be followed.
DPW: Allbut the Administrative Assistant, Recreation Director and Sewer Business Managerare still working outoftheDPW
building. Allproper protocolsarebeing followed and each workerisassigned theirown vehiclethat they sanitize. They are working on
individualassignments, not groups, suchas street sweeping and catch basin cleaning. There have beentwo burials during thistime
period and they haveaccommodated those families whilekeeping in line with the Governor's Order.
Town Clerk: The Assistant Town Clerk is working entirely remotely and the Town Clerk has been working in the office. The
TownClerk willbeusing thelockboxoutside TownHallforsubmitting nomination papers for the State and Federal elections.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• TheConservation Commission willbe meetingtomorrow, Wednesday, April 1stat 7:00p.m. viaa Zoom meeting.
• The Finance Committee willbemeeting this Thursday, April2ndat 7:00 p.m. viaaZoommeeting.
Ms. Lemieux reported she is working with the Assessors Department on how they will proceed in FY21 on using
assessing services.
She is also working with the Assistant Town Manager and Labor Counsel on getting out guidance and forms related to
the two new paid leave acts, known as the Families First Coronavirus Response Act.
Ms. Lemieux announced the IT Director's father is at the Holyoke Soldiers Home that has been hit hard by the
coronavirus and she wanted to send her thoughts out to him and his family at this time.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Lemieux, her staff and department heads for all the work they are doing while under this
situation.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
The Board will meet again on April 7ih
There was no public comment at this time.
Mr. Alonzo stated he appreciated everyone's compliance in following the Governor's guidelines and maintaining
poise and calmness during this time. Hopefully we can get through this in a unified way.
===PAGE 10===

