===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Director; Mary Bentley and Constant Poholek, Jr. Esq.,Green Leaf Botanicals; Brian Marchetti, McCarty
Engineering; Susan Whalen, Sean O'Neill, Bright Farms
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. and announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the Governor's Order
Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are
being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting information for anyone who would
like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present by roll call. The meeting opened with the
Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams wished everyone a nice Veterans Day tomorrow and thanked them for their service. Dave
MacDonald, Island Road, thanked all the military people serving our country. He reminded the public
about the Salvation Army's Holiday parade. From 8 am to Noon on November 14h a military or state
trooper vehicle will be located next to the Ritter Building for the drop off of toys for children in need.
The theme of the parade taking place at noon is "Rescue Christmas." This is also the kickoff of the
for Veterans Day aloud.
A Proclamation
Whereas, Since the Commonwealth's colonial days, thousands of men and women have
served our country in defense of freedom and fiberty: and
Whereas, On November uth, 1918, the Armistice was signed in the Forest of Compigne
by the Allied Nations and Germany, ending World War 1,
"The War to End Ail Wars,'
after four years of conflict; and
Whereas, Since that day, every November people from around the nation have
gathered to honor our veterans; and
Whereas, There are approximately 388,000 veterans fiving in Massachusetts; and
Whereas, Today we are reminded of the great sacrifices and contributions our veterans
have made to our country; and
Whereas, We honor and salute those who served our country throughout the
generations with honor, patriotism and courage; and
Whereas, It is appropriate that aff Massachusetts cittzens remember the bravery of
those who served their country, so that their dedication and sacrifices serve as a
reminder of the cost of our freedom; and
Whereas, In November 2020, the world will commemorate the 102nd anniversary of the
Armistice that ended the fighting in World War 1 at g:oo a.m.
November 11, 1918 - the
eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month.
Now, Therefore, 1, Charles D. Baker, Governor of the Commonweafth of Massachusetts,
do hereby proclaim November n', 2020 to be,
VETERANS DAY
And urge aff the citizens of the Commonweaftfi to take
cognizance of this event and participate fittingly in its observance.
Given at the Executive Chamber in Boston, this eleve
ti day of November, in the year two thousand and twenty, and o
fe Independence of the United States of America, the twe hundred and forty-fourt
NOELLENCY
Charbor But
GOVERNOR OF
Pizzalo
LT. GOVERNOR
===PAGE 2===
at 935 CMR 500.000 et seg. Green Leaf has assembled an experienced team of professionals with a
diverse set of talents to operate an adult use marijuana dispensary. The team's combined experience
includes retail, public health, data analytics, legal and marketing. Ms. Bentley presented her background.
Mary Bentley, PhD, MPH
Education
•
University of Mass. Medical School, Worcester, MA (PhD-Public Health)
• University of Mass. School of Public Health, Amherst, MA (MPH)
• Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA (BS Biology)
Work Experience
• Public Health Practitioner and Biostatistician for over 20 Years
• Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, C1
• Associate Research Scientist-researched anti-social behavior in children and adolescents
• University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA
• Small business owner/operator in Massachusetts since 2015
• Consultant for Green River Cannabis Co., Greenfield, MA since 2019
Attorney Poholek presented his background.
Constant S. Poholek, Jr., Co-Founder
Education
•
New England School of Law, Boston, MA (Law Degree)
• University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA (BA Political Science)
Work Experience
• Attorney licensed in Rhode Island and Massachusetts for 30 years
• Litigation in the area of land use planning and business development
• Cannabis consultant for Green River Cannabis Co, Greenfield, MA and several other cannabis
facilities.
• Golf course facilities owner since 1982 specializing in all aspects of the golf industry including
management, food and beverage licensing, merchandising and marketing.
The Proposed Marijuana Establishment Facility
• Green Leaf proposes to renovate an existing 1900 square foot unit in a building located at 88
Massachusetts Avenue for use as a Marijuana Retailer Establishment.
• No cultivation or manufacturing operations will occur at the proposed facility in Lunenburg.
• Marijuana and marijuana products will be transported to the Retailer Establishment in Lunenburg
from other licensed Marijuana Establishments in the Commonwealth.
• No on-site consumption will occur at the site.
Ms. Bentley presented a site plan showing the 39 available parking spaces. Some security points were
presented as well as a conceptual design of the interior.
Compliance with Zoning
•
In compliance with Lunenburg's Zoning By-law, Green Leaf's proposed Marijuana Establishment
is located in the Commercial Zoning District designated for Marijuana Retailer Establishments.
• In accordance with the Lunenburg Zoning By-law, Green Leaf's proposed Marijuana Retailer
Establishment is not located within 300 feet of a pre-existing public or private school providing
===PAGE 3===
proposed facility complies with all state and local laws, regulations, rules and codes with respect
to construction, design, operation and security.
Benefits to the Town of Lunenburg
Green Leaf looks forward to working cooperatively with the Town of Lunenburg to ensure that Green
Leaf operates as a responsible, contributing member of the local community. Green Leaf intends to
positively impact the community in several ways, including but not limited to the following:
JOBS. A Marijuana Retailer Facility will add at least 8-10 full-time/part time jobs,
in addition to hiring qualified, local contractors and vendors.
HOST COMMUNITY AGREEMENT. A Host Community Agreement with significant monetary
payments would provide Lunenburg with additional financial benefits beyond local property taxes to
address any impacts on the community and support local programs, services, or organizations
ACCESS TO QUALITY, LEGAL PRODUCT FOR QUALIFIED CONSUMERS. Green Leaf will
ensure only qualified consumers ages 21 and over are able to purchase consistent, high-quality marijuana
and marijuana products that are regulated and tested for cannabinoid content and contaminants. This will
help to eliminate the current black market, in which consumers are not required to verify their age and
marijuana products are not tested
LOCAL SALES TAX REVENUE. The Town of Lunenburg can receive additional tax revenue through
the adoption of a local sales tax of up to 3% on each retail sale to consumers.
CONTROL. In addition to the Commission, the Lunenburg Police Department and other municipal
departments will have oversight over Green Leaf's security systems and processes.
RESPONSIBILITY. Green Leaf is comprised of experienced professionals who will be thoroughly
background checked and scrutinized by the Commission.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. Green Leaf's renovation of the building will revitalize the area and
contribute to the overall economic development of the local community.
Concerns: Security
Customer arrives
outside of
dispensary
Customer is
guided to a door
to exit, which is
locked and does
not allow re-
entry
Security
personnel checks
customer ID
outside
dispensary
Customer goes to
a sales clerk to
review a menu of
products*, place
an order, and pay
Customer enters
a secure area
where ID is
scanned
Customer enters
main retail area
*All products will be locked behind the cashier
tables and not physically accessible to customers
Concerns:
• Diversion to Minors: Green Leaf's trained dispensary agents will ensure that only consumers 21
===PAGE 4===
• Submit a complete application
• Obtain a provisional license
• Submit architectural plans for Commission approval
• Build out location and pass several Commission inspections
• Obtain a final license
• Undergo regular surprise and scheduled inspections by the Commission
At the Municipal Level:
• Obtain a Host Community Agreement
• Conduct a Community Outreach Meeting
• Special Permit from the Planning Board
• Work with local law enforcement on its security plans
• Ongoing coordination and oversight from various municipal departments (Police, Fire, Building,
etc.)
Proposed Project Timeline
December
Hos Commun
January 2021 October
CCC waiting period
November
2021
Provisional
obtained
obtained
December
2021
Architectural &
engineering
commenesd
• February
2022
Build out
bigs
• March 2022
PostProvisions
License
Inspection
-May 2022
Operasions
Commence
December
2020
Outreach
January
2021
Applcation
December
Bullding
February
2022
CCC
Review
March
Buld Out
Complete
•May 2022
Final License
2020
2021
2022
The application
process timeline would place the doors opening sometime around May of 2022. Ms. Bentley requested to
hold the community outreach meeting in December. Attorney Polotek noted he had provided a draft host
community agreement. It was suggested to hold the outreach meeting in January to allow for proper
advertisement time.
Mr. Jeffreys believed the plan presented was put together well and thorough and could see himself
following a community meeting supporting such an agreement. Mr. Alonzo commended their
introduction and stated they would look over the community host agreement and discuss further.
Land Use Director Burney will contact them about a future date for January 2021.
Bentley and Polotek thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Meeting re: Flat Hill Road Drainage Discussion
===PAGE 5===
meeting and Mr. O'Neill showed some slides regarding site selection, jobs and wages and corporate
citizenship. The discussion moved on to the amended TIF agreement.
Ms. Lemieux noted the changes made by Town counsel. In general, the wording was acceptable to the
Board as long as town counsel finds it so. Mr. Marino expressed that he did not want to hold the company
hostage on the number of available jobs. Suggestion was made to hold a short meeting before Special
Town Meeting to view the final draft. Ms. Lemieux requested meeting on the Monday before so she could
update her slides before the meeting and circulate it to the Finance Committee. Mr. O'Neill will also
attend the meeting.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Covid-19 Temporary Telework Policy
Ms. Lemieux reported this policy was drafted to have something in place since staff had to work at home
this past spring, so it lays out work expectations, eligibility etc. Mr. Alonzo suggested making the policy
more general than addressing Covid-19 situations only. Further discussion ensued about this and other
possible situations causing staff to work from home temporarily. Ms. Lemieux suggested they could
amend it if other situations come up later.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°: T. Dwyer
To approve the Temporary Telework Policy as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2. Approval of Minutes - October 13, 2020
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of October 13, 2020 as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo thanked Executive Assistant Elaine Peterson for keeping up with their minutes.
2n: T. Dwyer
3. Warrants/Action Items- there were none this evening
4. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the TCP Building Design Committee met to review the committee report that is
going to be presented at Special Town Meeting. They welcomed new member Matt Allison, appointed by
the Planning Board. There will also be a handout available for the voters.
Mr. Alonzo informed the Board that the Conservation Commission is going to be reviewing their land use
policy at their November 18 meeting and part of that discussion will be the use of firearms for hunting.
They will be reviewing the wording with Town counsel. A public hearing will be held on December 2nd.
He noted this topic could be coming back to this Board for further discussion.
===PAGE 6===
eventually it would have to be demolished. Some uses for the property could be municipal parking, space
for the Farmers Market and a larger gathering area for concerts. We will need to meet with the
Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) to discuss as we would like to place a warrant
article on the 2021 Annual Town Meeting to request funding to move forward. It was suggested to hold a
workshop with the Historical Commission and APDC in early January. An appeal went out to anyone
watching tonight if they had any pro bono artistic skills they would like to provide to the Town.
2. Discussion on Special Town Meeting articles and Vote on Consent Calendar
Ms. Lemieux stated the following, if approved, would be included in the Consent Calendar:
• Article 3 is the payment of prior year expenses ($150) and requires a 9/10's vote.
• Article 10 is the 2021 PEG Access Capital Expenses transfer of $120,000 from their retained
earnings;
• Article 11 is the Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund transfer of $68,097.59 from their
retained earnings;
• Article 12 is the appropriation of bond premiums, re-voting of prior borrowing and reserve
portion of future bond for future capital per M.G.L. c. 40, § 20;
• Article 13 amends the Salary Administration Plan (SAP) by adding the position of Intermittent
Heavy Equipment Operator (Grade 9) and Principal Assessor (Grade 15)
• Article 14 would be tabled and be included in the consent calendar. (the motion would be to pass
over Article 14).
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the Consent Calendar as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo noted the importance of this Special Town Meeting due to needed budget adjustments etc.
and urged voters to attend. It will be run similar to the Annual Town Meeting and there would be a
location designated for people who cannot or choose not to wear face masks where the meeting will be
televised. Safety measures will be taken as before and a sanitizing spray will used for the microphones.
The town is looking to make the meeting as expeditious and efficient as possible. He urged people to
allow time to check in for the meeting.
TOWN MANAGER COVID-19 UPDATE
As of November 6" there were 108 Covid-19 cases in Lunenburg and 1 death. The state report shows 98
cases as of November 4". The state has changed their metrics for cities and towns for the number of cases
that move a community from gray to green to yellow to red levels of risk.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
===PAGE 7===
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1):
On Wednesday, November 4th I attended the Montachusett Brownfields Committee meeting and
the Committee voted to approve an additional $6,000 in funding to conduct a Phase Ill for 925
Mass Ave. The Phase III will include an evaluation of remedial alternative with respect to the
reuse plans for the site. Will include discussions/meetings to position the site for applying for
cleanup costs and will include a deliverable of a Release Abatement Measure (RAM) plan for
submittalto MassDEP. I will keep the board updated as I receive any updates.
Remote Learning Infrastructure:
At the end of last week I spoke with the Superintendent and School Business Manager regarding
the remote learning infrastructure. After additional conversations she has had with the school
leadership team and teaching staff, the equipment needed for improved remote learning has been
changed from high end cameras to upgraded laptops, additional monitors, docking stations,
microphones, and stylus pads that will be charged to the Town's CARES Act funding. Overall,
the total cost of this equipment will be $113,488.
Status of FY 2021 Capital Projects Approved at the Annual Town Meeting:
Town Hall ADA Ramp: This project will be included in the Complete Streets project and bid
as part of the larger project. The Engineer is currently working on putting bid documents for
this project that will be ready for construction to start in spring of 2021.
• Flat Hill Culvert Design: An engineering firm is under contract for this project and has
begun the survey work for this project. The engineer will also prepare an application for the
Small Bridge Program to apply for construction funding.
• THES Asbestos Abatement: This project is substantially complete; the School Facilities
Director is just waiting on documentation to issue final payment.
• Marked Police Cruiser: This vehicle has been ordered; estimated delivery in January 2021.
• Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus: This equipment was ordered and has been received.
• ALSEquipmentPhase 1: Themonitor wasableto becovered by CARES Actfunding; the
other related equipment purchase (vending machine/drugs) has been purchased and
received
• ACO Vehicle: This vehicle has been ordered; estimated delivery spring of 2021.
• Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3: Partially complete; pump project is underway and once
complete the dealership that supplied the unit will do the remaining work.
• Portable Radios: Equipment ordered; received about 80% of radios.
• AC Design for Primary: In progress. DiGiorgio Associates will be doing the design/cost
estimate.
• Senior Center Front Entrance Reconfiguration: In progress; Bid awarded to contractor last
week.
===PAGE 8===
Zoom, the remote learning infrastructure previously discussed, the ALS monitor/detibrillator,
and electronic voting keypads for town meetings. We had included $95,000 for the school's
chromebooks in our last submission but this will have to be amended to go towards the School's
DESE CvRF as they were given an exemption if the School does not receive those by December
30th, where we do not have such an exemption under the Town's CvRF.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• As a reminder, Town Offices will be closed on Wednesday, November 11th in observance of
Veterans Day.
• The Finance Committee will be meeting through Zoom on Thursday, November 12th at 7:00
• The Board of Health will be meeting through Zoom on Monday, November 16th at 7 p.m.
• The Special Town Meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 17th at 7 p.m., with check-in
starting at 5:30p.m.
• Cub Scout Pack 1728 will hold their annual coat drive on the Saturday, November 21, 2020
from 9 am until 2 pm on the Ritter lawn. All COVID-19 related safety protocols will be
followed.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
• Monday November 16 at 6:30 p.m. via ZOOM
• Tuesday, November 17, 2020 Special Town Meeting at the Middle/High School
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys thanked everyone who has served our nation in the military and the law enforcement field.
He asked everyone to reach out to anyone they knew and be supportive. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Jeffreys
and Mr. Dwyer for their service as veterans of the military.
Motion: I. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting at 10:04 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo -aye
2n: J. Marino
Respectfully submitted.
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
