===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Arthur Dragoslis, Judith Dragoslis, Robert
Bowen, Maneerat Srisawad, Natalie Laohome, Steve Walker, Richard McGrath, Randy Moulton
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee Chair, 282 Pleasant St., announced their public hearing
will be this Thursday at 7:00 PM in person and via ZOOM on the Special Town Meeting
warrant articles. The public is invited to ask questions and provide comments. The Finance
Committee will then make their recommendations on the STM articles. He announced the
Finance Committee will be co-hosting a workshop with the School Committee on Chapter 70
funding on Thursday, October 28 at 7:00 PM. Members of the public are invited.
Mr. Alonzo reported Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company d/b/a Unitil requested that the
Department of Public Utilities (DU) approves the results of Unitil's most recent basic service
supply solicitation for December 1, 2021 through May 31, 2022, for its small and medium customer
groups. The proposed fixed basic service rate for residential and small commercial and industrial
customers is $0.19880 per kilowatt hour ("kWh"). If the DPU approves the Company's basic service
rates as proposed, a typical residential (R-1) customer using 600 kWh per month will see an average
monthly bill increase of $61.96 (or 37.9 percent). The Department seeks written comments
addressing the mitigation proposal no later than 5:00 p.m. on Monday, October 18, 2021.
He noted Lunenburg has a municipal aggregation agreement in place for three years at a rate of
0.11210/k Wh versus Unitil's proposed increase to 0.1988 /kWh. If you are a resident and you have
opted out of the municipal aggregation program, he recommended opting back in to get the lower
Ms. Lemieux reported the Attorney General's office has filed comments with the DPU to request a
50% reduction in the proposed increase. In the meantime, the Municipal and Community Services
Representative from Unitil, John DiNapoli, reached out to me to work on contacting residents that
have opted out of the Municipal Aggregation Program to inform them that they would have the
option of opting into the program. We will be working with them on that.
APPOINTMENTS:
Common Victualler License hearing-AJD'S Caté LLC d/b/a Lunenburg Diner, 324
===PAGE 2===
To approve the common victualler license for AJD's Café LLC d/b/a Lunenburg Diner at
324 Electric Avenue
Mr. and Mrs. Dragoslis thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Common Victualler License hearing- BKK Group LLC d/b/a Bangkok Hill, 177 Mass. Ave.
Attorney Robert Bowen, 1686 Mass. Ave., presented on behalf of the applicants, BKK Group
LLC, doing business as Bangkok Hill. He introduced the new owners, Ms. Maneerat Srisawad
and Ms. Natalie Laohome, who were present. The business has been sold to them and they are
seeking a common victualler license. Mr. Bowen stated the operation is not going to change
other than there will be no alcohol served and they will be doing take out for the time being.
Ms. Lemieux stated if the alcohol license lapses, they will have to apply for a new license.
Motion: J. Marino
2"': L. Franco
To approve the common victualler license for BKK Group LLC, d/b/a Bangkok Hill,
located at 177 Massachusetts Avenue
Vote: All in Favor
Meet with PACC Chairman re: Letter to legislators re: Pending Bills on Streaming Video
over Public Rights of Way
Steve Walker, PAC Chairman, 227 Pleasant Street, stated there is a bill to establish a state-
wide policy concerning compensation for the use of digital infrastructure in the public right of
way. There are two versions sitting in committee: S 2200 (Senate) and H 130 (House). He
noted according to the Cable Act of 1984, a municipality can negotiate a franchise fee from
the cable company for using a public right of way; which is what we have been doing with
Comcast. The contract is negotiated every 10 years. We have three channels of broadcasting;
public, education and government. We received a capital infusion of $170,000 which we are
keeping in reserve for our future studio space. Video services are moving to the internet and
being streamed there. As people are doing that, the amount we receive should reduce. In
addition, people are doing cable cutting which is not using the cable service and instead
watching television via the internet. The bill would impose a statewide franchise fee on the
use of public rights of way for streaming services. Fees would be collected by the state rather
than the municipality and placed in a streaming entertainment fund and then be dispersed.
Twenty percent would go the Commonwealth, forty percent to municipalities based on
population and forty percent would go to the community media center such as PAC.
The impact of cable cutting will reduce fees to run public access cable, which is what we are
using right now. We presently receive about $200,000 per year in franchise fees and we have
seen a slight reduction in income at this point. This bill would help reduce the loss of that
revenue. The action being requested by PAC is for the Select Board to send a letter to the two
bill committees from the Select Board based on a MassAccess model letter on behalf of the
town. The House bill (H 130) is being sponsored by Representative Kushmerek. Mr. Walker
===PAGE 3===
Meet with the Historical Commission re: Demolition Delay Bylaw Amendment Article for
Special Town Meeting
Chairman Richard McGrath submitted an amended warrant article with the following changes:
D.
If the building or structure is determined to be a significant building under this bylaw, the
Building Commissioner shall impose a demolition delay of 540 days from the date of
notification.
During the delay period the applicant must notify the Historical Commission by means of
submitting the document entitled, "Demolition Delay Bi-monthly Report" on a bimonthly basis,
beginning with the first day of the second month following the imposition of the demolition
delay, that:
(1) Bona fide, reasonable attempts have been made to sell, preserve, move, rehabilitate or
restore said building or structure. Evidence shall include:
A. Listing of the building with a licensed real estate broker.
B. An estimate of rehabilitation or restoration costs of the building or structure.
C. An estimate for moving the building or structure in its present condition.
D. Name, address and contact information of a party or parties that have been located who
have agreed to preserve, rehabilitate, restore or relocate the building or structure.
(2) The applicant has agreed to alternatives to demolition and/or accept conditions noted in the
applicability determination.
(3 Any owner failing to submit the bimonthly report on the prescribed schedule shall have the
demolition delay period extended one day for each day of delay in filing.
(4) At any time during the delay period, the Historical Commission may advise the Building
Commissioner, in writing, to issue a demolition permit without waiting for the period to expire, if the
Commission decides that:
A. There is not a reasonable likelihood that any entity is willing to purchase, preserve,
rehabilitate, restore, or move said structure.
B. For at least six months the owner has made continuing bona fide and reasonable
efforts to locate a purchaser to preserve, rehabilitate, restore, or move the subject structure, and
that such efforts have been unsuccessful.
§ 134-5 Emergency demolition.
===PAGE 4===
District,
Mr. Franco noted the changes to the article since the last meeting and they addressed the
concerns he had previously had about the proposed article. Discussion about reformatting (4) and
A. and B. and adding "and" or "or," and 1. Other minor changes to punctuation were suggested
to make the wording clearer as well. Mr. Alonzo was also satisfied with the changes.
Motion: L. Franco
2"': T. Dwyer
To accept and approve the warrant article as amended
Vote: All in Favor
Request of Randy Moulton to bow hunt on 671 West Street parcel
Randy Moulton, 157 Wilder Road, Leominster, is requesting to archery hunt on the 671 West
Street parcel. The parcel is 66.5 acres and has a lot of swampy areas. He is aware he needs to
hunt 75 feet away from roads and 170 yards away from dwellings. Mr. Dwyer asked him if he
intended to use a tree stand. Mr. Moulton stated no.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he would not support this request because this area is being used casually by
residents for passive recreation and hay fields. There are no set guidelines on how it is to be
used, nor a way to notify the many abutters, or how to alert people who use the land. Mr. Alonzo
agreed adding the town has plenty of conservation areas that are open to bow hunting. Mr.
Franco had not been against the request, but after hearing Mr. Jeffreys' reasoning, he would not
support it.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To deny the request to bow hunton the 671 West Street parcel Vote: 3 in favor, 2 against
(Dwyer, Marino)
Mr. Moulton stated he understood and thanked the board for their time and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
APDC- Resident Representative, term to expire June 30, 2024- Laura McGrath, 22
Cushing Lane
Mrs. McGrath stated she has been a middle school social studies teacher in Leominster for over
35 years. She believes in preserving the past to protect our history for the future. She has been
watching the APD meetings since the pandemic began and oftentimes felt that she wanted to
say something. She believes she could share and contribute to the commission and would like the
opportunity to sit at the table and be an active participant.
Mr. Marino expressed concern about a husband and wife participating on the same committee.
Mrs. McGrath assured all that she had no hidden agenda. Mr. Dwyer while appreciating Mr.
Marino's comments, noted there are not a lot of candidates applying for vacancies, so he
welcomed any volunteers. Mrs. McGrath noted that the commission has had difficulty at times
achieving a quorum and she often attends the meetings and thought she could alleviate that
problem as a member. Mr. Franco also agreed with Mr. Marino and thought it would set a bad
precedent as well. Mr. Jeffreys stated he was opposed to the same members of a household
serving on the same committee and the perception of others regarding fairness, added it had
===PAGE 5===
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large and 1
representative from Historical Commission)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and SB
. until next ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee, 1 citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Green Community Committee (1 vacancy, 2 associate vacancies)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Board/Committee Clerk (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Grant Funded, Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Asst. Town Accountant (Part Time Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Legislative Updates:
I recently reached out to Senator Cronin, Representative Sena, Representative Kushmerek and their
staff for updates on any pending bills that would affect Host Community Agreements, Property
Tax Relief legislation for seniors, any possible legislation that would impact formula funding
changes related to Chapter 70 and Chapter 90, the State supplemental budget bill, the State's plan
for ARPA funding and the status of the Bond Bills that have funding earmarked for Lunenburg.
We had a Zoom call last week and they provided the following updates:
• The legislators confirmed that any bills on Host Community Agreements will not be acted
on this fiscal year, nor is there any impetus to move it forward.
• Senator Cronin was not aware of any bills that would adopt Tax Relief for seniors and did
not believe the Senate had any appetite to act on such bills. The House has two bills that
Representative Sena co-sponsored but they are not moving forward.
• The legislators did not foresee any changesto the funding formulas for Chapter 70 and
Chapter 90 this fiscal year but do expect a Chapter 90 funding formula bill in the future.
• The Votes Act passed in the Senate and the House is expected to take act on this during this
session.
• The legislators should have received the reprecincting maps this past Friday and will
===PAGE 6===
• The State is currently in the process of holding hearings on the use of ARPA funds but are
also in a holding pattern waiting for the federal government's infrastructure bill so there
will not be duplication on the use of funding. I plan on putting together projects that are
high priority to the Town, such as the Flat Hill Culvert project, to submit to the legislature
as they are formulating on how best to use the state ARPA funds.
In regards to the three Bond Bills that projects for Lunenburg were included in, the
legislators were up front that we will never see that funding. Not only do we have a
freshman delegation, but there have been zero projects for small towns that funding in
Bond Bills has been released. I plan to extract the projects that were included in those bond
bills that have not been completed and add them to our list of budget priorities that will be
up for discussion, if they are not already.
The Senate will be taking up a Mental Health Omnibus Bill between now and November
17th. This bill addresses mental health insurance reform and is not an appropriation bill.
The delegation has been invited to an upcoming meeting in November to meet with the Board and
once I hear back from all three we will announce the date.
Budget Updates:
The Finance Director submitted the FY 2021 balance sheet to DOR last week and free cash was
certified on Friday, October 8th. The General Fund Free Cash was certified at $2,666,962, the Water
Enterprise Retained Earnings was certified at $54,544, the Solid Waste Enterprise Retained
Earnings was certified at 49,413, the Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings was certified at
$1,828,706, and the PEG Access Enterprise Retained Earnings was certified at $835,969.
COVID-19 Update:
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of
October 2nd was 80. The current positivity rate for Lunenburg as of October 2nd was 6.94%.
Ms. Lemieux spoke to the Board of Health agent today on how we can promote education on
this and an informational page will be inserted into the special town meeting warrant.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Halloween Trick or Treat hours will be on Sunday, October 31; 6-8 PM
• The fall Special Town Meeting will be Tuesday, November 16, 2021 at 7 PM
Ms. Lemieux was copied on an email sent to the DPW from a new resident on Valley Road
thanking them for a quick response on a request to cut back vegetation on the same road.
She also read a note from a resident to the Select Board stating the ambulance crew that
transported her to the hospital was wonderful as well as the Police officer who responded.
The whole team was professional and kind, as well as compassionate and gentle, noting
she had a great experience during a stressful and difficult time. Ms. Lemieux thanked all of
those departments. Mr. Alonzo stated it was nice to hear good things about town staff.
===PAGE 7===
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on FY22 Select Board Goal on Old Primary School Property and
Timeline for Request for Demolition
Following last week's meeting, Mr. Alonzo reached out to the Chair of the APDC regarding the
suggestion to keep part of the building façade to memorialize the former school and his response
was, "the consensus of the Commissioners is that saving part of the facade would be
unacceptable. Condoning that would be antithetical to the Commission's mission, as stated in the
APDC Guidelines and Regulations. It would also be a violation of the APD bylaw under 113-1
Purpose (1) and (3). "
Discussion turned to whether to submit the demolition determination form. The consensus was to
apply now. Mr. Alonzo stated he would be inviting the APD to attend the meeting after they
have hired the design company to give them the opportunity to change their minds.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2': L. Franco
That the Select Board submit a request for demolition of the old Primary School located at
30 School Street within the next fifteen days
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discussion on November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles and
possible vote(s) on warrant article recommendations
Ms. Lemieux presented a draft of FY22 adjustments to the budget (Article A.) and stated
she would be reviewing it with the Finance Director.
FY22 Budget Adjustments from 5/1/21 ATM to 11/16/21 STM
Line #
15
23
Group Health Insurance
Medicare-Town Share
Town Accountant
Technology Director
Article 1, 11/17/2020 STM - FY21 Budget Adjustments
Appropriation
Voted 6/1/21
11/16/21 STM Ad]
us us
2,392.473.31$
260.700.00S
(78,500.00) S
39.935.00
226.955.30 S
4.912.00 S
236.448.685
65.35200 S
subtotal FY22 Omnibus Budget Ad) S
Total FY22 Omnibus Budget Adjustments from Above |
Change in Sewer Enterprise |
Change In State AssessmentsS
Prior Year Expense |
Total Expenditure Adjustments
5/1/21 ATM Revenue Surplus - Raise & Appropriate
Change in Sewer Enterprise
Change in Cherry Sheet S
Change in New Growth |
Total Revenue Adjustments
Current Surplus Available
3.116.577.29 S
1.177,736.00 S
9.111.372.00 S
es us
Amended Appropriation
2.313.973.31
300.635.00
231,867.30
301,800.68
31,699.00 S
31.699.00
(5.360.00)
122.551.00 S
7.519.70 S
156.409.70
0.20
10.824.31
(1,001.00)
149.664.00
156.487.51
77.81
3.148.276.29
1.300.287.00
7.519.70
===PAGE 8===
Sheet and New Growth.
After talking to the Finance Director, Article D. appears to have no budgetary impact to the
overlay account.
Article E. accepts the easement on Leominster-Shirley Road from Lunenburg Central.
Article F. amends the Sewer Enterprise budget. Article H. was discussed earlier this evening.
Article I. amends the Salary Administration Plan with the position of Seasonal Cemetery Laborer
to be added and assigned to Grade 1, the position of Alternate Building Commissioner to be
added and assigned to Grade 16 and to change the class title of PACC Production Assistant to
PACC Production Technician.
Article J. is to hear an interim report from the TCP Building Design Committee
Article K. is to pay costs of designing, renovating, furnishing and equipping the TC Passios
Building, and for the payment of all costs incidental and related thereto, which building will be
used for Town offices, school and community purposes, to determine whether this appropriation
shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; provided, however that any borrowing for this project
would be contingent upon the approval by the voters of a debt exclusion related thereto.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Finance Committee asked for specific information on Article K.
related to the debt schedule impact; that will be presented on Thursday at their meeting.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee had said that clearly Articles K and L are linked and
it was discussed if there was enough information coming from the new study that was added on
the Annual Town Meeting to look at what new construction would be to make a determination
that K. could have been on the Annual Town Meeting. Mr. Alonzo stated his understanding was
the TCP Building Design Committee got word from the engineers that they won't have a number
until November. If that is true, that will not give us 6 weeks, but 1 ½ to 2 weeks to discuss
something that is brand new. He reiterated his objection to this article as there is not going to be
any time to talk about this and come up with any reasonable comparison.
Mr. Jeffreys noted Article K. is to fund a rehabilitation of the TCP Building, we had that dollar
amount provided in the spring and it hasn't changed. Article L. is not to fund a new building,
but to obtain funding for construction documents. We are plugging in an estimate of $250,000
as a number. He did not understand why the cost of a new building is being vetted to the
Finance Committee if that is not being proposed to the town. The Finance Committee should
concern themselves with the financial impact of what's actually in front of the town.
Mr. Alonzo stated the Finance Committee will be asked at town meeting for a recommendation
on an article of a high monetary value in terms of $23 million. One of the pieces that is going to
be discussed about is what it is going to cost to do something similar in the same footprint of
new construction; a number that is still not known and won't be known until 2 weeks before.
That leaves no time for discussion unless people want to have a very lengthy discussion at town
meeting that has almost 20 articles on it; he did not believe town meeting was the place to have
those discussions.
===PAGE 9===
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated the Finance Committee has scheduled a date for an
additional public hearing on November 4. He agreed we are pushed up against the deadline way
later than we were promised and expressed frustration by that as well. The TCP Building
Committee will have another public forum the next week and the Town meeting is the week after
Ms. Lemieux reported the Finance Committee has requested additional information; the debt
schedules for the renovation project as well as Turkey Hill Elementary School and what that
looks like up against our debt policy as well as the effect on the tax rate.
Mr. Jeffreys stated we all share a common goal, which is to move forward in a way we can get
the most buy-in from the community to resolve the building situation. We had all the information
for Article K in the spring. He would not be in favor of Article K as a new building would cost
about the same. He had some suggestions for amendments to Article L.
The following is the change to the article wording; Town Counsel has not reviewed this yet:
• To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds,
$250,000 for the design and engineering required to construct a new building, Lunenburg
Town Hall and Community Center, that consolidates town offices, school uses, and
community space at the location of the building and land known as the TC Passios, located
at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all
incidental and related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation, engineering, final
design services, and bid preparation for construction; or take any other action relative
thereto.
The following are the changes noted in blue:
• To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money, $250,000 for the design and engineering required to construct a new building for
the, Lunenburg Town Hall and Community Center, that consolidationes of town offices,
school uses, and community space at the location of the building and land known as the TC
Passios, located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and
any and all incidental and related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation,
engineering, and final design services, and bid preparation for construction; or take any
other action relative thereto.
He was hoping these changes would identify the new building, provide a dollar amount for the
construction documents and add language for bid preparation for construction. He also requested
the Select Board be changed as the submitters of Article L. in the warrant. Mr. Jeffreys has also
been working on the presentation of the article and would like to present it in a couple of weeks
to the Select Board for approval. The presentation needs to remind the community of the work
that has been done over the last 20 years, educate the public what the building design process in
municipal government looks like; where we are at currently in that process and to identify the
needs that exist in our community and how this meets those needs going forward. He added also
to set a better expectation of what we intend to learn from this such as actual costs. This will give
===PAGE 10===
Mr. Jeffreys clarified that they already had a design but what they needed was having the
engineering aspect drafted. Mr. Alonzo disagreed noting just the RFP process alone would take
up to six weeks, placing us into 2022, not including holding meetings for community
engagement and input.
Mr. Dwyer agreed that Articles K and L go hand in hand; adding it appears we will have
numbers from the TCP Building Design Committee to make our decision on which we would
like to support. He also agreed keeping Article L on the warrant, but that there was no way we
would have construction documents ready in six months. It would be more like twelve to
eighteen months.
Mr. Alonzo pointed out that some members of the Finance Committee have a problem about
using free cash as a funding source at a Special Town Meeting. They will be advising Town
Meeting, which could be an obstacle that we are putting in front of ourselves.
Discussion continued to go back and forth regarding timing and available options.
Mr. Alonzo moved on to Article M, which is needed for the culvert installation:
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board to acquire, by gift, purchase, eminent domain
or otherwise, temporary, permanent and permanent utility easements in, along, over, under and through
certain properties situated along Flat Hill Road, said easement interests each determined to be unique,
which properties are identified in the Assessor's records as Parcel ID Nos. 122-0015-0000, 122-0016-
0000, 122-0052-0000, 122-0054-0000, 122-0055-0000, 122- 0062-0000, as well as another property
unidentified in said Assessor's records, but all as shown on a plan of land entitled "Temporary
Construction Access Plan of Land in Lunenburg, Massachusetts," prepared for the Town of Lunenburg,
prepared by VHB, Inc., Scale 1 inch = 10 feet, dated May 2021, identifying the owners-of-record of the
aforesaid parcels and further specifying the temporary, permanent and permanent utility easements to be
acquired, and the square footage of each, which plan is on file with the offices of the Town Clerk and the
Select Board, said easements to be for all purposes necessary or desirable in connection with anticipated
replacement of an existing and construction of a new culvert in the approximate area thereof; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Article N is a correction to a previous article to correct the parcel identification:
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of certain property known as and
numbered 970 Rear New West Townsend Road, more specifically identified in the Assessor's records as
Map 4, Parcel 2, from the Select Board for general municipal purposes to the Conservation Commission
for conservation and passive recreation purposes;
Article O:
To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of certain property
known as and numbered 781 Rear Page Street, more specifically identified in the Assessor's
records as Map 85, Parcel 1, from the Select Board for general municipal purposes to the
Conservation Commission for conservation and passive recreation purposes; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Conservation Commission)
===PAGE 11===
The last two articles were submitted by the Planning Board and described in detail in the
October 5t" minutes. Land Use Director Burney will be present next week if there are any
questions on them:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.1, which is a Section of the
Protective Bylaw entitled "Types of Districts,"
and
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, which is a Section of the
Protective Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District," Subsection B(1) District delineation as
depicted below, with additions underlined and deletions stricken-through, and to modify the Zoning Map
to reflect the new Water Supply Protection District Boundaries depicted on the same;
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Evaluation of Proposals for Landscape Design Services for 30 School
Street
Ms. Lemieux reported the Asst. Town Manager was doing reference checks on all three
applicants. Mr. Alonzo requested everyone complete their evaluation forms by this Thursday as
the next meeting will involve the board interviewing each firm.
2. Vote on Revised Massachusetts COVID-19 Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy
Ms. Lemieux reported the Governor has extended the sick leave time to April 1, 2022 and
Section III. Purposes for which leave may be granted, has been amended. Another change from
the original policy was made to the grid for employees who have been on leave who have been
exposed (what they are required to do as far as active monitoring). Also "Note," under Section
V. has a minor wording change to AND/OR.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2": J. Marino
To approve the Revised MA Covid-19 Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy
Vote: All in Favor
3. Approval of Minutes of October 5, 2021
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of October 5, 2021 as presented
2"': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
4. Warrants:
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $1,261,490.85, a Payroll
Warrant in the amount of $923,708.19 and a Payroll Deductions warrant in the amount of
$605,318.76.
5. Action Items:
Mr. Jeffreys reported he had requested from Ms. Lemieux the costs of what has been paid for the
Tappe and Vertex studies as well as other funding spent related to building plans, in preparation
for his presentation.
===PAGE 12===
The TCP Building Design Committee met and discussed the timeline of these cost estimates and
worked out the rest of the program schematic design for the new build with the civil engineer.
They also worked on parking areas. The engineer will make their markups on what the roadways
will look like and the architect will make some modifications. Once complete they will engineer
their design over the next two weeks and will have cost estimates no later than November 2nd
Following up on the last Library Trustees'
committee request to have the Library be open on
Fridays and the resulting feedback, the Library Director and Chair of the Library Trustees will be
making their increased budget requests for FY 23. They would like to present this to the Select
Board sometime this year to get the information out about why they are looking for the
additional funding.
Mr. Jeffreys reached out to 8" grade Civics teacher Lisa LeBlanc and new requirements state 8th
graders need to complete a community project. She is looking to attend the November 2nd
meeting along with the School Supt. and a curriculum specialist in case of any additional
questions.
Mr. Jeffreys attended a Community Foundation meeting in Fitchburg attended by different
community leaders. They have approved a $20,000 grant to the Council of Aging.
Mr. Alonzo attended the Finance Committee meeting and their public hearing on the STM
warrant is this Thursday night at 7:00 p.m. As mentioned earlier they will be holding another
public hearing concerning the two warrant articles concerning the TCP Building because they
will not have the numbers by tomorrow night.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
This board meets again on the 19'". There will be a Chapter 70 presentation on October 28"
cohosted by the Finance Committee and School Committee.
PUBLIC COMMENT-there was none
Mr. Alonzo reported they would be entering Executive Session.
Motion: J. Marino
2': T. Dwyer
To enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3 and to
adjourn after exiting Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining ifan open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of
the public body and the Chair so declares. (Municipal Employees Union, Fire Union)
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
*********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate***********************
The meeting adjourned at 9:47 p.m.
===PAGE 13===

