===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer, Jim
Marino, Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Adam Costa, Town Counsel; Adam Burney,
Land Use Director; Dave Blatt, Peter Beardmore, Dave Rodgers
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and asked everyone to rise for the
Pledge of Allegiance.
There was no public comment at this time.
CHAPTER 40B WORKSHOP
Mr. Alonzo stated Attorney Adam Costa would be conducting the 40B workshop and it would be
followed by a question and answer period.
Attorney Costa stated he would be referring to his syllabus and the Chapter 40B Handbook for
Zoning Boards of Appeals (2017) issued by the Massachusetts Housing Partnership. He noted this
state law is often referred to as the Comprehensive Permit Law (G.L. c. 40B, §§ 20-23), enacted in
1969 to facilitate construction of low to moderate income housing or "affordable housing." It
establishes a consolidated local review and approval process that empowers the Zoning Board of
Appeals (ZBA) to hold hearings and make binding decisions that encompass all local ordinances or
Under Chapter 40B3, the 7B3,A has auchority to grant all approvals that would otherwise require
individual applications under local bylaws or ordinances. The ZBA also has authority to grant
waivers of local requirements if requested by the developer and necessary to construct the proposed
project. The ZBA uses a single permit to expedite the approval process and construction of the
housing. The ZBA's jurisdiction includes zoning, subdivision regulations, and other types of local
bylaws or ordinances and regulations. The ZBA does not have the authority to waive state
requirements. Therefore, Conservation Commission and the Board of Health retain jurisdiction
when a project requires permits under the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act, G.L. c. 131, § 40
and Title V of the State Environmental Code, 310 CMR 15.00, respectively.
The Housing Appeals Committee (HAC), under c. 40B, has authority to consider appeals arising
from the ZBA's denial or conditional approval of comprehensive permits. However, the HAC's
ability to overturn local decisions applies only to cases involving a city or town that has not met its
regional fair-share obligations under the statute.
Costa moved on to project eligibility. Before the comprehensive permit application is reviewed the
town receives notice from the developer that it will be applying for comprehensive permit under c.
40B. The developer must meet certain prerequisites such as they are an eligible organization; that a
housing subsidizing agency has determined the project is fundable and the developer has site
control. The community has 30 days to provide public comment on the proposed project. A site
visit is also recommended. Unce the comprehensive permit application is received, the ZBA has 30
days to hold the public hearing.
The application to the ZBA must include the following:
===PAGE 2===
• Other information required by local rules and regulations
• Applicable fees
• Application processing
Consultant reviews)
Mr. Costa referred to the 40B hearing protocol listed in the Mass Housing Development handbook:
Basic Public Hearing Protocol
• Open the hearing and read the public hearing notice.
Introduce the ZBA members sitting on the case, including any associate member appointed
pursuant to G.L. c. 40A, § 12.
• Explain public hearing "basics" so the applicant and public can anticipate how the ZBA will
conduct the hearing and know what to expect along the way. (Some ZBAs have a short "code of
conduct" poster at the front of the hearing room as a reminder, and also as an aid to people who
arrive after the hearing has opened). If the ZBA customarily ends meetings at a certain time, the
public should be told at the outset so they are not surprised later.
Read correspondence into the record. (If town staff or members of boards that submitted
comments are in the hearing room, acknowledge them.)
• Invite the developer to present the project.
After the developer's presentation, give ZBA members time to ask questions.
Open the hearing to questions and comments from the public. Some ZBAs routinely set
time limits on individual comments; others take a less formal approach and hold off on imposing
time limits unless it becomes necessary. The board needs to strike a balance between providing
enough time for people to be heard and avoiding needless repetition. Also, some questions from the
public may need to be deferred until the ZBA receives peer review reports. For this reason, it
makes sense to let abutters know as soon as possible what the ZBA's project review schedule will
be.
Schedule a site visit. Note that site visits should be open to the public, but they are not a
"meeting" under the Open Meeting Law as long as the ZBA does not deliberate during the visit.
Decide on a date to continue the public hearing (assuming it does not open and close on the
same night), in consultation with the developer. Though some comprehensive permit hearings can
be completed in one evening, most proposed developments need several sessions. For example,
developers will often propose some changes to their original plans in response to concerns raised
during the hearing. Furthermore, developers can use time between hearing sessions to obtain
additional information for the ZBA and have informal discussions with city or town staff,
consultants, or abutters to the site. Hearing continuances and extensions of the decision deadline
must be approved in writing by the applicant and filed with the city or town clerk.
===PAGE 3===
There is the potential for peer review needed to evaluate the above issues and the developer is
responsible for reasonable monetary costs for them. The developer is not responsible for peer review
or studies on any issues not directly related to the project.
Work sessions/informal meetings can be conducted in between the public hearing sessions but a
quorum of the ZBA is not permitted. During the hearing process the developer may request waivers
necessary to build the project.
Attorney Costa moved on to deadlines. Failure to comply may risk constructive grant. Key ones are:
• Open the public hearing within 30 days
• Close the public hearing within 180 days
• Decision awarded within 40 days
Legal Standards:
Consistent with Local Needs means balancing:
Regional need for affordable housing with
• Local Concerns
Health and safety of residents
• Protection of the natural environment
• Promotion of better site and building design
• Preservation of open space
These local concerns must be valid, compelling and documented.
Local requirements must be essential to protect the above
Applicant standard for denials
Denials will be
• Rejected if reasonable conditions could be protective
• Supported only if no practical way to conditionally approve
Uneconomic
•For conditional approvals
•Applicant must first show
Conditions of approval render project uneconomic
Then burden shifts to ZBA
• To prove conditions are Consistent with Local Needs
•Uneconomic means
Public or nonprofit organizations will suffer financial loss
, Limited dividend organization cannot realize reasonable return
• Reasonable return
Within Subsidizing Agency's limitations
• Without substantially changing rent levels or unit sizes
• For sale development: return no less than 15% of total development cost
(IDC)
• Rental development: return on Total Development Cost is 450 basis
points higher than 10-year Treasury rate
===PAGE 4===
A hypothetical question was asked if the developer gained approval to access to the water district's
water sources for a large parcel of land, does that automatically allow adjacent abutters to also gain
access to the water district's supply. Attorney Costa stated he was not necessarily of the opinion or
going on record that the Housing Appeals Commission (HAC) has the authority under c. 40B to
extend the water district beyond the district's boundaries or to any property outside of the proposed
development.
Other questions concerned indirect and direct financial costs to the town in the event of an appeal,
or bringing utilities to the site, and types of conditions the ZBA can set.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Attorney Costa for presenting the workshop. He reminded those watching the
meeting that the Select Board will continue to collect public comments concerning the project.
Comments can be sent to the Town Manager athlemiex@lunenburgonline.com
Mary Alatalo, 244 Howard Street, talked about the farming history in the area, the rural character
of the area and the impact on the abutters and their properties. She expressed anger that the state
could come in without consulting any of the people it is going to affect.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the construction if the project is approved, could go on as long as 5- 7 years to
completion.
Mr. Franco pointed out that the Town is 18 units short of reaching its affordable housing minimum
and to bring in 200 units is draconian.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for attending.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
2nd
. M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:12 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
