===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rob Oliva, DPW Director; Peter Cowley,
Kathryn Ostermier via ZOOM, Emily Wright, Nicholas Betts, Ray Dunetz, Elana Pascarella,
Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Grey Roy, TCP Building Design Committee Chair
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Mr. Alonzo announced this Saturday is Homecoming Saturday. There will be a parade with
floats in the center of town around noontime. The football game will follow at 2:00 p.m. The
Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club will have two events following the parade; their Sweet
Sixteen birthday party on Memorial Drive starts at 12:30 p.m. and in the evening they will be
holding their Shrieks and Krieks Haunted House running from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.
For Halloween, Parks and Recreation is hosting a "Trunk or Treat" on Saturday the 30"* from
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. at the LMS upper parking lot; preregistration is required.
On Sunday, Halloween Trick or Treat hours are from 6:00 to 8:00 p.m.
APPOINTMENTS:
Meeting with DPW Director re: Share the Roads Signage and Acceptance of
Donation of Picnic Table at Marshall Pond
Mr. Oliva stated the Parks Commission has a generous donation of a gift of a picnic table for
Marshall Pond that they would like to accept.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To accept the donation of the picnic table for Marshall Pond
2"d: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Oliva stated resident Peter Cowley, an avid cyclist, would like to donate "Share the Road"
signs and a cyclist stencil to the town to bring awareness to motorists and pedestrians that they
are sharing the road with cyclists.
Mr. Cowley, Peninsula Drive, stated Lunenburg has great biking roads, they are scenic and wide
with nice surfaces. We have the opportunity to make roads in our town safer by judiciously
===PAGE 2===
would be Northfield Road, the Reservoir Road and Arbor Street corridor, Mulpus Road,
Townsend Harbor Road, Leominster Road, Highland Road, the Sunset Lane and Robbs Hill
Road area, and Goodrich Street. DPW would contribute the hardware and labor to install
them and use a local contractor to paint the stencils. Mr. Oliva thought Mr. Cowley's idea
was great and useful. Mr. Cowley believed this would get the ball rolling and was seeking
prevention of bicycle/motor vehicle accidents.
Discussion ensued about where the signs and stencils would go and how many would be
placed. Mr. Oliva offered to come back with a plan before next spring as to where they
would be placed.
Motion: J. Marino
To accept the donation of Share the Road signage/stencil
2": L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Cowley for his generous donation. Mr. Cowley thanked the Board
for his donation.
Interviews with WOLA, Ray Dunetz Landscape Architecture, and Land Design
Collaborative re: Landscape Design Services for 30 School Street
The first presentation was from Wright Ostermier Landscape Architects (WOLA). Kathryn
Ostermier, Project Manager, was present via ZOOM, and Emily Wright and Nicholas Betts were
attending in person. They presented an overview of the firm, noting they use outside consultants,
such as Meridian Civil Engineering, when appropriate.
Ms. Wright stated they are optimists, spend a lot of time getting to know a site and understanding
its history and how people use it. They prioritize listening to their clients. Although the firm is
only three years old, they have over twenty years of combined experience. Ms. Ostermier stated
their approach is to hold a team kickoff and site analysis, then engage the community and the
town to seek input; work on conceptual designs and present them. After getting additional
feedback, they create the final design.
Mr. Alonzo asked based upon the RFP, what do you understand about the project; did you do a
site visit and if so, what is your impression of what the town is looking for?
Ms. Wright stated that she and Mr. Betts had stopped there earlier and there are some
complexities such as shared driveways/parking, and topography challenges, but what you are
proposing is really interesting and this would be a great opportunity to bring people to what is an
under-utilized site. Ms. Ostermier added you are looking to address a parking deficit in the area
and seeking a passive recreational space, which includes a farmers market. In the vocational
school rendering there were overhead structures as well as a playground and a place for
community to gather; not so much a formal park but a community gathering space that allows
flexible uses throughout the year. She thought it was important to incorporate parts of the
primary school whether it is materials such as the brick or footprints. It could be a really special
space.
===PAGE 3===
at getting a vision that supports what people want and putting it on paper so people can see and
understand it. Mr. Betts added being able to communicate the idea clearly and effectively from
both an engineering and landscaping architectural perspective.
Ms. Ostermier stated we are imaginative in the way we take what we have and make something
great with it. We are creative and clever with our resources and respectful and responsive with
our client's resources. To make a project happen, we have to have everything on board so we can
move forward and we are really good at that.
Mr. Jeffreys noted for municipal experience, you listed a project for 2013, but you have only
been in business for three years. Ms. Wright stated that was from her work with a previous firm.
When asked about the listed 2021 Northampton and Springfield municipal projects, she informed
the board that they are both currently in different stages of progress.
Ms. Ostermier assured the timeline was not an issue as she had done some preliminary planning
to make sure it was feasible. Ms. Wright stated they have another employee who assists with the
graphics and meetings and Mr. Betts noted his company has around 30 additional staff.
Mr. Franco asked if they had done other projects where they had reused materials for the site.
Ms. Wright stated in Turners Falls they had repurposed granite planters for seating. Mr. Alonzo
thanked the firm for their presentation and their responses.
The next firm was Ray Dunetz Landscape Architecture. Mr. Dunetz introduced himself adding
he was from Boston, but was familiar with the area as they have work in Fitchburg and
Worcester. The firm has been around since 2002; 75-80% of their work is public, municipal-
oriented for Massachusetts towns and cities; parks, playgrounds, master plans, athletic fields,
cemeteries. He has been a landscape architect for 35 years and was the President of the Boston
Society of Landscape Architects for several years. The firm prides itself on community
engagement. We are great listeners and like to collaborate with the communities as that leads to
the most loved designs and parks. We have seven staff and I am the principal and would be the
prime contact. We are sustainability experts, very interested in green infrastructure and how we
can promote climate resiliency through landscape interventions, and lastly, passionate about
what we do. We have visited the site and are working with two firms who have previously
worked on this site; Vertex Engineering who did the building assessment and PM&C, who was a
cost estimator. It's important to establish a budget and as designers to maintain that budget. You
are looking to make this a flexible space for a farmers markets possibly with some shade
structures and a bandstand/gazebo. We have done similar projects. Identity is important with this
site to draw people in; there is opportunity to establish a gateway into this park to celebrate the
space that currently does not exist. Community voice is important to gain input and opinions. We
want to make this a special place whether it is a natural play area or farmers market, band shelter
for concerts, etc. We want to have the space sustainable with green infrastructure /nature based
solutions. We can create wetlands to attract birds and pollinators while helping the environment.
Vertex and PM&C will work behind the scenes on the engineering aspect. We need to update the
===PAGE 4===
in the ground and commemorating some of the important dates. The nearby Jamaica Pond had
been used for ice making. The resulting open space became flexible for many uses such as yoga,
concerts, etc.
We would work with the community to facilitate ideas through two or three meetings; take the
information and create and return with some alternative designs, solicit feedback from the Select
Board, Town Manager and other pertinent town departments/boards and creating a final design
along with a budgetary estimate.
Mr. Marino noted there are a number of residences abutting the property, but we would like to
see some kind of a hatch shell or such for music. Have you put any thought into that? Mr.
Dunetz stated ultimately we let the community guide us, but we could work on having the music
projected in the other direction and placing buffer plantings or baffling.
Mr. Dwyer asked if Mr. Dunetz had any concerns meeting the project schedule. Mr. Dunetz's
only concern was the holiday season where not much work gets done but we can conduct our
meetings once a month, to have three. He believed spring 2022 was reasonable.
Mr. Franco asked if they had any experience where portions of the building were used. Mr.
Dunetz stated we don't have a slide but we could work with an architect on identifying what
could stay and what could go. We could present those options and see what the financial
consequences would be. Mr. Jeffreys thanked Dunetz for his presentation.
Mr. Alonzo asked how do you balance the creative side with the engineering side, how do you
meld them? Dunetz stated it is a puzzle, we have to identify what we are trying to solve; that's
where the blue sky thinking comes in. What do you want here? Additional parking (usually
pavement); the engineering realities of that create an impermeable area which creates the need
for storm water management. So we look to see if there another way, perhaps gravel instead?
They go hand in hand. We work collaboratively with the engineers.
Mr. Alonzo asked what kind of forethought is given regarding maintenance when you
incorporate gardens in your design. Mr. Dunetz stated nothing is ever "no maintenance". We can
keep it simple but be creative.
Mr. Alonzo asked in towns where there are competing ideas for a location, how have you helped
to resolve those situations? Mr. Dunetz stated we held more meetings.
Mr. Alonzo asked what strengths would make you the right firm for this project. Dunetz stated
experience working with so many municipalities since 2002, understanding the procurement
process, designing construction documents so that a low bidder doesn't come in and change
order everything and we manage the project very tightly.
Discussion ensued about a City of Lawrence park project that left the building shell intact with
steel beams tying the walls together and the ceiling open to the sky. Dunetz will forward photos
to the Board. Mr. Alonzo thanked him for the presentation.
The last firm to present was Land Design Collaborative. Elana Pascarella is based in Rhode
Island and works with Diana Soule, both are licensed architects in MA and RI. They have close
===PAGE 5===
a public meeting;
TASK 2: CONCEPTUAL DESIGNS: Develop two conceptual designs; prepare a preliminary
estimate of probable construction costs, Present design ideas at public meeting and
TASK 3: WRITTEN REPORT; Prepare a written report based on input from design review
meetings; report to provide selected design concept and cost estimate and outline of
recommended next steps to move project forward
Mr. Franco asked if they had any experience where they used portions of an existing building on
the site. She replied they had on some projects in RI and for Lunenburg it would entail reviewing
the Vertex Report and consulting with them to see which components of the building could
remain. Mr. Jeffreys asked if there was other staff. Ms. Pascarella stated she also had a part-time
consultant with experience in horticulture and as a building contractor.
Mr. Alonzo asked how you balance the creative side with the engineering side against the
restraints that a site provides. Ms. Pascarella stated that is the design process; a process of give
and take, looking at different ideas and weighing in with other team members to come up with
the best solution. Mr. Alonzo asked what is the one strength that your collaborative has that
would make you the right choice for this job.
Ms. Pascarella stated you have two heads, Diana's and mine and our combined experience of
doing park projects of this sort, helping communities create usable spaces from a blank slate.
Mr. Alonzo noting the collaborative, asked if Ms. Pascarella and her partner work individually as
well. Ms. Pascarella stated yes, we are merging slowly and we work together on those projects
that are of interest to us. Mr. Alonzo thanked her for her time and presentation this evening.
Ms. Lemieux stated as part of the RFP process, the interview was part of the rating of the firms.
Asst. Town Manager Belliveau performed reference checks on all three firms. After all the
board's ratings are completed, the price proposals will be opened and weighed along with their
proposals. A determination on the firm to hire will be made on November 2nd
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote on 2020 Re-Precincting Plan from Town Clerk
Land Use Director Adam Burney presented two maps, one of the existing precincts and one of
proposed revisions using the 2020 Census numbers. The goal is to have things as equal as
possible. The Town Clerk is requesting the Select Board as the chief elected officials sign the
new descriptions of each precinct.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To accept the re-precincting plan as submitted by the Town Clerk and presented by the
Land Use Director
Vote: All in Favor
2. Traffic Count Requests from Planning Board
Mr. Burney reported the Town through the Montachusett Planning Organization (MPO) is
afforded the opportunity for traffic counts for analysis. The Planning Board has requested three
be performed. The three proposed areas are east and west of 400 Howard Street, south of New
===PAGE 6===
warrant articles submitted by the Planning Board.
The first discussed was a housekeeping task:
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.1,
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Types of Districts," by deleting the reference
in Subsection G to the "Retail Commercial District" and substituting "Village Center District"
therefor; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
The next one was created by a request by the Water District as they had recently amended their
water supply protection district map and remapped their underground aquifer map:
ARTICLE 17. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 2504.9,
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District,"
Subsection B, entitled "District delineation," by deleting the reference in Subsection (1) to the
map entitled "Water Protection District, revised October, 2009," and substituting
"LUNENBURG WATER DISTRICT AQUIFER PROTECTION ZONES, dated July 2021'"
therefor, a copy of which is on file with the Town Clerk; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Planning Board)
Mr. Jeffreys asked how this change would affect residents. Mr. Burney will research and get an
answer to him.
This article is housekeeping that mirrors the previous article:
ARTICLE 18. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.2,
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Location of Districts," by deleting "May 3,
2008" as the date of the map referenced therein and substituting "November 16, 202l" therefor,
and by adopting said revised map, a copy of which is on file with the Town Clerk, as the Town's
official zoning map; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
The Planning Board has realized the protective bylaw that references the Limited
Business/Residential district does not define the lot size or frontage requirements for it, so this
would correct it:
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-5.1,
which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Lot Area," by deleting the reference in the
table within Subsection B, first column, entitled "District," to the "Retail Commercial" district
and substituting "Limited Business/Residential" district therefor, or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
Mr. Burney thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
===PAGE 7===
MAn tank bou tot tell service to Lunenburg.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at largeand one
representative from Historical Commission)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and BOSuntil
next ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 personrecommendedby the Open Space Committee,
1 citizen at large and 1 ex-officio member that is a business owner)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular membervacancy and 2 Associate
vacancies)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application formson the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board office.
CURRENT EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES WITH THE TOWN
• Assistant Accountant (Part Time Benefitted)
• Board/Committee Clerk (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part TimeBenefitted)
• Assistanttothe SewerBusiness Manager(Part Time)
• Public Access Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Grant Funded, Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on thetown website.
OurnewITconsultant, SuzorIT,providedallthematerialsand written justificationrequiredtosubmit the
Community Compact IT Grant and I submitted the application last Wednesday fora total request for both
Schooland TownNetwork Infrastructure in the amount of$188,000. I anticipatethe grant announcement
will be made around the end of November.
The Master Plan bid process for the Planning Board has been put on hold after they received zero bids
in August. Atter contacting the firms that took out the FB, firms said the existing allocation would
===PAGE 8===
The Marshall Park RFP is due Wednesday, November 3rd
Unitil Proposed Rate Increase:
Unitil filed an amendment to their original proposed winter Basic Service increase (effective
December 1, 2021 until May 31, 2022) with the DPU last week that would split their total
proposed increase between the winter rate and summer rate 2022 rate. Comments to DPU were
due yesterday at 5:00 pm. I submitted brief comment letter in opposition of the proposed rate
increase restating the impact it would have on our residents that are Basic Service rate payers
under Unitil and that even splitting this increase between the winter and summer rates would be
detrimental for many people that are already on fixed incomes. I also expressed that there are
insufficient time allowed for those wishing to submit comments between the notice and deadline
for comments to DPU.
I am currently working with our Municipal Aggregation Power Broker on contacting all eligible
accounts about their ability to opt in to the program for 11.21 cents per kWh.
COVID-19 Update:
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of October 9th
was 58.
The current positivity rate for Lunenburg as of October 2nd was 5.35%
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Halloween Trick or Treat hours will be on Sunday, October 31" from 6-8 pm.
• The fall Special Town Meeting will be Tuesday, November 16, 2021 at 7PM
OLD BUSINESS
1. Letters of Support re: House Bill 130 and Senate Bill 2200 on Streaming Video
over Public Rights of Way
This was discussed at the last meeting by PAC Chairman Steve Walker. The impact of this
bill would impose a statewide franchise fee on the use of public rights of way for streaming
services. Fees would be collected by the state rather than the municipality and placed in a
streaming entertainment fund and then be dispersed. Twenty percent would go the
Commonwealth, forty percent to municipalities based on population and forty percent would
go to community media centers such as PAC.
Mr. Jeffreys was not in favor of supporting this bill adding the impact of this will be a 5%
charge on everyone's cable bills. It was his belief that Comcast would not lose any money. He
did not believe Lunenburg would receive anything substantial back because of its smaller
population versus other larger towns and cities. Also, some cities have a public utility option
and or other providers of video broadcasting services. Lunenburg has one option. He believed
this is a creative way for the state to get more money.
===PAGE 9===
support for both legislative bills. Mr. Dwyer agreed with Mr. Alonzo, adding he could foresee
cable being phased out and streaming becoming the norm in the next 10 or 20 years. This is a
reasonable way to maintain the mechanism for funding some of the public access that is
valued in town.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2n: L. Franco
To sign the letters of support for House bill 130 and Senate bill 2200 in support of PAC
Vote: 4 in Favor, 1 Against (Jeffreys)
2. List of Budget Priorities to Provide Legislators for FY22 State Supplemental
Budget Bill
Ms. Lemieux stated typically we put together a budget priority list for the next year's upcoming
budget season for the state to consider for earmarks for the town. That discussion will occur
sometime in January as the legislators are busy right now and they requested to meet at that time.
Tonight's request pertains to the state's supplemental budget bill which closes around mid-
November. For this request period items should be no more than $50,000. Ms. Lemieux
reviewed the previous requests and they are well over that threshold. There is a bond bill in the
amount of $40,000 for the feasibility study of the old Primary School; we could amend that to do
the hazardous materials abatement.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: J. Marino
To request $50,000 from the legislators for the hazardous waste abatement of the old
Primary School as a budget priority for the FY22 state supplemental budget bill
Vote: All in Favor
3. Discussion on November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting Warrant
Articles and votes on warrant article recommendations.
Sign November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting Warrant
The Board reviewed the articles in order to make recommendations for Special Town Meeting.
ARTICLE 1.
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds,
all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2022 Budget, under
Article 6 of the May 1, 2021 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.
===PAGE 10===
Subtotal FY22 Omnibus Budget Adil 3
Total FY22 Ornitus Budgel Adustments from Above
Change in Sever Enterprise
Change in State Assessments|
Prior Year Expense S
Total Expenditure Adjustments
S/1/21 ATA Revenue Surplus - Rase & Appropriate
Change in Sewer Enterprise
Change in Cherry Sheet S
Total Revenue Adjustments
Current Surplus Avallable|
4.014.025.29 | 5
4,045.565.29
.177.736 0
9.441.372.00
31,540.00 S
31,540 00
(5,360.00)
122.551.00
7.519.70
156,250.70
0.20
10,624.31
(4.001.00)
149,661.00
156,487.51
236 81
1.300.287.00
8,164 70
Ms. Lemieux noted in past years the budgeted amount for Medicare (Town Share) has been level
funded and has been covered by the group health insurance budget, so she has made the
adjustment now rather than later. Another adjustment was from the Town Accountant line to
change the hours for the Assistant Town Accountant position from 24 to 32 per week.
The Technology budget has an adjustment to cover the conversion to Microsoft 365 in the event
the two MIlA grants are not awarded and for the Town's portion of the Community Compact
network infrastructure grant, which we won't know about until the end of November; as well as
the consultant's cost which is covered mostly by the remaining salary line for the IT Director.
Lastly, the Montachusett Regional Technical Vocational School assessment came in lower than
budgeted. Overall there were adjustments of $31,540
The other changes to the budget are revenue adjustments; a change to the Sewer Enterprise Fund,
State Assessments $122,551, and a prior year expense of $7,519.70 (STM Article #2).
Total expenditure adjustments were in the amount of $156,250.70 and Revenue adjustments
totaled $156,487.51.
Motion: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 1
2": M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative
thereto.
There are a total of four prior year bills for the IT Department totaling $7519.70
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 2
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 22 and FY 23 Lunenburg Professional
Firefighters Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2021 - June 30, 2023 with PFFM
Local 5358A; or take any other action relative thereto.
===PAGE 11===
Sewer Enterprise Budget, under Article 11 of the May 1, 2021 Town Meeting; or take any other
action relative thereto.
Ms. Lemieux noted this would change the position of the Asst. Sewer Business Manager to a
benefited position of 24 hours ($5,360)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 4
2"': J. Marino
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $14,875.50 into
the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 5
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to adjust the income and asset limits for the
Elderly Exemption (M.G.L. ch. 59 § 5 cl. 41C) to Single person income limit $31,500, Asset
limit $52,700, Married persons income limit $39,600, Asset limit $72,700, and to increase the
exemption amount to $1,000; ol take any other action relative thereto.
MS. Lemieux reported the Board of Assessors have requested to remove this from the
warrant as further work needs to be done on implementing it.
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the TCP Building
Design Committee and/or from representatives) from the design firm; or take any other
action relative
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 7
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money, to be expended
under the direction of the TC Passios Building Committee, to pay costs of designing,
renovating, furnishing and equipping the TC Passios Building, and for the payment of all
costs incidental and related thereto, which building will be used for Town offices, school and
community purposes, and located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462; to
determine whether this appropriation shall be raised by borrowing or otherwise; provided,
however that any borrowing for this project would be contingent upon the approval by the
voters of a debt exclusion related thereto; or to take any other action relative thereto.
Ms. Lemieux reported the amount would be $23,570,000. Mr. Alonzo noted if this article
is passed at STM, it would also require a debt exclusion ballot question.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend disapproval of Article 8
2": J. Marino
===PAGE 12===
meeting. Mr. Dwyer seconded the motion.
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer $250,000 from
available funds for the design and engineering required to construct a new building, Lunenburg
Town Hall and Community Center, that consolidates town offices, school uses, and community
space at the location of the building and land known as the TC Passios, located at 1025
Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental and
related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation, engineering, final design services, and
bid preparation for construction; or take any other action relative thereto.
Mr. Jeffreys suggested changing $250,000 to $350,000 and deleting ", and bid preparation for
construction." We were going off numbers in the Tappe study, now we are looking at a cost of
around 10% or around $350,000. Mr. Alonzo suggested splitting the two suggestions into two
individual motions.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To delete the wording, ", and bid preparation for construction"
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: J. Marino
To amend Article 9 by deleting $250,000 and inserting $350,000 in its place
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated his intent was to make sure that they were properly funded. He
was going with a higher number in case of a worst case scenario.
TCP Building Committee Chair Greg Roy reported that schematic design is the step you take
before design development; doing the work that is required to figure out what your program is
going to be, meeting with all the stakeholders, what spaces are going to be used for and how
much space is assigned to the different users, getting to an architectural plan. Once you agree
on the schematic design, then you move on to the mechanical, electrical, plumbing consultants
to figure out the specifics for the building. You employ structural and civil engineers. You
advance to the design development phase which will be an outline of what the systems of the
building are going to look like and gets you to the point of a reasonable cost estimate.
He concurred with Mr. Jeffreys on the amended amount. We have a lot of data already and a
lot of that is useable and can be used as a starting point for design development. Mr. Alonzo
appreciated Mr. Roy coming in and providing clarification.
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2K: T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation on the article until special town meeting Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board to acquire an
easement by gift, purchase, eminent domain or otherwise over a portion of certain parcel (s) of
land adjacent to Leominster-Shirley Road for future maintenance of and repairs to said roadway,
utility maintenance and repairs, snow storage and like purposes, and for any and all uses
===PAGE 13===
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board to acquire, by gift,
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, temporary, permanent and permanent utility easements
in, along, over, under and through certain properties situated along Flat Hill Road, said easement
interests each determined to be unique, which properties are identified in the Assessor's records
as Parcel ID Nos. 122-0015-0000, 122-0016-0000, 122-0052-0000, 122-0054-0000, 122-0055-
0000, 122-0062-0000, as well as another property unidentified in said Assessor's records, but all
as shown on a plan of land entitled "Temporary Construction Access Plan of Land in Lunenburg,
Massachusetts,"
prepared for the Town of Lunenburg, prepared by VHB, Inc., Scale 1 inch = 10
feet, dated May 2021, identifying the owners-of-record of the aforesaid parcels and further
specifying the temporary, permanent and permanent utility easements to be acquired, and the
square footage of each, which plan is on file with the offices of the Town Clerk and the Select
Board, said easements to be for all purposes necessary or desirable in connection with anticipated
replacement of an existing and construction of a new culvert in the approximate area thereof; or
take any other action relative thereto.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 11
2'°: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to amend the sewer service area map by adding
the parcel known as Marshall Park / Pond, located at 100 Chestnut Street, also identified in
the Assessor's records as Parcel ID No. 060-0018-00, to the Lunenburg sewer service area and
sewer service zone; or take any other action relative thereto.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 12
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of certain
property known as and numbered 970 Rear New West Townsend Road, more specifically
identified in the Assessor's records as Map 4, Parcel 2, from the Select Board for general
municipal purposes to the Conservation Commission for conservation and passive recreation
purposes; or take any other action relative thereto.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article 13
2n: M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 70 of the Town's General
Bylaws, entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, as follows: the position of Seasonal
Cemetery Laborer to be added and assigned to Grade 1, the position of Alternate Building
Commissioner to be added and assigned to Grade 16 and the class title of PACC Production
Assistant to be changed to PACC Production Technician; or take any other action relative
thereto.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
===PAGE 14===
D. If the building or structure is determined to be a significant building under this bylaw, the
Building Commissioner shall impose a demolition delay of 540 days from the date of
notification, in which time the applicant must notify the Historical Commission through written
documents that:
During the delay period the applicant must notify the Historical Commission by means of
submitting the document entitled "Demolition Delay Bi-monthly Report," once every other
month, beginning with the first day of the second month following the imposition of the
demolition delay, that:
(1) Bona fide, reasonable attempts have been made to sell, preserve, move, rehabilitate or
restore said building or structure. Evidence shall include:
A. a listing of the building with a licensed real estate brokers;
B. an estimate of rehabilitation or restoration costs of the building or structure or;;
C. an estimate for moving the building or structure in its present condition; and
D. (2) the name, address and contact information of A a party or parties that have been
located who have agreed to preserve, rehabilitate, restore or relocate the building or structure.
(2) (3) The applicant has agreed to alternatives to demolition and/or accept conditions noted in
the applicability determination.
(3) Any owner failing to submit the bimonthly report on the prescribed schedule shall have the
demolition delay period extended one day for each day of delay in filing.
(4) At any time during the delay period, the Historical Commission may advise the Building
Commissioner, in writing, to issue a demolition permit without waiting for the period to expire,
if the Commission decides that both:
A. There is not a reasonable likelihood that any entity is willing to purchase, preserve,
rehabilitate, restore, or move said structure; and
B. For at least six months the owner has made continuing bona fide and reasonable
efforts to locate a purchaser to preserve, rehabilitate, restore, or move the subject building or
structure, and that such efforts have been unsuccessful.
§ 134-5 Emergency demolition.
Nothing in this bylaw shall restrict the Building Commissioner or the Fire Chief from ordering
the demolition of a significant building determined to present a clear and present danger to the
===PAGE 15===
is printed this evening.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation until Special Town Meeting
2": L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo noted the next four articles were presented by Mr. Burney earlier in the evening.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'': L. Franco
To recommend approval of Articles 16, 17, 18 and 19 as submitted by the Planning Board
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
Approval of Minutes of October 12, 2021
Approval of these was tabled until the next meeting.
Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer attended an MJTC meeting last week. There were presentations on "Safe Routes to
School" program and the Complete Street program for Sterling. Their next meeting is November
Mr. Jeffreys reported TCP Building Design Committee met and we are working on a
presentation for special town meeting. The intention is they will go before the Finance
Committee on November 4* regarding the Warrant Article #9.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee held their public hearing for the warrant articles and
reviewed their recommendations. They also discussed Articles #8 and #9 in great detail. They
will be holding another public hearing as the final numbers for new construction at the TCP
Building have not been provided
Mr. Alonzo reported Capital Planning Committee met this evening and reviewed requests from
all the departments and planned agendas for every Tuesday.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
The Chapter 70 Workshop is on October 28". The Board's next meeting is November 2nd.
Special Town Meeting is November 16".
PUBLIC COMMENT
Greg Roy noted TCP Building Design Committee is meeting tomorrow, October 20t, October 27'h
and November 3rd
, all at 5:30 p.m. via ZOOM. Members of the public are welcome.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 10:39 p.m.
===PAGE 16===
APPROVED NOVEMBER 23, 2021.
