===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer,
Jim Marino
Member not present: Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Anthony Caiozzo, Mark Walter, Casey
Burlingame, Building Commissioner; Dan Proctor, Jean Proctor, Richard Letarte, Assessor;
Kevin Fish, Valerio Romano
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the
Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Alonzo thanked the town band for the summer concerts this year,
adding it was an interesting year at the TCP Building lawn; easier to park and for people to get
to. The band played well and it was a great five weeks.
APPOINTMENTS
Tollbooth Request- Lunenburg Skate Park- September 25; 10 am - 2 pm
Anthony Caiozzo, 1091 Massachusetts Ave., presented for the request to be run in the center of
town. He stated he understood the rules and would follow them.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the request to hold a tollbooth fundraiser in the center of Town on Sept. 25th
from 10 am to 2 pm
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Caiozzo gave a brief update on their fundraising efforts. They have engaged both an IT and a
Marketing team since they last appeared before the Select Board. They have revamped their
website: Lunenburgskatepark.org. The group attended the Farmers Market last weekend. They
have engaged a professional fundraiser. They are planning a mini-golf fundraiser later this year.
They have raised around $83,000 and are pushing for $90,000 to get to another tier and an
additional promised donation of $25,000. They are going to be doing some exploratory digging
with the DPW tomorrow morning at Marshall Park to see what conditions are like there for a
possible future site for the skate park. Mr. Alonzo thanked him for the update.
Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride Request for September 25
===PAGE 2===
cancel.
Motion: J. Marino
To approve the Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride for September 25th
2°0: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Walter thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
Building Commissioner re: Renewal of Annual Earth Removal Permits
Mr. Burlingame reported he had conducted a site visit on August 3r° to the PJ Keating earth
removal permit areas with two of the company's representatives. There are no issues to report;
everything was in line with the conditions. He is recommending renewal on all.
On August 4'h he conducted a site visit at 1325 Massachusetts Avenue site owned by Jean and
Dan Proctor. They are about 60% through the work and he is also recommending renewal. There
were no violations in any of the locations.
Ms. Lemieux noted the owners of 1325 Mass Ave, Dan and Jean Proctor, would like to change
their hours of operation from Monday- Friday (8:00 AM to 4:30 PM) to Monday- Friday (7:30
AM to 4:00 PM) and to add Saturday hours from 8:00 AM to NOON (no trucking on Sat.).
Mr. Alonzo asked what type of activity would occur in regards to the Saturday hours?
Daniel Proctor stated Saturday would be only for site work such as setting up transits, grading
and consolidating piles.
Pam Anzaldi and Clifford Smith Sr., 70 Townsend Harbor Road, via Zoom, stated from a
residential viewpoint asking to start earlier is asking a lot and adding starting early on Saturdays
is as well. Mr. Jeffreys sympathized with the abutters concerns. Typically construction hours are
7:00 am to 3:30 pm, so he understood that is the standard, but Saturdays is out of the norm. He
encouraged the time change to Saturday to be closer to 9:00 am. Mr. Proctor was fine with that.
Mr. Alonzo had no issues with the request but wanted to continue the discussion to next week to
allow other abutters to comment. Mr. Proctor stated the equipment being run on Saturday would
be an excavator, bulldozer and backhoe. After some discussion it was decided to give abutters
one week to provide comment on the requested changes to the hours of operation.
Mr. Alonzo read the list of the PJ Keating permits:
• Parcel 1, 165 acres, more or less, lying northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road, and
westerly of Reservoir Road, on both sides of the Boston & Maine Railroad (Permit#15)
• Parcel 11, 170 acres, more or less, lying northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road, and
easterly of Reservoir Road, on both sides of the Boston & Maine Railroad and both sides
of Round Road (permit#16)
• Parcel 111, 180 acres, more or less, lying southerly of Leominster -Shirley Road and
easterly of Fort Pond Road (Permit #17)
• In the very southeast corner of Lunenburg; 57 acres, more or less, of an 84 acre parcel
formerly owned by Edward Credit (Permit #27)
===PAGE 3===
Boston & Maine Railroad near the Lancaster town line containing 30 acres, more or less,
owned by the applicant (Permit #57)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To renew the six permits as listed until August 31, 2022
2n: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Burlingame for his inspections.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Interview and Joint Appointment with Board of Assessors for the vacant Assessor seat:
Kevin Fish, 70 Eastern Ave.
Mr. Letarte introduced Kevin Fish to the Select Board. Mr. Alonzo noted this is a joint
appointment to an elected position until the next annual town election. Mr. Fish has lived here
since 1983 and would like to give back to the community. It seemed like an interesting
opportunity and he believes he can learn about the assessor position as he has an accounting
background. Both Mr. Letarte and Ms. Cosgrove Higdon have had opportunity to speak with Mr.
Fish. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Fish for coming forward.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To appoint Kevin Fish as an Assessor until the next annual election
Vote: Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Letarte-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Mr. Alonzo congratulated Mr. Fish. Mr. Fish thanked the Board members.
Meeting with Valerio Romano of UMA Flowers to discuss holding a Community Meeting
and Host Community Agreement for Adult Retail Cannabis License
Attorney Romano stated they have cleared up the zoning issue that was brought up the last time
they met as a certified survey was completed. Building Commissioner Burlingame has confirmed
the required setback distance have been met via email. Romano stated the next step for them is
the Host Community Agreement; he has submitted a template draft agreement to the Select
Board. Mr. Alonzo stated Town Counsel would be reviewing the agreement with Ms. Lemieux.
Attorney Romano stated although a special permit is required through the Planning Board, this
will give UMA Flowers reassurance so that we can proceed with engineering and submit a
detailed plan for the permit application. Also required is the Community Outreach meeting. Ms.
Lemieux has graciously offered to hold it here in Town Hall. Possible dates of September 22 or
28 were discussed
Attorney Romano noted he had a letter of support from Senator John Cronin for UMA Flowers.
Mr. Jeffreys suggested reaching out to the abutters as a courtesy. Abutter Ray Morin questioned
the survey conducted as he saw no evidence of one being performed. He also expressed concern
===PAGE 4===
employee tot many years.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large and 1
representative from Historical Commission)
• Bylaw Review Committee (1 vacancy)
• Capital Planning Committee (1 vacancy for Citizen At Large appointed by Town
Moderator)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and SB
until next ATE)
Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee, 1 citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Housing Authority (1 position to be held by a tenant at Pearl Brook Apartments)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Principal Assessor (Full Time)
• Veterans Services Agent (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Temporary Recreation Director (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Facilities Custodian (Full Time)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborer (1)
• Public Access Videographer (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
I was notified today by our Principal Assessor Sue Byrne that she will be moving up her retirement date
from November 30th to September 23rd. We will be conducting interviews for this position this week, in
the hopes of hiring someone that can begin before Sue departs.
The Assistant Town Manager was notified today that one of the Board/Committee Clerks, Kristen
Levine, hasresigned as she has accepted another job. Wewillbereposting thisposition to clerk for the
Parks Commission, CapitalPlanning, Stormwater Task Force and the Economic Development
Committee.
===PAGE 5===
budget and what will be built. Another comment was that the inclusion of an ADA restroom and
bandstand area would require a minimum of three additional sub-consultants (architect, MEP, and
structural). Most said they would be interested in bidding if these concerns were addressed.
Cowdrey Property Survey of Boundaries on Townsend Harbor Road and Woodland Drive
As a follow-up to the July 13th meeting on the Conservation Commission requesting the boundary
between the Cowdrey Conservation property and 192 Townsend Harbor Road be surveyed to rectify a
possible encroachment and the identification of other possible encroachments onto the Cowdrey property
from another property on Townsend Harbor Road and Woodland Drive, the DPW Director sought an
estimate for the survey costs. We received an estimate of $6,500 to perform a partial boundary survey of
the three possible encroachments boundaries. For an additional $1,500 the property lines could be staked
in the encroachment areas. I have notified the Conservation Chairman and Agent and this will be an
agenda topic for the August 24th meeting.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Lunenburg Farmers Market is being held on Sundays until October 10th, 10 a.m. until
12:30 p.m. on the Ritter Building lawn
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote on Town Manager Contract for FY22-FY24
Mr. Alonzo summarized the terms of the new agreement between the Town and Town Manager.
It is a three year term. We have agreed to pay out up to five vacation days in each of the three
years of the contract if they are not used.
Termination severance pay has been increased from two to four months. We have agreed to offer
4% of the base salary for a deferred compensation plan and we have increased her cellphone
stipend from $60 to $85/month. There were clarifications made to language about vacation in the
agreement. For compensation we agreed on the following: an increase of 6% in year one
(FY22), 5% increase in the fiscal year 2023 and a 5% increase in fiscal year 2024. This brings
the Town Manager's compensation into the same range of other Town Managers in the extended
region of neighboring towns. We all felt the Town Manager is doing an excellent job and
believe this is a fair contract and addresses the needs of the Town and Town Manager.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd
• T. Dwyer
To sign the contract for Town Manager effective July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
2. 1s Quarter FY22 Water Commitment $9,311.02
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. T. Dwyer
To approve and sign the 1 Quarter Water Commitment of fiscal year 2022 in the amount
of $9311.09
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 6===
Opening/Closing Dates for Warrant (August 24*"/September 28" at 5 PM)
Ms. Lemieux requested an official vote in order to send out the notification and advertise in the
local paper.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: J. Marino
To hold the Special Town Meeting on November 16, 2021 at 7:00 PM and open the warrant
for submission of articles on August 24 and close it on September 28 at 5:00 PM
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discussion of Notice from MassHousing on 40B Site Approval Application
from Pond View Commons, LLC (Kevin O'Brien)
Ms. Lemieux reported the Board's meeting with Town Counsel is on August 24th. She has
received a template comment letter to use when sending the Town's concerns to MA Housing.
Mr. Alonzo asked the audience to send their comments to Ms. Lemieux's email address if they
haven't already by Monday, August 23rd.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted their next meeting is August 24th
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none at this time.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting
2n: T.Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:27 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peters on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
