===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Veribe Lopresent: Tom Alonzo, Chair, Michact-Ray Jeftieys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer, Jim
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Karin Menard, Parks Commissioner;
APDC members: Richard McGrath, Cullen Dwyer
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on the
Public Access Facebook page.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo announced that yesterday was the first of the Monday night band concerts held at the
new location of the TCP Building lawn. The concerts continue through early August.
WORKSHOP: USE/RE-USE OF OLD PRIMARY SCHOOL
1. Discussion on Select Board Goal for FY 2022
Mr. Alonzo pointed out a revised draft for the Request for Proposals (RFP) for Landscape
Architectural Engineering Services for the old Primary School located at 30 School Street. Once
we have someone to work with we will discuss the project and the vision of it. We will hold some
interim meetings and once the final drawings are complete, we will solicit public comment.
Mr. Jeffreys had suggested to compile a history of the actions taken to reuse the building and
summarize in a written report why future reuse is not a viable or prudent option; then to submit the
report with a demolition permit application to the Architectural Preservation District Commission
(APDC) and request a determination within 60 days of submission.
Mr. Alonzo will send out all the finalized Select Board goals before the next meeting.
2. Meeting with Architectural Preservation District Commission
Mr: Alonzo stated this meeting is to continue a dialogue with the APDC concerning the old
Primary School building. There have been several town meeting warrant articles submitted for the
property. One article was submitted to authorize the Select Board to sell and /or lease the parcel
and/or buildings situated on it and it was defeated. Another article for the actual demolition of the
building was also defeated at town meeting. It appears that the townspeople do not want to sell the
land. Mr. Alonzo added, in his opinion, a renovation to the building would be cost prohibitive to
the town to fund it.
===PAGE 2===
people attended school there is not enough reason to preserve it. The site should be used for other
purposes that are more desirous for the community.
Mr. Alonzo added he did not believe this same situation should befall the Town Hall and Ritter
Building as they are more historic and important in value. Mir. Franco concurred with Mr. Jeffreys
and Mr. Alonzo.
APDC Chairman McGrath called their meeting to order at 7:22 p.m. and stated they were not
seeking to be adversarial but are charged with enforcing the APD bylaw. He has been on the
Historical Commission for 22 years and recently became Chair due to the former chair retiring. He
has been on the APDC since its formation in 2015. He has been a master mason for 51 years. It is a
family occupation. He has laid brick on many municipal and school buildings throughout the state
and done many restoration projects.
The APD was designed to protect the rural character and history of the district agaist unbridled
development. In 2018 the APDC visited the site and wrote a letter to the Select Board noting the
neglect of the building and citing a violation of the bylaw. They sent periodic reminders to the
Select Board following the initial letter. The building remains in violation of the bylaw.
Mr. McGrath noted seven years ago he spoke to Building Commissioner Mike Savageau regarding
the Town Hall chimney condition; that it was rotten and in danger of collapsing. He reported back
to me after speaking with the former Town Manager that they were not ready to fix it at that time.
He cited potential liability issues in the conditions in the old Primary School and at Town Hall. He
moved on to describe several old school houses in town that have been refurbished for use as
residences. He noted several communities that have converted old schools into senior housing,
some funded by non-profits and state money.
Mr. Alonzo stated liability is a primary concern for the town. He reiterated if the town has to fund
refurbishing the building, he did not see it passing at town meeting, therefore the liability takes a
larger life than the building itself. As far as the demolition by neglect, the APDC did not even exist
until this building was vacant for around eight years. When it first became vacant the idea of
elderly housing was presented to us but the HUD funding disappeared due to the economy at the
time. The proposed green space certainly prevents unbridled development.
Mr. Jeffreys reported after the last meeting with the APDC he had watched a few of their meetings
and their discussion about seeking funding to restore the building. He approached the state
delegation to inquire about any available funding. He did learn that Fitchburg and Leominster were
able to get funding due to their populations to convert areas into residential use to resolve the
state's concern about lack of housing. There are smaller organizations that would contribute
$5,000 - $20,000, but not the milions needed to restore the school building.
APDC Vice Chair Cullen Dwyer reiterated it is the opinion of the APDC that the old Primary
School has historical value due to the architectural style. This needs to be considered other than
the amount to restore it.
===PAGE 3===
Motion: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's reappointment of John Godek to Constable- term to expire
June 30, 2022.
2°: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on creating uniform policy on placing sanitation equipment on town owned
property
Mr. Alonzo stated this arose due to a porta-potty at Marshall Park that had not been maintained by
the company and used by the Summer Recreation program. It was determined that a private group
that uses the park fields had it placed there. Their season had ended but it had not been removed or
locked. A suggestion had been made to establish a town policy for guidance for all committees
and departments for various town properties. Discussion ensued about having public bathrooms
versus porta-potties being placed by private organizations and who would monitor them.
Parks Commission Chair Karin Menard stated they would be discussing this at their meeting but
noted the Board of Health does not have any regulations or permits concerning porta-potties.
We have to start from scratch. She had spoken with the Little League regarding the dirty porta-potty
and they had not been satisfied with the maintenance by the porta-potty company. At a minimum
there needs to be some policy or expectation that groups should be registered and who to contact if
there is an issue with one. Some sort of guidance from the Board of Health would be helpful.
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, was concerned about over-regulating before the Board of
Health addresses this topic. These are being rented by private organizations. He believed it was
the facilities managers' responsibility to oversee these placements. Mr. Alonzo agreed but noted
there has to be some communication about who placed it and who the contact is in case of issues.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for their input and suggested engaging the Board of Health about this.
2. Discussion and vote on updating Section 3.02 "Capital Budget" Policy
The Capital Planning Committee had approved the change to the policy and presented this to the
Finance Committee who had approved the amendments. There is also one clerical change from
"Board of Selectmen" to "Select Board."
Section 3.02 Capital Budget (Amended 09/02/2014)
A. Capital Projects: Definition, criteria
1. Capital Projects (also referred to as capital assets) are any tangible item that costs_$210,000 or
more and has a useful life of three years or longer.
2. Individual items that cost at least $t020,000 and groups of items of the same purpose that cost
at least $210,000 are both capital items.
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Lemieux reported she had requested the DPW Director provide an estimate for the survey.
Discussion ensued about the reasons for the request for the survey and how the violations were
just discovered after having been there for many years. Mr. Dwyer, a former Conservation
Commissioner, stated violations have sometimes been discovered while the commission is going
to a site visit elsewhere.
4. Approval of July 6, 2021 Minutes
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of July 6, 2021 as presented
2°: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action Items
The Board signed an FY22 Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $1,064,639.61 and a FY21
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $930,890.42.
There were no action items this evening.
5. Committee Reports- There were none this evening.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review and Vote on Select Board Goals for FY22
This was tabled until another meeting.
2. Pay As You Throw Fee and Proposed Increase for FY2022
Ms. Lemieux had presented a memo previously that the price increase for the PAYT bags would be
at least 15% more due to changes in the solid waste removal contract. If the Select Board decides
to proceed with the pilot program of awarding a free roll of small trash bags to seniors over the
age of 60, the cost of the bags would increase another 15%.
Mr. Jeffreys supported the 15% increase but not with moving forward with the pilot program
because he did not agree fully with the estimated numbers as presented.
He suggested revisiting it next year earlier in the process and to use better numbers for what the
participation rate would be in order to make the bags available to any senior above 60 years old
who is having difficulty financially to receive a roll of bags monthly.
Mr. Franco had been in favor of this in spirit initially, but has had time to reconsider and would
like to focus on issues for seniors that have more of an impact. He is in favor of the 15% increase
versus the 30%. Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Marino were both in favor of the 15% increase also.
Motion: J. Marino
2': T. Dwyer
To increase the cost of PAYT bags to 15% for FY22
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 5===
certain tasks. She recommended adding a section where they would list their hourly rate as well.
She would add language under 1.2 Submission Instructions. Under 2. 3 Project Scope and
Section 6.0 Selection Process, proposers would need to list their hourly rates for all their staff
that would be assigned to the project and their disciplines. The Town would reserve the right to
select and award the project to the highest ranked firm with the best price based on their price
proposals for each task and the appropriation available for the project. She also would like to add
the following wording; we may proceed with certain tasks and time and materials costs for
additional work based on the firm's hourly rate schedule. Suggestion was made to add language to
allow repurposing some of the building in the most cost effective way to limit the extent of
additional engineering.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d: J. Marino
To approve the RFP as discussed and modified this evening with the wording stated by the
Town Manager and the repurposing language for potential use of part of the building
Vote: All in Favor
4. Discussion of Notice from MassHousing on 40B Site Approval Application from
Pond View Commons, LLC (Kevin O'Brien)
Mr. Alonzo noted developer Kevin O'Brien already has a permit for development of 120 homes.
The 40B application consists of 200 units of rental housing on 18.5 acres of land located at 318,
390 & 400 Howard Street.
Ms. Lemieux reported there may be another change to the site visit date from the 28" to the 29'h
at 1:00 p.m. as this is a better time for the applicant; she will need to confirm that with the state.
A 40B workshop is being coordinated with the Land Use Director upon the Planning Board's
request. The potential date for that is July 27'h. She will be asking the school if we can reserve
the auditorium for the workshop. Legal counsel would lead the workshop as well as answer
questions and receive comments. The comment period has been extended to August 16".
Mr. Alonzo noted the Lunenburg Water District has a meeting tomorrow at 4:00 p.m. and this is
one of their agenda topics. Comments should be submitted by August 9th. The site application is
now on the town website under News and Announcements.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Alonzo reported the Board's next meeting will be on July 20"h and the potential 40B
workshop on July 27%. They will then be meeting on August 3rd.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large and 1 representative
===PAGE 6===
Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office.
As previously stated, the DPW Director and I will work with the engineering firm to submit a Small Bridge
Grant application as soon as MassDOT announces they are accepting applications.
Update on Bright Farms Development Project:
Earlier this month learned that Bright Farms has decided to not purchase the property at 351 Mass Avenue
where they were going to build a major greenhouse. After speaking with Sean O'Neill, the project developer
from Bright Farms, he relayed to me that as part of a "bottom-up review of all their operations, corporate
wanted to serve New England from another site". He said this had to do "with efficiencies with other
greenhouses owned by Bright Farms" and had nothing to do with what the Town did or did not do. He
expressed that the Town was terrific to deal with from town officials down to the owner of 351 Mass
Avenue, Steve Powell, and although he couldn't disclose the other site that was chosen, once it was known
it would make sense to us why this decision was made.
I know that many, like myself, will be disappointed by this news. Many of us spent a lot of time and energy
to promote the passage of the TIF agreement and how bringing a business like Bright Farms into Lunenburg
would promote economic development with little impact on town services. However, given the reasons that
were relayed on why another site was chosen, it is understandable from a business perspective and there
was nothing more we as a Town could have done to prevent this.
Resignation of Veterans Agent:
The Veterans Agent notified our office that he will be resigning from his position as of August 31, 2021. The
Assistant Town Manager/HR Director will be posting this position this week and reaching out to other local
Veterans Agents to see if they would be interested in applying.
Curbside Collection of Trash and Recycling and PAYT Bags:
We are aware of a few issues that have occurred in the first two weeks of EL Harvey taking over collection
of curbside trash and recycling, including missed recycling pick-ups and three streets that were not on the
collection route that Casella provided and had verified prior to switching companies. Our office is addressing
these issues with EL Harvey as soon as we are made aware of them and ask for everyone's patience as
these are worked out with the new company.
We were also notified that retailers were out of PAYT bags this week but after talking to the bag vendor and
after the DP W Administrative Assistant spoke with all the retailers, there were still bags available at stores.
Hannaford, who had been put on automatic delivery a while back, recently took themselves off automatic
delivery but this has been corrected. We have also added the Gulf Station on Mass Avenue as another
retailer to the list of retailers where bags are available.
Invitation for Bids:
===PAGE 7===
camp this week and next week and a Multi sport program the week of July Loth and August yth. There will
be no other programs offered at this time.
Complete Streets:
The contractor for the Complete Streets project was mobilizing onsite today to get the sidewalk project
underway. They will be keeping some smaller equipment on Memorial Drive overnight while they are
working. Work will begin on Memorial Drive starting tomorrow and they will be able to work around the
parking spots along Memorial Drive without having people to park elsewhere.
Line Painting: The DPW Director is currently working on scheduling certain newly paved roads and certain
other roads that are not lined, to be striped as soon as feasible.
Chase Road Speeding and Excessive Noise Complaint: The Town received a complaint from a resident
on Chase Road that had previously met with the DPW, Police Department and former Representative
Benson about the speeding and excessive noise on that road and requested we request the State to address
these issues. The DPW Director, Police Chief and I are meeting tomorrow and will be attempting to set up a
meeting with the State regarding this at a later date.
Repairs at Town Facilities:
The decking on the front entryway at Town Hall is currently being replaced in order to address the poor
condition the decking boards were in. This will be completed shortly.
The Facilities Director coordinated with the Fire Department to use the Ladder Truck to take pictures of the
exterior of the Town Hall Clock Tower. A site visit is scheduled for this Friday for the engineer and
structural engineer to inspect the interior of the tower as well.
We are currently looking at cleaning up all the wiring in the Town Hall basement. This is a large and tedious
project, as there will be a significant amount of troubleshooting where old wiring goes, working with IT and
PACC on wiring to all the related equipment in the building, and cleaning up the vast amount of old wiring
that is no longer functional. This will likely be done in phases to address the most imminent wiring needs
first.
The Facilities Director is currently in the process of having the USB Battery Backup at the Public Safety
Building replaced, having a contractor address the dumpster enclosures at the Library and Public Safety
Building, and trying to address rebuilding the front doors at the Library.
FY22 State Budget Updates:
Representative Kushmerek let us know that $40,000 for LED lights at the Library made it through the
Senate and House Conference Committee and into the FY22 state budget report. The FY22 State budget is
currently awaiting signoff by the Governor.
DLS released the preliminary State Aid figures based on the Conference Committee's budget that was sent
to the Governor to be signed and the overall impact to Lunenburg would be approximately $100,000 less in
State Aid than the estimate in the FY 2022 budget.
American Rescue Plan Act Funds:
The Finance Director reported to me on June 29th that we received our 50% disbursement of American
Rescue Plan Act funds (aka Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Funds) totaling $614,195 on June 22nd.
===PAGE 8===
• Lunenburg Farmer's Market on the Kitter Bullding lawn will be Sundays through October 10"
from 10:00 a.m. to 12:30 pm
• Summer band concerts will resume on Monday evenings at 7:00 pm July 12"h until August 9'h
(with a rain date of an additional Monday on August 16") and will be outside the front entrance of
the TCP Building
PUBLIC COMMENT-there was none.
Mr. Alonzo noted the Board would be entering Executive Session.
Motion: J. Marino
2'd: M. Jeffreys
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session pursuant to
M.G.L. c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 2, to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for
negotiations with non-union personnel or contract negotiations with non-union personnel
(Town Manager and Finance Director)
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
****************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE***************
The meeting adjourned at 9:41 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claure m. Petervor
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
