===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey Adams,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Alonzo reminded everyone that the annual town election is this Saturday, May 15th. Voting
is at the TC Passios building from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Ms. Lemieux announced the vaccine clinic located at Devens opens tomorrow and there are
appointments available. Mr. Alonzo reported Massachusetts had no deaths from Covid-19 for
the first time in a year.
He also noted the Executive Assistant has notified all the chairs of boards whose member's
terms are expiring June 30** and all people who have submitted talent bank forms that the
Chairs of those committees should be interviewing them if they haven't already. Comments
should be submitted to the Select Board office by Saturday May 15"", in time for appointment
or reappointment at the June 1st meeting.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Bylaw Review Committee (2 vacancies)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee, 1
citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy) Housing Authority (2 vacant positions)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by the Select Board and Town Moderator
for member at large)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
===PAGE 2===
• lown Clockwinders
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 positions)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office.
Home Rule Petitions for Jaxx Country Variety and Library Trust Funds:
Representative Sena's Office reached out to me yesterday that our Home Rule Petitions have been assigned
bill numbers and been assigned to committees.
The Home Rule Petition for granting an additional license for the sale of all alcoholic beverages for Jaxx
Country Variety has been assignedas House Bill3715 and has been assigned to the Committee on
Consumer Protection and Professional Licensure.
The Home Rule Petition for authorizing the Library Board of Trusteesto invest the Library TrustFunds
hasbeen assignedas House Bill 3727 and has been assigned to the Committeeon Municipalitiesand
Regional Government. Both the Library Director and Jaxx Country Variety have been notified of these
updates.
Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch Update:
Lastweek, the Nashoba Valley RegionalDispatch Administration Board votedto appointan Interim
Executive Director until the position is permanently filled. The Board met with Jack Parow and
discussed hisextensive background as aretired Fire Chiefwith over forty years' experienceranging froma
dispatcherto Fire Chief in East Bridgewater and Chelmsford, and nowruns an independent consulting
company that performs assessments and strategic plans. Mr. Parow is also an adjunct professor at Anna
Maria College in Fire Science and Emergency Management.
ForthepermanentroleofExecutive Director, the Administration Board will bediscussinghiringan
outside consulting service that will do the preliminary search to bring forth the most qualified
candidates. We expect this process to take four to five months.
Municipal Aggregation-Electricity Supply:
Colonial Power, which is our municipal aggregation energy consultant, has issued a Request for
Proposals for electricity prices for the Town's Community Choice Power Supply program. Our three year
contract with Constellation expires in November (current rate of$.10998). This program offers residents
and businesses an alternative electricity supplier and consumers can opt out or opt in at any time.
Price Proposals are due Monday, May 17th and will be executed the same day.
Invitation for Bids:
•
Werecently went outto bid for the Re-carpeting at the Library and received seven bids. The low
bidderwas Liberty Floor Covering from Lincoln, RhodeIsland with a bid of$46,335. The
Assistant Town Manager is currently soliciting bids for the other portion of this project, the
specialized moving company to moveall the collections and furniture, in a phased approach while
the carpet is beingreplaced.
The Public Safety Carport project will be going out to bid next week.
925 Mass Ave Update (TM Goal #1):
===PAGE 3===
they should be able to provide us with an updated site plan that does not include the existing building and
some CAD illustrations before the students graduate. If we do receive these in the next week or so we can
add as an agenda topic at a future meeting. These would provide a good foundation for the next step in the
process in hiring a landscape engineering firm.
Emma Henry, a Lunenburg High School student has requested to post on the Town website a slide
presentation on plastic pollution and the need for recycling as part of her Civics class. It is posted on the
DPW page under the recycling/trash link:
https://www.lunenburgma.gov/sites/default/files/field/files-docs/civics_class_=
plastic_pollution_slideshow-_emma_henry.pdf
Another student as part of her project would like to post banners and foldable signs at the three schools on
recycling education. This will be funded by our recycling dividends grant funding. These should be going
up by the end of the school year.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Theremainingspring2021 Yard Waste Daysare Saturday, May 1 5th and Saturday May 22nd from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Additional information can be found on the DPW page on the website.
• Reminder that the Pleasant Street bridge over Pearl Brook will be closed starting June 1st.
• The Annual Town Election is Saturday, May 15th; polls open at 7 a.m. and close at 5 p.m.
COVID-19 Update
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of May 7th was 779. The state report showed 736 cases as of
May 4th. There has been one death in town since the pandemic began. This is an increase of 7 cases
since April 30th. Due to our low positivity numbers over consecutive weeks, we are now back to
"gray" on the positivity rate map.
Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic:
The Nashoba Associated Boards of Health announced the opening of the Nashoba Valley/Devens
Regional Vaccine Clinic that will hold the first clinic on Wednesday, May 12" at the Clear Path for
Veterans New England building at 84 Antietam Street in Devens. The legislators from the Nashoba
Valley District were instrumental in getting this regional clinic approved by the State, as was the
Nashoba Valley Associated Boards of Health Director Jim Garreffi, and retired Groton Police Chief Don
Palma. Retired Chief Palma led the creation of an operational plan and Mr. Garreffi led all the clinical
aspects of running the clinic.
Currently there are many appointments available, so please help spread the word on available vaccine
appointments at this clinic. Those wishing to schedule an appointment can visit
https://vaxfinder.mass.gov/.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 5/6/21):
===PAGE 4===
people in the Commonwealth. According to the CDC's vaccine data, 3.9 million people in
Massachusetts have been fully or partially vaccinated as of Monday, May 3rd. Another 180,000 people
are scheduled to get their first dose by May 10'h
". Altogether, 4.1 million people are set to be fully
vaccinated by the beginning of June —reaching the administration's initial goal and representing a
significant achievement for the Commonwealth.
While reaching 4.1 million residents vaccinated represents progress, the administration will continue
to adapt vaccine efforts to be more targeted and will shift vaccines to smaller scale operations
focusing on certain populations and specific communities-such as the Commonwealth's 20 most
disproportionately impacted communities.
Next Phase Vaccination Efforts:
This next phase of the Commonwealth's vaccine efforts will include:
• Providing all 22 regional collaboratives with doses to fully operate their programs.
• Doubling the state vaccine allocation for our 20 most disproportionately impacted communities.
Working with the Massachusetts Medical Society to increase access of vaccines with additional
primary care providers by mid-May. This effort will require affirming complex storage and
scheduling logistics to ensure all doses are put to good use.
• Expanding mobile vaccine clinics in our 20 most disproportionately impacted communities at
senior centers, houses of worship, and other community-based organizations.
• Working with current providers and community partners to offer new vaccine clinic opportunities.
Mass Vaccination Sites & Pre-Registration
The Administration will also begin to transition or ramp down the state's seven mass vaccination sites.
With millions of people vaccinated, the demand for high volumes at mass vaccination sites will
gradually decline, and more vaccines will be dispersed more widely across communities.
The administration will gradually close four of the state's seven mass vaccination sites by the end of
June (Gillette Stadium, Hynes Convention Center, Double Tree in Danvers, and the Natick Mall).
With the approval by the FDA to authorize vaccines for children ages 12-15, pre-registration will
remain available for parents who may want to bring children to a mass vaccination site.
Mass Vaccination Sites to Open for Walk Ups May 10:
Beginning Monday, May 10th
", six of the Commonwealth's mass vaccination sites will open for walk
up vaccination. These sites include the Hynes Convention Center, the Reggie Lewis Center in
Roxbury, the Double Tree in Danvers, the former Circuit City in Dartmouth, the Eastfield Mall in
Springfield, and the Natick Mall.
Residents should still go to VaxFinder to find a location near them and plan their vaccination.
Residents will be able to use each site's VaxFinder listing to either book appointments or view more
details about walk-up appointments. VaxFinder also lists important information like each site's
accessibility options, MBTA Trip Planner and more. Over 500 locations have open availability on
VaxFinder.
===PAGE 5===
The cost of the pay as you throw bags will increase due to the new contract.
The Town will also be soliciting bids for bag vendors and this information is critical to
determining the impact of the PAYT bag cost and operating the trash program. Ms. Adams
asked if the bags that have already been purchased would be honored. Ms. Lemieux stated
they would.
2. Approve minutes of April 27, May 4, 2021
Motion: K. Adams
2°: T. Dwyer
To approve the minutes of April 27 and May 4, 2021
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
3. Warrants: FY21 4th Quarter Water Commitment $7,560.78
Mr. Alonzo reported he would be signing this Water Department warrant as presented.
4. Action Items
Mr. Jeffreys was contacted by a resident about the donation bins in the Walmart parking lot are
full and overflowing. He requested the Town Manager contact the management company be
contacted and requested they stay on top of the situation.
5. Committee Reports
There were none tonight.
I. OLD BUSINESS
1. Discuss and Approve Composite Town Manager Performance Evaluation
Mr. Alonzo reported he made one modification to one word and the final version is in the
Board's packet. He stated he would be going through each section and reading the numeric
scores and narratives.
PERFORMANCE ON PRIOR YEAR GOALS
Town Manager: Heather Lemieux
Date of Evaluation:
Review Period From:
Type of Review:
7/1/2020
V Annual
1. Goal: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave.
To: 4/15/2021 (Lunenburg FY21)
Annual Assessment:
• Complete V In Progress • Not Undertaken
===PAGE 6===
LAMIUS LANDVDNARA
NOTES:
As a general consensus comment, the Select Board was pleased with the progress made on
admittedly large, multi-year tasks. With all the work of running the Town, and with the
additional significant burden of the pandemic, the fact that these goals were advanced to the
degree they were was broadly noted and appreciated.
PART II
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND CORE RESPONSIBILITIES
RATING SCALE
The following scale will be used to rate the Town Manager's performance in all categories.
4
Consistently Exceeds Expectations:
erformance consistently exceeds expectations. The overall quality of work is excellent, results far excee
he position requirements and annual goals were met
3
2
Often Exceeds Expectations:
Performance often exceeds expectations. Demonstrates the ability to take on progressive responsibility
showing high success and most annual goals were met.
Meets Expectations:
Performance consistently meets expectations and the overall quality of work is good. The most
critical goals were met.
1
Needs Improvement:
Performance has not met expectations and improvement is needed. One or more critical goals were
not met.
0
Unsatisfactory:
Performance is inadequate and employee demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to meet job standards
and performance expectations of the position. Immediate and sustained improvement is required.
N/O
Not observed:
This rating is used when the reviewer has not directly observed the actions of the Town Manager. It will
not be counted in the compilation of scores.
1. Individual Characteristics/Professionalism
Is dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public and personal relationships in
order to merit the respect and confidence of the elected officials, other officials and employees,
and of the public. Demonstrates accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and
honestly.
===PAGE 7===
responsive to all calls, texts and email and maintains her poise, even in difficult situations
while being consistently fair, impartial and honest with everyone. She, personally, exhibits the
highest levels of honesty, integrity and ethics and makes it clear that she expects the same
from others in the Town organization.
2. Problem Solving/Decision-Making/Planning:
• Anticipates and analyzes problems to develop effective approaches for solving them. Willing to
try new ideas proposed by the Board members and/or staff.
• Anticipates future needs, organizes work operations, and establishes timetables for work units or
projects. Is aware of technological advances and changing standards; identifies and understands
trends. Effectively allocates resources and predicts the impact of service delivery decisions.
•
Knows when to take action and what type of action is appropriate.
• Effectively allocates resources to provide service to the community. Anticipates stakeholder
needs and attitudes, and the impact of policies and procedures, and responds appropriately.
RATING - 2.95
The Town Manager position is, by very definition, one of planning, decision-making and
problem solving. This past year, however, was certainly one that made those needs an even
greater necessity and more valuable commodity. The pandemic has challenged the Town
Manager in dealing with all the normal operations of the town AND the ever-changing
landscape of a world living with a virus that has affected every part of our social, educational,
medical, political and municipal life. Heather has been extremely effective in keeping
operations running smoothly, while planning for the Town's future, while ensuring that all
local, state and federal health guidelines are being followed.
However, while the above is unanimously accepted, there was a minority sentiment that not
enough focus is being placed on properly managing and protecting municipal buildings, the
Town's largest capital investment. While the handling of all other departments exceeded
expectations, the DPW, especially with regard to these buildings, requires more attention and
resources.
3. Professional Skills and Knowledge:
• Maintains knowledge of current developments affecting the practice of local government
management and is familiar with applicable local, state and federal legislation and regulations
related to Town services.
• Demonstrates skill in listening, speaking and writing, persuading without diminishing the views
of others.
• Has a full working knowledge of the administrative and management systems and procedures.
• Understands and implements long-range and strategic planning techniques; identifies trends that
will affect the community; demonstrates an understanding and ability to analyze and facilitate
policy choices that will benefit the community in the long run.
===PAGE 8===
Additionally, The Town Manager continually works to develop new skills and hone existing
ones by regularly participating in professional development programs through the MMA and
the MMPA, Small Town Administrators meeting and attends bi-weekly briefings with State
Officials. Her budgeting of departments and capital items remained flexible throughout the
budget process, constantly adapting to the best information available at the time.
4. Organizational Leadership and Personnel Management:
Builds cooperation and consensus among and within diverse groups, helping them identify
common goals and act effectively to achieve them; recognizes interdependent relationships and
multiple causes of community issues; and anticipates the consequences of policy decisions.
• Encourages the development and high-level performance of staff and employees throughout the
organization. Effectively selects and hires employees for position vacancies.
• Professionally manages the compensation and benefits plan.
• Develops and executes sound personnel procedures and practices. Seeks to foster high morale
and cohesiveness among employees.
• Effectively plans, organizes and delegates work. Monitors results and evaluates performance of
those supervised, and provides feedback in a timely manner.
RATING - 3.1
This past year has been uniquely challenging as the Town has navigated through the
pandemic. The Town Manager has expertly managed the Town through potential budget
challenges including union contract negotiations (where she promotes ideas and policies that
support her goal of maintaining a professional and competitively paid work force) and
changes in several key department head positions. The Town Manager conducts regular
department head meetings to identify the similarities and goals common among these diverse
groups, and encourages more direct communication between them. By bringing the
department heads together regularly, the IM effectively created a pool of shared resources
that each may have not realized were available to them. She promotes employee development,
encourages morale (and how important morale is under times like these!), and continues to
hire very qualified people for open and/or new positions.
On that last point, there was some sharp contrast in comments by some Select Board members.
While one comment praised her development of a non-political hiring process for three
important positions this past year, another thought that process was not transparent enough
with the Select Board not playing a larger and more visible role.
Some other minority criticisms in this category included the Town Manager having subpar
oversight of one department, the lack of an employee "climate survey" to determine employee
satisfaction and Town Hall still being open only 4 days a week.
===PAGE 9===
Maintains good working relationship with legislators, media, and public groups/organizations, as
well as with other regional, state, and federal government agencies.
RATING - 3.6
The Town Munager has consistently demonstrated an oustaning abily to rake residents
and professionally. She is an excellent point of contact for the public and
community, maintains positive relationships with all members of the community and our state
delegation, and is an outstanding representative of the Select Board as head of our day-to-day
municipal government.
6. Fiscal Management:
.
Prepares and administers the budget; shows knowledge of budgeting principles and practices,
revenue sources, projection techniques, and financial control systems; presents information in an
intelligent and accessible format.
• Makes the best possible use of available funds, conscious of the need to operate the local
government efficiently and effectively. Determines the cost effectiveness of programs, and
compares alternative strategies.
• As Chief Procurement Officer, effectively manages Town purchasing of supplies and services,
disposition of town property, and construction projects.
• Establishes and manages sound fiscal policies including Five Year Financial Forecast, financial
policies, and Capital Plan.
RATING - 4
The Select Board unanimously recognizes the Town Manager's stellar proficiency in fiscal
management and her ability to maintain fiscal discipline to keep the Town on solid financial
footing. The recent audit of the Town's finances conducted by Powers and Sullivan were noted
by many as an undeniable indication of that proficiency, financial leadership and vision of not
only her but the entire finance team. The methods and expectations employed to achieve these
ends are distributed throughout the organization by communicating well-defined financial
policies to departments, providing clear budget targets and by challenging department heads to
be innovative and flexible when considering budget priorities.
7. Relations with Members of the Board:
• Maintains effective communication with the Board. Maintains mutual trust and treats all Board
members equally.
• Offers professional advice to the Board on items requiring board action, with appropriate
recommendations and supporting information based on thorough study and analysis.
• Responds well to requests, advice, and constructive criticism.
RATING - 3.4
===PAGE 10===
8. Reporting
• Provides regular information and reports to the Board concerning matters of importance to the
local government, using the Town Charter as a guide.
• Reports produced by the Manager are accurate, comprehensive, concise and written to their
• Produces and handles reports in a way to convey the message that affairs of the organization are
open to public scrutiny.
RATING - 3.8
The Town Manager Report and the COVID-19 Update have been a consistent/ongoing space
where relevant items are communicated to the Board and the residents in a timely and concise
manner. These reports have kept both the Select Board and the community, at large, well
informed on all issues before the Town. When asked questions, she demonstrates that she
knows the material she is presenting and her answers are clear and on-point. She responds to
action items quickly and keeps the Board informed of changes or progress through e-mail.
Legal or procedurals questions are answered during the meeting, where possible, or via e-mail
shortly afterward following her consultation with the proper people.
PART III
OVERALL PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
This section indicates the employee's overall level of performance.
Given the performance competencies ratings and the achievement of the annual goals,
summarize the employee's overall performance.
Best Achievement:
The Select Board clearly agreed that the Town Manager's best achievement was the hard work
and dedication in navigating through the ever-changing landscape of medical, fiscal, political
and social information coming at her during an extremely challenging pandemic year. She
did so with a poised demeanor, by managing an excellent stajj and with minimizing anxiety
utilizing up-to-date information sharing. Through all of this uncertainty, she still maintained
excellent fiscal strategies, procedures and budgets that keep the Town on solid ground.
Subject Which Would Benefit Most from Further Attention:
There was no real consensus of any particular area on which the Town Manager should focus
more time, resources or attention. Among the several areas that were mentioned by specific
Select Board members are:
a.
facilities; building and property management, care and planning
b.
personnel management
C.
making the accomplishments of her and her staff more publicly known
===PAGE 11===
brought, while staying focused on Luneburg's ongoing needs. Her experience, depth of
knowledge, preparedness, foresight, work ethic and work flexibility are nothing short of
exemplary. We all feel the Town of Lunenburg is fortunate to have her at the helm and
encourage her to keep up the good work!
Ms. Adams thanked Mr. Alonzo for compiling all of the evaluations. She noted it was the most
challenging year ever for a Town Manager. She thanked Ms. Lemieux for operating the town
under these circumstances.
Mr. Dwyer thanked Ms. Lemieux for making this part of his job as Selectman very easy and told
her to keep up the good work.
Mr. Alonzo jokingly noted a glowing report like this is a double-edged sword because everyone
recognized this was a particularly special year filled with extra craziness. If you can come
through in such glowing ways with this, when everything settles down, imagine what we are
going to expect of you next year.
Ms. Lemieux hoped there would not be a repeat of this past year at this time next year so
hopefully there are large improvements. She thanked the Board for all their thoughtful reflection
and comments to her. She always welcomes constructive criticism as there is always room for
improvement in all of our jobs. She appreciated the one on one meetings with each member as
she gets a lot of value out of the feedback. She thanked all for the kindness and accolades as well
as the constructive criticism for certain pieces.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo announced their next meeting is Tuesday, May 18 and reminded again about the
annual town meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none at this time.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd.T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting at 8:04 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
