===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Member not present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman
Also present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Al Futterman, Nashua River Wild and Scenic Stewardship
Council- NSN Wild and Scenic Rivers Forest Legacy Program
The meeting opened at 9:25 p.m.
Mr. Futterman is seeking a letter of support from the Select Board for a federal grant in order to incorporate one
tract of privately-owned donated land totaling 20 acres in Lunenburg out of a total of 25 tracts of woodlands
included in the Nashua, Squannacook and Nissitissit Wild & Scenic Rivers (NSN) Forest Legacy Program
(FLP) application. The property is located off Holman Street and abuts North County Land Trust property to the
west and the Town of Lunenburg's conservation area and Town Forest to the east.
He stated this application will be reviewed in November by the MA Department of Conservation and
Recreation but will take years to be approved as the federal funding has to go through congressional and
presidential budget approval. We will not know it is approved until 2023. The tract will be have a conservation
restriction or a fee sale, the property owner has not informed us yet which it will be. In either case, it will be
assumed by the Lunenburg Conservation Commission.
Ms. Lemieux asked if the land was currently in Chapter 61. Mr. Futterman was not sure but would ascertain
that. The value of the property is not determined as an appraisal is not required until the grant is approved.
Motion: J. Marino
2'': L. Franco
To send a letter of support for the FLP application and authorize Mr. Alonzo to sign it on behalf of the
Select Board
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Futterman thanked the Board for their support.
Motion: J. Marino
To adjourn the meeting and not reenter Open Meeting
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: L. Franco
The meeting adjourned at 9:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Piterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
