===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Member not present: Tom Alonzo, Chair
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Greg Roy, Brian Lehtinen, Dave Passios,
Dave Blatt
Vice Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20,
all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Jeffreys read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present by
roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams reported today a citizen noticed Dig Safe activity on Howard Street possibly in
relation to the request by a developer who would like to run water to his housing development.
She would like to have this Board discuss this further.
I. APPOINTMENTS
Update from the TCP Building Design Committee
Mr. Roy called the TCP Building Design Committee meeting to order at 7:06 p.m. and did a roll
call. TCP Building Committee members Dave Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Dave Blatt and Michael-
Ray Jeffreys were present.
The committee had sent a memo in advance that reads as follows:
"The TCP Building Design Committee (TCP) is sending this memo to your board in the hopes of advancing
the dialogue between TCP and the Select Board (SB). Over the past several meetings we have been working
with the design team to refine the preliminary estimates for the project. We appreciate the opportunity to
present these estimates to you at your upcoming meeting, as well as to discuss several other points that the
committee feels are important at this time. The following are the general points that we wish to review with
the Board:
1. Cost estimates for the TCP reuse project
2. Discussion of the TCP project and how it relates to the existing buildings in town
3. Discussion of a comparative project alternative to include the development of a cost estimate for a
new building, including the need for additional funding to prepare the estimate.
4. Discussion of Warrant articles for the Spring Town meeting
a. Update Article
b. Proposed change to the charge of the Committee which would allow the committee to explore
an alternative solution
c. Funding Article which would fund the design costs for the alternative solution
We expect to present to your Board proposed wording for the above referenced article, on or before the
meeting next week. We look forward to discussing this at your upcoming meeting on Tuesday, March 9."
Mr. Roy reported after receiving the schematic design was presented the preliminary estimated cost
of renovating the TCP Building for Town Hall, school and community use that was provided by
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Jeffreys noted there are two potential warrant articles for annual town meeting:
V. To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the TCP Building Design
Committee and/or from representative(s) from the design firm; or take any other action
relative thereto (Submitted by the TCP Building Design Committee)
W. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money for the design and engineering to consolidate town offices, school uses, and
community space at the building and/or land known as the TC Passios, located at 1079
Massachusetts Avenue, shown in Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental
and related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation, engineering, and final design
services. This will allow the Town to consider alternative uses for town offices, school uses,
and community space that may include demolition of the existing building; to take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the TCP Building Design Committee).
Discussion ensued over the two articles.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: J. Marino
To add Articles V and W to the warrant
Ms. Adams requested to take each article separately. Mr. Dwyer amended his motion to vote on
each separately. Mr. Marino withdrew his second.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: K. Adams
To approve Article V. for the Annual town meeting warrant
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye. Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n°:T. Dwyer
To add Article W to the May 2021 Annual Town Meeting warrant
Ms. Adams asked to edit the article to change the location for more flexibility.
Mr. Blatt agreed with Ms. Adams adding the address is irrelevant. Mr. Passios was not sure he
wanted to leave the location off the article. Further discussion ensued about the wording.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the TCP committee for coming in this evening. Mr. Roy adjourned the
meeting with a roll call vote at 8:06 p.m.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote to support Nashoba Valley regional vaccination site
M. Lemieux reported it was proposed in her profession group that all the different Select Boards in
the region sign the following resolution:
"Whereas, the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines are critical to wellbeing of all
Massachusetts residents and the restoration of our local economies;
Whereas, sixteen communities of the Nashoba Valley have sent two letters to Governor Baker regarding our
concerns over the distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine and the proposal to establish a regional COVID-19 vaccination
Whereas, there have been an inadequate amount of COVID-19 vaccines to meet the needs of the
Nashoba Boards of Health communities.
===PAGE 3===
To sign the resolution as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
2. Warrants Accounts Payable:
It was noted Mr. Alonzo signed the following Warrant #41 21, dated 3/2/2021, in the amount of
$691,214.23; Payroll Deduction Warrant #42 21, dated 3/3/2021, in the amount of $41,878.06;
Payroll Warrant #18P21, dated 3/4/2021, in the amount of $805,441.22
3. Action Items
Ms. Adams noted there are overloaded donation bins back at the Walmart parking lot. Ms. Lemieux
will look into this. Mr. Jeffreys suggested sending out friendly reminders to businesses to clean up
their parking lots as well as encourage residents to clean up the road sides.
4. Committee Reports - there were none.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Execute Final Copy of TIF Agreement with Bright Farms (MA Greenhouse LLC) as
provided by the Massachusetts Office of Business Development
Mr. Jeffreys confirmed after speaking to Town Counsel about what would constitute a material
failure in the contract.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: K. Adams
To execute and sign the TIF agreement with Bright Farms (MA Greenhouse LLC)
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
2. Vote to approve the Conservation Commission's acceptance of a parcel of land at
361 Mass Ave. from Bright Farms
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd:T.Dwyer
That the Lunenburg Select Board hereby approves the Lunenburg Conservation
Commission's acceptance of a gift, to the Commission from PSG Realty, LLC, of the
parcel of land identified as "Parcel B" on the plan entitled "Plan of Land in Lunenburg,
Mass. Prepared for Bright Farms," dated January 11, 2021, recorded in the Worcester
Northern District Registry of Deeds in Plan Book 527, Page 23. Said parcel of land
contains approximately 65,464 sq. ft., according to said plan. It is located on the west
side of land currently owned by the Commission
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
3. Annual Appointments and Discussion of Appointment Process for FY 2022
Mr. Jeffreys referred the Board to the proposed appointment process consolidated by Mr. Alonzo.
_ of each year, the Select Board office will provide a list to Select Board of all appointed
positions whose terms are expiring on June 30 of that year. The list shall include the people whose terms are
expiring, the municipal body on which they serve and the length of the term.
2. By
the list generated from the previous step shall be sent to the Chairpersons of all
appointed municipal bodies and to all those whose terms will be expiring.
3. By
, those individuals whose terms are expiring shall notify the Select Board, in
writing, of their intention to be considered for re-appointment. Such notification, which can include
email, must be sent to the entire Select Board's attention.
===PAGE 4===
strongly encouraged but not mandated.
7. All new applicants are encouraged, but not required, to attend at least one meeting of the municipal
body to which they wish to be appointed and meet with its members.
8. All applicants shall be scheduled for an interview by the Select Board during the two regularly scheduled
Select Board meetings in June. To the extent practicable, all applicants vying for openings on the same
municipal body should be interviewed during the same Select Board meeting. The Select Board Office shall
be responsible for the scheduling all applicants.
9. All appointed positions should be filled by June 30th barring any unforeseen or extenuating
circumstances or due to a lack of applicants.
FINAL NOMINATION PROCESS STILL TO BE DECIDED."
Mr. Jeffrey asked barring the dates, are we all in agreement with the wording? Ms. Adams
suggested changing in #1, "all positions appointed by the Select Board."
After some discussion, May 25th (for #5) was suggested as the due date for a person to indicate in
writing to the Board that they would like to be appointed. By April 1st (for #4) was the date
suggested to advertise the vacancies in the local paper.
Discussion ensued about the proposed appointment process in general. Mr. Marino pointed out
volunteers, after investing one year of commitment, are being given the message that the Board
does not value their work. Mr. Dwyer agreed with Mr. Marino adding this is a solution looking for
a problem. Mr. Jeffreys suggested changing this policy for standing committees only. Mr. Dwyer
stated sat the beginning of this process he thought the reappointment process should be separate
from the appointment process. Whenever someone is reappointed the Select Board would have the
option to approve or deny the reappointment; as such they can take public comment on these. If
there is a vacancy they can advertise it if they decided to not move forward with that
reappointment. He disagreed with making reappointments open to everyone. If we want to
reevaluate reappointments then do them on an individual basis. Mr. Jeffreys suggested changing
this policy to state this is for standing committees only. He recommended discussing more with the
full Board present.
4. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
Mr. Jeffreys moved on to the draft article for a 10% local match for an agricultural preservation
restriction for Pierce property. The article reads as follows:
"To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds the sum of
$66,500.00 for a 10% local match towards the purchase of an Agricultural Preservation Restriction on
approximately 99 acres of farmland at the corner of Chase Road and Northfield Road - "Pierce's Christmas
Tree Farm". The APR is valued at $665,000.00. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts APR program is
paying $598,500.00. Project Site is recorded in Northern Worcester County Registry of Deeds Book 8848
Page 318, Book 5330 Page 236, Book 2826 Page 15, Book 2826 Page 13, and Book 8488 Page 318, known
as Assessors Map 33, Parcel 6 and Assessors Map 38, Parcels 17 and 24.2, and owned by Daniel R. Pierce
and Kathleen M. Pierce. And to meet such appropriation accept gifts, bequests, and grants from individuals,
groups, corporations and to authorize the Select Board to enter into an Agricultural Preservation Restriction
with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to be held in common with the Town; or take any other action
relative thereto."
===PAGE 5===
X. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, §250-4.1H5, by inserting the
following, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
250-4.1H(5)
Two-Family Dwelling: A residential structure designed to house a single-family unit from
lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot, and sharing a
common wall adjoining dwelling units. Two-family dwellings shall have 1.5 times the lot size required in the
Zoning District in which they are located.
Y. Article 1: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, §250-6.1, by
deleting the entirety of the existing text and inserting the following, or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
250-6.1: Off-street Parking and Loading Areas: Parking shall be provided per the chart below unless otherwise provided
for in the Code of Lunenburg.
Use Categories
Accessory Dwelling
Boarding House
Single-Family Home; Two-Family Detached;
Multi-Family Dwelling; Townhouse
Assisted Living
Charitable Institution; Government Building;
Church; Educational Use
Hospital
Public Utility; Outdoor Entertainment; Golf
Course; Drive-in Theater
Water Supply
Indoor Entertainment
Restaurant; Private Club
Private Camp
Child Care Facility
Adult Use
Auction House
Bed & Breakfast
Parking Calculation
1 Parking Space*
1 space per sleeping accommodation plus 1 space
per employee on the largest shift
2 spaces per dwelling unit*
0.5 spaces per living unit plus 1 space per
employee on the largest shift
Parking Calculated per the most closely
associated Use Category to the function of the
space, as Determined by the Building
Commissioner
1 space per 5 seats in the largest assembly area
1 space per 2 beds plus 1 space per employee on
the largest shift
As Required by Site Plan Approval
1 space
6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of net floor area
1 space per 3 seats plus 1 space per employee on
the largest shift
1 space per 5 campers pus 1 space per overnight
campsite plus 1 space per employee on the
largest shift
1 Space per 5 children plus 1 space per employee
on the largest shift
As Required at by the Special Permit Granting
Authority
1 space per 2 seats plus 1 space per employee on
the largest shift
1 space per sleeping room plus 1 space per
employee, that does not reside at the location,
on the largest shift
===PAGE 6===
Dispensary
Medical Clinic; Professional Office; Trade Shop;
employee on the largest shift
1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area
Use Categories
Mixed Use; Office Park; Shopping Center;
Industrial Parks
Restaurant Carry-Out
Auto Sales; Equipment Sales
Auto Repair Facility; Boat Service Yard
Car Wash
Construction Sales & Service
Contractor Yard
Equipment Repair
Fuel Service Station
Distribution; Manufacturing; Marijuana
Cultivator; Marijuana Product Manufacturer
Research Establishment; Marijuana Testing
Facility; Marijuana Researcher
Agriculture
Parking Calculation
Sum of the required parking for each use
1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area plus
1 space per employee on the largest shift
1 space per 500 square feet of sales floor and/or
office plus 1 space per repair bay or work area,
plus 1 space for each employee on the largest
shift, plus 1 space per vehicle, trailer and/or
other piece of rolling stock for sale
2 spaces per repair bay or work area
1 space per vacuum or other external consumer
equipment plus 1 space per employee on the
largest shift
1 space per 250 sq. ft. of net floor area of sales
floor, plus 1 space per 2,000 square feet of net
floor area for the first 20,000 square feet of
lumber or material storage plus 1 space for each
additional 10,000 square feet of net floor area,
plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift
1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area of
office plus 1 space per employee on the largest
shift, plus 1 space per piece of equipment or
rolling stock
1 space per repair bay or work area
1 space per fuel dispenser
1 space per 2,000 square feet of net floor area for
the first 20,000 square feet plus 1 space for each
additional 10,000 square feet of net floor area or
1 space per employee on the largest shift,
whichever is greater.
1 space per 500 square feet of net floor area
One space per 1,000 square feet of display area
whether indoors or outdoors, plus 1 space per
employee based on the largest work shift;
however, there shall be a minimum of 5 spaces.
===PAGE 7===
§ 250-6.1 Off street parking and loading areas: fAmended
5-7-2016 ATM by Art. 391
Unless otherwise provided in this bylaw, off street parking and loading spaces shall be required as follows:
Dwellings: two parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
B.
Place of assembly, including a funeral home: one parking space for each three
seats therein or one space for each 60 inches of bleachers or benches.
G.
Schools: one parking space for each classroom or office, plus one parking space
for-each three seats in the auditorium thereof.
Hotels, motels and other places providing overnight accommodations: one-
parking space for each room accommodation therein and adequate spaces for delivery
vehieles.
B.
Restaurants: one parking space for each table or booth and one parking space
for-every two counter seats and adequate spaces for delivery vehicles.
F.
Other service and retail establishments: parking areas, exclusive of driveways, shall
be in a minimum ratio of three square feet of ground area to one square foot of gross floor area,
exclusive of storage areas and adequate loading spaces.
G.
Office and all other permitted nonresidential structures, except agricultural: one
space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area and loading space for all deliveries and
shipping; however, the minimum parking area shall be in a minimum ratio of one square foot of
ground area for each three square feet of floor area.
H.
-Child care facilities: one parking space for each 10 children in attendance plus-
one parking space for each person engaged on site in the business of the facility at any one
time.
I-
For uses not specified above, the number of required spaces will be determined by
the Building Commissioner based on accepted planning standards, as contained in the latest
edition of Time-Saver Standards for Site Planning, Joseph DeChiara and Lee B. Koppleman,
McGraw Hill, New York City, 1984, or similar source and a reference for handicapped parking
as outlined in Chapter 205, Streets and Sidewalks, § 205-11.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following isa list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Bylaw Review Committee (4 vacancies)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Housing Authority (2 vacant positions)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by the Select Board and Town Moderator for member
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
ZoningBoardofAppeals(1 Associatevacancy)
Interested persons can find application formson the Town Websiteand completed forms can besent to the Select
Board's Office.
-39
===PAGE 8===
• The Water District has a meeting at 6 p.m. on Wednesday, March 10th. It looks likean annual water district
meeting will be on March 27th
• The Conservation and Zoning Board both have meetingson Wednesday, March 10th at 7 p.m. through Zoom.
• Green Leaf Botanicals will be holding another Community Outreach Meeting on Wed., March 10 at 7
pm through Zoom. The information for the meeting is posted on the town website and was advertised in
the Ledger, posted on Facebook and on Public Access. The presentation for this meeting is now on our
• I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on Zoom on Thursday, March 11 at 7:00 pm. There
will be presentations from PACC and the Sewer Commission and I will present the General Government,
Debt and Capital Plan.
COVID-19 Update
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of March 5th was 644 and one death. The State report shows 631
as of March 2nd. This is an increase of 26 cases from the previous week.
Regional Vaccination Site Requests and Concerns:
As previously noted in last week's COVID-19 update, the Nashoba Valley Health District Town
Administrators/Town Managers have sent two letters to the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and Secretary
Sudders to date to express theneed for a regional vaccination clinic in our area as there is a severe lack of
regional clinics that serve our populations.
Two weeks ago, Representative Kushmerek joined Representative Higgins, and Senator Cronin in sending a
private letter to Secretary Sudders and Governor Baker asking for attention to a regional vaccination site
being placed at the old Kmart, located on the Fitchburg-Leominster line.
Following a lack of response to that letter, Representative Kushmerek again joined Representative Higgins
and Senator Cronin in sending a public version of this letter to Secretary Sudders and the Governor,
expressing the vaccine desert that North Central Massachusetts is, explaining that the regional collaborative
stands ready to provide vaccines at Kmart as soon as approval is given. It is their hope to get an answer no
later than Monday, March 8th for the facility, but at this point, the Representatives and Senator have not
received responses to their request. Each legislator has expressed their plans to continue fighting to bring a
regional vaccination site to North Central MA to serve all of the residents of the Third Worcester District
and beyond.
Senior Center:
The Eagle House will begin reopening to the public during the hours of 10 am until 2 pm
starting March 15". This will allow the staff additional time needed to get measures into place
as they open their doors.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 3/4/21):
As of March 4th there are 554,630 COVID-19 cases and 15,967 deaths and 16,522,351 patients
have been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial
laboratories.
===PAGE 9===
educators at Mass Vax Sites and regional clinics.
• DESE will be issuing the guidance today (3/9/21) on full in person learning. Elementary
schools K-5 will begin full in person learning on April 5", Grades 6-8 will begin on April
, and the date for Grades 9-12 will be announced in April.
• The State will be announcing the extension of the Stop the Spread sites that were
going to expire at the end of March. The extension will be until June.
• The State is working on providing more community specific data that tracks how many
people have been vaccinated by demographic information so that communities can target
specific groups that may need assistance getting vaccinated. This will be broken down by
State and Federal doses since pharmacies such as CVS get their doses directly from the
federal government.
Asked on when we can anticipate the guidance for Phase IV Step 1, the Lieutenant
Governor said there will be no new guidance that is industry specific, it will only be
for the large venues. A follow-up question was sent to the panel on whether or not
that means we will continue to abide by the industry specific protocols in Phase III,
Also announced was that on March 5 the State changed the requirements for regional
clinics in order to allow them to allocate 25% of the vaccinations to be used locally
and the remaining 75% to be used on residents statewide.
Mass Vaccination Sites:
The Baker-Polito Administration announced Thursday the transition of the Fenway Park
mass vaccination site to the Hynes Convention Center. CIC Health will launch the Hynes
Convention Center site on Thursday, March 18.
The last day for appointments at Fenway Park will be Saturday, March 27. The two sites will
overlap for approximately a week as the Hynes site ramps up capacity. All individuals that were
vaccinated at Fenway Park and have a second dose appointment scheduled will be able to receive
their second dose at Hynes. CIC Health will send individuals with appointments details via email.
Since the opening of the Fenway Park mass vaccination the site has completed over 25,000
vaccinations. By the end of this month, they expect they'll have completed over 55,000
vaccinations.
This month, the Hynes Convention Center site will ramp up to do the same volume of vaccinations as the
current Fenway site - 1,500 per day. Later in the spring, dependent upon vaccine supply from the federal
government, the Hynes has capacity to scale up to more than 5,000 shots per day.
On Wednesday, the Baker-Polito Administration announced that K-12 educators, childcare
workers, and K-12 school staff will be eligible to schedule COVID-19 vaccine appointments
starting March 11th. This group of workers will join the current eligible groups (including 65+
and individuals with 2+ certain medical conditions).
This week, the Commonwealth anticipates over 250,000 doses will be administered between
first and second doses across all providers throughout the Commonwealth.
On Thursday, March 4", 12,000 new first appointments for mass vaccination sites will be made
available to eligible groups. Over 45,000 new second dose appointments have also been scheduled
at mass vaccination sites.
The number of new appointments (first dose appointments) is less than previous weeks due to
the volume of second dose appointments. 7,500 appointments have also been booked by the
call center (211) for older adults who were unable to use a computer to book an appointment
and required assistance.
===PAGE 10===
38,000 doses tor the month of March. Inese doses have been allocated - primarily to nospitals and
health systems.
on information the Commonwealth has received from the federal government, the
Administration does not expect to be able to order more J&J doses until the end of March or early
April. While the Commonwealth is receiving limited doses of the J&J vaccine in March, the
Administration is continuing to plan for eventual widespread distribution of the J&J vaccine.
Discussion ensued about meeting in person at Town Hall. Majority consensus was to
continue meeting via Zoom rather than wearing a mask for several hours.
Ms. Lemieux reported on 88 Massachusetts Avenue and Green Leaf will be conducting a
survey to see how far they are from the residential abutter. Town counsel has recommended
to not sign the Community Host Agreement until the zoning issue has been cleared up.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
March 10th (Green Leaf Community Outreach Meeting), March 16', March 30th
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, speaking as Vice Chair of Parks Commission reported they are in
process of doing some cleanup projects on parks properties through the week of Earth Day.
2nd: T. Dwyer
Motion: K. Adams
To adjourn the meeting at 9:23 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mir. Jeffreys- aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
