===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present. Tom Alonzo, Chall, Michael-Kay selleys, vice halan, todd Dwyer,
Jim Marino, Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Patricia Adams, Mike Larouche, Steve
Marsden, Barbara Brown, Deb Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, Steve Archambault, Bill Lakso, Megan
Lordan, Faith Beall, Hans Wentrup, James Besarkarski, Dave Passios
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Jeffreys thanked everyone for coming out yesterday to participate and attend the Memorial
Day ceremony. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Jeffreys for heading up the committee. Ms. Lemieux
thanked the Dept. of Public Works for all their preparation in advance of the holiday by
assisting the cemetery superintendent in the upkeep of the North and South cemeteries, street
sweeping the town center and grooming the town center grounds, installing buntings on the
buildings and power washing the brick walkway in Memorial Park.
Dave MacDonald, Island Road, along with Lynnette Valentine, Salvation Army Envoy,
thanked the town for letting them participate in yesterday's ceremony. Ms. Valentine noted the
Salvation Army will be in Lunenburg on Friday, National Donut Day from 11 a.m. to 12 Noon
at School Street. They will be giving donuts out to thank the community for assisting them in
their fundraising over the past 18 months.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Interviews with applicants for Select Board annual appointments to the Agricultural
Commission, Conservation Commission, Town Constable, Council on Aging, Historical
Commission, Public Access Cable Committee, and Zoning Board of Appeals
The first appointment was for the Agricultural Commission. Jorge Marzuca was not present but
is up for reappointment. There were no other applicants. Comments submitted were in support of
his reappointment.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2'°: J. Marino
To reappoint Jorge Marzuca to the Agricultural Commission with a term ending June 30,
2024
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 2===
My only request of the Board is that you consider appointing Michael Larouche to one of these positions. Over the
past year Michael has been an outstanding and committed associate member to the board. I can say that he has put in
as much effort and thought into our work as any appointed member. He has attended nearly all site visits and
meetings, which often go past 11:00 p.m. His inputs have been balanced and thoughtful. He has demonstrated the
value of this unofficial position as a path to becoming a voting member. Please support the associate process, and
Michael, in your appointments.
As this will be my last public statement as a Conservation Commissioner, I would also like to encourage the
Conservation Commission to give serious consideration to some of the suggestions in my reappointment form. Key
among these are formalizing the Associate Member Process; establishing a focused Open Meeting Law training
session for the LCC, and providing guidelines and processes for running the meetings, perhaps including adopting
Robert's Rules.
It has been a pleasure to serve Lunenburg over the past 15 years in this position as well as on the Sewer
Commission. I have always appreciated the support that the members of your Board have given me and wish you all
the best for a safe and happy future.
I also wish the LCC members all the best. They have a very important job that is time consuming, often with little
thanks. I have always strived to enforce the regulations in a fair and consistent manner and hope our new
Commissioners will also see this as critical to serving the community and environment."
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Luck for his 15 years of service on both the Sewer Commission and the
Conservation Commission.
There candidates for the two upcoming openings were Patricia Adams, Steve Marsden and Mike
Larouche.
Patricia Adams has lived in town since 2004 and has interacted with the Conservation
Commission concerning her property and felt the process could have gone better. She is a human
rights officer at a hospital in her daily job and believes she can help improve customer service
when dealing with the public. She has attended a few zoom meetings and watched some
meetings on YouTube
Mike Larouche has been an associate member of the Conservation Commission for the past
seven months. He has lived in town for over 40 years. He would like to continue serving on as a
full member and vote along with his colleagues based on the information provided to them.
Steve Marsden has lived in town for over 30 years and is a civil engineer. With Mr. Dwyer's
resignation he thought it would be good to have another professional on the board.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Marsden what would be the chance of a conflict for him to come up
before the conservation commission. Marsden stated he would recuse himself if he had to appear
on behalf of a client. He added he understands what it is like to be on the other side of the table.
Discussion ensued about past issues before the commission that the public was very passionate
about such as review of their land use regulations and Lake Shirley weed maintenance, as well as
the qualities each candidate brings to the commission. Mr. Alonzo noted they did receive input
from various members of the community for each candidate. The Conservation Commission did
not take a stand on any one applicant as a body.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: J. Marino
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo thanked all three candidates for coming forward. Mr. Jeffreys recommended the
Conservation Commission receive Mr. Marsden as an associate and Mr. Alonzo recommended
he reach out to them.
The next appointments were to the Council on Aging. There were three openings and three
returning members requesting reappointment; Barbara Brown, Debbie Lincoln and Betty
DiGiacomo.
Barbara Brown was on the zoom meeting via telephone.
Ms. Brown has lived here since 1964 and began by filling a vacant seat for one year. She has
been serving since under three COA Directors. She loves serving and believes it is a good board.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked her for stepping up.
Ms. DiGiacomo was not present this evening. Ms. Lincoln spoke on behalf of her, noting she is
our "greeter," and a good representative of the Council on Aging.
Debbie Lincoln has lived in Lunenburg most of her life. She has seen many people grow up and
become town officials and seniors. Mr. Alonzo thanked all three for coming forward
Pete Lincoln reported the COA has met and acted on all three applications. He noted Ms. Lincoln
is Chair and her compassion for people is unmatched.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2': T. Dwyer
To appoint Barbara Brown, Betty DiGiacomo and Debbie Lincoln to the Council on Aging
with a term to expire June 30, 2024
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Historical Commission appointments were next. Bill Lakso and Richard McGrath were up for
reappointment. Megan Lordan, 20 Redwood Road, was applying for the third vacancy.
Mr. Lakso has lived here for 46 years. He is a former machinist and practical mechanical
engineer, author and more. He has a ten year affiliation with the Lunenburg Historical Society.
The commission's current major activity is reviewing applications for demolition requests in the
Architectural Preservation District. They have also been publishing articles on the many historic
homes in town in the local paper.
Ms. Lordan has lived in Lunenburg her entire life and history is a passion of hers. She is trying to
find ways to serve the community, noticed the vacancy and is interested in historical
preservation. She has a bachelor's degree of arts and history. She has participated in historical
clubs in Salem while she attended Salem University. Mr. Marino noted she had also indicated
that she wanted to be a town clock winder on her talent bank form. Ms. Lordan stated it was
something that tickled her fancy, but she is no longer interested.
Mr. McGrath was not present but had submitted detailed documentation with his reappointment
form. Mr. Alonzo noted he brings a wealth of information to the commission.
===PAGE 4===
Steve Archambault stated he was a retired music teacher, a musician and a technical jack of all
trades.
Ms. Beall stated she retired seven years ago from Clinton to Lunenburg, so she decided to
volunteer to get to know more people in town. She has served six years so far and is hoping to
see a new permanent studio for public access through to fruition.
Mr. Lincoln has taught school here for 38 years and retired to the Hickory Hills lake area twenty
years ago. He enjoys working on the committee and being involved on the other side of the
camera.
Chairman Steve Walker had written in an email, "The committee (PACC) approved all three
applications at our meeting of May 3rd, noting that each brings different experience and knowledge to the
committee - they were each thanked for their service to PACC. Please note that as all three were up for re-
appointment at the same time, we were having to have separate motions for each one so one at a time
could abstain from the vote. Jeff and I are on the same service schedule. As a consequence we should
appoint Faith and Pete for three years, and Steve Archambault for either one or two years such that our
reappointment schedule becomes 2-2-1 as required in the charter - Steve volunteered to do that."
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To appoint Steve Archambault to the Public Access Committee with a term to expire June
30, 2023
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To appoint Faith Beall and Pete Lincoln to the Public Access Committee with a term to
expire June 30, 2024
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The Zoning Board of Appeals was next. Hans Wentrup and James Besarkarski were applying for
reappointment.
Mr. Besarkarski moved to Lunenburg in 1968 and taught eighth grade. He has served on the
ZBA since around 1992 once it was determined teachers could serve on committees not related
to their school service. He started as an associate and eventually became a full member and has
attended every single meeting. He visits the sites related to their meetings and takes courses to
keep up to date.
Mr. Wentrup has been on this board, also starting out as an associate, for almost fifteen years.
Mr. Alonzo noted there is still an associate opening on this board if anyone is interested. He read
the following note from ZBA Chairman Al Gravelle, "I would highly recommend the
reappointments of James Besarkarski and Hans Wentrup's reappointment to the Zoning Board of
Appeals. They are both knowledgeable of the zoning act and the town bylaws. They are always
prepared and active participants in all our hearings. They rarely miss a hearing, so we always havea
===PAGE 5===
present, Mr. Jeffreys requested to postpone reappointment for a week to hear input from the
Police Chief. Mr. Marino noted as former Police Chief, the only interactions with constables is
when they serve civil documents. There have not been any complaints regarding his service.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To appoint Kevin Rice as Constable with a term expiring June 30, 2022
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Town Manager Annual Appointments
Ms. Lemieux requested the Board postpone her appointments until the next meeting.
2. Proclamation for 100#h birthday celebration
Mr. Alonzo read the proclamation aloud as they would not be presenting it in person to the
recipient.
Proclamation Honoring Alice D. Quinn
On Her 100th Birthday
WHEREAS, Alice D. Quinn will be honored on the occasion of her 100th birthday and
is deeply appreciated and loved by her friends and family as they join
together to wish her a happy birthday and many more wonderful years
ahead; and
WHEREAS, Upon the occasion of her 100th birthday, the Lunenburg Select Board
wishes to express their sincere congratulations to Alice D. Quinn, born
Alice Dealia LeBlanc on June 16, 1921 in Moncton, New Brunswick,
Canada to Hector & Amelia LeBlanc; and
WHEREAS, Alice's family moved to Fitchburg, MA in 1927, Alice met her husband,
Thomas Quinn in 1938; they dated and were wed in 1940 and enjoyed
life together for 66 years, and
WHEREAS, Alice worked evenings at the Foster Grant Company and after retiring took
a part-time kitchen job at Burbank Hospital until full retirement, and
WHEREAS, Alice has been a citizen of the United States since 1939 and a resident
of Fitchburg and Westminster, MA before moving to Lunenburg in
2007, and
WHEREAS, Alice is the proud Mother of two daughters, Grandmother of 4
grandsons, Great-Grandmother of 10 great-grandchildren and Great
Great-Grandmother of 3 great great grandchildren, and
WHEREAS, Longevity of life is a blessing for an individual and for a community which
benefits from the knowledge, creativity, and experiences this individual
brings to all; and
Therefore, BE IT PROCLAIMED, We, the Lunenburg Select Board extends to Mrs.
Alice D. Quinn best wishes for many more years of good health and happiness.
Mr. Alonzo noted the board will sign the proclamation and we will get it to her family in time for
her birthday celebration. He wished Mrs. Quinn many more years
===PAGE 6===
4. Approval of Minutes of May 18, 2021
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of May 18, 2021 as presented
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
5. Warrants
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #55 21, dated 5/25/2021, in the amount of $776,905.90
• Payroll Deductions Warrant #56 21, dated 5/26/2021, in the amount of $200,299.78
• Payroll Warrant #24P21, dated 5/27/2021, in the amount of $893,164.52
6. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo reported he had spoken with the Town Manager about upcoming agenda items. The
Board will be working on their goals next week. One will be getting Lunenburg senior citizens
tax relief and the other will be getting out the RFP for the old Primary School site design. He
asked the members to think about they would like to have as goals for the next meeting.
7. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee Appointing Committee will be interviewing two
applicants on June 15"" for the Finance Committee vacancies effective July 15.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees met on May 20th. There was discussion about staffing
costs. There was also a lot of positive feedback about the DPW Director and meeting their needs.
There was a little concern about the library carpet replacement in August. They have waived all
fines for items returned late effective July 1S. A voluntary late fee system will be discussed at
their next meeting. Residents will still be charged late fees for items/materials from other
libraries in the system, as well as items that are lost.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discuss Draft Green Communities Committee Charge and Vote to Approve
A revised draft has been provided from suggestions made since the last meeting. Also added
were the suggestions requested by the Green Community Task Force (in blue text)
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE CHARGE
Section 1: General
The Lunenburg Green Communities Committee will work with the Massachusetts Department of Energy
Resources to learn of grant opportunities for energy conservation and renewable energy generation, and
will apply for appropriate grants. The Committee will ensure the Town retains its status as a designated
Green Community.
===PAGE 7===
Town's goals;
2. Develop action steps to ensure Lunenburg remains designated as a Department of
Energy Resources Green Community;
3. Facilitate town participation in DOER programs, grants, and incentives;
4. Serve as an information resource for town residents and business owners on the
benefits of energy and resource conservation;
5. Increase constituents' awareness of and promote resource conservation methods,
energy efficiency programs, utility rebates, and state/federal programs to promote
energy efficiency, waste reduction, recycling, and overall enhancements to long term
sustainability and resilience in response to environmental, resource, and energy
challenges;
6. Report at least once annually on its activities to the Select Board.
Section 3: Membership and Meetings
1. The Committee shall be composed of five (5) regular members serving three year terms
appointed by the Select Board and two (2) associate members. Two members shall initially be
appointed to a three year term, two members shall initially be appointed to a two year term, and
one member shall initially be appointed to a one year term. After the initial term, all regular
members shall serve a three year term. The associate members shall be appointed to a three year
term.
2. In addition to the regular members, the Committee shall consult with the Town Manager, the
town departments that oversee the facilities and energy accounts, the School
Superintendent, and the School Facilities Director that oversees the school facilities and school energy
accounts in order to ascertain future energy projects, areas where energy savings are needed, and
replacement schedule for vehicles.
1. Voting Power: All duly appointed regular members shall have full voting power.
2. Resignation: Members of the Committee shall notify the Chairman of the Committee, the
Town Manager, and the Select Board of their resignation.
3. Vacancies: Any vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
4. Representations:
Members shall get approval of the Committee prior to making statements,
presentations, or joining activities on behalf of the Committee.
5. The election of officers including at least a Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Clerk and shall be
elected annually by a majority vote of the Committee.
6. A quorum shall consist of three (3) members.
7.
The recording of minutes and votes of all meetings shall be conducted as prescribed by the Open
Meeting Law. Copies of the minutes shall be submitted to the Town Clerk as prescribed in the
Town Bylaw and according to Open Meeting Law.
8. The Committee shall comply with all state laws and local bylaws.
===PAGE 8===
The committee openings will be advertised. Current task force members will be asked to apply
for appointment. Mr. Jeffreys and Mr. Franco were in favor of appointing the current task
force members to the newly formed committee. Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Dwyer were okay with
advertising the committee and waiting the two to three weeks to go through the process of
appointment. Mr. Alonzo called for a vote.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°°: T. Dwyer
To accept the Green Communities Committee inclusive of the Select Board and Green
Community Task Force amendments and to allow the Green Community Task Force to
continue until new committee appointments are made
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mir. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
2. Select Board designees to certain committees and liaison assignments
Mr. Alonzo presented the past year assignments and asked who would like to keep what they
have. The following assignments are what was decided:
Finance Committee Appointing Committee-Tom Alonzo
Capital Planning Committee- Tom Alonzo (2023)
MRPC- Jim Marino
MJTC- vacant
MART Advisory- Michael-Ray Jetfreys
TCP Building Design Committee- Michael-Ray Jeffreys
MMPO- Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Storm Water Task Force- Todd Dwyer
Liaisons to Committees/Boards
Library/COA- Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Planning Board- Todd Dwyer
School Committee- Jim Marino
Finance Committee- Tom Alonzo
Open Space-Lou Franco
Economic Development- Lou Franco
Former Select Board member Katey Adams will be contacted to see if she wants to continue her
term on the Americans with Disabilities through 2022.
===PAGE 9===
• Bylaw Review Committee (2 vacancies)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and BOS until
next ATE
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee, 1
citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is a business owner
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP BuildingDesign Committee (1 vacancyappointed by the SelectBoard and Town
Moderator for member at large)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office.
Complete Streets Construction:
Sincethe last meeting the Contractor forthe Complete Streets Construction projectprovided an updated
schedule for this project and work will commence now on Monday, June 7th.
Community Service Learning Project on Recycling:
I have been working with one of the seniors at Lunenburg High School, Hailey Lombardo, on her
Community Service Learning project for her English class. Hailey chose her CSL topic on how can we as a
community work togetherto learn more about waste production and improve our community's------
recycling skills beyond the percentage of people who already recycle. I informed her about the funds
available forrecycling education that were part of our contract with Casella and sent her the materials that
the vendor that has a contract with Mass DEP that we used during the Recycling IQ Kit Grant program. I
have ordered the products that Hailey picked out and were approved by the relevant principals of
each schooland oncereceived, foldablesign boards and banners with differentrecycling messages will be
displayed at each of the schools.
Invitation for Bids:
• The Assistant Town Manager solicited bids for Specialized Moving Services for the Library Carpet
Project and the low bid came in at $22,268. The total cost of the Library Carpet Project, barring
any contingency costs is $68,603. This will be paid out of the capital article that was approved at
the November 2020 STM for $126,000.
• Bids for the ADA Work at the North Cemetery parking lot are due Wednesday, June 9th at 10
AM.
===PAGE 10===
the Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager position, with applications due June 11th. The
Assistant Town Manager will be advertising for the Facilities Technician shortly.
Home Rule Petitions for Jaxx Country Variety and Library Trust Funds:
House Bill 3715 for the additional all alcohol liquor license for Jaxx Country Variety got referred out of
the House Committee on Steering, Policy and Scheduling today and has been assigned a different bill
number (House Bill 3813) and will head to a Second Reading on the House floor soon. There are no
updates on the Home Rule Petition for the Library Trust Funds.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Reminder that the Pleasant Street Bridge over Pearl Brook will be closed today until August.
• Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn will be on Sundays starting June 13th until
October 10t; 10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. except on Sunday, July 4th.
COVID-19 Update June 1, 2021
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of May 28th was 796. The state report showed 751 cases as
of May 25th. This is an increase of 4 cases since May 21st. Due to our low positivity numbers over
consecutive weeks, we are now "green" on the positivity rate map. (lowest positivity rate being gray,
to green, to yellow and red as the highest positivity rate
Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic:
The Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic will host another vaccination clinic on
Wednesday, June 2nd 1 PM- 6 PM at the Clear Path for Veterans New England building at 84 Antietam
Street in Devens. Walk-ins appointments are welcome. The vaccine offered at this regional clinic is the
Pfizer vaccine and is for all persons 12 years of age and older. The site is wheelchair accessible and
there is a wheelchair on site. Those wishing to schedule an appointment can visit
https://vaxfinder.mass.gov/.
UPDATES RECEIVED FROM THE STATE AND FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
COVID-19 in Massachusetts
As of May 27th there were 660,513 COVID-19 cases and 17,491 deaths and 22,823,577 patients have
been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals, and commercial laboratories.
The seven day average of percent positivity is now % 0.80 in Massachusetts.
Governor Files Legislation to Extend Certain COVID-19 Emergency Measures
On May 25th, Governor Baker filed legislation to extend certain emergency measures currently in place
via executive orders that are set to expire on June 15th when the State of Emergency will be rescinded.
This legislation proposes to extend measures providing for a temporary suspension of certain open
meeting law requirements, special permits for expanded outside dining at restaurants, and billing
protections for COVID-19 patients. When the State of Emergency ends, these orders will expire, and
temporarily extending these measures will allow for time to transition. Extending these measures, which
===PAGE 11===
Law to provide for greater flexibility in conducting open meetings through reliance on electronic
streaming and similar measures.
The bill will also grant municipalities authority to extend special permits for restaurants offering
outdoor dining issued under the State of Emergency through November 29, 2021. Under an Executive
Order issued in 2020, municipalities were permitted to use an expedited process to approve temporary
permits for new or expanded outdoor dining and alcohol service. Without a legislative extension, special
permits granted under the Governor's Order will expire 60 days after the end of the State of Emergency.
The legislation will also extend a protection adopted in an executive order that prohibits medical
providers from billing patients who have received COVID-related emergency and inpatient services for
charges in excess of costs paid by their insurers. As filed, the protection would extend until January 1,
2022, at which time recently passed federal legislation that included protections for both emergency and
non-emergency cases will become effective. Earlier this year, Governor Baker signed legislation
establishing surprise billing protections for patients for non-emergency services.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reported their upcoming meetings are June 8 (via Zoom), June 15 and June 22.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none.
Mr. Alonzo noted the Board would be going into Executive Session
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°°: T. Dwyer
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session, to discuss
strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair
so declares.
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
**********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate**********************
The meeting adjourned at 9:38 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
APPROVED BY THE SELECT BOARD JUNE 15, 2021.
