===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey Adams,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Michele Padula, APR Acquisition Planner:
Bill Tyler, Cemetery Commission Chair; Erik Arnold, Personnel Committee Chair; Julie
Belliveau, Human Resources/Asst. Town Manager; Adam Burney, Land Use Director: Bob
Pease, Conservation Commission Chair
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo noted the Citizen Party Caucus was held last night and there are 19 positions up
for election this year. There were nominations for 14 positions. Those left blank were Board
of Health- 3 years; Assessor - 3 years and 1 year; School Committee -3 years and
Commissioner of Trust Funds- 3 years. A full list of all the positions is available for viewing
on the town website under the Town Clerk page. The last day to pick up nomination papers is
March 25" and the last day to submit them is March 27%.
Cemetery Commission Chair Bill Tyler thanked outgoing commissioner Lorraine Mendoza
for her 6 years spent on the Cemetery Commission. Mr. Alonzo echoed his comment.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
There will be an Annual Meeting (10:00 am) and Election (8:00 am) for the Lunenburg Water
District on Saturday, March 27. There is a non-binding article on their warrant to supply water to
the potential development at Howard Street.
APPOINTMENTS
Meeting with sponsors of Annual Town Meeting articles, including: Representative
from MA Dept. of Agricultural Resources on APR article, Personnel Committee
Chairman on Salary Administration Plan article, Land Use Director on Planning
Board articles, and Cemetery Chairman on Cemetery Commission article.
Ms. Lemieux read the proposed APR match article aloud:
Z. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds the sum of
===PAGE 2===
gifts, bequests, and grants from individuals, groups, corporations and to authorize the Select Board to
enter into an Agricultural Preservation Restriction with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to be
held in common with the Town;-or take any other action relative thereto.
Ms. Lemieux noted the Town contribution would be $66,500, if approved. Michele Padula
disclosed that she is also a resident of Lunenburg. Dan and Kathleen Pierce applied in 2020 for
the APR program. They have been growing Christmas trees there for years. Several years ago
they started leasing acreage to Steve Violette, who is growing vegetables. The plan is for
Violette to purchase the land eventually at its agricultural value once the APR is in place. Dan
Pierce will stay on and mentor Violette in the Christmas tree cultivation. It will be a diversified
property. We did appraise 99 acres with the value of $665,000, but Mr. Pierce will be gifting 10
acres, so the APR will be closer to 110 or 110 acres. Typically the town contribution would be
20% but because Lunenburg has a Right to Farm bylaw and an Agricultural Commission, the
contribution is reduced to 10%. The APR is for perpetuity and is scheduled on our program for
FY23. The proposed closing on the property will be between July 2022 and June 2023.
Next was the Salary Administration plan warrant article:
DD. To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 70 of the Town's General Bylaws, entitled "Salary
Administration Plan", Schedule A as follows: the position of Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager be added
and assigned to Grade 8; the position of Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator be added and assigned to Grade
9; Reserve Officer to be added and assigned to Grade 10; the position of Network Administrator be added and
assigned to Grade 13; and to amend Chapter 70 Section 26, entitled "Longevity Pay", as depicted below, with
additions underlined and deletions stricken-through; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Personnel Committee
Employees hired before June 30, 2021:
After reaching ten (10) years employment, and thereafter, each employee permanently employed, whether full or
part-time, shall receive an annual bonus equal to 2% of their annual salary payable in the first pay period after the
Employee's anniversary date. At 15 years of continuous service-2.5% of their annual salary, and at 20 years of
continuous service-3% of their annual salary.
Employees hired after June 30, 2021:
All Salary Administration positions that are department head positions will receive the following longevity pay:
After reaching ten (10) years employment, and thereafter, each employee permanently employed, whether full or
part-time, shall receive an annual bonus equal to $1,280 payable in the first pay period after the Employee's
anniversary date. At 15 years of continuous service-$1,920 and at 20 years of continuous service-$3,200.
All other Salary Administration positions will receive the following longevity pay:
After reaching ten (10) years employment, and thereafter, each employee permanently employed, whether full or
part-time, shall receive an annual bonus equal to $850 payable in the first pay period after the Employee's
===PAGE 3===
a poston state l pay mis benes suggest do tern cle me tre warn
30th when the Board would finalize the warrant.
Land Use Director Burney reported the Planning Board has put forth two zoning articles. The
first adds to the definition of two family dwellings:
X. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, §250-4.1H5, by inserting
the following, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
250-4.1H(5) Two-Family Dwelling: A residential structure designed to house a single-family unit
from lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot,
and sharing a common wall adjoining dwelling units. Two-family dwellings shall have 1.5 times the
lot size required in the Zoning District in which they are located.
The second article updates parking for various uses:
A. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, §250-6.1, by deleting
the entirety of the existing text and inserting the following, or take any action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
250-6.1: Off-street Parking and Loading Areas: Parking shall be provided per the chart below unless
otherwise provided for in the Code of Lunenburg.
Use Categories
Accessory Dwelling
Boarding House
Single-Family Home; Two-Family Detached;
Multi-Family Dwelling; Townhouse
Assisted Living
Charitable Institution; Government Building
Church; Educational Use
Hospital
Public Utility; Outdoor Entertainment; Golf
Course; Drive-in Theater
Water Supply
Indoor Entertainment
Parking Calculation
1 Parking Space*
1 space per sleeping accommodation plus 1 space
per employee on the largest shift
2 spaces per dwelling unit*
0.5 spaces per living unit plus 1 space per
employee on the largest shift
Parking Calculated per the most closely
associated Use Category to the function of the
space, as Determined by the Building
Commissioner
1 space per 5 seats in the largest assembly area
1 space per 2 beds plus 1 space per employee on
the largest shift
As Required by Site Plan Approval
1 space
6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of net floor area
===PAGE 4===
Adult Use
Auction House
Bed & Breakfast
Hotel; Motel
Retail Establishment; Personal Improvement
Service; Service Establishment; Repair Shop;
Pawn Shop; Laundry Service; Liquor Store
Marijuana Retailer; Registered Marijuana
Dispensary
Use Categories
Medical Clinic; Professional Office; Trade Shop
Mixed Use; Office Park; Shopping Center;
Industrial Parks
Restaurant Carry-Out
Auto Sales; Equipment Sales
Auto Repair Facility; Boat Service Yard
Car Wash
Construction Sales & Service
As Required by the special permit Granting
Authority
1 space per 2 seats plus 1 space per employee on
the largest shift
1 space per sleeping room plus 1 space per
employee, that does not reside at the location,
on the largest shift
1 space per sleeping room plus 1 space per
employee on the largest shift. With a conference
facility add 1 space per 200 square feet of
conference space, with a restaurant space add 1
space per 5 seats in the restaurant.
1 space per 250 square feet of net floor area
1 space per 200 square feet plus 1 space per
employee on the largest shift
Parking Calculation
1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area
Sum of the required parking for each use
1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area plus
1 space per employee on the largest shift
1 space per 500 square feet of sales floor and/or
office plus 1 space per repair bay or work area,
plus 1 space for each employee on the largest
shift, plus 1 space per vehicle, trailer and/or
other piece of rolling stock for sale
2 spaces per repair bay or work area
1 space per vacuum or other external consumer
equipment plus 1 space per employee on the
largest shift
1 space per 250 sq. ft. of net floor area of sales
floor, plus 1 space per 2,000 square feet of net
floor area for the first 20,000 square feet of
lumber or material storage plus 1 space for each
additional 10,000 square feet of net floor area,
plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift
===PAGE 5===
Cultivator; Marijuana Product Manutacturer
the tirst 20,000 square teet plus 1 space Tor each
additional 10,000 square feet of net floor area or
1 space per employee on the largest shift,
whichever is greater.
1 space per 500 square feet of net floor area
Research Establishment; Marijuana Testing
Facility; Marijuana Researcher
Agriculture
Agricultural Sales & Service
Kennel; Veterinary Hospital
Marijuana Transporter
One space per 1,000 square feet of display area
whether indoors or outdoors, plus 1 space per
employee based on the largest work shift;
however, there shall be a minimum of 5 spaces.
1 space per 500 sq. ft. of sales floor/office plus 1
space for each repair bay, plus 1 space for each
employee on the largest shift plus 1 space per
vehicle, trailer or other rolling stock for sale.
1 space per patient room plus 1 space per 3
kennel berths, plus 1 space per employee on the
largest shift
1 space per employee on the largest shift plus 1
space per vehicle used in the business operation
* Parking calculations shall not include spaces within a garage.
§ 250-6.1 Off street parking and loading areas.
[Amended 5-7-2016 ATM by Art. 391
Unless otherwise provided in this bylaw, off street parking and loading spaces shall be required as follows:
A.
Dwellings: two parking spaces for each dwelling unit.
B.
Place of assembly, including a funeral home: one parking space for each three
seats therein or one space for each 60 inches of bleachers or benches.
C.
Schools: one parking space for each classroom or office, plus one parking
space for-each three seats in the auditorium thereof.
D.
Hotels, motels and other places providing overnight accommodations: one
parking-space for each room accommodation therein and adequate spaces for delivery
vehicles.
E.
Restaurants: one parking space for each table or booth and one parking
space for every two counter seats and adequate spaces for delivery vehicles.
F.
Other service and retail establishments: parking areas, exclusive of driveways,
shall-be in a minimum ratio of three square feet of ground area to one square foot of gross
floor area, exclusive of storage areas and adequate loading spaces.
G.
Office and all other permitted nonresidential structures, except agricultural: one
===PAGE 6===
the Bullding Commissioner based on acceptea planning standatas, do Chitalia il the latest
edition of Time-Saver Standards for Site Planning, Joseph DeChiara and Lee E. Koppleman,
McGraw Hill, New York City, 1984, or similar source and a reference for handicapped
parking as outlined in Chapter 205, Streets and Stdewalks, 8 205-11.
The only question asked about the change was if the proposed spaces were the minimum
requirement. Mr. Burney confirmed that.
Next was the Cemetery Commission's article:
A. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $15,000 from the Sale of Cemetery
Lots account to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town
Cemeteries; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery
Commission)
Ms. Lemieux stated this is a transfer as stated in the article, for care, improvement and
embellishment of the cemeteries. Mr. Tyler reported every year we make an appropriation to
pay for annual expenses. The biggest part is the website for the cemeteries grave location
service for the public. We also purchase veterans' markers for the graves. We did not have an
appropriation last year due to the pandemic. He thanked Monty Tech for their work in the
cemetery on a new building this past year. They did a good job and electrical is being installed
soon. We would like to restore another town cemetery near Cherry Hill and it needs cleaning
up and continue the stone wall there and install an iron gate.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of COA Van Driver Peter Tomlinson
Ms. Lemieux reported another van driver was appointed last week but he had to withdraw his
application.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Managers appointment to COA Van Driver of Peter Tomlinson
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
CURRENT BUSINESS
Vote to Transfer Land to Conservation Commission pursuant to of Nov. 17, 2020 Special
Town Meeting/Art. 18 and 19, located at 111 Mulpus Rd. Rear & 960 NW Townsend Rd.
Ms. Lemieux reported this is follow through from a previous Special Town Meeting vote.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2n°: M. Jeffreys
Vote to Convey the Property located at 111 Mulpus Road Rear, Parcel ID 043-0025-00,
and 970 NW Townsend Road Rear, Parcel ID 04-0001-00, in the Town of Lunenburg
===PAGE 7===
consideration, to the bunenburg Conservation commission to consert a passe
recreation purposes pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws c. 40, §8C, as it may be
from time to time amended. And further the Select Board authorizes its Chair, Tom
Alonzo to enter into and execute on its behalf any and all documents necessary to
effectuate the transfer of the land to the Conservation Commission.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Review Town Manager Evaluation Process & Timeline
The schedule is as follows:
Action:
TM Self Evaluation
Members Send Draft Evaluations to TM, and Schedule Meeting with TM
Members Send their Final Evaluations to BOS Chairman
BOS Chairman Compiles Evaluation into Composite Evaluation
BOS Meetings to review and accept evaluation
Date:
No later than April 2nd
April 12th-April 15th
No later than April 22nd
April 22nd-April 29th
May 4th and May 11th
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
There were no minutes for approval this evening. There were no warrants signed last week.
Action Items: Ms. Adams stated people on Facebook are complaining about their Pay As You
Thes praided for sale: Mis. Termieux it ed once the supply dor and theres ally espent issues.
Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees continue working on their strategic five year plan.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast and Annual
Town Meeting Warrant articles including voting on recommendations for warrant
articles.
The warrant has closed and there are 32 articles for the annual town meeting. Mr. Alonzo will
work with Ms. Lemieux on the order of them. There are two citizen's petitions.
Appointment Process Procedure Review
The Board reviewed Executive Assistant Peterson's memo regarding the timing and dates for the
appointment process proposed by the Board.
"Due to the fact that we advertise in the Lunenburg Ledger and its deadline to submit articles is Noon of the
Monday before the Friday of that week, AND it is only published on Fridays, I suggest wording for #4 on the
===PAGE 8===
course any applications coming in later than the deadline could be considered but getting the majority of the
committee involvement forms a week earlier would allow for better scheduling on my part."
The Board had no issues with Ms. Peterson's suggestions. Discussion ensued about the
reappointment form and the difference between ad hoc and standing committees; creating
opportunity for people to be appointed when terms are up on positions, not having enough
volunteers coming forward for all the current vacancies and trying to avoid discouraging
people from applying by creating a competitive process of an incumbent against a new
applicant. Since there was lack of consensus on the process since the board began working
on this goal, it will be discussed at a future meeting.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Bylaw Review Committee (4 vacancies)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP Building Design Committee (appointed by SB and Town Moderator)-Member at Large
• Senior Property Tax Workoff Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals -Associate (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent
to the Select Board office.
Old Primary School Property:
I asked the DPW Director to solicit quotes for a survey for the Old Primary School property and it turns out
that Dillis & Roy Civil Engineering Group had conducted field work 10-12 years ago for a developer who
was looking to purchase the property from the Town and they can update the existing conditions plan for
us for $750. Weare ableto cover this under the Facilities budget in FY21 so there will not be a need to
include this cost in the article for design services at the Annual Town Meeting.
The DPW Director is also securing quotes for a full landscape design of the old Primary School
property. This funding willberequested at the Annual Town Meeting and the recommendation willbe to
take this out of Free Cash.
Updates from the DPW Director:
The new dump truck that was approved as part of the FY21 Capital Plan is registered and on the road.
Thespring paving schedule is being worked out by the DPW Director but will most likely include Whalom
Road from Electric Ave. to Summer Street, Electric Avenue from trattic lightsto the Leominster line,
Prospect Street from Laurel Laneto Leominster Road, a levelling courseto Townsend Harbor Road, and a
leveling courseto Burrage Street from Page Street to Flat Hill Road. Bids for the Complete Streets project
are due April Ist.
===PAGE 9===
• The TCP Building Design Committee has a meeting on Wednesday, March 17th at 5:30 p.m.
through Zoom.
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting on Wednesday, March 17th at 7 p.m. through Zoom.
• The School Committee has a meeting on Wednesday, March 17th at 6:30 p.m. through Zoom.
• The Library Board of Trustees in meeting on Thursday, March 18th at 6:45 p.m. through Zoom.
• I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on Zoom on Thursday, March 18th at 7 p.m.
• There will be presentations from the Lunenburg School Superintendent and discussion on the
warrant articles that require an appropriation.
Update from PACC on Running a Hybrid Meeting:
Public Access is encountering audio issues when testing out an in person meeting and broadcastinga Zoom
meeting simultaneously. The issue they are having is the audio for Zoom is connected to the same mixer
as the microphones. They are currently in the process of coming up with an audio fix and will keep me
updated.
Update on Earmark for Primary School Fire Alarm Upgrade:
After reaching out to our legislators, they put me in touch with the state agency that the $25,000 earmark
we received for the Primary School Fire Alarm Upgrade and after speaking with that office, these funds
would have to be spent by June 30, 2021. The only way we could get an extension is through a vote of
the legislature either in a supplemental budget bill or the FY22 state budget approval. I have emailed all
three of our legislators to request they file this, either as part of a supplemental budget bill (there is not
one pending right now) or through the FY22 State budget process. As we have been told by the School
Facilities Director, we cannot do this project without funding in place for the entire cost of the project
which is $127,000.
COVID-19 Update
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of March 12th was 665 and one death. The State report shows
642 as of March 9th. This is an increase of 21 cases from the previous week.
Regional Vaccination Site Request:
Senator Cronin will be participating in a virtual meeting with Secretary Sudders, Senator Eldridge and
the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health on Wednesday, March 17% regarding a Route 2 beltway
regional vaccination site at Devens. Any news on this request will be made available when known.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 3/11/21):
As of March 11th there are 563,983 COVID-19 cases and 16,218 deaths and 17,129,876 patients have
been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals and commercial laboratories.
Preregistration System:
Partnering with the Google Cloud Team, the Administration launched a preregistration system for mass
vaccination sites on Friday, March 12. This tool is be available at mass.gov/COVIDvaccine.
===PAGE 10===
status. Residents may opt out of their preregistration at any time if they secure an
appointment elsewhere.
• When an appointment becomes available at a mass vaccination site, the
resident will be notified and will have 24 hours to accept the appointment
once it is offered to them. If an appointment is not accepted after 24 hours, the
resident will go back into the queue to wait for anotherappointment.
• To accommodate older residents and others who are unable to use the form, the
preregistration form allows family members, caregivers, or other companions to
fill out the form on behalf of someone else. Residents who do not have internet
access or someone to fill the form out for them can call 2-1-1 to preregister.
State Distribution:
Last week, the state received a constrained supply of about 155,000 first doses. First doses and
second dose allocations (total doses) this week were divided among providers as follows:
• Mass vaccination sites: 83,000
• Hospital Providers (both private and public): 79,000
• Regional Collaboratives (12 total): 38,000
• Community Health Centers: 25,000
• Local Boards of Health (to complete 2nd dose appointments
and support 20 disproportionately impacted communities):
25,000
Weekly allocations are subject to change based on federal availability, demand from
providers, and obligations to meet second doses. Providers have 10 days to use their doses.
Federal Doses:
In addition to the state allocation, the federal government distributes vaccines to CVS Health
sites as part of the Federal Retail Pharmacy Partnership as well as to certain Massachusetts
federally qualified community health centers. These quantities fluctuate on a weekly basis and
are not counted as part of the state's weekly allocation.
Last week, 95,000 first and second doses have been allocated to the retail pharmacy program
and 19,000 Johnson & Johnson doses have been allocated to the federally qualified health
Individuals looking to book appointments across any of these providers should visit
mass.gov/COVIDvaccine to learn more.
Dedicated Educator Vaccination Days at Mass Vaccination Sites
On March 11, pursuant to a federal directive, approximately 400,000 K-12 educators, childcare workers
and K-12 school staff became eligible to receive COVID-19 vaccine in Massachusetts.
===PAGE 11===
Workplace Safety Standards for Indoor and Outdoor Events per Phase IV, Step 1:
The DPH issued the workplace safety standards for Indoor and Outdoor Events, in advance of
their effective date to allow organizers of and venues hosting Indoor and Outdoor Events time to
prepare to operate in compliance with these mandatory health and safety standards. Indoor and
Outdoor events remain subject to the previously issued February 4, 2021 safety standards until
these revised workplace safety standards go into effect on March 22, 2021.
Indoor and outdoor events covered by these standards include but are not limited to events held at:
• Indoor and outdoor event spaces
• Ballrooms
• Private clubs and party rooms
• Public places, like parks
• Private residences
An event that is held for the primary purpose of watching a performance must follow the
Theaters and Performance Venues guidance.
Exhibition and convention halls may reopen as part of Phase IV, Step 1 and must follow these sector
specific COVID-19 workplace safety rules for indoor or outdoor events.
The following Phase IV enterprises must continue to remain closed until Phase IV, Step 2:
• Amusement parks, theme parks, indoor and outdoor waterparks and ball pits
• Street festivals and parades and agricultural festivals
• Road races and other large, outdoor organized amateur or professional group athletic events
• Bars, dance clubs and nightclubs
• Beer gardens, breweries, wineries and distillates not providing seated food service
Social Distancing Requirements:
• Require face coverings for all workers and attendees, except where an individual is
unable to wear a face covering due to a medical condition or disability
• The host of an indoor event at a private residence must limit the number of attendees at
all times to no more than 10 persons;
• The host of an outdoor event at a private residence (such as a backyard) must limit
the number of attendees at all times to no more than 25 persons;
• The host of an indoor event held at an event venue (e.g., hotels, private clubs, and
space available for lease) or in a public setting (e.g., public parks) must limit the number
of attendees at all times to no more than 100 persons;
• For outdoor events held at an event venue (e.g., hotels, private clubs, and space
available for lease) or in a public setting (e.g., public parks) a host must limit the number
of attendees at all times to no more than 150 persons;
• Occupancy counts in all cases must include all attendees, but may exclude event
===PAGE 12===
The Board reviewed more Annual Town Meeting warrant articles to make recommendations.
A. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Town Manager)
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article A
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
B. To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards,
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section
53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2021 to be expended in accordance with the by-law
heretofore approved; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town
Manager)
Revolving Fund
Ambulance Billing
Timber Rights
School Custodial Special Details
Green Thumb
Library Revolving
Council on Aging/MART Revolving
Stormwater Task Force
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector
Technology
FY22 Spending
Limit
$100,000
$10,000
$13,000
$5,000
$12,000
$45,000
$5,000
$46,000
$30,000
Motion: K. Adams
2'°: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article B.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
L. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum
of money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town
Meeting; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
===PAGE 13===
Lots account to be used tor the care ana improvement an enderstand he 10 wi
Cemeteries; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article P.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Q. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $750,000, the borrowing authorization,
from Article 11 of the May 5, 2012 Annual Town Meeting to conduct a Feasibility Study at
the Lunenburg High School; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Finance Director
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article Q.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
R. To see if the Town will vote to rescind the sum of $38,414,779.21, the remaining borrowing
authorization, from Article 1 of the January 7, 2014 Special Town Meeting for construction of a
new Lunenburg Middle/High School; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Finance Director
Motion: J. Marino
2n°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article R.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Alonzo-
V. To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the TCP Building Design
Committee and/or from representatives) from the design firm; or take any other action
relative thereto (Submitted by the TCP Building Design Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article V.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
X. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, §250-4.1H5, by inserting
the following, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
250-4.1H(5) Two-Family Dwelling: A residential structure designed to house a single-family unit
from lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot,
and sharing a common wall adjoining dwelling units. Two-family dwellings shall have 1.5 times the
lot size required in the Zoning District in which they are located.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: K. Adams
To recommend approval of Article X.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 14===
Road - "Pierce's Christmas Tree Farm". (see full article earlier in these minutes)
Vote: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article Z.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
BB. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $30,929.43 into the Sewer
Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
the Sewer Commission)
Vote: M. Jeffreys
2n°: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article BB.
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
O. To see if the Town will vote to create a Health Insurance Stabilization Fund pursuant to
General Laws Chapter 40 Section 5B and further, to vote to raise and appropriate or transfer
from available funds, a sum of money into the Health Insurance Stabilization Fund; or take
any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Ms. Lemieux reported the amount would be $369,334.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article O.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo noted this Board is not meeting on the 23d but will be meeting on March 30th. Ms.
Lemieux noted the Finance Committee's public hearing on the budget is March 25* at 7 pm.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Bob Pease, 11 Wintergreen Court, stated five years ago he became interested in the work of the
Conservation Commission, so he attended meetings for four months as an associate member. A
vacancy came up and I applied; I was the only applicant and I was appointed. I served on the
commission for three years and went to lots of meetings and on site walks. I just hope when
reappointments come up you put yourself in the shoes of the volunteer who has spent a lot of
time learning the job, trying to do a good job and how is it going to impact the volunteer. How
are they going to feel about their commitment by the way we treat them during the
reappointment process?
Ms. Adams thanked Mr. Pease for his comments and stated she believed there could be a better
process. Mr. Marino stated he hoped Mr. Pease was still tuning in because he believed he was
an outstanding member of the commission. This is exactly what we should try to avoid
happening.
===PAGE 15===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire In. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
