===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely: Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mir. Jeffreys announced he would only be attending the meeting until 8:00 p.m. Ms. Adams had
noticed the Town Hall front window boxes and thanked whoever filled and decorated them for
the season.
Mr. Alonzo commended the Salvation Army on their very successful tollbooth fundraiser last
Saturday and their organizers, bringing in around $8,000. He also thanked the people who
donated to it.
He then thanked the Police, Fire and School departments for their 1s Annual Holiday Lights
Drive Thru Event.
Ms. Lemieux noted Town offices are closed effective yesterday, to the public except by
appointment.
APPOINTMENTS:
1. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Revote the Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointments of Police Lieutenant Jeffrey
Thibodeau, Police Sergeant Joshua Mathieu, Full Time Police Officer Jeffrey Hill
(elective April 25,2021) and Full Time Police Officer Nicholas Marino (effective April 25,
Ms. Lemieux noted this is being voted on again as the appointments were not posted
according to the Charter.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2°°: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's Appointments of Police Lieutenant Jeffrey Thibodeau,
Police Sergeant Joshua Mathieu and Full Time Police Officer Jeffrey Hill (effective
April 25, 2021
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Alonzo stated Conrad's Drive-In was renewing their common victualler license for 2021.
Motion: K. Adams 2nd; J. Marino
To approve the renewal of the common victualler license for for Conrad's Drive In Inc.
d/b/a Conrad's, 835 Massachusetts Avenue
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mir. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys -aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
Licensees that did not renew were Dippin Donuts (common victualler), 455 Mass Ave. and
KB Agyeman d/b/a KB Cars LLC (Class II Auto dealer), 555 Chase Road.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to Issue Proclamation recognizing January 24-30, 2021 as School Choice
Week
This request was sent via email to Mr. Alonzo from Andrew Campanella, President of National
School Choice Week of Southlake, Texas, asking to raise awareness by issuing a proclamation.
After some discussion, it was decided to take no action.
2. Discussion of future agenda topies
Ms. Adams requested discussing maintenance of town building envelopes (roofing and facades)
in order to prevent further deterioration. Mr. Jeffreys wanted to discuss a process where residents
can come to this board to request permission to hunt on Town property and what the approval
process would be. Ms. Adams requested land transfers as a discussion topic.
3. Approval of October 31, 2020 Minutes
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: K. Adams
To approve the October 31, 2020 Minutes as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
4. Warrants-
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week;
Accounts Payable Warrant #26 21, dated 12/8/2020, in the amount of $531,746.32
•
Payroll Deduction Warrant #27 21, dated 12/9/2020, in the amount of $594,135.92
• Payroll Warrant #12P21, dated 12/10/2020, in the amount of $899,626.01
5. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo stated the Board had waived the Right of First Refusal on Chapter 61 property
located on Holman Street and Northfield Road but the property owner is requesting the Town to
acknowledge four lots rather than one lot on the document and the purchase price per lot, which
===PAGE 3===
int Jery reported the CP Building eign Committe continues to mutand are delving
costs reasonable. They meet again Thursday. The Library Trustees will be meeting Thursday at
6:45 p.m. Use of the library continues and they have implemented a share drive for library
communication purposes. The trustees had a performance evaluation with Library Director Muir
Haman and are very pleased with his work.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by Select Board and Town
Moderator for member at large)
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Purchase of Streetlights from Unitil:
Wehave received an updated value of the street lighting assets from Unitilasof November 30, 2020. The valueis
$89,161.56. Unitilrelayed thatthis valuewillchange(upordown) untilthetransferoftitle on the assets which has
been recorded and there will be a "trueing up" of the final cost after the transfer, which could take an additional
outo 120 days. Ifthetown owes Unitil torany additional cost Unitil will bill the town. If the town is due a credit,
Unitil will then issue the town a check for the difference. As part of the next step of the process, I have provided
Unitil with our legal counsel's contact information so that Unitil's legal counsel can communicate directly regarding
necessary documentation.
925 Mass Ave. (TM Goal #1)
I received notification from MassDevelopmentthat we did not receive funding forthegrantapplication I submitted in
September through the Brownfields Redevelopment Funding program. I spoke with MassDevelopmentabout the
process forresubmitting an application and they are very interested in this site as a project but weare not yetat a point
that we are eligible for funding. I will continueto work with MassDevelopment and submit an application again
in concert with their guidance.
FY 2021 State BudgetUpdate:
The Governorsigned the FY2021 budget on Friday, December 1 I th and the Division of Local Services will be
sending out Charry Sheets by this Thursday. We were notified by Rep. Sena's office that Lunenburg was the
recipient of one earmark for $25,000 towards upgrading the fire alarm system at the Primary School. As you may
recall, $100,000 for a fire alarm upgrade at the Primary School was included in a Bond Bill of Chapter 151 of the
Acts of 2020.
===PAGE 4===
at 671 West Street. This was advertised in the local newspaper and the person that originally inquired about
purchasingtheland and theotherdirectabutterto thisparcel werenotified that it was out to bid. Today was the due
date for bids and wedid notreceiveany bids. Dueto the lack ofresponse from theoriginal party that inquiredabout
purchasing theproperty wewillnot proceed any further.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
TheSchoolCommitteehas a meetingthrough Zoomon Wednesday, December 16th at 6:30p.m.
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting through Zoomon Wednesday, December 16th at 7 p.m.
• The APDC has a meeting through Zoom on Wednesday, December 16th at 7 p.m.
• TheTCP Building Design Committee hasa meetingthrough Zoomon Thursday, December 17th at
5:30 p.m.
• The Library Board of Trustees hasa meeting through Zoomon Thursday, December 17th at 6:45 p.m.
• TheHistoricalCommission hasa meetingthrough Zoomon Thursday, December 17th at 7:00 p.m.
Ms. Lemieux wanted to thank Mr. Marino and Chief Gammel's spouse who connected them to
the CAD instructor at Monty Tech who will draft the conceptual drawing of the old Primary
School grounds. Mr. Alonzo suggested compiling their comments as a result of the site walk and
inviting the CAD instructor to walk the grounds as well.
Ms. Lemieux also noted the Holiday Drive-Thru and Salvation Army tollbooth fundraiser were
both huge successes. She thanked Board members Alonzo and Dwyer, the Police, Fire and
School departments, business owners and the Recreation Director for all their work as well.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed
number of COVID-19 cases reported to the Town was 280 as of December 11"". The State report
shows 259 as of December 8th
Town facilities are closed to the public and are open by appointment only, this was done as a
precautionary measure in response to the increase in positive Covid-19 cases generally, as well
asimon so se contact. So for the health and safety of both employees and the public, it was
deemed to be the best
Action at this time. This went into effect on December 14th and for anyone who wants to visit
town offices, contact information is on the town website (www.lunenburgma.gov). This will be
in effect until further notice.
Upcoming Meetings
The Board meets again on January 5, 12 and 19, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Adams gave a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year shout out to everyone.
===PAGE 5===
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
