===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jetfreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rob Oliva, DPW Director
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. I. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Adams noted the Community Outreach Meeting on Feb. 4'h for the proposed retail
marijuana business at 88 Massachusetts Avenue.
Ms. Adams personally thanked former Senator Dean Tran for his time serving Lunenburg. In
regards to the January 6th riot at the Capital Building in Washington D.C., she stated,"
Whether town government or national politics, we all value democracy from the nation's
capital to the city streets and our own small town. I hope that everyone can walk the path of
peace and freedom and the best way forward is not to see life as a series of divisions but as a
necessary whole. There's only one nation and we must share it with each other."
Mr. Alonzo, in regards to Ms. Adams comment about January 6", echoed it wholeheartedly
adding differences are differences, violence is a totally different thing. He noted the Board
through Town Manager, is arranging a date for meeting with our newly elected legislative
delegation. They are Senator John Cronin and Representatives Michael Kushmereck and
Danillo Sena. He also thanked Senator Tran for his service and on behalf of the Board he
expressed condolences to him on the death of his mother.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Ms. Lemieux read the Community Outreach Meeting information for the proposed marijuana
establishment located at 88Massachusetts Avenue. It will be operated by Green River
Cannabis Co, Inc. The meeting is scheduled on February 4*h at 7:00 p.m. and will be held
online via Zoom, meeting id# 5689610481; Passcode: GREENLEAF.
There will be opportunity for the public to comment and ask questions. To participate go to:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/5689610481. It you would like to provide a comment or question
in advance of the meeting, send it to intogreenleatbotanicals@gmail.com
===PAGE 2===
Ms. St. Pierre thanked the Board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager Appointments for DW Intermittent Heavy Equipment
Operator Mike Roberts and Heavy Equipment Operator William (Sal) Napoli
Ms. Lemieux was requesting the appointments be ratified tonight. Mr. Oliva noted Mr. Roberts
worked for the DPW previously and is a hard worker. Mr. Napoli worked for a contractor that
worked for the town and knows the area. We think he will be a good fit for the DPW crew. Mr.
Oliva endorsed both appointments.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: J. Marino
To ratify the Town Manager appointments of DPW Intermittent Heavy Equipment
Operator to Mike Roberts and Heavy Equipment Operator William (Sal) Napoli
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
DPW Director Oliva exited the meeting.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approval of Minutes
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd. M. Jeffreys
To approve the Minutes of December 1 and December 8, 2020 as presented
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mir. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
2. Warrants-
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #31 21, dated 1/5/21, $507,536.75
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #32 21, dated 1/6/21, $41,286.36
•
Payroll Warrant #14P21, dated 1/7/21, $825,165.95
3. Action Items-none
4. Committee Reports-none
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cultural Council (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCP Building Design Committee (1 vacancy appointed by Select Board and Town
Moderator for member at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
===PAGE 3===
in the design phase and recommended that we submit a Small Bridge Program application, even
though the program hasn't received the funding yet. The engineering firm that is doing the design
is going to work on putting together this application together in short order. MassDOT also did not
see the need to perform a load rating analysis for the culvert in its existing condition. MassDOT
informed the DPW Director that since this is the Town's bridge we can remove the load rating
signage and therefore not allowing heavy trucks to go over this bridge, which may further impact
the headwall and pipe. At this point the bridge will remain one lane and MassDOT has increased
their inspection frequency to every 3 months orless.
Our engineering firm is fast tracking the design of this project so that the design work will be done
in the spring and the project would be ready to go out to bid once they receive 100% design
approval from MassDOT.
Fuel Tank Project Update:
The fuel tanks that are being installed at the DPW will be delivered this Friday and the project
is estimated to be complete by February 5th. I am estimating that we will have approximately
$80,000 remaining in unexpended capital dedicated for this project upon completion barring any
unforeseen changes from now until completion.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1):
Tomorrow I will be meeting with Shyla Matthews of MassDevelopment and our environmental
site assessment consultant to discuss future funding options through MassDevelopment for 925
Mass Avenue.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The TCP Building Design Committee has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, January 13th
at 5:30 p.m.
• The Conservation Commission has a meeting on Zoom on Wednesday, January 13th at 7:00
• I will be attending the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District Administration Board
meeting on Zoom on Thursday, January 14th at 9:30 a.m.
• Iwill be attending the Green Communities Task Force meeting on Thursday, January 14th
at 6:30 p.m.
• I will be attending the Finance Committee meeting on Thursday, January 14th at 7:00 p.m.
Town Offices will be closed on Monday, January 18th in observance of Martin Luther King Jr.
Day.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town was 418 as of January 8' and one death.
UPDATES RECEIVED FROM THE STATE AND FEDERAL GOVERNEMENT
COVID-19 in Massachusetts:
===PAGE 4===
program include:
• Restaurants, bars, caterers, and food trucks
• Indoor recreation & entertainment establishments
• Gyms and fitness centers
• Event-support companies (photographers, videographers, etc.)
• Personal services (nail salons, barbershops, independent pharmacies, etc.)
• Independent retailers
This new business relief program will offer grants up to $75,000, but not more than
three months' operating expenses, to be used for payroll and employee benefit costs,
mortgage interest, rent, utilities and interest on other debt obligations.
The online application portal for the new program opened on December 31, and will
close on Friday, January 15. Awards are expected to be announced in February.
Program details, application instructions, eligibility and documentation
requirements, and more are available at www.empoweringsmallbusiness.org
Information on Vaccination:
Information on vaccination can be found on the state website at: https://www.mass.gov/covid-19-
vaccine-in- massachusetts
On January 7th, the Administration announced that the industry restrictions for capacity limits and
reduced gathering limits that went into effect on Saturday, December 26 will be extended for at least two
more weeks to January 24th
Capacity Limits: Under the current restrictions that are being extended today, most industries in
Massachusetts remain subject to a 25% capacity limit:
• Restaurants (based on permitted seating capacity)
• Close Contact Personal Services
• Theaters and Performance Venues
• Casinos
• Office Spaces
• Places of Worship
• Retail Businesses
• Driving and Flight Schools
• Golf Facilities (for indoor spaces)
• Libraries
• Lodging (for common areas)
• Arcades and Indoor Recreation Businesses
• Fitness Centers and Health Clubs
• Museums, Cultural Facilities and Guided Tours
===PAGE 5===
WORKSHOP:
Joint meeting with Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) and
Historical Commission re: Old Primary School
APDC members present were Brian Corcoran, Cullen Dwyer, Vice Chair and Anthony
Nicastro. Chairman Richard McGrath, Bill Lakso, Jennifer Sanderson and Kevin Boussom of
the Historical Commission were present. Chuck Venezia, Chairman of the Historical Society
was also present. The Historical Commission and APDC called their meetings to order at 7:39
p.m.
Mr. Alonzo stated the meeting is about the old Primary School building which has been empty
for since 2005. At one time there was an attempt to turn it into Senior Housing but funding
was never obtained due to the economic downturn. The discussion today is what the Select
Board would like to see happen and how to navigate a path forward.
The Select Board held a site walk on the property on October 31, 2020 to get a better vision of
what could be done there.
It is our intention to propose a project that calls for the demolition
of the building and to construct two green spaces (front and back) and parking areas. This
would allow for such uses for the Farmers' Market, band concerts, etc. We feel the Town
would not vote to pay to restore or renovate it and we are not putting any RFPs out as they
have been done in the past.
Mr. Jeffreys added we have to consider what the townspeople want. The building space does
not meet any needs for any particular groups in town in order for it to be rehabilitated.
We are limited to what we can do. The opportunity of this parcel is to create a new common
space.
Ms. Adams stated there is a lot of opportunity for the land to be used. We are lacking parking
in town center. It could also provide ADA accessibility for events that the current town gazebo
area does not.
Mr. McGrath stated the demolition of that building would be contrary to the mission of the
APDC which is to preserve the integrity of the structures in the district and the character of the
town. He asked if the Select Board had explored restoring the building and selling it to the
private sector so the building remains intact and on the tax list.
Mr. Alonzo stated it was advertised around two years ago and received no responses. He noted
the Town has been asked at least twice at town meetings to sell the property and was rejected
both times by the voters.
Discussion ensued about the advertisement process.
APDC members McGrath and Cullen Dwyer believed more thorough advertising should be
done statewide. Mr. Corcoran asked if funding had been procured for the green space proposal
and noted the town has been negligent in regards to its own demolition delay bylaw.
Mr. Alonzo stated the cost to build a green space versus renovating the building are not even
in the same ballpark. He noted the building has been vacant since well before the creation of
===PAGE 6===
the Town attempt to sell the building.
Further discussion ensued about the Town already going out for an RFP, previous town
meeting votes concerning the old Primary School, lack of parking in the center, two previous
studies of the building condition, and a survey conducted at Annual Town Meeting to see what
options were desired for that parcel,
Mr. Alonzo asked Historical Commission member Bill Lakso what he thought. Mr. Lakso
stated we have reached a point where our only alternative is to demolish the building and turn
it into green space.
Mr. McGrath stated the APDC is not demanding the building be sold or saying that it must be
sold. We are presenting the position of the APDC as having that building located in the APD
and it is our job to present our opinion to the Select Board
Mr. Alonzo believed the APDC members were acting accordingly to the by-law. He also
believed they were at an impasse because the bylaw was implemented by the townspeople; the
same people who now don't want to put any more money into the building or to protect it and
don't want to sell the land. Our intention is to place a warrant article on the Annual Town
Meeting to fund a design for a green space for the property as described earlier. Cullen Dwyer
suggested keeping the building shell to provide cover for events and still providing parking.
Ms. Adams stated if the building was kept it could be used as a Town Hall rather than the TCP
Building, which she is not in favor of as a future town hall.
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for participating in the workshop. He added if the APDC
wanted to advertise another RFP and to contribute input, they were welcome to contact the
Town Manager. He did note it would be only be to lease the building as the townspeople did
not want to give up the land. The APDC and Historical Commission voted to adjourn their
meetings.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Jot Mical Come the Mening meetinar: a, and ebruaty 1dy 2, February 4' Green Leaf
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys suggested reviewing the APD by-law at as it pertains to town buildings at a future
meeting prior to the closing of the ATM warrant.
Mr. Marino requested if there was any CARES Act funding to assist people with technology in
order to participate in Zoom meetings. Ms. Lemieux stated she would discuss with him further
on specifics.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, regarding the old Primary building, stated the reason
developers are not interested in the building because they don't get the land. He agreed with Mr.
Lakso's opinion that the building should be demolished.
===PAGE 7===
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
TYAAYAA TITAY AYYYOYFT
