===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
November 2, 2021
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall and via Zoom
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Lisa LeBlanc, Valerio Romano, Tajel Patel,
TCP Building Design Members: Dave Passios, Grey Roy
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:04 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who helped prepare for all the Halloween festivities/events.
He also thanked everyone who participated in the Homecoming Parade.
Mr. Marino read a letter addressed to the Town Clerk:
"I will resign from the Select Board effective November 5, 2021. I fully understand that my term
ends in May of 2023. The decision to resign, while difficult, was compelled by a number of
unexpected events over the past 15 months that have taken my family down a different path. We
will simply no longer be residents of Lunenburg. The decision to move from Lunenburg has been a
difficult one having lived in this community for 66 years.
I am forever grateful for the many memories growing up in such a peaceful and loving community.
I'm forever grateful for all the people in this community that supported me through the years as a
member of their police department and as their police chief.
I'm forever grateful for the more than 300 people who signed my nomination papers and those that
supported me and voted for ine when I ran for this office. To the Residents of Lunenburg and to my
colleagues on the Select Board; I regret that I will be unable to fulfill the obligations and charges
delegated to me as an elected member of this board.
It has been a pleasure to work with this board. This is a great board; Tom, Michael, Todd, and Lou.
The members are thoughtful, work constructively, are always willing to consider and value
everyone's opinion and are always willing to compromise. This board will not forsake the right
thing to do for the popular thing to do.
While it has been delightful to work with this board, it has been an honor and a privilege to work
for and with our Town Manager, Heather Lemieux, Heather has done an exceptional job running
the day-to-day, supervising the workforce, and managing the budget. Her management style is
honest and kind, but resolute, never splattering, always listening to opinions intently and always
willing to concede if it's in the best interest of the town.
For those who aspire to fill my seat, use the character of this Town Manager and this Select Board
as a paradigm, have no axe to grind and no personal agendas. The future of the community depends
on it; the citizens of Lunenburg deserve it. «
===PAGE 2===
The Board members and Ms. Lemieux thanked him for all his years of service and wished him
well. Ms. Lemieux presented a bouquet of flowers to Mr. Marino.
APPOINTMENTS:
Meeting with Lisa Leblanc re: Civics Curriculum and Partnership with Town Government
Ms. LeBlanc thanked the board for allowing her to come to speak to them about the connections
between the civics curricular changes in the history and social science department and how that
impacts our connection to local government and some of the connections we are hoping to foster.
She noted the Dept. of Secondary Education emphasizes that students should be educated in the
history of the Commonwealth, the United States and the World. And that we are educating
students to make civic choices and assume their responsibility for strengthening equality, justice,
and liberty in and beyond the United States.
Standards for History and Social Science Practice, Pre-K-12*
1. Demonstrate civic knowledge, skills, and dispositions.
2. Develop focused questions or problem statements and conduct inquiries.
3. Organize information and data from multiple primary and secondary sources.
4. Analyze the purpose and point of view of each source; distinguish opinion from fact.
5. Evaluate the credibility, accuracy, and relevance of each source.
6. Argue or explain conclusions, using valid reasoning and evidence.
7. Determine next steps and take informed action, as appropriate.
Civics Knowledge and Disposition
• Civic knowledge includes the core knowledge in the Content Standards relating to civics
and government, economics, geography, and history.
• Civic intellectual skills encompass knowing how to identify, assess, interpret, describe,
analyze and explain matters of concern in civic life.
• Civic participatory skills encompass knowing how to make and support arguments, use
the political process to communicate with elected officials and representatives of
government, and plan strategically for civic change.
• Civic dispositions encompass values, virtues, and behaviors, such as respect for others,
commitment to equality, capacity for listening, and capacity for communicating in ways
accessible to others.
The three grades that have the local significant tie-in are:
Kindergarten/Grade 1: Community/members and their roles including government, voting,
elections and being a citizen
Grades 3 & 5: MA cities and towns today and in history, responsibilities of governments at the
federal, state and local levels
Grade 8: Rights and responsibilities of citizens, structure of MA state and local government
(Governor Baker has mandated that students in grade 8 have a full year of civics.)
Topic 6 of 8' grade standards are as follows:
The structure of Massachusetts state and local government 48 [8.T6]
Supporting Question: What is the role of state and local government in the U.S. political
system
===PAGE 3===
7. Contrast the responsibilities of government at the federal, state, and local levels (e.g.,
protection of individual rights and the provision of services such as law enforcement, welfare
payments, and the building and funding of schools).
8. Explain the leadership structure of the government of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and the function of each branch a. the executive branch (governor and agencies)
b. the legislative branch (state representatives and state senators) c. courts of law (Supreme
Judicial Court, lower court system
9. Give examples of tax-supported facilities and services provided by the Massachusetts state
government and by local governments.
10. Explain the major components of local government in Massachusetts, including the
roles and functions of mayors, city councils, and school committees in cities; town managers,
select boards, representative and open town meetings and school committees, in towns, and
courts and sheriff's departments in counties.
Grade 8 now has a Civics Curriculum Project:
Use of iCivics program
Free MA standards aligned curriculum
- Created by retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor in 2008
- Frequent webinars and PD offerings
Engaging students with high-quality materials, lessons and games
First year of implementation
Students are investigating topics of interest, determining who has the power to make
changes they may want to see, identify needs, gather information and data and making
proposals to create real change
Session Law Acts of 2018-Act 296
Section 2. (a) In all public schools, history of the United States of America and social
science, including civics, shall be taught as required subjects to promote civic service
and a greater knowledge thereof and to prepare students, morally and intellectually,
for the duties of citizenship. Instruction within the history and social science academic
standards required in section ID of chapter 69 shall include: (i) history of the United
States of America; (i) the Constitution of the United States, including the Bill of Rights;
(ili) the Declaration of Independence; (iv) the constitution of the commonwealth; (v)
local history and government; (vi) the function and composition of the branches of
local, state and federal government;
(vii) the roles and responsibilities of a citizen in a democracy; (vili) the development of
skills to access, analyze and evaluate written and digital media as it relates to history and
civics; (ix) community diversity and historical trends in voter registration and civic
participation relative to disenfranchised voter populations; (x) opportunities to identify
and debate issues relative to power, economic status and the common good in
democracy; and (xi) a program relating to the flag of the United States of America
including, but not limited to, proper etiquette and the correct use and display of the flag,
the importance of participation in the electoral process and the provisions of 4
U.S.C. sections 7 to 9, inclusive, and 36 U.S.C. section 301.
(c) Each public school serving students in the eighth grade and each public high
school shall provide not less than 1 student-led, non-partisan civies project for each
student; provided, however, that each such project shall be consistent with the history
===PAGE 4===
and social science curriculum frameworks adopted by the board pursuant to section lE
of chapter 69 and with structured learning time requirements as required under
regulations promulgated by the board of elementary and secondary education. Civics
projects may be individual, small group or class wide, and designed to promote a
student's ability to: (i) analyze complex issues; (ii) consider differing points of view; (iii)
reason, make logical arguments and support claims using valid evidence; (iv) engage in
civil discourse with those who hold opposing positions; and (v) demonstrate an
understanding of the connections between federal, state and local policies, including
issues that may impact the student's school or community. Any student choosing not
to participate in a particular group or class-wide project shall be offered the opportunity
to develop an individual civics project, with approval by the principal.
Student led civics projects are:
• Must be Student-led
-
Student choice defines this experience
• Project-based
- Solving a real-world problem or answering a complex question
• Real-world
- Pushing past hypothetical situations and theoretical action
• Rooted in understanding of systems impact
Aims for impact at the level of the system
• Need to be Goal-driven
Influencing public opinion
• Needs to be Inquiry-based
Ask probing questions, make judgements about appropriateness and success of
research methods, consider multiple viewpoints
• Must be Non-partisan
Include research and information on all sides of an issue
• Process-focused
• Action-based
WAYS TO SUPPORT OUR STUDENTS
Speaking with our classes about roles/functions of their job
-
State vs. Local control; structures and protocols
Listening to student suggestions if their project need town support/approval
- Answering emails/phone calls from our students with specific questions
- Suggest creating a liaison or point person to handle communication
Encouraging students to be a part of town events including town meeting
Mr. LeBlanc stated it was suggested at a district meeting that one Select Board member be a
liaison so the board members don't get overwhelmed with hundreds of emails. On the school
side Ms. LeBlanc would be the contact person for the 8 grade. Mary Foyle would be the point
person for the high school. Ms. LeBlanc would really like to explore ways to encourage students
to participate. The Board members were appreciative of the presentation and offered to help out
in any way possible. Ms. LeBlanc thanked the board.
===PAGE 5===
Meeting with UMA Flowers on the Host Community Agreement
Attorney Romano stated they were here to discuss the host community agreement tonight. Mr.
Alonzo stated the board has been busy working up to the November 16" Special Town Meeting
(STM) and had not had time to review the draft and discuss. He noted they would be able to give
it their full attention following the STM. Romano reported once they execute an agreement
UMA Flowers submits a host community certification form to the Cannabis Control
Commission, at that point they can apply for their license from the CCC. Mr. Franco inquired at
what point the board could visit their Pepperell establishment. Ms. Patel extended an invitation to
the board to tour there adding she would work out the details with Ms. Lemieux. Mr. Alonzo
assured them the board would get back to them with any amendments etc., regarding the draft
agreement. Attorney Romano thanked the board for their time.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Select Board Appointment to Personnel Committee- Wendy Bertrand, 71 Longwood Drive-
term to expire June 30, 2022
Ms. Bertrand introduced herself and noted she has been a resident in town for 21 years. She has
volunteered on School Committee, Lions' Club and now that her children have grown she
wanted to move on to some other form of volunteering. As her profession is related to personnel
issues; she thought this would be a good fit.
Motion: J. Marino
2"d: T. Dwyer
To appoint Wendy Bertrand to the Personnel Committee with a term to expire June 30,
2022
Vote: All in Favor
The board thanked Ms. Bertrand or coming forward.
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Board/Committee Clerk Dawn Pavone
Ms. Lemieux requested the board ratity the appointment of Ms. Pavone as Board/Committee
Clerk. She is currently working as a receptionist for a CPA and has previously been the clerk for
the Conservation Commission in Hubbardston. She will be doing minutes for the Capital
Planning Committee, Storm Water Task Force, Parks Commission and the Economic
Development Committee.
Motion: L. Franco
To ratify the appointment as presented
2"I: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Discussion and Presentation on Special Town Meeting Articles on the TC Passios Debt
Exclusion Article and Design Funding Article
Mr. Jeffreys stated tonight's intent is to provide the presentation for the warrant articles
submitted on behalf of the TCP Building Design Committee.
One article is for the renovation of the TCP building and the other is for funding the design
development for a new build at the same site. The renovation figure was originally $23.5
million, but has increased by 30% to almost $29 million. The article for design development
requests $350,000 from free cash.
The cost of the new build is $39,000,637. The reasons for the price increase are because the
costs of construction, steel, drywall and concrete have increased dramatically since the spring
as well as an increase in supply and demand.
===PAGE 6===
Mr. Jeffreys presented slides detailing the scope and work of the committee and the architect,
including an overview of the current building condition, interviewing town and school
departments and other groups interested in using the building, holding meetings to get
feedback from stakeholders, reviewing floor plans to best utilize the building, reviewing
interior/exterior plans to address traffic flow and parking access and reviewing costs analysis
to find savings.
$54,000 was appropriated at the 2021 Annual Town Meeting to research what a new build
would cost. DiGiorgio Associates were hired to provide a preliminary design and rough cost
estimate for comparison. Design consideration included separate entrances for town, school
and community use of spaces, parking, green space for various programs and open space to
accommodate concerts, community events, etc.
He presented a building usage breakdown of new (33,170 sq. ft.) versus renovated (33,170 sq.
ft.). He moved on to the wording for Article 8 which requests the $350,000 for the design
development,
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds,
$350,000 for the design and engineering required to construct a new building, Lunenburg
Town Hall and Community Center, that consolidates town offices, school uses, and
community space at the location of the building and land known as the TC Passios,
located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any
and all incidental and related costs, including but not limited to, site evaluation,
engineering, and final design services; or take any other action relative thereto.
A "yes" vote would:
* Identify that the Town wants to move forward with a new Town Hall and Community
Center at the location currently occupied by the TC Passios Building.
* Commit funds, from free cash, to complete the building design process in anticipation
of a vote at the 2022 Annual Town Meeting, to construct a new Town Hall &
Community Center.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the terminology used, the process of designing public projects, how the
various town buildings are currently used by town, school and community.
Terminology:
Program: what the space is used for; a set of activities with a particular long-term aim.
Adjacencies: what is next to what; close or near
Schematic Design Phase: Conducting program assessments, surveys, and field tests while
engaging stakeholders in order to identify the feasibility of a project, prepare a
diagram/depiction, and its rough estimated cost.
Design Development Phase: Advancing schematic design by conducting analysis of major
building components including foundations; structures; electrical systems; plumbing; and
heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems in order to prepare detailed floor
plans, architectural renderings, and its estimated cost.
He presented photos of the current conditions at Town Hall, the attic storage area in the Ritter
Building and the TCP's leaking roof (noting the asbestos floor tiles in the TCP), that staff
have to deal with on a day to day basis. What are the problems we are solving?
===PAGE 7===
TOWN DEPARTMENTS
* Lack of adequate space, for all town offices
* Inefficiencies in daily operations due to multiple locations
* Work conditions for our municipal employees
* Parking, and confusion by those who live and seek to conduct business in Town
* Storage conditions and capacity for Town records
* Minimal opportunities for intra-departmental collaboration
School Departments:
SCHOOL DEPARTMENT
* Decreased synergy with municipal departments
* Work conditions for our school administration employees
* Capped capacity for extended day services
* Storage conditions and capacity for school records
* Inadequate electric supply in office space
COMMUNITY MEMBERS
* Lack of meeting space that can accommodate public participation
Lack of meeting space for public education/seminars/support groups
* Inability to broadcast all board/committee meetings
* Inability to offer disabled residents access to our primary public buildings through the
front door
* An aging building (TC Passios) that requires $ millions in capital repairs to continue
using
What other needs get addressed?
COMMUNITY MEMBERS
* Additional parking for school events
Space for community meals
* Municipal space to account for future growth
* Continues to provide:
* Centralized Voting Location
• Child support services
* Gym for use by the Boys & Girls Club and Senior Center
A Lunenburg Town Hall & Community Center would:
* Resolves priority community and municipal space needs
* Consolidates resources and will improve collaboration
* Best supports our community programs
• Future-proof design: anticipates changes in future use
* Multi-generational space that invests in our community's values
* Creates an opportunity to better preserve our historic structures and provide space for
cultural and additional community needs
Article 8 Funding Source is Certified Free Cash
What is Free Cash?
As per the Division of Local Services (DLS), MA Department of Revenue, "Free Cash is a
revenue source that results from the calculation, as of July 1, of a community's remaining,
unrestricted funds from its operations of the previous fiscal year based on the balance sheet as of
===PAGE 8===
June 30. It typically includes actual receipts in excess of revenue estimates and unspent amount
for the year just ending." It is unspent taxes that have already been collected.
As per DLS "free cash should be restricted to paying one-time expenditures, funding capital
projects, or replenishing other reserves."
He presented a history of past available Free Cash ranging from $484,117 in FY15 to $2,666,962
in FY22.
Mr. Jeffreys noted we are in an environment of constantly increasing costs. He presented the
cost escalation of various buildings. Industry norms account for a 4% annual increase in
construction and design costs.
How have we investigated solutions?
2013 - 2017: Building Reuse Committee-investigated best uses for all town buildings and
property located in Town Center
2016: Tappe Study- assessment of primary Town facilities ($28k)
2018: Vertex Report- detailed assessment of TC Passios Building ($53k)
2019 - Present: TCP Design Committee-design for the consolidation of town offices, school
uses, and community uses ($265k + $54k)
2019: Survey at Special Town Meeting to identify potential uses for 30 School Street:
1st Preference was:
45% Town Green/lot with green space
25% Town Hall (new or renovation)
20% Senior Housing
10% Small Business Building
2"d Preference was:
53% Town Green/lot with green space
21% Town Hall (new or renovation)
15% Small Business Building
11% Senior Housing
Last Preference was:
14% Town Green/lot with green space
55%Town Hall (new or renovation)
20% Small Business Building
11% Senior Housing
Facility Framework: The Path Ahead
Spring 2022: TCP - Town Hall and Community Center-complete 2024/2025
Spring 2022: Old Primary - Town Green and additional parking - complete 2023
Spring 2022: Establish Historic Town Hall and Ritter Building Committee to identify best uses
to preserve historic structures and enhance the cultural and economic interests of the community-
new uses in 2025
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, thanked Mr. Jeffreys for the presentation. He noted the
committee has addressed all the issues presented with either of the projects. The condition of the
TCP is remedied by the renovation, or a tear down and rebuild. He added the TCP committee has
not seen these new numbers nor discussed them yet and that is a very important step.
===PAGE 9===
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant Street, commenting as Finance Committee Chair, announced
they will be holding a public hearing on Articles 7 and 8, November 4**.
• He encouraged all to
attend, ask questions and comment. The committee will then vote on making a recommendation
on those two articles as well as a collective bargaining agreement article.
As a resident two months ago he encouraged the committee to not put these two articles on the
town meeting warrant. Today, two weeks before town meeting, I ask any of you think honestly if
the town should make any decision of this magnitude with so little time having just made these
numbers public. The answer should be a resounding "no." Calculations made on the $23.5
million number was that the average residential home tax bill would go up $277 on average over
the 30 year period that we pay back those bonds. These new numbers would bring this to roughly
$341 per residence and a new construction would bring us to $467 per residence.
In addition, fiscal policy says we cannot exceed 11% of our total tax levy for excludable debt
service and with that original $23.5 million we were bumping up close to 11% in 2025. There is
a lot to consider and we don't have the time. If we approve Article 8 we will be violating our
own financial policies and procedures on how we spend Free Cash.
Mr. Dwyer agreed with Mr. Beardmore and suggested passing over these articles. We need to
reevaluate the plans for these buildings based on these cost estimates and it would be foolhardy
at this point without taking some careful consideration. We can have a plan by 2022 Annual
Town Meeting that everyone can get behind.
Mr. Franco stated as much as he wanted these articles to be put forth, he has grown
uncomfortable with the new cost estimates.
Mr. Jeffreys agreed with most of what Mr. Beardmore had to say. It is important for the town to
posture itself to give itself the best options; to be optimistic and have a positive perspective so
we are in the best position to take advantage of good situations when they come our way. The
numbers are astronomical for office space. But the needs and the problems don't go away
because the remedy costs a lot. We still need to focus on the problems and having a viable
solution to resolve them. At this juncture he is for passing over both articles.
Mi. Marino stated he couldn't argue with Mr. Beardmore's logic, nor would he be inclined to
violate the Select Board's policies. He also agreed with Mr. Jeffreys' statements. We cannot
overlook the fact that this building is in terrible condition. He was inclined to not support voting
on these two articles.
Ms. Lemieux thanked the TCP committee members for all their work. Mr. Jeffreys put in a lot of
time and effort into these presentations, as well as the committee members. This information is
usable for a future town meeting, if not presented at the November 16 town meeting. When we
got the estimate for the new construction, it questioned the validity of the renovation cost
estimate and that has prompted a number of questions to go back to the architect and the
estimators. We will keep updating these figures moving forward.
Mi. Alonzo stated all of our goals from the beginning was to use all the hard work, the
information, studying, and all the money to get to a conclusion that would address the problems.
These numbers were always critical and there's a process because in order to get them addressed
there's going to be a project involved and this will involve significant money and investment
from the taxpayers. They need to understand what was being proposed, what were the options
and have we explored every alternative. These numbers that we have just gotten cause some
other questions to arise. Do we want to build an exact square footage size of the TCP building or
do we want to pare it down? The $50,000 approved at town meeting was worth every single
===PAGE 10===
penny because it got us this document to compare apples to apples. We need to continue forward.
These two articles are premature. We need to address some of these questions going forward and
get to them in the ATM. We will all have some distance and time to think about how we can go
forward to address the problems we know exist. That is the goal. He expressed appreciation for
the committee' work and the time spent by Mr. Jeffrey's for his presentations. He also agreed on
passing over the articles.
It was suggested to let the TCP committee meet and discuss the new information and make a
recommendation to this board before voting on passing over these articles. Mr. Alonzo noted
there would not be a vote because we stated in the warrant that we would defer until town
meeting. Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for their comments.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Bid results from Disposition of Real Property Parcel 7 Off Pratt Street (piece of
671 West Street)
Ms. Lemieux reported the town had received one bid from an abutter in the amount of $8,500.
The current assessed value is $12,500 for 15,000 square feet. Discussion ensued about the low
offer and what would be the assessed value of the bidder's property if the parcel was added to it.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"': J. Marino
To approve the sale of the Pratt Street parcel 7 property
Vote: 3 opposed, 1 in favor (Jeffreys)
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large and one
representative from Historical Commission)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and BOS until next
ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee, 1
citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent
to the Select Board's Office.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Assistant Accountant (Part Time Benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part Time)
• Public Access Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Grants:
The Fire Chief received the EMPG (Emergency Management Planning Grant) and the Firefighter Safety
Equipment Grant. The EMPG grant is for $3,500 and this will be used to purchase Specialized Rescue
Equipment. The Firefighter Safety Grant is for $15,000 and can be used for turnout gear.
===PAGE 11===
COVID-19 Update:
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of October
23rd was 54. The current positivity rate for Lunenburg as of October 23rd was 5.76%.
Unitil Rate Increase
The DPU has approved Unitil's revised submittal for a winter rate increase of 15.6 cents per kWh and a
deferred 4.3 cents per KWh to the summer rate increase. There is a pending submittal by Unitil to
decrease the "Basic Service Costs Adder"
', which would bring the Basic Supply Winter Rate to 15.2
cents per kWh for Residential and Small Commercial customers. A mailer will be sent out to over 900
customers that are currently not enrolled in the Municipal Aggregation Program to notify them they
can opt in at any time at an electricity supply rate of 11.2 cents per kWh.
Space at TC Passios
I have been working with resident Pam Porter about use of a classroom at the TC Passios for a Prom
Dress and Coat Drive. There were a number of logistics to work out, including locating an appropriate
space, as there are a number of unoccupied but unusable spaces at the TCP and access to the space.
I had previously been asked at a meeting to estimate how much space is being used there and
guesstimated 80%. With all the unusable space, this figure is closer to 97%. We have ironed out all the
details for her to use Room #8 at the TCP until around April. Ms. Porter already has 180 prom dresses
that have been donated, that girls can go and try on at the TCP. She is also accepting donations for coats
as well. I'm glad we could identify an appropriate space for this donation drive, as this will be greatly
beneficial to our community.
I also want to remind everyone that there is no appropriation for this building. The more users we add,
without any revenue to support operating costs, the greater risk we run that there will be a deficit. This
will be something that between the Finance Director and I will need to be monitored and possibly
addressed in the FY23 budget process.
Department Head Updates:
DPW: The DPW is preparing for snow season. The Pleasant Street Bridge project is fully complete.
The Town is waiting on the Small Bridge Program application to open to apply for additional
funding needed for this project. The MassDOT has done regular inspections on the culvert and
there have been no new changes. The Mass Ave Bridge project through MassDOT should be
reopening to two lanes by November. The Complete Streets project is wrapping up with the line
striping remaining, The Sewer Commission is currently surveying residents on Upland Eastern
Avenue and Maple Avenue on the feasibility to install sewer on those roads. The Director is
waiting on a proposal from consultants for the cost to do the preliminary project design. The
Facilities department is catching up on outstanding items now that the Facilities Technician
position has been filled. The DPW is seeing supply issues such as not being able to get prices on
trucks and the delivery of the new plow truck is 6-8 months out. McCarty Engineering is
modifying their original concept for addressing drainage complaints on Flat Hill Road by
connecting to the existing drainage and infiltrate as much as possible on that road with the
existing infrastructure as possible. Soil testing for this project is estimated to occur this week.
Land Use: 711 Mass Avenue received approval for four 2-unit townhouses from the Planning Board. 101
Pleasant Street is downsizing their submittal from six duplex buildings to 3 units. Things are moving
along for the Lunenburg Central project on Leominster Shirley Road. The traffic consultant review
recommended widening the road at the entrance by 4-5' to accommodate cyclists. The easement
description would stay the same but may be a paved area instead of grass. The plan includes clearing all
the vegetation alongside road and at the corner of Reservoir Road, as well as installing driver feedback
signs as drivers approach that corner at the applicants cost. The overall plan includes 600' of frontage area
that will repaved.
===PAGE 12===
Public Access: The public access staff has been busy doing segments with the Eagle House,
covering football games, and doing a feature on the Fire and Police staff. Public Access was
encountering server issues at the Town Hall that were fixed.
Treasurer/Collector: Second quarter taxes are due November Ist. The Treasurer/Collector
anticipates doing a tax lien sale in February and liens that are not sold will be moved through the
foreclosure process. The Treasurer/Collector is still working on the tailings process with
uncashed checks, as this is a multi-year process.
Finance Director: The Finance Director is working on the tax recap materials with the Principal
Assessor in order to submit after town meeting. Based on the current draft, since the property
values have increased, the tax rate is expected to go down. The Finance Director also submitted the
CARES Act report that was due by the end of October.
Town Clerk: November Sth is the last day to register to vote forthe November 16th Special Town
meeting. The Town Clerk's Office will be open on Friday, November 5th from 9 am until
8 pm. If there were to be a ballot vote related to the debt exclusion article on the STM, the special
election would have to be held on or before February 14th.
COA: The COA has continued to offer a variety of programs such as the Sheriff's Office educating
seniors about scams, a craft class, armchair travel to China, and Coffee with the Police Chief. The
recent Tea Party event raised $3,000.
Police: The two cruisers on the FY22 Capital Plan have been ordered but will be 6-7 months before
they are delivered. Two officers will be attending the academy this year, one entering in December
and one entering in January. The department has been busy with traffic issues, will be conducting
active shooter training with town offices after they complete the training with the schools. The PD
will be doing resiliency training for staff the week of November 1st.
Fire: The FD is also seeing supply chain issues, specifically with purchasing turnout gear. The
main supplier was recently bought out and there is a delay in getting this equipment.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Yard Waste Days at the old landfill off of Youngs Road are November 6th, 12th and 20th from 8
a.m. until 4 p.m.
• The last day to register to vote for the fall Special Town Meeting will be Friday, November 5th.
The Town Clerk's Office will be open 9 AM until 8 PM. The Special Town Meeting is Tuesday,
November 16, 2021 at 7 PM at the MS/HS Auditorium.
Mr. Alonzo commented on how he watched the Homecoming parade and how nice it was to
have sidewalks in the area and not having to walk in the street. He asked Ms. Lemieux if there
has been any progress getting closed caption on the PAC station. She will check into it and report
back.
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
1. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items- there were none this evening
2. Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported Economic Development Committee met and they have finalized their
business owners' survey. They will be working with the Town clerk and Assessor's offices to get
a listing of individuals and businesses to whom the survey can be sent. There will also be an
article about the survey in the Ledger.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees met and the six-week summer reading program went
very well with over 1000 attendees, resulting in over 57,000 minutes spent reading. As you
know, they went late fine free at the end of the summer. He asked them what has changed; are
they seeing books come back late and are they seeing an increase in users. They are going to
===PAGE 13===
market the fact that they are fee free to the student population and explain to them why they
made that decision.
The Friends of the Library donated a projector to display interactive games on to the floor.
There is positive feedback on the new facility technician; they have noticed improvements in the
response time to their low priority facility needs. They are also holding book sales on Saturdays.
Book sales on Saturdays in October were very successful.
Mi. Alonzo reported Capital Planning met last week and the presentation was from the Land Use
Department regarding funding to complete the Master Plan. They also heard from the Fire
Department on their requests. This evening we heard from the School Department regarding a
request for air conditioning for the Primary School classrooms, a mower and a one-ton pickup
truck and plow. We did talk about further out in projections for 2028/2029; major issues with
Turkey Hill which prompted a discussion about Turkey Hill, and which dovetails with some of
the other facilities that we talked about tonight. So that will have to be talked about together
even if they are done years apart as we have to a plan for that. The Finance Committee held their
public hearing two weeks ago and there was discussion about the town meeting articles. The
three articles to be discussed next will be the TCP building and the Fire Dept. union.
Mi. Marino asking to revisit action items, recalled a couple of weeks ago on a request to be
appointed and nepotism being brought up, was contacted via email by that person stating she felt
publicly embarrassed by not being appointed. Mr. Marino asked if the Board could establish a
written policy on this. He had an experience with it as a Police Chief and there were some
examples of it being allowed on some places. Mr. Alonzo agreed there should be a policy. Mr.
Marino suggested maybe reaching out to her and apologizing or even reconsidering based on the
circumstances. Mr. Franco stated based on that email it was asked or suggested that if the Board
knew that was the way they were going to go that it not be done publicly. He wanted to explain
that could not be done because we can't deliberate; he has no idea which way other board
members are going to vote and we can't discuss matters offline without violating the Open
Meeting Law. He felt bad that she was embarrassed. She would have been a stellar candidate
otherwise. Hopefully she will serve elsewhere.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion and Award of Landscape Design Services for the 30 School Street
Property
Mr. Alonzo stated three Requests for Proposals for 30 School Street were received and
presentations made to the board. Ms. Lemieux summarized that based on the evaluation criteria
and the ranking by the Board members from highest to lowest on the non-price proposals, first
choice was Ray Dunetz Landscape Architecture, WOLA came in second and Landscape Design
Collaborative last.
Based on the price proposals, Ray Dunetz came in at $19,500; WOLA came in at $27,000 and
Landscape Design Collaborative was $21,300. The board discussed their choices and why.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2*: L. Franco
To award the landscape design services to Ray Dunetz Landscape Architecture
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Jeffreys)
Ms. Lemieux will notify Mr. Dunetz of the awarding of the contract.
2. Discussion on November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles and
Consent Calendar
===PAGE 14===
Ms. Lemieux drafted a consent calendar consisting of Article 5 (Sewer Capital Reserve
Stabilization Fund transfer; Article 9 (Easement on Leominster-Shirley Road; Article 10
(easement on Flat Hill Road for the culvert project); Article 11 (adding Marshall Park to the
sewer service district); Article 12 (transfer of care, custody and control of 970 Rear New West
Townsend Road to the Conservation Commission); and Article 13 (amend the Code of
Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Salary Administration Plan).
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d: M. Jeffreys
To add the articles as presented (5, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13) to the Consent Calendar as
recommended by the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux noted the check in process for the town meeting will be the same protocol as we
have had for the previous town meetings during COVID. Masks will be required and spacing
between people will be done. Check in begins at 6:00 PM.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
November 9 and November 23 will be regular meeting and Special Town Meeting is November
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Passios thanked Mr. Marino for many years of service to the town. He advocated to the
Select Board to fill the vacant seat left by Mr. Marino sooner rather than later.
Greg Roy, 105 Chestnut Street, to Mr. Marino, stated he was impressed by his service and the
way he conducted himself. It is a loss to our community but it will be a gain wherever you land.
He thanked the board members for all their work as well.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Lisa LeBlanc for coming here tonight. It's really good to see that energy
and zeal and knowing her influence over the education of children in our town and that sense of
giving back. Being a Selectman is hard, the time commitment; sometimes I don't want to do it.
I'd be lying if I said I loved being a Selectman. I love serving our community, but this is a duty,
it can be difficult, it's a lot of time, a lot of thought, of collaboration. But ultimately it's for the
betterment of our community. I think we are doing a good job in many different ways. Even
though we go through circumstances that seem so difficult to get movement on, we are working
with some really good people, so I want to thank all my fellow board members, the people at
home, and anyone who volunteers to give back in any kind of way. Thank you.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Jeffreys also. He agreed 100% with Ms. LeBlanc coming and giving
that kind of presentation and showing that kind of energy that she brings to a very important
subject that is so important to everybody's communal life. To see her present it with passion and
excitement toward how she can achieve that was incredible.
He hoped that wherever Mr. Marino ends up having a permanent residence that he gets involved
like he did here. People with his mindset are the people that communities need.
Mr. Marino thanked him.
Mr, Alonzo announced they would be going into Executive Session.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2": M. Jeffreys
To enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, and to
adjourn after exiting Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective
===PAGE 15===
bargaining ifan open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of
the public body and the Chair so declares. (Fire Union)
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
******************Executive Session Minutes are Separate***********************
The meeting adjourned at 9:54 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine h. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
Approved December 8, 2021.
