===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey Adams,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
McG Path, ant: nicastro, Else viley arer emp. Matt Si, land Use Director; Richard
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was none at this time.
Announcements- Weather permitting, the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club is
organizing a cleanup of the Town Gazebo on Saturday at 9:00 a.m., for more info go to
https://www.lunenburglions.org/
Ms. Lemieux read a memorandum sent to her from Lunenburg Police Chief Gammel.
"In light of the recent shooting in Brookline Center, Minnesota that claimed the life of Dante
Wright, I wanted to assure you, the Select Board and the community that the Lunenburg
Police Dept.is committed to educating and training our officers to the highest level. Our
supervisors will review the incident with respective shifts which will include the review of
our use of force policy; when it is acceptable to use the tazer, de-escalation techniques and
tactics that can be used during motor vehicle stops. All of our officers are qualified to carry
the tazer x2 which is an electronic control weapon. It has a yellow handle to help identify the
weapon as a less than lethal option. It is purposely carried on the opposite side of the firearm
to avoid confusion when deploying it during stressful situations. Officers are qualified and
trained annually on the tazer x2 which includes a review of the department's use of force
policy. Please be assured that the department is committed to proactive and continuous
training for our officers to avoid catastrophic situations like the one that occurred in Brookline
Center, Minnesota. If you have any questions, please contact me"
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Select Board appointments to Cultural Council:
===PAGE 2===
Motion: K. Adams
2°: T. Dwyer
To appoint Elise Wiley to the Cultural Council with a term to expire June 30, 2024
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Karen Kemp- 225 Burrage Street, worked for the town for 29 years at the childrens' library and
received a lot of MA cultural grants with some assistance from the Friends of the Library. She
is also an artist.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: J. Marino
To appoint Karen Kemp to the Cultural Council with a term to expire June 30, 2024
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye
Select Board appointment to Green Community Task Force
Matt Snyder, 985 Flat Hill Rd., works for a construction firm, is involved in their sustainability
committee and very interested in green initiatives. He attended a town meeting and heard about
the task force. He would like to get more involved.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To appoint Matt Snyder to the Green Community Task Force
Vote: Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
APPOINTMENTS
Meeting with the Architectural Preservation District Commission regarding their inquiry
about adding the Old Primary building to the National Register of Historic Places and
Annual Town Meeting Article 24 on Amendment to APD Bylaw
Chairman McGrath did not have a quorum but spoke on behalf of the commission. APDC
member Anthony Nicastro was also present. In reference to the reason for placing the old
Primary School on the National Register of Historic Places, Mr. McGrath stated the Town or a
future developer would be able to receive grants and tax incentives for restoration. The Town as
owner, (in this case, the Select Board) would have to apply. Mr. Alonzo noted the Board has not
discussed this to date. Mr. McGrath offered to provide a packet that would detail the types of
grants available.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the Ritter and Town Hall buildings, would they be able to be
registered as well? Mr. Nicastro reported the state issued over $800,000 in grants last year.
Submission for grant funding was in March. He will forward some information as well.
Mr. Alonzo moved on to the final wording for the APD bylaw. The modification to the bylaw
would only apply to town buildings/property. The intent was to avoid the Town taking itself to
appeals court. Ms. Adams expressed concern about adapting the bylaw just for the government
and not everyone.
Discussion about the wording of the draft amendment to the APD bylaw ensued. Mr. McGrath
read a statement from member Cullen Dwyer regarding the appeal process. Mr. Burney
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Dwyer stated the sketch could be helpful for town meeting as a basis that we can mark up to
share our ideas with the town and for an engineering firm if town meeting approves the funding
for engineered drawings.
The Board expressed gratitude to Monty Tech for their efforts. Ms. Lemieux will reach out to the
Monty Tech instructor and students and request an amendment be made to the drawing without
the building on it in time for Town meeting. Mr. Alonzo requested the drawing reflect what was
discussed at the Board's October 31" site visit. There was a front park, middle parking and no
school building, and it would house the farmers' market.
2. Discussion of TCP Design Committee Annual Town Meeting Article 26
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a
sum of money for the design and engineering to consolidate Town offices, school uses, and
community space at the building and/or land known as the TC Passios, located at 1079 Massachusetts
Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental and related costs,
including but not limited to site evaluation, engineering, and final design services, thereby allowing the
Town to consider alternative uses for said Town offices, school uses, and community space that may
include demolition of the existing building; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
TCP Building Design Committee)
Ms. Lemieux reported there is no monetary amount available yet. Mr. Jeffreys stated the TCP
Building Design Committee is still waiting for an amount. We are in the process of
negotiating the price. We expect to have the number by April 21st.
3. Approval of March 9, 2021 Minutes
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: T. Dwyer
To approve the Minutes of March 9, 2021 as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
abstain
4. Action Items- there were none this evening
5. Committee Reports- there were none this evening
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles and vote on warrant article
recommendations that have been deferred (if needed)
There was no discussion on these items.
===PAGE 4===
Operator be added and assigned to Grade 9; the position of Reserve Officer to be added and assigned to
Grade 10; the position of Network Administrator be added and assigned to Grade 13; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Ms. Lemieux is recommending it be removed from the consent calendar.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of vacancies on the following committees:
• ArchitecturalPreservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Bylaw Review Committee (4 vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Housing Authority (2 vacant positions)
• TCPBuildingDesign Committee (1 vacancyappointedby the SelectBoard and TownModerator
for member at large)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office.
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed
number of COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of April 9th was 739. The state report
showed 694 cases as of April 6th. There has been one death in town since the pandemic
began. This is an increase of 29 cases from April 2nd.
Regional Vaccination Site:
It was announced today that the State has approved the Nashoba Valley regional
vaccination clinic located at the Clear Path for Veterans of New England located at 84
Antietam Street in Devens.
As more information on the specifics of how this clinic will be run, it will be made available.
COVID-19 in Massachusetts (as of 4/8):
As of April 8t there were 613,763 COVID-19 cases and 17,022 deaths and 19,543,855 patients
have been tested to date by the MA State Public Health Laboratory, hospitals, and commercial
laboratories.
Individuals 55+ and Individuals with One Certain Medical Condition Now Eligible for Vaccine
As of Monday, April 5th, residents 55+ and residents with one certain medical condition are
now eligible to receive vaccine at any of the Commonwealth's over 300 vaccination locations,
including 269 pharmacy locations. With this group, more than 1 million additional residents
will be eligible for vaccine in the Commonwealth.
===PAGE 5===
Health is notifying all Massachusetts providers to pause administration of the Johnson &
Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, effective immediately.
MA Dose Allocation Update:
Last week, the Commonwealth received 444,930 first and second doses as part of the state
allocation. These figures do not include doses provided directly from the federal
government to the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program, Federally Qualified Health Centers
(FQHC) or Community Vaccination Center (CVC). These numbers include a one-time
shipment of 108,800 J&J vaccines.
Last week, first doses and second dose state allocations (total doses), were distributed among
providers as follows:
• Health systems and health care providers (excluding community health centers): 163,960
• Regional Collaboratives and Local Boards of Health: 118,230
• Mass vaccination locations: 115,890
• Community Health Centers state allocation only: 31,350
• Retail pharmacies (non-CVS) state allocation only: 4,500
• Mobile Clinics supporting long-term care facilities, congregate care,
affordable/low-income senior housing and homebound individuals: 10,000
Weekly allocations are subject to change based on federal availability, demand from
providers, and obligations to meet second doses. Providers have 10 days to use their
doses and must meet specific performance thresholds.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reported the Board's next meeting will be April 27 and then on May 4, 11, and 18;
Annual Town Meeting will be May 15t; Annual Town Election will be May 15, 2021.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Adams thanked school and public safety personnel as school opened last week.
Mr. Alonzo stated the board would be entering Executive Session and adjourning immediately
after.
Motion: K. Adams
2nd: T. Dwyer
To enter into Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public
body and the chairso declares. (Municipal Employees Union and DPW Union) and
adjourn immediately after exiting
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 6===
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
