===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey
Adams, Clerk; Todd Dwyer
Not Present: Jim Marino, Member; Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Also Present: Elaine Peterson, Executive Assistant; Police, Lt. Jeff Thibodeau, Joel Ortega
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Mr. Alonzo announced there has been an ongoing issue with broadcasting hardware for public
access Channel 8 and PAC is working with the vendor to resolve it.
Tomorrow night the Conservation Commission will be holding their public hearing via Zoom
regarding modifications to their land use policy and rules. Hunting with firearms on
conservation land is part of that. Public comment is welcomed. Details on how to attend are
on the town website.
I. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Police Reserve Officer Joel Ortega
Lt. Thibodeau read aloud Chief Gammel's letter of recommendation for appointment.
"Joel is a resident of Fitchburg and is currently employed full time at the Honda Store in
Lancaster, MA, where he has maintained his employment since an internship through his
high school. Joel graduated in 2013 from Leominster High School Center for Technical
Education Innovation. Joel is also a 2018 graduate of Mount Wachusett Community
College, obtaining an Associate of Science in Criminal Justice Degree. Joel is fluent in two
languages, English and Spanish.
Joel has completed the Massachusetts Municipal Police Training Committee (MPTC)
Reserve Intermittent Academy, in June of 2020, in accordance with G.L. 41 § 96B. Joel
has successfully completed the Background Investigation, Pre-employment Physical, and
the Psychological Examination.
Through his background investigation it was found that Joel is a very dedicated, honest,
and a well thought of person. Joel was described as "one of the best humans on the planet,"
===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Police Department.
Mr. Alonzo stated he has had the utmost respect for the choices of the Police Department under
the several Chiefs that have served the Town while under his tenure. I know they choose the
best candidates. He looked forward to the same outstanding performance from Officer Ortega.
Motion: K. Adams
2n°: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Joel Ortega to Reserve Police Officer
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Ortega for applying for the position and looked
forward to him joining the team.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo- aye
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1.
Approval of Minutes of February 2, 2021
Motion: K. Adams
To approve the minutes of February 2, 2021 as presented
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2. Warrants
Mr. Alonzo reported Mr. Jeffreys signed the following warrant in his absence:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #37 21, dated 2/9/2021, in the amount of $474,903.35
2°°: T. Dwyer
3. Action Items
Ms. Adams requested follow up on her request for the Board to meet with the Lunenburg
Water District Commissioners regarding a developer's request to install water lines along
Howard Street and the subsequent impact on the newly paved road and the pavement
moratorium. Mr. Alonzo reported Town Manager had extended an invitation to the commission
and was waiting for a confirmed meeting date. He added the commission did not take any
action after that second meeting with the developer.
Ms. Adams asked for the date of the second Zoom Community Outreach meeting for
Green Leaf Botanical for the proposed marijuana retail business to be located on Mass. Ave.
Mr. Alonzo reported March 10** had been determined to be the best night and they would be
using the Select Board's Zoom id to facilitate easier access for the public.
4. Committee Reports- there were none this evening
I. OLD BUSINESS
5. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Alonzo referred the Board members to their individual suggestions for amending the
reappointment process.
Mr. Alonzo suggested the first step would be to generate a list of which appointed terms expire
in the upcoming June. Ms. Peterson would provide the list. The list would consist of the
appointed body, the person whose term is expiring and the length of the term.
Mr. Alonzo suggested the next step would be notification to the people whose terms are
expiring and their boards' chairs. Mr. Jeffreys suggested asking the person first if they intended
to apply for reappointment. Mr. Dwyer suggested sending out a blanket email to all the people
and their chairs. The board concurred.
Next the person should be asked if they want to be considered for the position again and they
should respond in writing; they should alert their Chair as a courtesy, and the Select Board.
Mr. Alonzo stated the list should then be made available to the public; should we indicate in
that list that someone is interested in being reappointed to the position?
Ms. Adams thought it made sense. Mr. Dwyer stated yes because then we could solicit
comments from the public. Mr. Jeffreys and Mr. Alonzo agreed.
Mr. Alonzo stated the list should be published in the local newspaper. Mr. Dwyer suggested
soliciting input from the board members that the person has been on. They have the best
knowledge of the performance of the people who have been working there. Ms. Adams felt
only soliciting from board members contributes to "business as usual" in a way that makes it
harder for new people to contribute.
Mr. Dwyer asked if anyone would be open to term limits. Mr. Alonzo stated he was strongly
against term limits. Mr. Jeffreys asked for clarification from Mr. Dwyer on soliciting input
from the entire board, would this happen before advertising the position? Mr. Dwyer stated this
would only come to the Select Board as well as whether the vote was unanimous or split as
well as the public comment. Mr. Jeffreys disagreed with getting the entire board's input
because people on the same board could disagree on different subjects. He preferred the Chair
indicate their thoughts on the appointment after soliciting input from the other members such
as how well they participated and their meeting attendance record etc.
Ms. Adams noted term limits came up during the recent Town Charter review. It was decided
against so as not to make a vacancy harder to fill, particularly if only one person was interested
in the position. She also believed public input is the most important part of this process
because they can't vote as with an elected position.
After more discussion, Mr. Alonzo summarized that when the list is completed, we are going to
ask the person who is up for reappointment if they are still interested in staying on and we
would encourage their current board and chair to provide input to the Select Board regarding
their reappointment. Suggestion was made for the Select Board to entertain the incumbent's
reappointment request before they interview new applicants. Three members did not concur.
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Jeffreys asked Ms. Peterson in her experience in the process of reaching out to people
during the reappointment process did she have anything the Board should take into account.
Ms. Peterson could not think of anything specific but after looking at all their different
suggestions for the process noted they were doing a good job at amending it.
Suggestion was made to change the talent bank form title to "committee involvement form."
Discussion ensued about when there are multiple appointments for the same board and the
order of voting to appoint by the Select Board.
Due to Mr. Marino's absence and Ms. Adams having to leave the meeting the discussion was
tabled until a future date with a full board present. Mr. Alonzo will compile all the steps and
attempt to finish up the remainder of the process for future discussion.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted the next meetings for this board are March 2nd
March 23rd
, March 9', March 16'h and
March 10th will be the Green Leaf Community Outreach Meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none at this time.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting at 8:07 p.m.
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: T. Dwyer
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m Pelorson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
