===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer,
Jim Marino, Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Sue Doherty, COA Director; Jaclynn Nicoll;
Police Lt. Jeffrey Thibodeau, Officer Robert DaCosta
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance.
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on
the Public Access Facebook page.
Mr. Alonzo noted they are continuing the Zoom portion of the meetings as a courtesy and the
public can participate in Public Comment only. However, anyone conducting business with
the board and listed on the agenda will need to appear in person. He informed the public of
the Zoom meeting id on the agenda located on the Town website.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Turkey Hill Lions Club and everybody who came out to participate in
painting the gazebo this weekend. He also thanked the gardeners for working on the town
center gardens.
Ms. Lemieux announced there will be a PRIDE flag raising event tomorrow at 7:00 p.m. at
the upper Town Common.
Council on Aging Director End of Year Report
COA Director Sue Doherty presented a PowerPoint detailing the last year. She began by
showing Volunteer Recognition was done via drive through due to the pandemic; it was
awkward but worked. Next she recognized the Meals on Wheels drivers :
Patricia Arsenault
Larry Letarte
Linda Betti
Carol McShane
Laura Boussom
Betty Orlow
Shana Daykin
Walter Orlow
Jessica Frank
Peter Pignatiello
Stephanie Grzybowski
Cindy Romano
Bob Hamel
Elise Shofield
Charlotte Jenkins
Heather Sroka
The Senior/Community Center received assistance for the Drive Through events from both the
Police and Fire Departments as well as other organizations and companies during the pandemic:
The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lions Club, Salvation Army, Worcester County Sheriff's Office,
and PJ Keating Company. All the community came together and helped out, anything we asked
===PAGE 2===
Category
Community Education
Congregate Meals
Cultural
Fitness Exercise
Grab & Go
Health Benefits
Counseling
Health Education
Health Screening
Intergenerational
Other Health Services
Professional Services
Recreation
Wellness
ZOOM
Total Event Signins
Fiscal Year 2021
Category
Congregate Meals
Cultural
Fitness Exercise
Grab & Go
Health Benefits
Counseling
Other Health Services
Professional Services
Recreation
Wellness
ZOOM
Total Event Signins
Duplicated
13
1317
99
1715
160
49
12
55
103
179
8
9077
Unduplicated
13
217
50
171
49
43
12
25
32
69
110
481
26
8
765
Duplicated Unduplicated
2
57
260
3944
17
21
73
785
7
274
2
41
33
238
17
21
30
155
7
40
5440
356
===PAGE 3===
Other
Rec/Social
Shopping
Totals
647
647
663
2339
33
24
21
59
Fiscal Year 2021
Category
Medical
Duplicated Unduplicated
432
38
Other
Rec/Social
245
32
Shopping
328
Totals
1037
21
4
12
49
• We assisted 83 people with booking vaccine appointments
• Mailed 2262 "Wellness Postcards" to Lunenburg residents age 60+
• 77 "New" clients came on board during FY21
• Delivered 7072 "Meals on Wheels" to 59 clients
• "In House" SHINE (Serving Health Insurance Needs for Everyone) Health Insurance
Counseling to 25 clients 41 times
They are open now and will have a tent set up outside for the summer for activities such as
Bocce, community gardening, corn hole, horseshoes, music, etc. The Fire and Police are putting
on a welcome back cookout next week there. She was looking forward to getting back to normal.
Mr. Alonzo thanked her for the excellent work being done at the Senior/Community Center. Ms.
Doherty noted that the Town Manager kept them going. Ms. Doherty thanked the Board and
exited the meeting.
===PAGE 4===
Wed: 6am-9pm
Thurs: 6am - 9pm
Fri: 6am-11pm
Sat: 6am-11pm
Mr. Marino asked if everyone working there had alcohol server training. Ms. Nicoll stated not
everyone, but we have one person in charge who is; who physically serves and checks licenses
and an alcohol log as well as a strict policy.
Mr. Jeffreys recommended all staff be server certified. He was not in favor of the 6:00 a.m. hours
and inquired what a realistic start time would be. Ms. Nicoll stated no earlier than Noon.
Discussion ensued about modifying the hours for live entertainment and the location of the
nearest residential abutters. It was determined that if there were complaints between now and
renewal time in December, the hours would be modified then. Ms. Nicoll assured the board she
wanted to keep good relations with her neighbors. Ms. Alonzo added that it would be reasonable
to not hear the music more than 30 feet outside of the building in any direction. Mr. Marino
stated he shared the same sentiments as Mr. Jeffreys regarding noise early in the morning but
would be agreeable to soft acoustic style music in the morning.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the Weekday Entertainment license to Smokestack Roasters, LLC
Vote: All in Favor
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Full Time Police Otficer Robert
DaCosta (effective June 27, 2021)
Lt. Thibodeau, on behalf of Chief Gammel, reported the department lost two officers in May
due to attrition and entering the MA State Police Academy. We anticipate another officer
retiring in July and adding another officer in Fiscal Year 2022. This essentially creates four
openings in FY2022. One of the vacant positions was posted internally and he was pleased to
recommend Officer Robert DaCosta for the position of full-time police officer. He has been a
reserve officer with the department since 2012; a reserve officer with Boxboro police
department since 2011 and is currently a lieutenant with the Fitchburg Fire Department. He has
decided to leave the Fire service to become a full-time police officer. He has completed the
Central MA Police Chiefs Association Academy and the Massachusetts Municipal Police
Training Committee Reserve Intermittent Academy. He has an Associate of Science degree in
fire science from Mt. Wachusett Community College and is currently pursuing a Bachelor
degree in Southern Columbia University with a concentration in arson investigations. He is a
certified CPR first responder instructor for the department and has completed yearly in-service
training as well as specialized training courses while employed as a reserve officer. Among
completed specialized training is basic motorcycle school and he is currently assigned to the
===PAGE 5===
ume ponce oincer electve June 41, 4021.
Mr. Alonzo stated to Officer DaCosta the Chief spoke highly of you and that he appreciated him
stepping forward.
Mr. Marino stated as former Police Chief he had tried to get Officer DaCosta to come on as a
full-time officer. He added DaCosta was a great guy and wished him the best of luck and that
his resume speaks for itself. Mr. Jeffreys noted Officer DaCosta comes from an outstanding
family and he has outstanding character and he looked forward to his appointment tonight.
Motion: J. Marino
2n: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Full-time Officer Robert DaCosta effective
July 27, 2021
Vote: All in Favor
The Board congratulated Officer DaCosta and applause was heard throughout the meeting
room.
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Senior Videographer Daniel
Seminatore
Ms. Lemieux stated this recommendation was brought forth by PAC Coordinator McLaughlin
and Asst. Town Manager Belliveau. Mr. Alonzo asked if Mr. Seminatore was present this
evening upon which Mr. Seminatore came out of the recording studio and indicated he was
there.
Motion: L. Franco
2": T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Daniel Seminatore to Senior Videographer
Vote: All in Favor
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Pay As You Throw Bag Program and Fees for FY22
Ms. Lemieux following up to her Town Manager's report from last week provided an update on
the costs to operate the PAYT bag program and information related to a suggestion at the June
8, 2021 meeting to offer discounted bags to senior citizens in Fiscal Year 2022. There is still
pending information as well. Due to a substantial increase in the costs to operate the Pay-As-
You-Throw curbside trash and recycling program related to new contract terms with E.L.
Harvey that reflects the increased market costs for collection and disposal of trash and recycling
and the increase in manufacturing and distribution of the PAYT bags, bag costs will be
increasing in Fiscal Year 2022. The price increase will be dependent on two main variables.
These variables include the estimate used to project the number of cases of the different sized
bags sold next fiscal year and whether the Town offers relief to senior citizens for PAYT bags.
The estimate used to project the number of cases of the different sized bags affects the cost of the
bags; as more cases of bags are sold, it decreases the operational costs for collection because this
is a flat rate annually. We received updated sales figures from our bag manufacturer for the time
period of June 1, 2020 until May 31, 2021 and there was a 38% increase in the actual number of
===PAGE 6===
After discussing this with the Finance Director, we anticipate that due to the actual number of
cases sold compared to our estimates, we will have a surplus in the Solid Waste Enterprise
account of between $40,000 and $50,000 at the end of the fiscal year.
Understanding that our collection and disposal costs that are covered under the Enterprise are
estimated to increase from $318,014.00 to $419,850.00 and the costs of manufacturing and
supplying the bags is also increasing, we will not see a surplus in Fiscal Year 2022 if the
estimated number of bags decreases and the price of the bags remains the same.
Ms. Lemieux stated she was waiting on additional information on Fiscal Year 2020 trash bags
sold versus Fiscal Year 2021 and trying to project knowing that due to people being home the
past year that more people were generating more trash.
The other variable is whether the Town offers relief to senior citizens for PAYT bags. At the
June 8" meeting Selectman Jeffreys inquired about offering discounted bags to senior citizens
and how we could implement a program for seniors in Fiscal Year 2022. In the last week I have
corresponded with Selectman Jeffreys on this question and made inquiries of my own on the
feasibility of such an initiative. In order to control the financial impact, maintain a simple
operational process, and not create burdensome additional responsibilities on different parties,
the Town could purchase a set number of cases that are directly shipped to the Town to disburse
to seniors for free through a tracked system. The purchase of the bags is an eligible expense
using our Recycling Dividends Program funds and the Senior Center could be the location that
seniors could pick up their allotted number of free bags. The logistics would need to be worked
out such as number of bags per household and how this information is tracked that I would
work out with the Senior Center Director and base the estimated number of cases on the total
number of eligible seniors in Lunenburg. We would also have to supplement the pickup and
disposal of the bags with the surplus Enterprise funds from this year. Ms. Lemieux spoke to
COA Director Doherty and she is agreeable to handing out those bags. This could encourage
more people to visit the Senior Center as well. It could be tracked through the My Senior Center
software used at Eagle House to see which households receive them so they would be
distributed evenly.
I am still awaiting data that will assist me in making a recommendation on the proposed
increase in bag price and the logistics of working out a senior citizen PAYT bag relief program.
This will be a recommendation made at a future meeting.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to ensure that there is not more work and time involved tracking that would
negate the savings.
Mr. Jeffreys added one issue discussed with Ms. Lemieux over the past week was the ability
to administer it seamlessly and not create a hardship on local vendors. Further discussion
ensued on what criteria would qualify getting the free bags as well as the number of households
that would receive them. This will be discussed more at a future meeting.
===PAGE 7===
• Accounts Payable Warrant #59 21, dated 6/8/21, in the amount of $112,252.33
(Medicare Part B Reimb.)
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #58 21, dated 6/9/21, in the amount of $583,517.57
• Payroll Warrant #25P21, dated 6/10/21, in the amount of $882,663.58
4. Action Items-there were none.
5. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee Appointing Committee met earlier today and
interviewed two candidates and both were appointed to the two slots that are effective July 1st.
Both have financial backgrounds; one is retired and the other is still working. He believed they
would be excellent members of the Finance Committee.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at
large and 1 representative from Historical Commission)
• Board of Assessors (2 vacancies-joint appointments between BOA and BOS
until next ATE) Bylaw Review Committee (1 vacancy)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and
BOS until next ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee, 1 citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Senior Work Off Program
Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals
(1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
American Rescue Plan Act Funding:
The American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) that was signed in March of 2021 includes $3.4 B in
funding through the Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (CLFRF) for Massachusetts local
governments. These funds are disbursed in two rounds, 50% became available as of June 1st
and the remaining 50% becomes available not less than 12 months after the town receives the
===PAGE 8===
that will address any important infrastructure needs and would provide a meaningful impact to the
community.
Invitation for Bids:
Wereceived filed sub-bids for the Roofing/Flashing work today for the Public Safety Carport
project. The low bidder was Rockwell Roofing of Leominster for $23,750. General bids are due
Tuesday, June 22nd. Due to the recent inflation in the building industry, we expect the total cost for
this project will exceed the capital article amount and therefore will need to be subsidized
through the Facilities budget. Anticipating this as a need, we have earmarked funds for this
purpose in the event the total cost exceeds the capital article amount of $135,000.
Flat Hill Culvert Update:
The engineer for the Flat Hill Road Culvert project provided an update to the DPW Director and I this
past week. The engineered plans were submitted to MassDOT and are still under review. We
submitted a Notice of Intent with Conservation in May and our engineer and the DPW Director
met with Conservation on June 2nd. There were a few small issues with Conservation that were
brought up that need to be further defined and resolved that the engineer will address before the
next meeting with Conservation.
The engineer brought to our attention that the estimated construction costs for this project are
now $750,000. The DPW Director and I have asked for a breakdown of why the construction costs
have escalated so substantially and are awaiting a response from the engineer. After speaking
with the DP W Director, although it was our intent to move forward as quickly as possible with this
project at the start of FY 2022, we are going to submit a Small Bridge Grant application in the
hopes of receiving additional funding to supplement the FY22 capital article for this project. As
we learn more information, I will keep the Board informed.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn will be Sundays starting June 13th until
October 10th; 10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. except on Sunday, July 4th.
• Summer Band Concerts will resume on Monday evenings at 7:00 p.m., July 12th until
August 9th (with a rain date of an additional Monday on August 16th) and will be outside
the front entrance of the TCPBuilding.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he had received two requests from residents to consider
moving the Town Manager Reports closer to announcements.
WORKSHOP: SELECT BOARD AND TOWN MANAGER GOALS FOR FISCAL YEAR
2022
1. Review FY 2021 Select Board Goals
Mr. Alonzo noted the first goal concerned the old Primary School.
Objective 1: To identify, define and propose at least one project to the 2021 Annual Town
Meeting regarding the use and/or re-use of the Old Primary School building, and/or
===PAGE 9===
ii. Action: Review exist information and documents and/or engage the
appropriate professionals to create such documents that provide for
the accurate assessment, including cost, of, at least, (a) the demolition
of the existing building; (b) removal of hazardous materials from the
building and site;
(c) conceptual rendering(s) of the property post-demolition; (d) a design
(or designs), prepared by a landscape architect, of potential concepts for
the property, specifically focusing on open space and a "Town
Common" theme
ili. Action: Determine one (or two, if applicable) option(s) to be fully developed
into a proposed project for the building and/or site to be presented to the
2021 Annual Town Meeting for vote, including approximate costs,
plans and necessary funding.
Mr. Alonzo stated we brought this to town meeting to get the funding for the landscape architect,
which was approved. We also received conceptual drawings from Monty Tech. He suggested
going out to bid so we can get that going. Once these are completed, we can get input trom other
boards and hold public hearings and return to town meeting with the next step. We should
incorporate this goal into our 2022 goals. The Board concurred
Mr. Jeffreys noted when the Board determines the building needs to be demolished, the APDC
will want to know what efforts have been made to try to salvage the building. He has reached out
to Representatives Sena and Kushmerek to find resources for available funding for towns for
rehabilitating buildings; so far we are not eligible; since that is going to be required as part of the
process to demolish the building. Mr. Alonzo requested he send a written note to him regarding
this via email so he could incorporate it in the goal. Mr. Alonzo suggested meeting with the
APDC in July to work with them to find some compromise other than restoring the building.
Objective 2: To review, discuss and revise (where needed) the re-appointment process of all
annual Select Board appointments and to formalize that process into a policy for
distribution.
i. Action: Review the existing process step-by-step as well as any existing
written policies that might pertain to the re-appointment process. Also
review the Charter for exact list of Select Board appointments.
ii. Action: Ask for initial input from all affected appointed bodies. Discuss
improvements that might be made to streamline, clarify and strengthen
===PAGE 10===
alstribunon.
Mr. Alonzo noted we got fairly far through this goal; action items i. and ii. with some
disagreements about things there and asked for feedback. Is this a policy that we want to pursue?
Mr. Jeffreys thought the process went well and did not think it needed to be modified so was in
favor of dropping this goal. The board concurred
Mr. Alonzo moved on to objective iii. adding they really did not get to this one and asked the
board if they would like to pursue it. Mr. Franco stated this was an important issue for him; it
gets qualified people to serve and keeps the people currently serving from becoming complacent.
Mr. Marino agreed and suggested finding events in town to set up a recruitment table. Mr.
Alonzo noted they have done that before with little response. Mr. Jeffreys was on the fence about
this goal and added when people have a problem with board members they are going to make
their voices heard. He was in favor of continuing to promote public service and opportunities but
was unsure of increasing participation. Further discussion ensued about how to recruit
volunteers.
Objective 3:
To analyze, discuss and strategize how to get more people actively interested
and involved in volunteering for Town elected and appointed positions.
i. Action: Review all existing methods and practices presently in place that inform
and/or encourage people to volunteer. Discuss what is currently
effective and what is not with an eye to determining why, as well. Talk
about potential obstacles, challenges or hurdles to more widespread
involvement. Work to determine how to improve existing methods,
what new methods might be tried, and how obstacles might be removed
to garner more active involvement from the public.
ii. Action: Ask all current elected and appointed bodies for their input in
determining the same issues as the Select Board will discuss in the
previous action. Ask each elected and appointed member for a short
summary of how they, personally, became involved and what led to
them running or getting appointed to their current position. Request they
submit any ideas they might have, individually or as a body, to improve
volunteerism.
ili. Action: Work to implement what was determined in actions i. and ii. by
modifying existing methods, creating new ones and doing whatever else
was deemed to be a potential solution for improving volunteerism.
Ensure that all changes are made public with an outreach campaign
utilizing available media resources (public-access TV, newspaper,
===PAGE 11===
Jeffreys suggested two avenues, the senior circuit breaker and assisting low income seniors. A
question arose about the TCP Building Design Committee progress.
Discussion ensued about residents wanting to know what will happen to the vacant Town Hall
and Ritter buildings if municipal offices are moved to the TCP Building. Ms. Lemieux suggested
getting some of this information from the building reuse committee's findings. Further
discussion was about scenarios occurring from the resulting empty buildings.
Mr. Alonzo summarized that the board would have two goals and one will be a short term goal
on how to make a policy about getting more volunteers. Mr. Alonzo will draft something in
accordance with the discussion.
Town Manager Goals Fiscal Year 2022
board. Mr A pressued three goals. She noted Goal #3 would be a shared goal for herself and the
actions would work with it.
Goal #3: Establish Means Tested Senior Citizen Property Tax Exemption
a. Objective: To establish a Senior Citizen Real Estate Tax Credit Program to seniors
that meet certain eligibility requirements.
i. Action: Research different models of Senior Citizen Property Tax Exemption
programs in the Commonwealth and work with the Finance Director and
Principal Assessor on the financial impact of implementing a reduced
residential tax rate for seniors.
ii. Action: Present a recommendation to the Select Board on the program
eligibility requirements, language of the Home Rule Petition, and financial
impact on both eligible seniors and remainder of residential taxpayers.
Timeframe of the recommendation will take into account the requirement of
approval by town meeting of an article to petition the State Legislature to adopt
the Home Rule Petition.
The other two goals are continuations from FY21.
Goal #1: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave:
b. Objective: To address a blighted property that has been in tax title for over a decade.
i. Action: The Town Manager will continue to work with the consultant that
performed the Environmental Site Assessments, MassDEP, and
MassDevelopment to seek all available outside funding resources that will
result in remediation of the site and limit the risk exposure of clean-up costs
that would be borne by the Town.
il.
Action: Depending on the results of associated steps under Action i. and
===PAGE 12===
and improve the long term maintenance and repair plan for town facilities.
i. Action: Review the current organizational structure and determine if a
reorganization that separates Facilities from the Department of Public
Works would create greater efficiencies. Follow the process in the Town
Charter as required for any reorganization.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted they will be meeting on June 22nd and then on July 6th.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, suggested the board put in the demolition request for the old
Primary School immediately as the building needs to come down for a new use and turn their
energy on refurbishing the Town Hall and Ritter Building.
Mr. Alonzo noted the board would be entering Executive Session upon adjournment.
Motion: L. Franco
2°: T. Dwyer
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session pursuant
to M.G.L. c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 2, to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for
negotiations with non- union personnel or contract negotiations with non-union personnel
(Town Manager).
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
***********************Executive Session Minuts re Separate*****************
The meeting adjourned at 9:04 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
