===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rob Oliva, DPW Director, John Brennan,
Peter Mahoney, Jack Brennan (via Zoom); Eric Riece of GPI Engineering
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the
Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
There were no announcements or public comment at this time.
Meeting with Lunenburg Central regarding new parcel 475 Leominster Shirley Road
as part of larger parcel 1263 Reservoir Road and Widening of Road for Turn Lane
Ms. Lemieux stated this is a preliminary presentation to the Board. Jack Brennan of Lunenburg
Central is participating via Zoom due to having a cold and John Brennan (The Brennan Group,
Inc.) and Peter Mahoney (John M. Corcoran & Co.) are here in person to represent Lunenburg
Central. Eric Riece of GPI Engineering was also present.
Jack Brennan thanked the Board for arranging time to present the project overview.
• Project Proponent: A joint venture between The Brennan Group, Inc. and John M.
Corcoran & Company
• Proposed Description: Approximately 372,000 square foot Class-A High Bay Industrial
Warehouse Distribution Facility
• Located in Office Park and Industrial Zoning District Allowed/By Right Use subject to
Site Design Approval
Location & Current Use
• Approximately 32 acres located at 475 Leominster-Shirley Road in Lunenburg, MA
• Highly industrial area bordered by the PJ Keating Operation, Lafarge Concrete
Processing, & MBTA Railway near the Lunenburg and Shirley Town Line
• Underutilized portion of the PJ Keating Sand & Gravel operation
• Majority of the topsoil and gravel has been removed as part of the historic mining
operation on the site
===PAGE 2===
• On-site Sewage Disposal System
• District Water for Domestic and Fire Protection
Public Services & Fiscal Impacts
• Positive Fiscal Impact with significant increase in tax revenue with limited impacts on
Public Services
• Project will provide approximately 325 new full-time, permanent jobs to the town and
• Construction phase of the Project will provide approximately 150 jobs.
• Provides a secondary benefit to the area in increased customers for local businesses,
including retail, restaurants, professional services, etc.
• Since the project is non-residential, the impact on Public Services is anticipated to be
negligible, specifically related to the local school system
• The impacts on Fire, EMS, and Police are anticipated to be minimal
Roadway Enhancements
• Project was reviewed by Robert Oliva, Director, Lunenburg DP W Director, and Graves
Engineering, Inc (Peer Review)
• Hannigan Engineering, Inc. has had meetings with DPW and Graves to review the project
including the proposed roadway enhancements
• DPW's comments have been addressed and incorporated into the project's plans.
The proposed widening within the exiting town layout is supported by a comprehensive
traffic analysis
• Roadway Enhancements are proposed for Leominster- Shirley Road along the frontage of
the Project:
• Widening the Pavement within the Existing Town Layout by 10 feet to provide a
Left-Turn Lane into the Project.
• Per DPW's recommendation for the Town's benefit and given by the Project
Proponent at no Cost or Expense to the Town a 10-foot Right-Of-Way Easement
for Snow Removal, Road and Utility maintenance, etc.
• Signage Enhancements along Leominster-Shirley Road
• Under future traffic volume conditions, with the project in place, all movements along
Leominster-Shirley Road are expected to operate at optimal levels
• The Project's net new vehicle trips will not impact traffic operations in the area.
===PAGE 3===
SITE DRIVEWAY WEST
is Male
LO!!
191
SITE DRIVEWAY EAST
PROP. 10FT WICE ROW. ESPELLENT
EXICT. TOWN LAYOUT
LEOMINSTER SHIRLEY ROAD
OP. GORE
EA TYI
The following illustration shows proposed signage for the road.
===PAGE 4===
RESERVOIR
RD
CAUTION
TRUCKS
CROSSING
TRUCKS
ENTERING
RIGHT
RESERVOIR
600 FT FROM
RESERVOIR RD
CAUTION
TRUCKS
CROSSING
SLOW
NTERSECTION
AHEAD
(REM)
Discussion ensued about the volume of traffic and the road conditions in the winter. Mr. Marino
noted there has been concern about the traffic safety at the corner of Reservoir Road and
Leominster- Shirley Road and that PJ Keating was going to take measures but never did. He
offered to go over the details with Mr. Brennan. Mr. Dwyer shared those concerns and
anticipated most of the traffic was to access Route 2 at peak volume times. He wondered if a
traffic signal might be needed there.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what the purpose of the building was. Mr. Brennan stated although it is
industrial, they do not have a tenant yet but expect it to be a distribution type warehouse.
DPW Director Oliva had expressed concern to the Planning Board about the increased traffic and
the long term effect on the roads. He thought the Planning Board could work something out
during the site approval process. He was willing to work with the developer now before any
damage occurs.
Mr. Brennan thanked all present. Ms. Lemieux will keep in touch with Mr. Brennan, along with
the DPW Director and Land Use Director as this moves forward. Mr. Alonzo requested the
Planning Board keep this board apprised of any meetings related to the project. The next hearing
with the Planning Board is September 13". Mr. Alonzo thanked all for coming in tonight.
===PAGE 5===
seems like a good fit for the interim.
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Facilities Custodian Donald
Gagne
Mr. Gagne has previous experience as a facilities custodian for the last two years for
the Acton/Boxborough Regional School District and twenty-three years as a
maintenance superintendent for a private company in Fitchburg. Mr. Oliva stated he
is experienced in HVAC and plumbing.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments of Temporary Recreation Director
(Robert Thompson) and Facilities Custodian (Donald Gagne)
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
DPW Updates:
• Pleasant Street Bridge: The Pleasant Street Bridge was opened to through traffic on Friday,
August 27th. Orange snow fence has been installed temporarily until the Contractor can
install the permanent fence.
Main Street Sidewalks
Mr. Oliva reported the contractor for the sidewalk crossings on Main Street was supposed to be
back today but did not return. The contractor is waiting for the flashing beacons for the pertinent
intersections. The evergreen tree has been cut down on the sign common area so the sidewalk
crossing can continue to Mass Ave.
An inspector looked at the sidewalk crossings and believed they were in ADA compliance. Mr.
Oliva is willing to follow up with the resident who had concerns about them.
Mr. Alonzo asked about getting a crosswalk at the Whalom Street rotary as people are unsure
where to cross there, especially at the lake side of Emerald Place towards the town beach area.
Mr. Oliva will have to review the MassDOT specifications of installing a crosswalk as there are
no sidewalks to connect to in that area.
• MassDOT Bridge Project on Mass Ave: The MassDOT bridge project on Massachusetts
Avenue entered Phase 2 of the project today. Traffic will be detoured around the area for the
night while the work to shift traffic to the newly installed bridge deck takes place. There
is a change in the original plan for this Phase that will now use a single lane and the
temporary traffic lights, instead of the original plan to open to two lanes of traffic. This
is being done to allow space for a pedestrian lane through the construction area. With
two lanes of traffic there is no space for pedestrians, so MassDOT has decided to modify
the plan. Also of note, Richards Way will remain closed at the Mass Ave. end throughout
the duration of this Phase because of this change. MassDOT has indicated this Phase
===PAGE 6===
waiting on Air Quality Testing as a precautionary measure.
Ms. Lemieux thanked Mr. Oliva for getting the roadside mowing on Lancaster and Leominster
Roads done. Mr. Oliva thanked local resident Ray Morin for use of his equipment. Oliva is
looking to purchase a new mowing vehicle to keep the town roadsides trimmed as the present
one cannot handle older growth.
Mr. Oliva reported he has been talking to residents on Flat Hill Road about the drainage issues
there. He had been hoping for the option of discharging drainage to the back of their properties.
Those conversations were not fruitful so he has to go back to their engineer to review previous
options.
Mr. Oliva exited the meeting.
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large and 1
representative from Historical Commission)
• Bylaw Review Committee (1 vacancy)
Capital Planning Committee (1 vacancy for Citizen At Large appointed by Town
Moderator) Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF
and BOS until next ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee,
1 citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Board/Committee Clerk (Part-Time non-benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part-Time Benefitted)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborer (1)
• Public Access Videographer (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Remote Meeting Coordinator (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
===PAGE 7===
Board of Assessors ratified the appointment at their meeting on August 3Ist per the process in the
Town Charter.
Christine began working today and will be able to work with Sue Byrne for a couple of weeks
before she retires.
Home Rule Petitions for Jaxx Country Variety and Library Trust Funds:
We were notified by Representative Sena's Office last week that the Bill for an additional
all alcohol liquor license for Jaxx Country Variety has passed through the legislature. The
Executive Assistant has contacted the owner of Jaxx Country Variety about the next
steps.
The Bill to authorize the Library Board of Trustees to invest the library trust funds has
received its second reading. I have asked Representative Sena's Office to keep me informed
of the progress of this bill.
Authorized Changes to Assessors Records on Certain Town Properties:
The Conservation Commission has researched certain parcels of land that were incorrectly
identified as under the care of the Conservation Commission instead of the Select Board. The
Principal Assessor has verified through the related town meeting votes and deeds and will be
making the following changes to the Assessors Property Records Files:
510 Townsend Harbor Road: This parcel (162/028.0-0009-0000.0) needs to be split
into two parcels. The Front parcel (Deed Book 542 Page 215) under the care and control of
the Select Board and the rear parcel (Deed Book 966 Page 580) under the care and control
of the Conservation Commission. The front parcel is an old dump that was purchased at the
March 5, 1938 Annual Town Meeting by Article 32 which voted $225 to purchase 33 acres.
This parcel was never assigned to the conservation commission. The rear parcel was
acquired for conservation purposes.
25 Fire Road 19 (Lake Shirley Dam): This parcel (162/135.0-0019-0000.0) was never
transferred or acquired for conservation purposes. Land and Dam were given to the Town
from Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation at the August 25, 1987 Special Town Meeting.
(Deed Book 1628 Page 47)
75 Lakefront Avenue (Whalom Waterfront): There is no record (town meeting or
deed) ofthis parcel (162/098.0-0025-0000.0) being transferred to the Conservation
Commission.
===PAGE 8===
close out some of Mass's LUST releases.
Disposition of Parcel 7 of 671 West Street:
In November of 2020 we went out to bid for parcel 7 of the town-owned land at 671 West Street
based on an inquiry by an abutter who was interested in purchasing the property. After
advertising the required timeframe, we did not receive a bid from this resident. The resident recently
contacted me to restate their interest in the parcel and that due to the uncertainly of the pandemic,
did not submita bid last year but are now in a different position. I relayed to the resident that the
Open Space Committee has since approached the Board about transferring this parcel from general
municipal land to open space/recreation purposes. I would recommend we do not re-advertise for any
portion of this land until a decision is made about the Open Space Committee's request.
Discussion ensued about whether to keep the parcel or put it out for bid. This will be a
future agenda item for discussion. Open Space Committee will be contacted regarding this
parcel.
CommentLetterto MassHousing re: 40B Project Eligibility/Site Approval Application from Pond
View Commons:
As the Board is aware, I finalized and sent the Town's comment letter to MassHousing regarding
the 40B project eligibility/site approval application from Pond View Commons on Thursday,
september 2, 2021. There were 32 attachments, including submittals from the Planning Board, the
Police Chief, the Superintendent, the Sewer Commission, the Water Commission, Hickory Hills
Landowners Incorporated, Town Counsel, and various residents. A copy of the comment letter will
be uploaded to the town website on the front page under News & Announcements.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Lemieux, Town Counsel Adam Costa and the 32 individuals who
submitted comment letters to MassHousing.
Grants:
• MIIA Risk Management Grant: I applied for a $10,000 Risk Management Grant
through our insurance carrier to transition the Town to Microsoft Office 365. I hopeto hear
before their regular announcements in early November.
• Community Compact IT Grant Program: 1 plan on applying for the Community
Compact IT Grant for IT equipment upgrades. This grant is for funding up to $200,000
and is due by October 1st.
• 2021 Community Enrichment Grant: The COA Director applied for a $20,000
Community Enrichment Grant through the Community Foundation of North Central Mass
to go towards the redesign of the existing outdoor recreation area at the senior center to
make it ADA compliant.
COVID-19 Update:
Dueto the rise in positive COVID cases in town, the Director at Nashoba Associated Boards of
Health asked us to post a Public Health Notice from the CDC on how to protect yourself and others
===PAGE 9===
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn are being held Sundays until October
10th, 10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m.
• The fall Special Town Meeting will be Tuesday, November 16, 2021 at 7 p.m. Warrant
articles can be submitted to the Town Manager's Office until Tuesday, September 28th at 5
p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Draft November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting Warrant
A. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available
funds, all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2022
Budget, under Article 6 of the May 1, 2021 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
B. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum
of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Finance Director
C. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 22 and FY 23 Lunenburg Professional
Firefighters Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2021 - June 30, 2023 with PFFM
Local 5358A; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
D. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 22 and FY 23 Lunenburg Municipal Employees
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2021 - June 30, 2023 with AFSCME, Council
93; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
E. To see if the Town will vote to adjust the income and asset limits for the Elderly Exemption
(M.G.L. c. 59 § 5 cl.41C) to Single person income limit $31,500, Asset limit $52,700, Married
persons income limit $39,600, Asset limit $72,700 and to increase the exemption amount to
$1,000; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Assessors)
There were no comments or questions about the warrant articles at this time.
2. Approval of Minutes of August 24, 2021
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes as presented
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstain (Jeffreys)
===PAGE 10===
1. Discussion on revised Request for Proposals for Landscape Architectural Services
for 30 School Street
Ms. Lemieux presented draft #2 of the RFP. The changes were made as requested previously; the
project tasks have been reduced and the timeline for submission was amended.
Motion: J. Marino
To approve draft #2 of the Request for Proposals
2n: M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Alonzo noted the board meets again on September 14 and 21. Ms. Lemieux reminded all the
Community Outreach meeting for Uma Flowers for the proposed medical and adult use
marijuana establishment located at 434 Summer Street will be on September 28t at 7:00 pm in
Town Hall.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, via Zoom, inquired why the town was hiring a temporary
recreation director. Ms. Lemieux reported the Recreation Director is on medical leave and this is
to fill in until she returns.
Mr. Rodgers asked about the Leominster-Shirley Road project and getting further information to
figure out the future tax revenue potential. Mr. Alonzo suggested attending the September 13t
Planning Board meeting to bring that forward.
Mr. Jeffreys announced there is pancake breakfast sponsored by the Lions Club tomorrow
morning at the Senior Center from 8:00 - 10:00 a.m. The price is $2.00.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:48 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
claireh. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
