===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey Adams,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Dis Director and frank ere, and Ben Asto Far Sul van, Ll Director; Rob Oliva,
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ethan Rossi, Northfield Road, a sophomore at Monty Tech, also attends Family Martial Arts
Center in Leominster and in order to achieve his black belt in Karate, he has to complete a
community project. He introduced his project titled "Operation Karing4Kids." Ethan, a
Leukemia survivor himself, reported this project provides gift bags for children receiving
treatment at UMass Memorial Medical Center in Worcester. A wish list for items on Amazon
can be found at https://facebook.com/karing4kids21. Items can be dropped off at the Lunenburg
Boys & Girls Club, 15 Memorial Drive, Lunenburg, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through
Friday. The Board wished him the best of luck with his project.
Ms. Adams asked where the Select Board's governance is regarding utilities, specifically water
line installation. DPW Director Oliva stated customarily any project that requires water
installation under the roads would come through his office for at least cursory approval. He
believed a project would be presented to the Select Board for approval as well.
Mr. Alonzo stated nothing has changed since Town Caucus was held other than anyone
interested in running for election now will have to conduct a write-in campaign.
Update from DPW Director on Drainage at 225 Pleasant Street
Mr. Oliva reported resident Steve Walker who lives on Pleasant Street has contacted him. The
drain from a culvert that empties onto a town-owned lot adjacent to his property was draining
onto Mr. Walker's property and causing erosion. Mr. Oliva would like to extend the swale on the
town property so water runoff is diverted more around Mr. Walker's property. Mr. Walker
requested a truck load of soil to fill in the washed away areas of his property. Mr., Oliva stated
he could provide that.
Ms. Lemieux asked the Board if they had any questions for Mr. Oliva concerning the Capital
request of a ¾ ton truck with plow for $48,000 for DPW. This request along with the Marshall
===PAGE 2===
Serreti stated it was definitely a unique year for the audit during a pandemic. We were out at
Lunenburg Town Hall in July to do the audit. We came back in mid-October to do the year-end
review. We were able to issue an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. All the
reporting deadlines were met. We received timely responses to all our inquiries for the audit. We
found no internal control issues, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. The Town was
able to maintain its AAt credit rating with Standard and Poor.
Financial Highlights
The assets and deferred outflows of resources of the Town of Lunenburg
exceeded its liabilities and deferred inflows of resources at the close of the most
recent year by $17.2 million (net position).
• At the close of the current year, the Town's general fund reported an ending fund
balance of $7.6 million, an increase of approximately $1.3 million in comparison with
the prior year. Total fund balance represents 18% of total general fund expenditures.
• The Town's total debt (short-term and long-term combined) decreased by $2.4
million during the current year. This was due to the net effect of the issuance of $5.0
million of new debt, $7.3 million in principal payments on existing debt and $103,000
of premium amortization.
• The net other postemployment benefits (OPEB) liability totaled $55.8 million as of
June 30, 2020, which was an increase of $3.3 million from the prior year.
• The net pension liability totaled $19.8 million as of June 30, 2020, which was a
decrease of$100,000 from the prior year.
• In 2020, the Town incurred $50,000 of expenses related to the COVID-19 Pandemic,
which were funded by grants received from the State and Federal governments
• On May 4, 2019, Town Meeting voted to establish the Public Educational
Government (PEG) Access enterprise fund to account for its public television
activities, which was effective as of July 1, 2019. Accordingly, beginning net
position/fund balance of the governmental activities, business-type activities, and
governmental funds has been restated to reflect the change from a governmental
activity to a business-type activity. (See Note 16 for further details regarding the
restated balances.
General Fund Budgetary Highlights
The original 2020 approved budget for the general fund authorized approximately $42.2 million
in appropriations and other amounts to be raised and includes $283,000 of carryforwards from the
prior year. Changes during the year consisted of supplemental appropriations and allocations
between and among departments. Supplemental appropriations totaled $94,000 and mainly relate
to the funding of the vehicle and equipment stabilization fund.
Actual results from operations were better than anticipated. This was due to the Town collecting
$267,000 more revenue than what was budgeted and $1.2 million of unexpended appropriations.
===PAGE 3===
more cumbersome and time consuming.
Current Status
The Board of Assessors has reviewed the Town's receivables for collectability and has written off
balances that were considered to be uncollectible.
* SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION FOR HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Prior Year Comment
When an employee enrolls in the Town's health insurance plan, a member enrollment form is
completed and turned into the Town's Human Resource department. We noted during this process that
birth certificates are requested for employees, but marriage certificates, spouse and dependent birth
certificates are not. Proper source documentation should be retained throughout employment for active
employees and throughout the life of retirees and surviving spouses to ensure that any insurance
benefits and corresponding liability are properly supported.
Current Status
The Town has implemented procedures to collect and maintain marriage certificates for employee
spouses as well as birth certificates for employee spouses and dependents enrolled in Town health
insurance plans as part of the onboarding process. This documentation is also being collected for
existing employees and when new spouses and dependents are added to existing plans.
" DOCUMENT KEY ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL FUNCTIONS
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we indicated that there are limited written policies and procedures for key
administrative and financial functions of the Town. Because there is a limited number of staff
supporting key positions, a formal manual that identifies and documents key areas of administration
and operations would reduce the risk to the Town in the event that personnel have extended absences.
We recommended that the Town document all key managerial and financial functions in manuals that
include, among other items, 1) daily, monthly, and yearly work procedures; and 2) other specific
information relative to the function being documented.
Current Status
It is our understanding that the Town began the process of documenting key administrative functions in
2020 through a community compact grant for a continuity of operations plan. This project is expected to
be complete in the spring of 2021.
* OLD OUTSTANDING CHECKS
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we noted that the bank reconciliation for the vendor account reported outstanding
checks greater than three months old totaling $125,270, some going back to 2010, as reconciling items.
In most instances, checks not cashed timely after the issue date indicates that the checks were either
reissued, lost or are being held. As part of internal controls over cash disbursements and expenditures,
the aging of outstanding checks should be monitored to ensure they are true outstanding checks.
===PAGE 4===
might specify that when checks are past 60 days old, the payee should be contacted. After 90 days, the
checks should be moved to the tailings account or written off.
* ABANDONED PROPERTY - TAILINGS
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we noted that the Treasurer's Office did not have an up to date listing of uncashed
checks to support the tailings balance reported on the general ledger. We also noted there was no
current year activity within the general ledger tailings liability account and that the Treasurer had not
performed procedures to resolve the existing balance in the tailings account in accordance with the
Massachusetts Abandoned Property Laws in the past few years.
Current Status
The Treasurer established a comprehensive listing of uncashed checks in 2020 to support the balance in
the tailings account. The Treasurer also completed the abandoned property process for checks that met
the unclaimed criteria and additional uncashed checks were added to the tailings account.
Continuing Recommendation
We continue to recommend that management establish a formal, written policy that specifies
procedures to be performed to resolve uncashed checks that have been transferred to the tailings
account. Such a policy should specify aging milestones with required actions that will result in the
funds either being reissued to the payee or recorded as miscellaneous revenue by the Town.
* WRITE-OFF UNCOLLECTIBLE AMBULANCE RECEIVABLES
Prior Year Comment
In the prior year, we recommended that the Town actively pursue the collection of past-due ambulance
billings or write them off if they are deemed to be uncollectible. The existence of large past-due
receivable balances and lack of timely follow-up by management overstates the receivable balance,
impedes cash flow, and increases the risk that these receivables will be uncollectible.
Current Status
The Town wrote-off about $200,000 of uncollectible receivables in 2019, however the ambulance
receivable increased in the current year by $48,000 and totaled $614,000 at year-end. Of this balance,
$529,000 is greater than 180 days past due, which suggests that a significant amount may still be
uncollectible. It is our understanding that the Town intends to establish an annual review and write-off
process for uncollectible receivables.
Continuing recommendation
We continue to recommend that the Town continue to analyze the ambulance receivables and write-off
any accounts that are determined to be uncollectible. We also recommend that the Town implement an
ongoing process to assess the collectability of the ambulance receivables and to write-off accounts that
are determined to be uncollectable as part of the process.
===PAGE 5===
assessment.
Current Status
The Town did not complete a fraud risk assessment in 2020.
Continuing Recommendation
We continue to recommend that the Town complete a risk assessment to identify, analyze, and manage
the risk of asset misappropriation.
Mr. Alonzo asked if there were any new issues to address. Mr. Serreti stated no. Mr. Alonzo
asked is it fair to say the Town is in good financial position and it is run with strong management
policies? Mr. Serreti stated it is a very fair statement. It has gotten stronger every year. The
books and records are in very good shape, we did not have to recommend any adjustments to
correct any balances. Everything was done in a timely manner.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Town Manager and Finance Director and their teams for doing an
outstanding job yet again and the auditors for coming in as well. Discussion turned to getting a
better rating than AAt; in general debt ratio needs to be reduced.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Resignation of Nashoba Regional Dispatch Executive Director, Ross Klun
Ms. Lemieux reported the Executive Director of the Nashoba Regional Dispatch Center gave his
written notice on March 15th and his last paid day will be April 2nd. The Administration Board,
on which I sit, has a meeting scheduled on Wednesday, March 31stto take action on appointing
an Acting Director until the position is permanently filled.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Request to Vote to revoke the Fuel Storage License(s) located at 416 Electric Ave.
from Eileen Moroski
Ms. Peterson had sent a memorandum:
"This office has been contacted by Fire Chief Sullivan and Mrs. Eileen Moroski who have informed
me that the four (4) underground storage tanks; 3 (6000 gallon gasoline and 1(8000 gallon diesel)
located at 416 Electric Avenue have been removed. The tanks were removed by RJ Govoni
Construction Corporation on October 27, 2020 so there is no longer fuel storage/sales on site.
I am requesting the Board vote to revoke the fuel storage permits for the property so I can inform the
Commonwealth of MA/ DEP Bureau of Air & Waste Underground Storage Tank Program of the
updated situation."
Motion: J. Marino
2n: T. Dwyer
To revoke the fuel storage license for the tanks located at 416 Electric Avenue
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 6===
To approve the minutes or march 4, odt as presented
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
4. Warrants
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week: Accounts Payable Warrant
#43 21, dated 3/16/2021, in the amount of $633,767.01; Payroll Deduction Warrant #44 21,
dated 3/17/2021, in the amount of $736,398.74; Payroll Warrant #19P21, dated 3/18/2021, in
the amount of $856,219.33.
5. Action Items
Ms. Adams repeated her earlier request to have more information, possibly from Town Counsel
about the ownership of the roads and what the Select Board's role was concerning a developer
seeking to install water lines to his housing development project.
Mr. Jeffreys believed the amount of pollution in town by commercial businesses is out of
control. He asked the enforcement mechanism is for the Town that requires businesses to clean
up their property.
Mr. Alonzo stated because the Board did not come to agreement on a new appointment policy
and proposed deadlines have come and gone, we will be following the existing policy. This topic
will be revisited at a later date.
6. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met and approved the Town Manager's
request to add two additional items due to $98,000 becoming available. We will also be
discussing our policies and parameters for next year.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2022 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux noted there are certain money articles in the budget such as the sale of cemetery
lots, additional revenue which will go towards the cemetery warrant article ($15,000) and
unexpended capital that will go towards the capital plan ($111,281). We will be using Free Cash
($66,500) for the Agricultural Preservation Restriction article for the Pierce Property. Total Free
Cash that will go towards Capital will be $738,825.00. Tax revenue provided will be $747,718.
There is one prior year invoice which came up recently in the amount of $145.00 that will be
coming from Free Cash. She recommended taking $250,000 out of Free Cash for the article for
the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund.
On the expenditure side there was an adjustment to the Fire Dept. in the amount of $8,718.17 as
there were two positions that were recently filled. There was also an adjustment of $1,550 to the
Town Clerk salary, a 3% increase for FY 22.
===PAGE 7===
Article 3 allows the paying of prior fiscal year invoices; there is one for $145.00
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article 3
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The Board will defer Article 4 (amending FY21 budget) until Town Meeting.
Article 5 approves the Capital Plan in the amount of $1,597,825.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nº: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 5
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article 6 approves the FY22 budget in the amount of $39,759,798.81. It does not include the
enterprise funds as they are covered under different articles.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of Article 6
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article 7 places $100,000 into the Stabilization Fund.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. K. Adams
To recommend approval of Article 7
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo aye
Article 8 places $250,000 from Free Cash into the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd. M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 8
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye. Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article 11 places $1,173,486.10 into the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY22.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 11
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Article 13 places $302,000 into the Solid Waste Enterprise Fund for F X22.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 12
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
===PAGE 8===
To recommend approval of Article 1s
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Articles 17, 18 and 19 will be deferred until Town Meeting as union negotiations are ongoing.
Article 20. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds $25,000 for landscape design and engineering to create a passive recreation/open space
area at the property known as the old Primary School, 30 School Street, shown on Assessor's
Map 071, Lot 076, including all incidental and related costs, including but not limited to site
evaluation, engineering and final design services;
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 20
Discussion ensued about the proposed amount of $25,000 possibly being too low. Mir. Jetfreys
amended his motion to $30,000 and Mr. Marino seconded it.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Ms. Lemieux noted the amount under Article 23 has changed because the Finance Director
discussed with the financial advisor and the Town does not need to rescind funding from MSCA.
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds a sum of money for the design and engineering to consolidate Town offices, school uses,
and community space at the building and/or land known as the TC Passios, located at 1079
Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055, and any and all incidental and
related costs, including but not limited to site evaluation, engineering, and final design services,
thereby allowing the Town to consider alternative uses for said Town offices, school uses, and
community space that may include demolition of the existing building; or take any other action
relative thereto.
The Board deferred until Town Meeting as the TCP Building Design Committee has not
provided a monetary number for this article until their next meeting.
The longevity section was removed from Article 27 by the Personnel Committee, so it reads as
follows:
ARTICLE 27. To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 70 of the Town's General
Bylaws, entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, as follows: the position of
Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager be added and assigned to Grade 8; the position of
Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator be added and assigned to Grade 9; the position of
Reserve Officer to be added and assigned to Grade 10; the position of Network Administrator
be added and assigned to Grade 13; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the
Personnel Committee
===PAGE 9===
these buildings might be grandiathered.
The Board discussed current article #24 and Mr. Alonzo's proposed alternative wording.
ARTICLE 24. To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws, Chapter 113, entitled
"Architectural Preservation District," Section 13, entitled "Appeal procedure," by adding the
following new sentence to the end thereof:
As an alternative but not necessarily as a substitute for such an appeal, with respect to any
building owned or leased by the Town of Lunenburg, or dedicated or to be dedicated to any
municipal use, a party aggrieved by the APDC's denial of a certificate to alter the same may,
within six (6) months of said action, petition any Annual or Special Town Meeting to, by
majority vote, rescind or override the same, if deemed to be in the public interest; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board)
Mr. Alonzo had composed an alternative proposal for the APD bylaw amendment with
three points. (See colored versions for comparison):
To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws, Chapter 113, entitled "Architectural
Preservation District," Section 13, entitled "Appeal procedure," by adding the following new
sentence to end thereof:
As an alternative but not necessarily as a substitute for such an appeal, with respect to any
building or property owned by the Town of Lunenburg, the Lunenburg Select Board,
on behalf of the Town of Lunenburg being aggrieved by the APDC's denial of a
certificate to alter the same may, after a period no earlier than three (3) months and no
later than twelve (12) months after said action, petition any Annual or Special Town
Meeting to, by majority vote, override the same, if deemed to be in the public interest; or
take any other action relative thereto.
Discussion ensued about the changes and possible scenarios.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: I. Dwyer
To amend the language for first italicized phrase to "with respect to any building or
property owned by the Town of Lunenburg,"
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mir. Jeffreys-aye, MIr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'°:J. Marino
To keep the language, "a party aggrieved by the APD's denial of a certificate to alter the
same may,"
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo asked is a citizen a party aggrieved? Ms. Lemieux had requested advice
from Town Counsel on the wording. She read Attorney Costa's email:
"Legally, these revisions are acceptable. There are some nuances vis-à-vis the version I drafted at
Michael-Ray's request. For example, first, my version is more expansive in its application: it applies not
only to buildings owned, but also leased, by the Town of Lunenburg, as well as to those dedicated to any
municipal use. Tom's version says "property," not just "building," but requires Town ownership. (l'd
===PAGE 10===
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams- nay, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo nay
The motion passed (3 in favor and 2 against).
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the language after a period no earlier than three (3) months and no later than
twelve (12) months after as proposed by Selectman Alonzo
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The final article will read as follows:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the General Bylaws, Chapter 113, entitled "Architectural
Preservation District," Section 13, entitled "Appeal procedure," by adding the following new
sentence to the end thereof:
"As an alternative but not necessarily as a substitute for such an appeal, with respect to
any building or property owned by the Town of Lunenburg, a party aggrieved by the
APDC's denial of a certificate to alter the same may, after a period no earlier than three
(3) months and no later than twelve (12) months after said action, petition any Annual or
Special Town Meeting to, by majority vote, override the same, if deemed to be in the
public interest; or take any other action relative thereto.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd:J. Marino
To recommend approval of Article 24 as amended
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-abstain, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
Mr. Alonzo noted he may offer an amendment on Town Meeting floor because he feels strongly
about it so no one is surprised at that time.
Motion: K. Adams
2'°:J. Marino
To sign the Annual Town Meeting Warrant for May 1, 2021
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2n: M. Jeffreys
Motion: T. Dwyer
To sign the annual election warrant for May 15, 2021
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of March 19th was 673 and the report issued on March 26th
was 692. The state report showed 654 cases as of March 16 and 658 cases as of March 23rd. There has
been one death in town since the pandemic began. This is an increase of 19 cases from March 19th.
===PAGE 11===
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Housing Authority (2 vacant positions)
• TCPBuildingDesign Committee (1 vacancy appointedby the SelectBoard and Town
Moderator for member at large
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office.
Earmark for Primary School Fire Alarm Upgrade:
I received a copy of the formal request by Representative Kushmerek to the House and Senate Chairs of the
Ways and Means Committee to include the FY 2021 state budget earmark for $25,000 for the Primary
School Fire Alarm upgrade in the end of year supplemental budget bill. If included this will allow these
funds to be carried over into FY 2022.
Old Primary School Property:
The Monty Tech students should have preliminary drawings by next week. If these are done in time for the
April 13th meeting, they will be presented to the Board at that time.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals:
We received 7 bids for Cleaning Services for our town facilities and we interviewed the lowest, most
responsible bidder, Dynamic Janitorial Services, on March 17th. A Notice of Award was issued to them on
March 18th and they will take over cleaning services on April 2nd.
Bids for the work for the Complete Streets project are due April 1st.
The Assistant Town Manager issued the Request for Proposals for Trash and Recycling Services on March
18th and bids will be due on April 14th.
Bids for Landscaping Services for town properties are due on April 15th.
The Invitation for Bids for the Public Safety Carport and the Library Carpet Project, both FY21 Capital
Plan projects, are anticipated to go out to bid in the next couple of weeks.
925 Mass Ave (Goal #1, iI, ill)
After a meeting with MassDevelopment and the consultant from BETA Group that performed the Phase
Il Environmental Site Assessment, MassDevelopment outlined what we would need to do in order to
make this site eligible for the Brownfields recoverable grant through MassDevelopment that I applied for
in September. MassDevelopment advised we should find interested parties that would want to purchase
the property so they know that the property will ultimately be redeveloped/reused. This will require us to
put out a Request for Interest, which will not bind the town to any party but will gauge interest on
potential buyers and type of use of the property.
Secondly, we will need to take ownership of the property in order to be eligible for this recoverable grant.
The process we have taken over the last two years has been to identify all the known hazards and the
extent of the clean-up. The Phase III Environmental Sight Assessment (ESA) that the BETA Group is
currently working on will outline the costs to remove the underground tanks, the old septic system,
===PAGE 12===
be considered an imminent hazard.
I have a meeting with DEP's Regional Brownfield Coordinator, the consultant from BETA Group,
MassDevelopment, and MRPC on March 31st.
As another preliminary step in the process, we will be having a survey conducted to identify the metes and
bounds of the property.
In the end, after the clean-up work is done, and the Town sells the property, there will be a deed restriction
that identifies that the property may have residual contaminated soil and it would need to be managed if
any construction were to occur.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The Green Communities Task Force has a meeting on Wednesday, March 31st at 7 p.m. through
Zoom.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo announced their next meetings are on April 6", April 13"h and April 20th
. The Annual
Town Meeting will be May 1st.
PUBLIC COMMENT***
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, Parks Commissioner, announced the Recreation Director has
posted the Spring Summer programming brochure. Program enrollment will open to the general
public tomorrow. Go to https://lunenburgma.myrec.com
The Parks Dept. is interviewing for summer employment for lifeguards at the town beach.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he attended the MPO meeting on the 17h, there was discussion about the
Twin Cities Rail Trail Phase II construction. The proposed TIP Amendment #2 would only
remove the Twin Cities Rail Trail project from FFY 2021 of the FFY 2021-2025 TIP in order to
allow time for advertising for the next phase.
The TCP Building Design Committee met and it was mostly a debriefing of the meeting with the
Select Board and we expect to meet with the designer at the next meeting to get costs.
Motion: K. Adams
2":T.Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting at 9:23 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
