===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino, Lou
Franco
Member not present: Tom Alonzo, Chair
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rob Oliva, DPW Director; Dave Blatt, Liz
Murphy, Matt Snyder, Dave Passios
Vice Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance
with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on
the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
Mr. Jeffreys asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT: there was none at this time.
Ms. Lemieux announced the Town has requested an extension of the deadline for the comment
letter to MA Housing concerning the proposed c. 40B project on Howard Street. It was granted
and the new deadline is September 2na
. Any public comments should be submitted to the Select
Board office by Monday, August 23rd
1. APPOINTMENTS
7:05 PM Pole Petition for 38 & 40 Gilchrist Street by Unitil
James Dee of Unitil was present for the hearing. Mr. Franco read the hearing notice aloud:
"To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are
hereby notified that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2n° Floor in the Joseph
F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg, MA (or remotely via ZOOM, check the Select Board agenda on the
Town website calendar [https://www.lunenburgma.gov] for directions on how to join the meeting), on
Tuesday, August 10, 2021 at 7:05 P.M. upon petition of Unitil Fitchburg Gas and Electric for
permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such other fixtures as may
be necessary to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity, upon, along,
across, or under the following public ways of said Town:
Gilchrist Street: (1) Proposed new pole location, approximately 582 feet northeast of
the intersection of Northfield Road, at the property line between 38 & 40 Gilchrist Street,
as shown on map as Plan No. 968-L dated 7/6/2021
Location approximately as shown on plan attached. Wherefore it prays that after due notice and hearing
as provided by law, it be granted a location for and permission to erect and maintain poles and wires,
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Dee stated we would like to install one pole on Gilchrist Street between poles #1 and #2 as a
mid-span pole directly in line with the existing wires; this would be on the property line between
38 and 40 Gilchrist Street for the purpose of feeding lines to two new houses. Mr. Jeffreys noted
DPW Director Rob Oliva had no issues with the location.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the pole petition as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting with DPW Director re: Complete Streets project update and Discussion about the
Main Street portion of the project
Mr. Oliva reported the project is well underway. So far the majority of the work has been on
Memorial Drive; the sidewalk has been poured and additional work is located at the intersection
of Main and Oak Avenue. The work will continue in front of Town Hall and then over on the
island area in front of 1 Main Street. An issue has arisen in the layout of the original sidewalk
location due to a large tree that is overhanging there by quite a bit. The sidewalk will be moved
to the other side. He has contacted the Turkey Hill Garden Club to inform them of some
plantings that need to be moved to accommodate the new location. Although they are not happy
they understand and DPW will do everything possible to save the plantings that are being
removed. He was here tonight to inform the Select Board and ask for permission to alter the plan.
Andrea Laford, Pleasant Street, stated she was not officially representing the garden club but that
they understood if the tree had to go, it had to go. They were not sure if it had been planted in
memoriam of someone, but perhaps something else could be planted there in its place.
Discussion ensued about the sidewalk location. Ms. Laford stated the garden club would like the
opportunity to assist in removing the plants to save them for later. The Board members were in
agreement with the modifications to the plan. Mr. Oliva thanked them and exited the meeting.
I. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Cemetery Laborer
Daniel Dumford
Ms. Lemieux reported Mr. Dumford is a resident of Lunenburg and attends URI, but is able to
perform the work into the fall season around his schedule.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"°: L. Franco
To ratify the appointment of Daniel Dumford as season cemetery laborer
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large and 1
representative from Historical Commission)
===PAGE 3===
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Invitation for Bids and Requests for Proposals:
The optional site briefing for the 30 School Street Landscape Design RFP was held on Tuesday,
August 3rd. A representative from one firm attended. Proposals are due August 17th.
Flat Hill Road Culvert Project:
The engineer for the Flat Hill Road Culvert reconstruction project provided the DPW Director and me
an update on the construction prices they have been seeing for similar projects. Similar projects
are seeing high prices right now and according to contractors they have spoken with, the precast
concrete fabricators and steel fabricators are short-staffed since starting back up after their
COVID shutdowns and behind on work, so projects to get done before this winter are seeing a
high price tag or getting little to no bids. Our engineer did a similar culvert project in 2019 that
cost $550k and today's similar projects are around $850k.
Our current plan would be to move the utilities as needed, secure funding through the Small
Bridge Grant program and put it out to bid for a construction season that could allow for it to get
constructed in early spring.
Pleasant Street Bridge Project:
The DPW Director and residents have brought to my attention some outstanding issues with the
Pleasant Street bridge project. The DPW Directoris working with the engineer and the contractorto
address theseconcerns.
All the final details should be worked out in the next couple of weeks and when the date is known
about when the road will be re-opened, this will be announced.
Massachusetts Avenue Bridge Project:
The MassDOT bridge project on Mass Avenue is nearing the completion of Phase 1 around the end
of this month. When this phase is complete, the temporary traffic lights will be taken out and two
way traffic through the area will be restored over the new bridge deck that was installed. At this
point Richard's Way will be opened back up at Mass. Ave. The road width will still be reduced
so please proceed cautiously through the construction zone.
Woodruff Property Update:
In May I provided the Board an update on the Environmental Site Assessmentthat was conducted
by an environmental consultant. This report was provided to the Conservation Commission and in
July the Conservation Commission met and requested we file a Notice of Intent for this site.
The environmental consultant that performed the initial Environmental Site Assessment will be
===PAGE 4===
the mesh screening around the bell will need to be replaced. This will be incorporated into the overall
project to address the Town Hall roof, chimney, and building envelope repairs.
Lions Club Food Pantry:
The Lions Club has requested to move the Food Pantry from the second floor of the Public
Safety Building to the TC Passios building. Currently all the items are stored in the second floor
of an unfinished space at the Public Safety Building and have to be manually carried up and
down the stairs, as there is no elevator. Last week I met with our Board of Health Agent, School
Facilities Director, and School Superintendent to review the kitchen space as an alternative and
all the logistics around operating the food pantry out of that space, including sufficient space for
all the shelving, sufficient power supply if the Lions Club brought in a refrigerator and freezer to
store cold and frozen items, additional operating costs, the need for a food permit, access, and
security of the building. Also, during the pandemic the food pickups moved from the Public Safety
Building to the front entrance of the TC Passios so the process for putting together the food pick-
ups would be more efficient at the TC Passios.
Lions Club President Corrine Scouten has reviewed the space to determine if all the shelving will fit
in the kitchen space and it appears it will work. I will continue to work with the Lions Club to
proceed with relocating the food pantry to the TC Passios.
American Rescue Plan Act Funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Funds):
In addition to the municipal allocation of CLFRF funds that Lunenburg was allocated, the
Division of Local Services issued a memorandum yesterday regarding the County Reallocation
portion of CLFRF funds to eligible municipalities. Per the statute, funds allocated to counties
categorized as "not units of general government" by the US Treasury (Berkshire, Essex,
Hampden, Hampshire, Middlesex, Nantucket, Suffolk and Worcester) are to be reallocated to
municipalities in those counties. The commonwealth will distribute these funds on behalf of the
US Treasury. Like other CLFRF payments, these will be made in twotrancheswith the firsttranche
(50 percent) distributed now and the second tranche (the remaining 50 percent) distributed
not less than 12 months after the first payment is made. Lunenburg's County Reallocation is
$2,279,580. We will beeligible to receive 50% of this allocation ($1,139,790) on or about
August 16th. Based on the language of the memorandum, it sounds likethe funds would
follow the same criteria as the municipal allocation.
These funds must be obligated to designated expenses by December 31, 2024 and the period of
performance is by December 31, 2026.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The Library is currently closed now until Sunday, August 22nd while all the carpets get
replaced. Book drop return slots will be locked during this time so please keep your items
through the closureorreturn them to another CWMARS library. Due dates have been
extended so no overdue fines will be charged while the building is closed. If you place new
holds on items, please consider selecting another library as a pickup location until the
library re-opens. Staff can also retarget existing holds to be sent to another library at your
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Lemieux reported the fifth person on the Green Communities Task Force has not applied for
the newly formed committee.
•
Dave Blatt, 411 Goodrich St.; 3 year term
• Liz Murphy, 219 Rolling Acres Road; 2 year term
•
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street; 2 year term
• Matt Snyder, 985 Flat Hill Road, 1 year term
Dave Blatt stated the work is not completed and he wanted to continue to serve on the
committee. Elizabeth "Liz" Murphy stated this is her way of giving back to the community.
Dave Passios stated this is his first year on the task force but has been attending the meeting
Dave Blatt for working tirelessly. Matt Snyder is interested in the committee's work and would
like to continue on. One member and two associate members positions remain open.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T.Dwyer
To appoint Dave Blatt to a term of 3 years, Liz Murphy to a term of 2 years, Dave Passios
to a term of 2 years and Matt Snyder to a term of 1 year ending on June 30th respectively
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Minutes Approval
Motion: J.Marino
To approve the minutes of July 27, 2021 as presented
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
2. Warrants
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant dated August 4, 2021.
3. Action Items- there were none.
4. Committee Reports- there were none
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Notice from MassHousing on 40B Site Approval Application from
Pond View Commons, LLC (Kevin O'Brien)
Mr. Jeffreys reported Conservation Commissioner Jack Rabbitt has found out two facts about
the land the proposed c. 40B project is located on. The first was that it is identified as an area of
critical environmental concern by the Commonwealth. It doesn't stop development from
occuring but it does require additional permitting through the Commonwealth. The second fact
is this area is designated a critical natural landscape by the Commonwealth. He thanked Mr.
===PAGE 6===
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none this evening
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 7:41 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire I. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
