===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Kay Jetfreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer,
Jim Marino, Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, John Morreale Sr.
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and asked everyone to rise for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the
Lunenburg public access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page.
He noted Zoom is available for public comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo attended the band concert on the TCP Building lawn and encouraged everyone to
attend for the next two Monday nights at 7:00 p.m. He noted the acoustics are better in that
location.
Ms. Lemieux reminded all the site visit for the proposed 40B housing project is tomorrow at
1:00 p.m. and the 40B workshop is next Tuesday, August 3rd at the Middle/High School
auditorium at 7:00 p.m. Anyone attending the workshop should follow face mask protocol if
they are not vaccinated for Covid-19.
There is a Grand Opening Ceremony ribbon cutting scheduled by the new owners of the
Lunenburg gas station located at 451 Massachusetts Avenue on Wednesday, August 4' at
11:00 a.m. There will be other activities scheduled there from Tuesday through Thursday next
week.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
1. Election Officers Appointments: Warden-Glen Reinhardt(R); Deputy Warden-Ann
Shattuck (R); Clerk-Darlene Steele (D); Clerk-Judy Haley (D); Inspector-Susan
Andrews (D); Deputy Inspector-Joanne Bergeron (D); Inspector-Kathleen Pliska
(R); Deputy Inspector Jane Ranley (R)
Ms. Lemieux noted these are reappointments and the memo from Executive Assistant Peterson
regarding the procedure guided by MGL c. 54 was in the Board's packet.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint the following election officers: Warden-Glen Reinhardt(R); Deputy Warden-
Ann Shattuck (R); Clerk-Darlene Steele (D); Clerk-Judy Haley (D); Inspector-Susan
===PAGE 2===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager Appointments of Megan Lordan, Amanda Koeck and Kristen
Levine
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies-1 citizen at large
and 1 representative from Historical Commission)
• Board of Assessors (1 vacancy-joint appointments between BOA and BOS
until next ATE)
• Bylaw Review Committee (1 vacancy)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and
BOS until next ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee, 1 citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner
• Housing Authority (1 position to be held by a tenant at Pearl Brook
Apartments)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Retirement of the Principal Assessor:
Principal Assessor Sue Byrne has notified me that she will be retiring by November 30, 2021. The
Assistant Town Manager will be advertising the position this week and our goal would be to have
this position filled and the person working in the office before the current Principal Assessor retires.
PAYT Bag Price Increase:
After the July 13'" meeting, I notified our bag vendor that bag prices will be increasing 15% and they have
sent out a letter to all retailers that carry PAYT bags. The price increase will go into effect on August 16t.
FY22 State Budget Update:
The Governor signed off on the FY 2022 State Budget recently and DLS released the final State
Aid figures. As reported at the last meeting, the final overall impact to Lunenburg is a deficit of
===PAGE 3===
and rate them using the evaluation criteria set at the August 24th meeting.
The Assistant Town Manager will be assisting the Parks Commission on drafting their bid
documents for a Master Plan for Marshall Park.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1):
I reached out to the MassDEP Deputy Regional Director of the Bureau of Waste Site Cleanup last
week and unfortunately, there is no new news to offer. The last time he touched base with the office
that handles Leaking Underground Storage Tanks, the LUST funds were tied up with the federal
infrastructure bill. I will continue to check in with MassDEP on the availability of this funding for
This afternoon I received the existing conditions survey that was performed by Dillis & Roy for this
property. This was a necessary step in order to eventually dispose of the property and relevant to
the clean-up of the property.
American Rescue Plan Act Funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Funds):
I had aroundtable meeting with the Police Chief, Fire Chief, DPW Director, Finance Director, IT
Director, the Economic Development Manager from Montachusett Regional Planning
Commission, and spoke with the Board of Health about possible eligible uses of the ARPA
funds (Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund).
The US Treasury has identified five core areas for eligible uses of these funds:
1. Supporting public health expenditures, by funding COVID-19 mitigation efforts, medical
expenses, behavioral healthcare, and certain public health and safety staff;
2. Addressing negative economic impacts caused by the public health emergency, including
economic harms to workers, households, small businesses, impacted industries, and the
public sector;
3. Replacing lost public sector revenue, using this funding to provide government services to
the extent of the reduction in revenue experienced due to the pandemic;
4. Providing premium pay for essential workers, offering additional support to those who
have borne and will bear the greatest health risks because of their service in critical
infrastructure sectors; and,
5. Investing in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure, making necessary investments to
improve access to clean drinking water, support vital wastewater and stormwater
infrastructure, and to expand access to broadband internet.
There were a number of ideas that we discussed at that meeting, that ranged from expanding
broadband access, stormwater projects that would improve water quality, costs related to the
Police Reform Act such as a Mental Health Clinician, environmental remediation of certain
parcels, public safety capital projects, and implementing IT recommendations from the Continuity
===PAGE 4===
an we want to spen bese tunas l d way that provides te greatest impact to tne town and our
residents.
I have asked the Finance Committee for their input and am asking the Select Board for any input before I
present a plan for use of the funds at a future meeting. It will take some time to get answers from the US
Treasury and to research the costs for the various possible projects/programs. I would anticipate I would
present a plan by the end of September/beginning of October.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn is being held Sundays until October 10th,
10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m.
• Summer Band Concerts are on Monday evenings at 7 p.m. until August 9th (with a rain
date of an additional Monday on August 16th) and will beoutside the front entrance of the
TCP Building. These are posted on the Town Calendar on the website by the Town Clerk
and if they need to be canceled, it will be updated on the Town Calendar.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review and Vote on Select Board Goals for FY 2022
FY2022 Lunenburg Select Board Goals
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building at
the Old Primary School Site (a continuation of last year's Select Board Goal - Objective
1, with additional actions).
i. Action: Engage, via the RFP process approved at the 2021 Annual Town Meeting,
with a landscape architecture firm to discuss the vision of a multi-use open-
Siake respace propote the sys sie the metings) porticipate in his
potential of incorporating some aspect of the current building in order to
address, include and/or memorialize its historic value.
ii. Action: At appropriate times during the process, advertise and hold public hearings
in order to present the current working plans at the time and to get
feedback and guidance from the public regarding the project
ili. Action: Work with the landscape architecture firm to develop an article for the
proposed project at the site to be presented to the 2022 Annual Town
Meeting (or some later Town Meeting) for vote, including all estimated
costs, plans, timeline and necessary funding.
iv. Action: In preparation for a Town Meeting vote on the project, prepare for any/all
permits required to achieve the project.
Objective 2: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to establish a means-tested senior citizen
property tax exemption or abatement.
===PAGE 5===
any proposal. At a minimum, these illustrations should include what the
exemption and/or abatement would be to the eligible seniors and what the
impact would be on all other taxpayers.
iv. Action: Hold public hearings when necessary (but at least one) to present the
proposal and get feedback from the public.
v. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final
proposal for Town consideration.
Objective 3:
Develop a policy designed to encourage volunteerism in Town, especially with regard to
town boards, committees and commissions. The policy should aim to determine how to
improve existing methods, what new methods might be tried, and how obstacles might be
removed to garner more active involvement from the public. Input from all current
municipal body members and the public, at large, should be actively pursued.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To accept the FY22 Select Board goals
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discussion of Notice from MassHousing on 40B Site Approval Application from
Pond View Commons, LLC (Kevin O'Brien)
Mr. Alonzo noted the office is receiving public comment, all not in favor of the project. This
project is being brought forward by the developer and the site walk is tomorrow.
The site approval process is offered to project sponsors who intend to apply for a Comprehensive
Permit under Chapter 40B. MassHousing's review involves an evaluation of the site, the design
concept, the financial feasibility of the proposal, and the appropriateness of the proposal in
relation to local housing needs and strategies.
John Morreale Sr.,9 Sequoia Drive, stated he was not opposed to the project, but to the tactics
and manner in which it is being presented. He attended the water district meetings and did not
see any plans. He did note one could not do anything without water being supplied and the road
is hard to navigate in the winter. It was pointed out that the plans are on the front page of the
town website.
Suggestion was made for the Planning Board to forward pertinent questions to the Zoning Board
of Appeals who would be the entity that holds the hearings and makes the binding decisions.
All public comment should be submitted to the Select Board office by August 9th in order to
compile all of them for the August 16 deadline. Mr. Alonzo requested finding out what the
criteria for such a project is, as he could find none.
===PAGE 6===
eligible for the credit, you would be eligible for this one. He stated two programs might be
needed to address different financial needs criteria.
Ms. Lemieux noted any proposal would have to go to to Annual Town Meeting for approval and
then the Select Board would have to petition the legislature for passage of special legislation.
Discussion ensued about different scenarios of need, criteria and how it will affect the remaining
taxpayers as well as the town's revenue and town hall staff. There will be a future workshop on
this and the Finance Director and Pricipal Assessor should be present.
2. Fall Special Town Meeting Timeline
Ms. Lemieux presented a proposed timeline for a November 16" Special Town Meeting.
3. Approval of Minutes of July 13, 2021
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of July 13, 2021 as presented
2n°: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
4. Warrants
Mr. Alonzo reported the following warrants were signed by the Board last week:
• Warrants Accounts Payable Warrant #2 WP 21, dated 6/30/21, in the amount of $20,857.01;
• Accounts Payable Warrant #4 22, dated 7/20/21, in the amount of $86,451.22;
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #5 22, dated 7/21/2021, in the amount of $699,814.48;
• Payroll Warrant #2P22, dated 7/22/2021, in the amount of $660,859.98;
• Accounts Payable Warrant #F Y21LOAN, dated 5/31/2021, in the amount of $168,131.25 (Loan
Payment due 5/1/21)
5. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo reported the Board at their last Executive Session had ratified the employment
agreement between the Town and the Director of Municipal Finance.It is a five year contract,
retroactive to July 1, 2021 and through June 30, 2026. It outlines the first two years of
compensation; the first year in the amount of $104,900 and the second year in the amount of
$108,050 (effective 7/1/22). The remaining years are to be negotiated before the beginning of the
fiscal year. The Board signed the contract. Mr. Alonzo thanked finance Director Brochu who is
also the Town Accountant for all her continued hard work. Ms. Lemieux echoed Mr. Alonzo's
praises.
6. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Friend of the Lunenburg Public Library met and it was noted residents
are looking for the library to be open later at night and on Fridays. The Library is working on a
request for additional funding to increase staffing in order to be open on Fridays in the amount of
around $50,000.
===PAGE 7===
on the Housing Authority.
Mr. Franco reported the Economic Development Committee met on July 22nd
. The survey for
businesses is almost completed. They are working with the Assessors' office and the Lunenburg
Business Association to identify all of the businesses in town.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Council on Aging met and discussed the boulders on the Memorial
Drive easement as well as the ongoing sidewalk construction. They are working on an
orientation kit for new COA members as well as policies and procedures. Indoor programs are
99% back to normal. All is going well over there.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted the August 3rd, 40B Workshop at the MS/HS Auditorium next week and the
board's regular meetings will be on August 10", August 17 and August 24th
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none this evening
Mr. Alonzo announced the Board would be entering Executive Session.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session pursuant to
M.G.L. c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 2, to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for
negotiations with non-union personnel or contract negotiations with non-union personnel
(Town Manager)
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
**********************Executive Session Minutes are Separate**********************
The meeting adjourned at 8:22 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine I. Peteison
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
