===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
members present. Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-kay Jettreys, Vice Chairman; Jim Marino, Lou
Franco
Select Board Member not present: Todd Dwyer
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Mary Foyle, Kristina Masaitis, Brandon
Kibbe, Open Space Committee Chairman; Ana Lockwood, Park Commissioner, Dave Passios,
Park Commissioner
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
Mr. Marino led the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo congratulated the graduating Lunenburg Class of 2021 and their families. There
was no other public comment.
APPOINTMENTS
Weekday Entertainment License- Smokestack Roasters, LLC, 39 Mass. Ave.
Mr. Alonzo reported the office had received a late afternoon email from the applicant stating
they were withdrawing their application at this time.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Select Board Appointments:
By-law Review Committee- Mary Foyle has taught at Lunenburg High School for 19 years and
has lived in town for 11 years. She teaches English and Civics and thought this would be a good
introduction to town government for herself.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint Mary Foyle to the By-law Review Committee
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
TCP Building Design Committee (Member at Large) - Kristina Masaitis moved to town in
2016 and has two young children, so she has an interest in what happens to town buildings. Pre-
Covid-19, she was an assistant engineer working on office expansions, closures and redesigns for
different sites in the USA and Canada. She has attended one meeting so far and looked over the
pertinent documents. Mr. Franco thanked her for coming forward. He hoped she had no
predisposition either way regarding the building going forward and would contribute fairly to the
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Kibbe stated the Upen Space Committee continues to work on various goals and objectives
that we have in our Open Space plan. One of the goals is to make sure we are using the existing
resources that we have in town. We have existing recreational, open space, etc. in town, but what
they may not know is the Town owns a lot of other properties, scattered all over the town. A lot
of them were acquired through the tax title process and there are other parcels that were acquired
and are sitting there vacant. Some were acquired for one use and then deemed not suitable for
that use. Some are conservation areas that are under the purview of the Conservation
Commission. Tonight he would be addressing 225 Pleasant Street and 671 West Street.
Access to the West Street area is limited due to being densely populated. He moved on to his
Power Point presentation:
The West Street parcel is 66.5 acres of wetland, woodland, a pond, trails and wildlife enjoyed
by local residents from around the Whalom district. The trailhead is currently located off the
south-westerly side of the West Street S-curve, where there is seasonal parking for three or
more vehicles. The trailhead is currently located at the west end of the West Street S-curve. It
follows the west side of the pond and wetlands before dividing into east and west loops.
The trail heads south around the westerly side of a large picturesque wetland and pond with
most of the woodlands to the west of the trail. The hiking is easy with very little slope, but
several rustic crossings and tricky areas around seasonal pools of storm water offer some
challenge. The parcel is divided and dominated by the eastern wetlands and the mixed
woodlands to the west. A large natural opening provides hikers with a grand view of the
wetland from the edge of the woods; a natural pause in the trek, and a perfect spot to observe
the landscape or listen to the rustling of the trees and the calls of the blackbirds, hawks and
bluebirds who share the marsh with deer, turkey and other wildlife. There are several downed
trees in the area which might be arranged for rustic seating.
Adventure and new discoveries await families undertaking this brisk walk with crossing loops
to the east and west. There are one or two large puddles along the trail way which may require
remediation or course changes to protect these natural features and improve walkability. The
trail continues south toward a fork in the system. Hikers may choose an eastern or western
loop. The Eastern Loop crosses the brook connecting the northern and southern wetlands. It
skirts the northern wetlands and circles around on itself. A turn to the left will take you on the
eastern loop trail, through a mixed forest with large stands of Mountain Laurel. Here, the trail
heads down a short slope toward a stone crossing of the brook connecting the southern and
northern wetlands. As hikers continue, they'll complete the eastern loop which runs behind the
homes along Whalom Road. The western loop is characterized by a large segmented loop with
smaller loops contained within it. To the north, a deep woodland separates the trails system
from homes on West Street and Pratt Street. There are several access points along Pratt Street
which could be converted to trailheads for people coming from the south. Heading off on the
western loop, the trails are more heavily trodden from dirt-bike and four wheeler use. Travelers
are surrounded by deep woodlands and ancient stone walls from the agricultural period.
Trails are easy to follow and the walking is not difficult.
===PAGE 3===
larger, interconnected landscape including Laurel Bank Conservation Area, the Pleasant Street
Parcel, the solar fields and Whalom Woods. We envision a Whalom Greenway, bringing a
diverse hiking and recreational experience to folks from Emerald Place to Tri-town Landing
through these precious natural corridors. The first step is to provide more protection to these
resources by placing them in the care and custody of either the Conservation Commission or the
Parks and Recreation Department.
A WHALOM GREENWAY
In this map, you can see the potential for connecting these various assets into one cohesive, but
segmented greenway. Providing options and opportunity for outdoor recreation.
515-3
• 19100
PARKING
===PAGE 4===
future uses for these parcels. Mr. Kibbe thanked the board and noted they will be meeting next
week to begin the process. He will return at a later date to have the Select Board participate as
well.
Park Commissioner Ana Lockwood thanked Mr. Kibbe for the presentation and agreed the
areas are densely populated and believed there should be more recreation space there.
Mr. Kibbe thanked the Board for their time and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Pride Event Requests
Mr. Alonzo noted that there have been requests for observance of Pride Month and to raise a
rainbow flag in Lunenburg. A draft proclamation has been drafted and he read it aloud:
Proclamation Honoring Pride Month
In the Town of Lunenburg
WHEREAS, the Lunenburg Select Board recognizes June 2021 as Pride Month
throughout the Town of Lunenburg; and
WHEREAS, all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. LGBTQIA+
individuals have had immeasurable impact to the culture, civic and
economic successes of our local community and country; and
WHEREAS, the Town of Lunenburg is committed to supporting visibility, dignity and
equality for LGBTQIA+ people in our diverse community; and
WHEREAS, it is essential to acknowledge that the need for education and awareness
remains vital to end discrimination and prejudice; and
WHEREAS, celebrating Pride Month influences awareness and provides support and
advocacy for Lunenburg's LGBTQIA+ community, and is an opportunity to
take action and engage in dialogue to strengthen alliances, build
acceptance and advance equal rights.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT PROCLAIMED that the Select Board hereby proclaims the month of
June 2021 as PRIDE Month in the Town of Lunenburg in support of the LGBTQIA+
community.
This the 8th day of June 2021.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he was in the military service when the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy was
instituted and he supported the policy for several reasons, and over the course of his career he
adhered to it. Over time there came a point when he recognized the obvious conflict of
individuals who have different sexual attractions and what that impact really is to the armed
forces. He went to Washington D.C. and lobbied for the repeal of the policy. He wrote several
letters to various Senators and Representatives to repeal it. It was quite the celebration when it
was repealed. He also saw the transition from the pre-"Don't Ask, Don't Tell," and the repeal of
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo also supported the proclamation proudly and fully behind every word of the
proclamation.
Robyn Mayo, 38 Otis Street, introduced herself to the Select Board, holding up a No WoCo Pride
(North Worcester County) card listing herself as the Secretary of the Board of Directors. She
introduced her wife Jaclyn. Ms. Mayo wanted to provide her contact into and offered any
assistance needed with the proposed rainbow flag raising. On behalf of the Board of Directors
she expressed happiness at hearing the board's comments. She also offered the Town a rainbow
flag to raise for the ceremony. She hoped NoWoCo could form a long standing and continuing
relationship with the Lunenburg Select Board.
Mr. Alonzo thanked her for her offer and stated whenever they do hold the ceremony it would be
in town center.
Stephanie Trudel also voiced her support for the town flying the rainbow flag and was pleased
the Select Board was receptive to this. She believed it was so important to take an active stand
and show that all the residents of our town are honored and valued and seen as a part of our
community.
Ana Lockwood noted there are several private rainbow flags displayed around town as well.
Motion: J. Marino
2n°: M. Jeffreys
To accept the proclamation as submitted
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To accept the donation of the rainbow flag and hold a flag raising ceremony
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: J. Marino
A time and date to hold the flag raising will be determined. Mr. Alonzo thanked Robyn and
Jacyln Mayo as well as Ms. Trudel for attending the meeting this evening.
2. Vote to approve the Park Commission's acceptance of bleachers donated by the
McNally Family
Ms. Lemieux reported the McNally family has donated a set of bleachers for McNally Park and
the Park Commissioners voted to accept the donation at their meeting. The second step is for the
Select Board to approve the acceptance by the Parks Commission. Dave Passios thanked the
McNally family for their donation. Mr. Alonzo also thanked the McNally family for the
donation.
Motion: J. Marino
2n:M. Jeffreys
To accept the donation of bleachers for McNally Park
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Ratification of the Town Manager's Annual Appointments
===PAGE 6===
Assistant Dam Keeper-Rich Patry- 655 Reservoir Road
Emergency Management Director/Fire Chief-Patrick Sullivan
RACES* Control Officer-Ralph Swick-133 Townsend Harbor Road
Asst. RACES Officer-Brian LeBlanc-67 Mulpus Road
Member-Jeanine Swick-113 Townsend Harbor Road
*(Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service)
Field Driver-Kathy Comeau-806 West Street
Forest Warden-Patrick Sullivan
Hazardous Waste Coordinator-Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer-Heather Lemieux
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)-
Gary Williams-34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)-
Richard Kapenas-Townsend, MA
Pound Keeper--Jean Larkin-17 Highland Street
Public Weighers- (provided by PJ Keating)
Rich Reynolds
Erin Morin
Brian Contois
Jay Valliere
Mike Reynolds
Jen Oliveria
John Denapoli
Britany Woodhouse
Inspector of Weights and Measure-Steve Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)- John Biery-15 Crescent Road
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner)-
David Stone-83 Arbor Street
Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2022
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.
Louis Franco-250 Arbor Street Mike
Kidney-86 Lancaster Ave. Chuck
Venezia-1402 Mass. Ave. John
Lynch- 453 Page Street William
Tyler-5 Graham Street
Jon Hogue- 15 Cliffview Terrace (new appointee)
Tree Warden-Robert Oliva
Veterans' Service Officer-T J. Blauser
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: L. Franco
===PAGE 7===
3. Sergeant Sean J. Connery
4. Sergeant Joshua B. Tocci
5. Sergeant Sean W. Zrate
6. Off. Joshua M. Mathieu
7. Off. Jonathan J. Broc
8. Off. Bradley J. McNamara
9. Off. John F. Morreale
10. Off. Jacob A. Lachance
11. Off. John M. Wagner
12. Off. Gage R. Russell
13. Off. Kamerin P. Munroe
14. Off. Anthony P. Cappucci
15. Off. Jeffrey T. Hill
16. Off. Nicholas J. Marino
Reserve Officers:
1. Off. Lisa M. Melnicki
2. Off. Robert R. Dacosta
3. Off. Benjamin R. Campbell
4. Off. Chad E. Stateler
5. Off. Erin K. Considine
6. Off. Brian J. Watson
7. Off. Paul A. Duquette
8. Off. Esteban R. Bonilla-Perez
9. Off. Joel Ortega
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointments as presented
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mir. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Ms. Lemieux presented the Special Police Officer appointments:
Shirley Police Officers:
Chief Samuel Santiago
Lt. Alfreda Cromwell
Sgt. Jared Yanis
Sgt. Robett Romilly
Detective Matthew Euliano
Detective William McGuinness
Police Officer Kyle Dodge
2nd: L. Franco
===PAGE 8===
Townsend Police Officers
James Sartell, Chief
Mark Giancotti, Lt.
Christopher Peach, Lt.
Kimberly Mattson, Sgt.
George Reidy, Sgt.
Mark Francis, Officer
David Phillips, Officer
James Landi, Officer
Jeffrey Giles, Officer
Michael Marchand, Officer
Christopher Low, Officer
Eric Modica, Officer
Christopher Tucker, Officer
Paul Theodoulou, Officer
Dylan Silvestri, Officer
James Marchand, Reserve Officer
Tony Brennan, Reserve Officer
Christopher VanHooris, Reserve Officer
Austin Cote, Reserve Officer
Motion: J. Marino
2nd. M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointments of special officers from Shirley and Townsend
as presented
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
CURRENT BUSINESS (Cont.)
3. New Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy per Act providing for Massachusetts
COVID-19 emergency paid sick leave signed on May 28, 2021
Ms. Lemieux reported this is a new emergency paid sick leave signed by Governor Baker.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
===PAGE 9===
related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Act is effective May 28, 2021 through September 30, 2021 or until State funding is
exhausted prior to this date.
ELIGIBILITY
Under the Act, employees are entitled to leave as follows:
• 40 hours of emergency paid sick leave for employees who work 40 or more hours
per week.
• For employees who regularly work fewer than 40 hours per week, leave in an amount
that is equal to the average number of hours that such employee works per week.
• For employees whose schedule and weekly hours vary from week to week, leave
that is equal to the average number of hours that the employee was scheduled to
work per week over the previous 6 months.
• If an employee with a variable schedule has not worked for the employer for 6
months, leave that is equal to the number of hours per week that the employee
reasonably expected to work when hired.
An employee may use emergency paid sick leave on an intermittent basis and in hourly
increments.
PURPOSES FOR WHICH LEAVE MAY BE TAKEN
Leave is available to employees who are unable to work for the following reasons:
1. An employee's need to:
• self-isolate and care for themselves because they have been diagnosed with
COVID-19;
• get a medical diagnosis, care, or treatment for COVID-19 symptoms; or
• get or recover from a COVID-19 immunization;
2. An employee's need to care for a family member who:
• must self-isolate due to a COVID-19 diagnosis; or
• needs medical diagnosis, care, or treatment for COVID-19 symptoms;
3. a quarantine order or similar determination regarding the employee by a local,
state, or federal public official, a health authority having jurisdiction, or a health
care provider;
4. an employee's need to care for a family member due to a quarantine order or
similar determination regarding the family member by a local, state, or federal
public official, a health authority having jurisdiction, the family member's
===PAGE 10===
An employee is required to provide notice of the need for leave as soon as practicable or
foreseeable. Requests for leave must be made in writing, with the following information:
• the employee's name;
• the date(s) for which leave is requested and taken;
• a statement of the COVID-19 related reason the employee is requesting leave and
written support for such reason; and
• a statement that because of the COVID-19 related reason the employee is unable to
work or telework.
For leave requests based on a quarantine order or self-quarantine advice, the statement from
the employee must also include: (1) the name of the governmental entity ordering quarantine
or the name of the health care provider advising self-quarantine; and (2) if the person subject
to quarantine or advised to self-quarantine is not the employee, that person's name and relation
to the employee.
RETURN TO WORK FROM LEAVE
An employee on leave who has been exposed but are not exhibiting any symptoms and have not
tested positive:
OPTIONS
CRITERIA
7 days of strict
quarantine
10 days of strict
quarantine
Return to Work on Day 8 after last exposure IF:
• A test (either PCR or Abbot BinaxNOW
antigen) taken on Day 5 or later is negative;
AND
• The individual has not experienced any
symptoms up to that point; AND
• The individual conducts active monitoring
through Day 14
Return to Work on Day 11 after last exposure IF:
• The individual has not experienced any
symptoms up to that point; AND
• The individual conducts active monitoring
through Day 14.
• No test is necessary under this option
ACTIVE
MONITORING
Individual must actively
monitor symptoms and
take temperature once
daily. IF even mild
symptoms develop or
the individual has a
temperature of 100.0 F,
they must immediately
self-isolate, contact the
public health authority
overseeing their
quarantine and get
tested.
===PAGE 11===
An employee self-isolating due to a positive COVID-19 test or are exhibiting symptoms of
COVID-19 (including fever, chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or
smell) and have been told by a provider that they have, or probably have, COVID-19, even in the
absence of a test may not return to work unless and until either:
Symptomatic:
• At least 24 hours have passed since recovery, defined as resolution of fever
without the use of fever-reducing medications; and
• Improvement in symptoms; and
• At least 10 days have passed since symptoms first appeared.
Asymptomatic:
• At least 10 days have passed since the first positive COVID-19 diagnostic test was
taken, assuming symptoms did not subsequently develop.
NOTE: Individuals who had COVID-19 in the last 90 days (from day of symptom onset or day of first
positive test if asymptomatic), AND individuals who have received either two doses of the Moderna or
Pfizer COVID-19 vaccines or a single dose of the Janssen COVID-19 vaccine at least 14 days ago, are
not required to quarantine following an exposure.
NO NEED TO FIND REPLACEMENT EMPLOYEE
An employee who takes leave pursuant to the Act and this Policy shall not be required to search
for or find his/her replacement to cover the hours during while using COVID-19 emergency
paid sick leave.
NON-RETALIATION PROVISIIONS
While administering their COVID-19 emergency paid sick leave programs, employers may
not interfere with an employee's ability to use COVID-19 emergency paid sick leave or
retaliate against an employee for exercising rights under the program. Specifically, employers
may not:
(1) interfere with, restrain, or deny an employee's ability to take COVID-19
emergency paid sick leave, including, but not limited to, by using an employee's taking
of COVID19 emergency paid sick leave as a negative factor in any employment action,
such as an evaluation, promotion, disciplinary action, or termination;
(2) discipline or take any other adverse action against an employee for using COVID-
19 emergency paid sick leave; or
===PAGE 12===
INTERRELATION WITH OTHER LAWS
The Town will comply with all federal and state laws enacted to address the Coronavirus
pandemic. In the event of any conflict between this Policy and the Act or any other paid sick
leave laws enacted in response to the Coronavirus crisis, the terms of any such applicable
federal or state law(s) that conflicts) with or supersedes this Policy shall apply.
Motion: J. Marino
To adopt the policy as presented
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: L. Franco
Action Items:
Mr. Alonzo thanked Monty Tech, the Cemetery Commission and the DP W for working on the
North Cemetery garage and everyone who helped make it come together.
He also noted how good the cemeteries looked this past Memorial Day.
Committee Reports:
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee Appointing Committee will be meeting on June 15
to interview two applicants for the Finance Committee openings effective July 15t.
Mr. Franco reported the Economic Development Committee did not meet due to a scheduling
error.
Mr. Jeffreys requested a thank you letter be sent to Monty Tech on behalf of the Board for their
work on the garage. The board members concurred. Council on Aging and the Library Trustees
meet next week. TCP Building Design meets at the end of the month.
TOWN MANAGER COVID 19 UPDATE June 8, 2021
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of June 4th was 796. The state report showed 751 cases as of
June 1st. There were zero cases since May 28th. We are now back to "gray" on the positivity rate map.
(lowest positivity rate being gray, to green, to yellow, and red as the highest positivity rate
Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic:
The Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic will host another vaccination clinic on
Wednesday, June 9th 1 PM- 6 PM at the Clear Path for Veterans New England building at 84 Antietam
Street in Devens. Walk-ins appointments are welcome. The vaccine offered at this regional clinic is the
Pfizer vaccine and is for all persons 12 years of age and older. The site is wheelchair accessible and
there is a wheelchair on site. Those wishing to schedule an appointment can visit
https://vaxfinder.mass.gov/.
===PAGE 13===
Governor Baker's Executive Urder that suspended certain provisions of the Upen Meeting Law,
which altered the way public meetings were legally held during the duration of the State of
Emergency by allowing a public body to meet without the public body being physically present
and allowed fully remote participation, will be rescinded on June 15"h.
This means that
beginning on June 15th, to comply with the Open Meeting Law, all public bodies must meet in
places physically open to the public, pursuant to G.L. C. 30A, § 20.
Beginning on June 15th, members of a public body must be physically present at the meeting to
participate and satisfy quorum requirements. This means remote participation by members of
the public body is not allowed, unless a quorum of the board is present.
June 15" will be the first day that "in-person" public meetings will be held. Public Access
and our IT department have set-up the Town Hall meeting room to be able to conduct both
an in-person and Zoom meeting simultaneously. At this time, this will be limited to those
boards/committees that had "live broadcast" meetings in the Town Hall meeting room prior
to March 12, 2020. The agendas for these "hybrid" meetings reflect the in-person location
(Town Hall) and the Zoom meeting information. All other meetings will only need to reflect
the physical location of the in-person meeting.
We understand that the ability to have fully remote meetings allowed for greater flexibility in
meeting times for boards and committees that did not require reserving a physical space.
Given that there are 28 different boards, committees, and commissions that require meeting
space, and we have a limited number of meeting rooms, we ask for everyone's patience as we
transition back to in-person meetings.
In terms of face coverings and other COVID-19 safety requirements, board/committee
members and meeting attendees that have not been fully vaccinated (have received two doses of
either the Moderna or Pfizer vaccine or a single dose of the Johnson & Johnson more than 14
days ago) are asked to continue wearing a face covering and socially distance themselves from
their fellow board/committee members and members of the public when in-person, indoor
meetings resume. We ask that everyone continue to adhere to these safety protocols in order to
keep our staff and the public safe.
It is noteworthy to add that Governor Baker filed legislation on May 25, 2021 to extend certain
emergency measures currently in place via executive orders that are set to expire on June 15th.
This legislation, if enacted, would extend the authority for municipal boards to conduct virtual
meetings. However, until this legislation is passed and enacted as law, the above provisions
govern. If the legislation does pass a public notification will be sent out and a new plan
devised.
===PAGE 14===
ATE)
• Bylaw Review Committee (1 vacancy)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and BOS until
next AlE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee, 1
citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is a business owner)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office.
Home Rule Petition for Jaxx Country Variety
House Bill 3813 (formerly House 3715) for the additional liquor license for Jaxx Country Variety has now
been referred for a third reading.
Invitation for Bids:
Bids were solicited for the manufacturing and supply of municipal Pay As You Throw trash bags and
retail distribution services and we received one bid, from our current vendor WasteZero. I will have a
report and recommendation to the Select Board at their next meeting on June 15th on the PAYT bag fee
increase for FY 2022.
Mr. Jeffrey inquired if there was a way to give seniors a percentage discount on the PAYT trash bags. Ms.
Lemieux could not provide any information this evening.
Flat Hill Road Drainage:
The DPW Director had an on-site meeting with Flat Hill Road residents Susan Whalen and Matthew Allison
this past Friday. The meeting was to inspect and discuss the existing conditions with both property
owners and discuss a possible drainage solution that would discharge the existing runoff into an existing
watershed but address the underlying drainage issues. The residents are going to think about this proposal
and get back to the DPW Director.
Paving and Bridge Project Updates:
MassDOT notified the Town last week that starting Wednesday, June 9th they will be detouring traffic
around the area in the evening starting at 7 PM until 5 AM in order to get the temporary traffic signals
and barriers set up for the one lane traffic pattern. The one lane traffic pattern will be up and running on June
===PAGE 15===
lane isa shared through/rightturn lane. MasSDUl hasagreedto evaluate thetrattic volumes and
operations at the intersection to determine if the outside lane on the WB approach at the signal can be
modified, with signsand striping, to an exclusiveright turn lane. They will follow-up with their findings
upon completion.
Department Updates:
Library: Library hours are back to "normal" for browsing and entering the library: M-Thurs 10-8, Sat 10-2,
with curbside pickups available, if requested. The carpet project will begin the week of August 9th and the
Library will close for the couple of weeks until the project is complete. The summer reading program is
kicking off on June 24th 6:30-7:30 pm with a family event including "Flying High Dogs" on develop their
Long Term Strategic Plan. The recommended plan will be voted on by the Library Board of Trustees at their
June meeting.
Treasurer/Collector: The Collector's Office is getting Preliminary Billing ready and preparing for the
auditors (on site the week of June 7th).
Finance Director: The Finance Director issued notice for departments that all final Purchase Orders and
Requisitions for FY21 must be opened by June 10th and that departments need to submit requests for
encumbrances by July 15th. The Finance Director has also been busy reconciling the changes made by the
federal and state government related to what is eligible to be submitted to FEMA and under CARES, as
this has changed multiple times and then needs to be readjusted in our accounting system. Also, she
submits quarterly spending reports for the CARES funding, with the latest due on June 4th.
Land Use: North End Subaru is leveling theirdealership and buildinga new, expanded footprint that will
increase their servicearea. The Planning Board has a subdivision plan before them for 101 Pleasant Street
for a six-lot subdivision consisting of six duplex buildings. The applicant requested a waiver from the
maximum dead-end road length of 650 feet, which the Board denied. As a result, the applicant
redesigned the subdivision proposal byreducing itto four duplex buildings. Thecontinuation of this
hearing is scheduled for June 28th.
The Planning Board also has a hearing for the construction of four 2-unit townhouse buildings consisting
of six 3-bedroom and two 2-bedroom units at 711 Massachusetts Avenue. The continuation of this
hearing is scheduled for June 28th.
is sponsored by the Police and Fire Departments and the Eagle House Supporters on Friday, June 25th at
1 p.m. There are a number of other programs at the Senior Center that can be found in their monthly
newsletter, on the website, and advertised on their Facebook page.
Assessors: Motor Vehicle Excise tax bills in the amount of $364,000 went out in May. The new assessing
software conversion is complete and VISION will go live on July 1st. Billing will be done from VISION.
GIS Mapping through Cartographics will be updated regularly and those field cards will be updated
accordingly.
DPW: The DPW Directorreported that the DPW isperformingallthe landscapingand mowing untilthe
new contractor begins on July Ist. The Town Beach will be opening on June 20th and Lakeview
Nursery will be coming in to do clean-up at the beach. The Recreation Director is currently out on
maternity leaveso the DPW Directorand DPW Administrative Assistantwillbehandlingalltownbeach
related responsibilities whilethe Recreation Director isout. Therehas been an increase in purchase of rain
===PAGE 16===
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn will be Sundays starting June 13th until October 10th; 10
a.m. until 12:30 p.m. except on Sunday, July 4th.
The Summer Band Concerts willresume on Monday evenings at 7 p.m., July 12th until August 9th (with a
rain date of an additional Monday on August 16th). Concerts will moveto the area in front of the TCP,
with the band set up on the front entrance steps of the TCP, the public on the grassy area acrossthe front
entrance, and parking between the Library and TCP. Thetriangleentrance and exit and the gate to
Memorial Drive will be closed off for safety reasons.
Ms. Lemieux reported she had met with one of the Monty Tech teachers at the Ritter Building last
week to see if they could work on the kitchen renovation and they could. This will be done in the
fall.
Mr. Alonzo reported former Select Board member Katey Adams will continue her appointment on
the Americans with Disabilities Act Commission until her term expires in 2022.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reported their upcoming meetings are June 15 which will be a goals workshop and
will be in person and then on June 22.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none this evening.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2nd: M. Jeffreys
The meeting adjourned at 8:58 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
