===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Todd Dwyer,
Jim Marino, Lou Franco
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rob Oliva, DPW Director
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call. ned with the Pledee of Allegiance that was recited by Mr Marino
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who came out to vote in the annual election last Saturday. He
announced the Board has a new member, Lou Franco. He thanked previous member Katey
Adams for her three years of service on this board
Mr. Franco thanked everyone for welcoming him and the voters of Lunenburg for placing their
trust in him. It is a charge he takes seriously and looks forward to working with the other board
members and all stakeholders on many issues facing the town. We have a lot of questions. He
encouraged people of all perspectives to participate in the conversations. These are community
questions and the power ultimately lies with the people at town meeting. The town boards work
for the people and while we can guide the conversations, ultimately no big decisions can be
made without the consent of the people. Town meeting is your voice. He looked forward to
serving in a spirit of cooperation and noted there may be times he may not always agree with
the other board members, but promised he would operate in good faith and with intellectual
honesty. He looked forward to working in a spirit of compromise, hearing all perspectives and
trying to find common ground to create solutions that our town can move forward with. His
door is open to all and we are a community; let us arrive at community solutions. People who
have worked with me over the years know that I have a very open mind; that I consider all
perspectives. He firmly believed that the best results are frequently the product of multiple
perspectives. It allows us to find common themes and arrive at solutions that most people can
be happy with, or at least live with. That is what we should be striving for.
Mr. Marino welcomed Mr. Franco to the board and wished him the best of luck. He believed
based on his statement that they were going to be on the same page.
Mr. Dwyer welcomed Mr. Franco and looked forward to working with him. He thanked Ms.
Adams for her service to the community and he was sure she will continue to use her voice
moving forward in the community.
===PAGE 2===
her Town Manager report.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Heavy Equipment Operator Leander
Ms. Lemieux reported Mr. Ferebee comes well-qualified with his Class A Commercial Driver's
license, hoisting license and other certifications. Although he couldn't be here tonight he is
looking forward to meeting everyone. Mr. Oliva was happy that they are filling the last DPW
opening and stated Mr. Ferebee would make a nice addition to the department.
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Leander Ferebee to Heavy Equipment
Operator effective May 24th
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Reorganization of the Board
Mr. Alonzo called for nominations for the position of Chairman. Mr. Jeffreys nominated Mr.
Alonzo for Chairman; Mr. Franco seconded it. There were no other nominations for
Chairman.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
abstained
Mr. Alonzo called for nominations for Vice Chairman. Mr. Marino nominated Mr. Jeffreys;
Mr. Dwyer seconded it. There were no other nominations for Vice Chairman.
Vote: Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- abstained, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo called for nominations for Clerk. Mr. Marino nominated Mr. Franco for Clerk
and Mr. Alonzo seconded it. There were no other nominations for Clerk. After some hesitation
from Mr. Franco on accepting the nomination due to being newly elected, Mr. Alonzo assured
him it is mostly ceremonial in title, adding there are some documents that only the Clerk can
sign. Mr. Franco accepted the nomination.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Franco-abstained, Mr.
Alonzo-aye
2. Select Board designees to certain committees and liason assignments
Mr. Alonzo brought this up for discussion tonight to make the appointments on June 1$
He asked the members to look over the list and decide what they want to keep or take on.
===PAGE 3===
Section 1: General
The Lunenburg Green Communities Committee will work with the Massachusetts Department
of Energy Resources to learn of grant opportunities for energy conservation and renewable
energy generation, and will apply for appropriate grants. The Committee will ensure the Town
retains its status as a designated Green Community.
Section 2: Functions
A. Mission: The Lunenburg Green Communities Committee will help raise awareness,
educate, advise, motivate the Town of Lunenburg residents and businesses to reduce
waste, reduce energy use, conserve resources, reduce emissions/carbon footprint, and
to embrace clean and renewable energy options.
B. Responsibilities:
1. Identify and develop grant submission for Green Communities Competitive
Grant annually that corresponds with the mission of this committee and is
consistent with the Towns goals;
2. Develop action steps to insure Lunenburg remains designated as a Department
of Energy Resources Green Community;
3. Facilitate town participation in DOER programs, grants, and incentives;
4. Serve as an information resource for town residents and business owners on
the benefits of energy and resource conservation;
5. Increase constituents' awareness of and promote resource conservation
methods, energy efficiency programs, utility rebates, and state/federal
programs to promote energy efficiency, waste reduction, recycling, and overall
enhancements to long term sustainability and resilience in response to
environmental, resource, and energy challenges
6. Report at least once annually on its activities to the Select Board.
Section 3: Membership and Meetings
1. The Committee shall be composed of five (5) regular members serving three year terms
appointed by the Select Board. Two members shall initially be appointed to a three year
term, two members shall initially be appointed to a two year term, and one member shall
be appointed to a one year term. After the initial term, all members shall serve a three
year term.
2.
In addition to the regular members, the Committee shall consult with the Town Manager,
the town departments that oversee the facilities and energy accounts, the School
Superintendent, and the School Facilities Director that oversees the school facilities and
school energy accounts in order to ascertain future energy projects, areas were energy
savings is needed, and replacement schedule for vehicles. Grammatical correction:
change "were" to "where" and "is" to "are."
3. Voting Power: All duly appointed members shall have full voting power.
===PAGE 4===
shall be elected annually by a majority vote of the Committee.
8. A quorum shall consist of three (3) members.
9. The recording of minutes and votes of all meetings as prescribed by the Open Meeting
Law. Copies of the minutes shall be submitted to the Town Clerk as prescribed in the
Town Bylaw and according to Open Meeting Law. Suggestion made to insert "shall be
conducted, following "The recording of minutes and votes of all meetings as prescribed
by the Open Meeting Law."
10. The Committee shall comply with all state laws and local bylaws.
Mr. Alonzo suggested waiting two weeks for any public comment before adopting and ratifying.
4. ACO 2021 1ST Quarter Report
There were no questions or comments regarding the report, other than the amount of loose dogs
in town.
5. Approve minutes of May 11, 2021
Motion: J. Marino
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of May 11, 2021
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-
abstained
6. Warrants:
Mr. Alonzo reported he signed the following warrants last week:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #53 21 dated 5/11/21, in the amount of $1,763,055.82
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #54 21, dated 5/12/2021, in the amount of $588,962.00;
• Payroll Warrant #23P21X dated 5/3/2021, in the amount of $425.82;
• Payroll Warrant #23P21, dated 5/13/2021, in the amount of $988,006.88
7. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo requested for a future agenda item that the town sign bylaw did not address
campaign signs adjacent to the polling place on Election Day. This needs to be revisited for that
situation only.
8. Committee Reports- there were none this evening
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion about Monty Tech Concept Site Plan and CAD illustrations for Old
Primary Property (30 School Street)
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Lemieux noted revisions could be made to the drawing.
The Board requested Ms. Lemieux express thanks to Monty Tech for their drawings of the site.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Board of Assessors (2 vacancies-joint appointments between BOA and BOS until next ATE)
• Bylaw Review Committee (2 vacancies)
• Commissioner of Trust Funds (2 vacancies-joint appointment between CTF and BOS until next
ATE)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee, 1
citizen at large, and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• TCPBuildingDesign Committee (1 vacancy appointed by the SelectBoard and TownModerator
for member at large)
• Senior Work Off Program Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
The following are positions whose terms are expiring on June 30th:
• Agricultural Commission (1 position)
• ArchitecturalPreservation District Commission (1 position)
• Conservation Commission (2positions)
• Council on Aging (3 positions)
• Finance Committee (2 positions)
• Historical Commission (1 position)
• Public Access Cable Committee (3 positions)
• Town Constables
• Town Clock winders
• Zoning Board of Appeals (2 positions)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office.
Municipal Aggregation-Electricity Supply:
Colonial Power, which isour municipalaggregation energy consultant, received tworesponsesto the
Request for Proposals (RFP) forelectricity prices forthe Town's Community Choice Power Supply
program. Ourthree year contract under this program with Constellation expires on October 31st (current
rate of $0.10998). As of November 1, 2021 the electricity supply agreement will be with First Point for a
rate of $0.11210 for 36 months. Residents and businesses can opt in and out of the program at any time.
Currently the basic service rate with Unitil is $0.09554 until December, when their winter rates go into
effect. Residents that want to switch out of the Municipal Aggregation program to the basic service rate
===PAGE 6===
general contractor bids due June 22nd. Due to rising construction costs, we anticipate that bids will come
in higher than our original estimate.
Senate Releases FY22 State Budget Proposal:
On May 11th the Senate Waysand Means Committeereleased their FY 2022 State Budget Proposal.
Overall the impact of the Senate's figures on local aid compared to the Governor's budget proposal that we
used at the Annual Town Meeting for the FY22 Local Aid figure, was an additional $7,118. The Senate's
proposal included an additional $2,621 in estimated receipts and $4,497 less in assessments/charges.
Complete Streets Construction:
The Contractor forthe Complete Streets Construction project is scheduled to begin work on the project on
Monday, May 24th.
Update on Debris Found on Woodruff Property (104 Fairview Road):
On May 13th I received the Environmental Site Assessmentreport from the environmental consultant we
hired to perform a field reconnaissance survey to determine the extent ofthe debris, any potential solid
waste materials, and identify/quantify those materials. The assessment also contains a professional
opinion on the likely ongoing environmental impact of the illegal dumping documented,
recommendations for any subsequent environmental monitoring/assessment activities, and materials
removal/site restoration work, as well as a preliminary cost estimate for conducting clean-up and
stabilization of the site.
The primary materials deposition area is approximately 40 feet in width and 100 feet in length with a
minor volume of scattered items up to 60 feet beyond the primary area. The site is situated on an
approximate 2:1 horizontal to vertical wooded slopeabutting the easterly bank ofthe Catacoonamug
Brook. By appearance of materials exposed, the dumping likely occurred in the mid 1950'sto early 1970's.
It isestimated that approximately 150-200 cubic yards of solid waste materials are located at the site, with
a majority being metals such as appliances, boiler, boiler components, storage cabinet, ductwork, pipe,
sheet metal, fencing, and various containers. An estimated 15-20 cubic yards of asphaltshinglesare
located at the top ofthe slope. No clearly identifiable asbestos was observed and it appears that solid
wastes were not dumped in the brook itself or its bordering vegetated wetlands. Three dwellings within
the service area of the municipal water system would appear to be located within 500 feet of the dumping
site. The current stable condition of the site and the duration since the materials deposition occurred
would indicate negligible adverse impact expected from the dumping area on residents in the immediate
area. The Consultant did not issue any recommendations for follow-up surface water or groundwater
testing or decomposition gas monitoring based on the current site conditions.
If the Town did pursue removal of the dump site materials, they would need to be handled as solid
wastes likely requiring placement in a container, truck or trailer for off-site transport to a permitted local
transfer station or landfill. Since current solid waste regulations ban landfilling of metals, white goods
and wholetires, these items may be directly delivered to vendors providing those recycling services.
Access to the site is constrained by tree cover and the steep topography and would be by way of the cart
roads along the field edges from Fairview Road. This will limit the time of the year that trucks could
access the site. Due to the tree cover and slope, an approach that would minimize tree cutting and
undermining the bank to the brook would need to be planned. An excavator with a boom with a bucket or
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Dwyer asked if it would be legal and less disturbing to the area to cover it with soil, cap
it in some way and place some sort of barrier. Mr. Alonzo suggested waiting for the
Conservation Commission's report and asking the question. Suggestion was made to use ground
penetrating radar but it was noted it is very expensive to use.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• The last Spring 2021 yard waste day is Saturday, May 22*° from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Additional
information can be found on the DP W page on the town website.
• Reminder that the Pleasant Street bridge over Pearl Brook will be closed starting June Ist.
• Lunenburg Farmers Market on the Ritter Lawn will be Sundays starting June 13th until October
10th; 10 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. except on Sunday, July 4th.
Mr. Jeffreys requested periodic updates on the DPW work to divert storm water runoff on Flat
Hill Road in Ms. Lemieux's Town Manager reports. Ms. Lemieux reported the engineer
completed their site condition plan and the DPW Director has reached out to residents regarding
the plan and what the easiest solution identified by the engineer would be, and before we go any
further we wanted to see if there was any consensus on that before coming back to the board.
She stated she would add that into the Town Manager report with the caveat that anything added
into the report are ones that she has new information on.
COVID-19 Update May 18, 2021
COVID-19 in Lunenburg
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of May 14th was 786. The state report showed 742 cases as
of May 11th. There has been one death in town since the pandemic began due to COVID-19. This is an
increase of 7 cases since May 7th. Due to our low positivity numbers over consecutive weeks, we are
now back to "gray" on the positivity rate map. ( lowest positivity rate being gray, to green, to yellow,
and red as the highest positivity rate
Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic:
The Nashoba Valley/Devens Regional Vaccine Clinic will host another vaccination clinic on Wednesday,
May 19th from 10:00 AM- 5:30 PM at the Clear Path for Veterans New England building at 84 Antietam
Street in Devens. Walk-in appointments are welcome. The vaccine offered at this regional clinic is the
Moderna vaccine and is for all eligible people statewide 18 years of age and older. The site is wheelchair
accessible and there is a wheelchair on site. Those wishing to schedule an appointment can visit
https://vaxfinder.mass.gov/.
===PAGE 8===
Governor Baker Announcement on Face Covering Order, Gatherings Order, COVID-19
Restrictions and State of Emergency:
Yesterday, the Baker-Polito Administration announced that the Commonwealth is on track to meet the
goal of vaccinating 4.1 million residents by the first week of June and all remaining COVID-19
restrictions will be lifted effective May 29.
The Administration is able to take these steps to reopen the Commonwealth's economy because
Massachusetts is on track to meet the goal set in December to fully vaccinate over 4 million individuals
by the first week of June. The Commonwealth leads the nation in vaccinating residents, with 75% of
adults receiving at least one dose. To date, over 4 million residents have received a first dose, with 3.2
million fully vaccinated.
New cases have dropped by 89% since January 8. COVID hospitalizations are down 88% since January 1
and the positive test rate is down by 88% from peaking at 8.7% on January 1 to 1% today.
Effective May 29
Effective May 29, all industries will be permitted to open. With the exception of remaining face-covering
requirements for public and private transportation systems, schools, and facilities housing vulnerable
populations, all industry restrictions will be lifted, and capacity will increase to 100% for all industries.
The gathering limit will be rescinded
All industries will be encouraged to follow CDC guidance for cleaning and hygiene protocols.
Face Covering Guidance
In line with updated CDC face covering guidance, the Administration will rescind the current face
covering order and issue a new face covering advisory effective May 29.
Non-vaccinated individuals are advised to continue wearing face masks and to continue distancing in
most settings. The advisory will also recommend fully vaccinated individuals no longer need to wear a
face covering or social distance indoors or outdoors except for in certain situations.
Face coverings will still be required for all individuals on public and private transportation (including
rideshares, livery, taxi, ferries, MBTA, Commuter Rail and transportation stations), healthcare facilities
and providers, congregate care settings and health and rehabilitative day services.
Face coverings will also remain required indoors for staff and students of K-12 schools and early
education providers. Link to mask guidance
Youth and Amateur Sports Face Covering Guidance
Effective May 18, the youth and amateur sports guidance will be updated to no longer require face
coverings for youth athletes 18 and under while playing outdoor sports. Effective May 29, all youth and
amateur sports restrictions will be lifted. Link to youth sports guidance
===PAGE 9===
Link to DESE guidance
Link to EEC guidance
State of Emergency Order
Governor Baker will end the State of Emergency June 15, and the Administration will work with
legislative and municipal partners during this period in order to manage an orderly transition from
emergency measures adopted by executive order and special legislation during the period of the State of
Emergency.
As stated at today's Municipal CEO Briefing with the State, the lifting of the State of Emergency does not
indicate this ends the Public Health Emergency. The end of the State of Emergency will lift all the issued
Executive Orders that were adopted and special legislation (i.e. Outdoor dining will be allowed 60 days
after the end of the State of Emergency and public bodies will no longer be able to meet entirely remote).
It is noteworthy that municipalities and private businesses can still have stricter guidelines than the State
and require patrons to wear masks within their establishments.
Ms. Lemieux stated at this point regarding our meetings, she will ask for some more leeway as
this information was just received yesterday. She still needs to plan with the appropriate
departments, staff, IT and PACC to work out the logistics. We do have until the June 15"h date.
A future announcement will be made.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo announced their next meetings are Tuesday, June 1, June 8, and June 15.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, welcomed Mr. Franco to the Select Board, adding he was
sure he will be very successful. He thanked everyone who ran for elected positions.
He thanked outgoing member Katey Adams for serving and wished her well. He stated he went
down to DPW to meet DPW Director Rob Oliva and noticed he looked like someone he went to
college with. He then found out it was Rob's father, Bob Oliva, adding it really is a small world.
He could not disagree with the board's position on what to do with the old Primary School
building. Has the board applied to the APDC for the demolition permit yet? Mr. Alonzo replied
no. Mr. Rodgers encouraged the board to act quickly on the TCP Building Design to address
costs, etc. and to address what to do with the resulting empty buildings if approved.
Mr. Jeffreys extended a warm welcome to Mr. Franco. He suggested as we approach the new
year we need to be aggressive in getting more done. He believed we can develop a plan for both
the old Primary and TCP buildings, concrete senior tax relief, resolve the issue with the
===PAGE 10===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting at
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Memorial Day Ceremony at Veterans Field on Monday May 31$t
at 10:00 a.m.
The meeting adjourned at 8:53 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claim. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
