===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Katey Adams,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Jim Marino
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and announced in accordance with
the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being
recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg public access channel. In accordance with the
Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, §
20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. Mr. Alonzo read the remote meeting
information for anyone who would like to join the meeting. He asked if everyone was present
by roll call.
The meeting opened with the Pledge of Allegiance that was recited by Ms. Adams.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mark Bursch, 20 Buttonwood Place, stated at town meeting this past Saturday comments
were made by an individual personally attacking public volunteers and small business owners,
including himself. He was disappointed that the Town Moderator nor the Select Board did not
take any action against this individual and a private citizen called them out to stop. He
believed this issue needs to be addressed.
Mr. Alonzo stated during town meeting he heard during several articles, members impugn the
integrity of several of our board, committee and commission members and not staying with
the facts of the article in front of them, but going after people personally and imparting on
them motives and intents that they did not support. He reminded all that these people serve as
volunteers and are charged sometimes to do difficult tasks that are placed before them. While
it is okay to disagree on issues and facts, he found it distasteful and disheartening that people
would go after members of boards and project on them evil and nefarious intents. It does not
help the town get volunteers or serve the town well. He noted APDC Chairman Richard
McGrath and Conservation Commission Chairman Bob Pease were called out for having ill
motives, and this is simply untrue. They have his support in all they do and they do a lot of
good work. We may not agree on all the issues but they bring a lot of experience, energy and
time as well as effort to their jobs. He urged people to keep on point for the issues at hand and
not fall astray with other motives that they cannot prove and have no facts for. Let's keep it
civil.
Mr. Dwyer was also disturbed by the discourse. Before people accuse people of corruption,
and disparage board members, get involved in the town. See for yourself how all these people
on all of the boards volunteer of their desire to serve Lunenburg and make their community
better. Mr. Jeffreys supported everything Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Alonzo stated. He hoped that
any criticism be focused on actions we take and not as individuals; or disrespect people who
have a different perspective. He also hoped people will step up and volunteer for the town.
===PAGE 2===
Select Board appointments to Board of Registrars -3 year term runs April 1 to
March 31 (Cont.) Republican Party Nominees (1 position)
•
Carol Kelly, 129 Rolling Hills Road
Lorraine Rudd, 340 Highland Street
• Ruth Anderson, 31 The Lane
Mr. Alonzo asked Ms. Anderson to speak first. Ruth Anderson, 31 The Lane, has lived in town
over 50 years and been a poll worker for over 30 years and a registrar for over 20 years. She
likes what she does and there is a lot of work involved for the elections. This past year was very
challenging with the pandemic. She enjoys what she does and would like to continue on.
Ms. Rudd has been in town for over 30 years, would like to help out. She has worked and
volunteered in the school. She is semi-retired and has more time.
Ms. Kelly stated she has lived here since 2003. She volunteers at the school and for the Girl
Scouts and want to help with the voting process.
Mr. Alonzo thanked all the candidates for coming forward tonight. The other Board members
were impressed with all three candidates and pleased to have so many candidates for the
position. They hoped that whoever is not appointed tonight would consider serving on another
board.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: J. Marino
To appoint Ruth Anderson to the Board of Registrars (Republican)
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Ms. Anderson thanked the board and offered to train Ms. Rudd and Ms. Kelly at the polls if they
were interested.
APPOINTMENTS
Common Victualler License Hearing -451 Mass Ave.-Yatim Central Convenience
Lunenburg LLC
Ms. Lemieux reported all paperwork is in order. Mr. Yatim stated there will be
no changes in the hours.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the common victualler license for Yatim Central Convenience
Lunenburg, LLC located at 451 Massachusetts Avenue
Vote: Ms. Adams-aye, Mr. Dwyer- aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-
aye
Ratification of Town Manager's appointments:
Beach Director Gen Nass and Seasonal lifeguards: Isabelle Winslow, Nicholas Coronella, Olivia
Kohlstrom, Jarrod Bowser, Ethan Gengler, Liz Simeone, Paige Gengler, Lynn Major.
===PAGE 3===
VA LAAAAA LAGSA
Mr. Alonzo thanked the 130 voters who attended. Mr. Jeffreys believed the meeting was
successful. He noted Ms. Lemieux's informative presentations and was pleased the articles
submitted by the board were approved. He believed it was not this Board's role to interrupt a
legislative session that has a Town Moderator when there are uncalled comments or behavior as
alluded to in this evening's public comment by Mr. Bursch. Discussion ensued about
inappropriate comments in general and boundaries made during meetings. It was agreed that
there were thoughtful and informed comments made during town meeting.
2. Report on FY 2021 Town Manager Goals
Ms. Lemieux reported the first goal is ongoing.
1. Goal #1: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave:
Objective: To address a blighted property that has been in tax title for over a decade.
i. Action: The Town Manager will work with Town Counsel and the Tax Title Attorney to
finalize the foreclosure of the property once the full results of the Environmental Site
Assessment are known.
Due to new information recently received, this action item may not be achievable until after the
underground storage tanks are removed. I had a meeting with MA DEP, our consultant that
performed the Phase II Environmental Site Assessment, and MassDevelopment this past week
and MA DEP identified possible funding through the LUST (Leaking Underground Storage
Tank) program that would remove the tanks and contaminated soils now under the current
owner, allowing us to take the property after it is cleaned up.
MA DEP also confirmed that there is an exemption for remedial action if the town's intent is to
market the property for redevelopment in accordance with the exemption's requirements. If the
town were to take the property with the intent to market the property for redevelopment the
town would not be considered a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) with liability for response
action costs and damages as required under MGL c. 21E section 5. Although the municipal
exemption applies if the Town is marketing the site for redevelopment, the Town would need
to address any sudden releases, conditions of Substantial Release Migration, or Imminent
Hazards requiring an Immediate Response Action
(IRA), if present. The Phase II ESA that was performed indicates no known such conditions
requiring an IRA. Also, the exemption does not require the Town to submit a tier classification
(unless the Town decides to keep the property or conduct Comprehensive Response Actions).
The property has been in tax title since 2005 and we have maintained it in tax title and can
foreclose on the property at any point we determine. At this point I recommend continuing to
work with MA DEP to see if clean-up can occur before taking the property even though no
known imminent hazards are present and take the property once the tanks and contaminated
===PAGE 4===
cost of remediation. I also applied for $250,000 in funding through MassDevelopment
Brownfields Redevelopment Fund in September of 2020 but received notification that we were
not at a point we were eligible for funding. I have been trying to work towards a point we would
be eligible for this funding but am also aware this program is highly competitive. The program
has a little over 1 million in funding and last year received over 100 applications. The ideal
scenario would be if the tanks and soil could be removed by MA DEP.
ili. Action: The Town Manager will work with relevant staff, town committees and boards to
explore whether auctioning the property or putting out a Request for Proposals for reuse of the
property will address the future reuse of the property. Ongoing. I met with the Planning Board on
March 22nd and presented them with all the actions taken to date and looked for their input on
whether to auction the property or market the property through a Request for Proposals. I still
plan on meeting with the APDC for their input as well.
Ms. Lemieux noted that a survey will be needed when the town is at the point of taking the
property.
2. Goal #2: Enhance Facilities Management and Maintenance:
a. Objective: To look at the feasibility of creating an independent facilities
department and improve the long term maintenance and repair plan for town
facilities.
i. Action: Review the current organizational structure and determine if a
reorganization that separates Facilities from the Department of Public
Works would create greater efficiencies. Follow the process in the Town
Charter as required for any reorganization. Ongoing. Since the new DPW
Director was hired in November I informed him of this goal and looking at
possible separation of Facilities from the umbrella of the Department of
Public Works. I have also spoken with the School Superintendent about
possibly sharing a Director-type position that would oversee both town and
school buildings that would supervise school staff and town staff separately.
At the conclusion of my last conversation with the Superintendent on this
topic, she was going to speak with other districts that use this model to hear
about the pros and cons. Another factor to consider is that I do not anticipate
this to be a cost saving measure but rather may be a more efficient model.
Right now the priority within the Facilities Division is to get additional staff
to keep up with constant upkeep and maintenance at the nine town buildings
===PAGE 5===
I reported to the Select Board on April 27h that the DPW Director selected
eMaint as the new maintenance management software and that the first year
annual cost will be paid through a grant from our insurance carrier.
3. Goal #3: Succession Planning:
a. Objective: To identify strengths and weaknesses within the organization that will
inform town management on long term strategies to fill key positions.
i. Action: Develop working group of managers and mid-managers to identify
the key/critical positions, assess "bench strength" of current personnel,
training opportunities for existing personnel to develop their skills, and
positions that do not have a back-up. Ongoing. There are certain departments,
due to their staffing models that lend themselves to promotional opportunities
within the department and have a second in command that could step into the
manager position such as the Police Department and Fire Department. Most of
our departments have 2 or 3 staff members, one management and one or more
administrative positions.
Each department has funding within their expense budget for mandatory
certifications/licenses, in-service training, professional affiliations that
provide training opportunities specific to their field, and miscellaneous
professional development. My goal is to expand upon these existing
opportunities and develop a mentoring program that would inspire
employees and maximize their potential.
ii. Action: Complete the Continuity of Operations Plan that will be a written
document that identifies key personnel, their back-ups, and functions in
order to provide continuing services during emergencies. Substantially
complete. I applied for and received a Community Compact grant for the
UMass Collins Center to work with town departments to complete a
Continuity of Operations Plan. There was a kick-off meeting in August led
by our consultant from the Collins Center with all department heads in
attendance. Department heads then scheduled one on one meetings in
September and October with the lead consultant to review the documents
and format of identifying key positions, responsibilities, etc. under them.
Due to a delay on the end of our consultant, the draft plan will be available
later this month and finalized by the end of the fiscal year.
iii. Action: Identify outside resources and recruitment strategies to use when
internal candidates do not exist for key positions and as a long term planning
===PAGE 6===
Review Composite Town Manager Performance Evaluation
Mr. Alonzo reported this is a two-step process. Board members fill out their individual
evaluations of the Town Manager and they are compiled into a composite by him. This is
what is presented during the meeting. It will be reviewed at the next meeting
4. Report on FY 2021 Select Board Goals
Mr. Alonzo noted the Board had three objectives for this year. They did achieve some of
Objective 1. (Action i.) as well as a survey taken at the 2020 town meeting regarding options for
future use of the old Primary Building lot. This gave the board a feeling of what the townspeople
would like to see for that area. Action ii. was addressed partially this year with the warrant article
at this year's annual town meeting. Once we have a design we will hold several public hearings
to go over what the plans might be and be addressed hopefully at fall town meeting or next
year's annual town meeting.
Objective 1: To identify, define and propose at least one project to the 2021 Annual Town
Meeting regarding the use and/or re-use of the Old Primary School building, and/or
the land on which it sits (a continuation of last year's Select Board Goal -
Objective 2, with additional actions).
i. Action: Have open sessions with other boards, committees and commissions as
well as with the general public in discussing the options defined from
last year's goal. Evaluate the pros, cons and costs for each option,
potential variations as well as possible timelines.
ii. Action: Review exist information and documents and/or engage the
appropriate professionals to create such documents that provide for
the accurate assessment, including cost, of, at least, (a) the demolition
of the existing building; (b) removal of hazardous materials from the
building and site;
(c) conceptual rendering(s) of the property post-demolition; (d) a design
(or designs), prepared by a landscape architect, of potential concepts for
the property, specifically focusing on open space and a "Town
Common" theme
ili. Action: Determine one (or two, if applicable) option(s) to be fully developed
into a proposed project for the building and/or site to be presented to the
2021 Annual Town Meeting for vote, including approximate costs,
plans and necessary funding.
Mr. Alonzo noted part of Objective 2. was completed by doing a first draft and policy and that is
where the Board ended due to differing opinions. He stated we can continue to work on this.
===PAGE 7===
ii. Action: Ask for initial input from all affected appointed bodies. Discuss
improvements that might be made to streamline, clarify and strengthen
the process. Write a draft policy and distribute to all affected appointed
bodies for their review, suggestions and recommendations. Also make it
available to the public for their input as well.
ili. Action: Collect all input from the review cycle of the draft policy. Finalize
the reappointment process after discussing all the suggestions and
recommendations that have been made and write the final policy for
distribution.
Mr. Alonzo noted not much progress was made on #3. Mr. Jeffreys stated it is hard to find a way
to get more people engaged and maybe the first step is to educate on how town government
works. He did not encourage this continuing as a goal going forward. Mr. Marino stated this
would have been a tough goal to achieve in the past year due to the pandemic. When we can
meet in in public we could hold a "job fair" type of event.
Objective 3:
To analyze, discuss and strategize how to get more people actively interested
and involved in volunteering for Town elected and appointed positions.
i. Action: Review all existing methods and practices presently in place that inform
and/or encourage people to volunteer. Discuss what is currently
effective and what is not with an eye to determining why, as well. Talk
about potential obstacles, challenges or hurdles to more widespread
involvement. Work to determine how to improve existing methods,
what new methods might be tried, and how obstacles might be removed
to garner more active involvement from the public.
ii. Action: Ask all current elected and appointed bodies for their input in
determining the same issues as the Select Board will discuss in the
previous action. Ask each elected and appointed member for a shor
volunteerism.
ili. Action: Work to implement what was determined in actions i. and ii. by
===PAGE 8===
STANDING COMMITTEES
• Architectural Preservation District Commission- term expires June 30, 2024
1 Resident Representative
1 Historical Commission Member
• Agricultural Commission- term expires June 30, 2024
1 opening
•
Conservation Commission- term expires June 30, 2024
2 openings
•
Council on Aging-term expires June 30, 2024
3 openings
Cultural Council-term expires June 30, 2024
3 openings
Historical Commission- term expires June 30, 2024
2 openings
• Public Access Cable Committee (PACC)- term expires June 30, 2024
3 openings
• Senior Citizen Property Taxation Work Off Program- term expires June 30, 2022
1 Member at large
• Zoning Board of Appeals - term expires June 30, 2026
2 openings
1 ZBA Associate-term expires June 30, 2024
AD HOC COMMITTEES
• TCP Building Design Committee-
1 Member at Large
• Bylaw Review Committee
4 vacancies
Ms. Lemieux announced two By-Law Review Committee members have been appointed by the
Town Moderator this week.
===PAGE 9===
unlimited openings
• Constables-term expires June 30, 2022
unlimited openings
Mr. Alonzo announced these vacancies will be appointed to in June. If anyone interested in these
openings they should submit a talent bank form to the Select Board office. He also noted there
are two upcoming vacancies on the Finance Committee. There is a Finance Committee
Appointing Committee. Ms. Lemieux also noted the Planning Board is looking for
people to serve on the Economic Development Committee.
6. Warrants
Mr. Alonzo announced he signed the following warrants last week:
• Accounts Payable Warrant #50 21, dated 4/27/2021, in the amount of
$480,612.81;
• Void Payroll Warrant #21PV, dated 4/15/2021, in the amount of ($1,100.00);
• Accounts Payable Warrant #51 21, dated 4/21/2021, in the amount of $3,088.26;
• Payroll Warrant #22P21, dated 4/29/2021, in the amount of $814,618.03;
• Payroll Deduction Warrant #52 21, dated 4/28/2021, in the amount of
$267,954.70
%. Action Items. To meetinos were beino broadeast live a lin arnace Mr
Alonzo stated they would have to check with PAC because there was a technical problem
with the live feeds. Ms. Lemieux will follow up on this.
Mr. Alonzo stated as things open up he would like the last meeting in May in person in Town
Hall, but it would be a mix of in person and Zoom according to Covid limits on occupancy.
limits. Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Jeffreys were in favor. If you had to wear a mask, Mr. Marino
was not. Ms. Adams had mixed feelings; she did not want to wear masks but be socially
distant and have the public present as well. Mr. Alonzo will work with the Town Manager
but advised they must follow the safety guidelines from the Board of Health and the state.
The amount of people allowed in the Town Hall meeting room is 11 including the board
members. Ms. Lemieux noted we could not use the stage as it is not long enough.
The board would have to sit on the floor with additional tables between them to keep the six
foot distancing. Mr. Jeffreys added he did not want to wear masks in person. Mr. Alonzo
stated this could be revisited at a later date as things change.
8. Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer reported on the Planning Board activities:
• The Board is currently reviewing a 6 lot subdivision at 101 Pleasant St. The proposal is for
an 850 ft. road and 6 duplex units. The Board has opened the hearing and will be continuing
===PAGE 10===
> The Bright Farms project has submitted a series of proposed alterations to their approved
project at 361 Mass Ave. The Board has requested that they file a modification to their Site
Plan Approval due to the nature of the changes. Bright Farms is looking to amend the base
floor elevation of the building and associated facilities due to the subsurface soil conditions.
It is my understanding that they encountered a larger amount of ledge than anticipated and
would like to avoid extensive rock removal.
> The Planning Board will be working on an RFP for Master Plan Services to hire an outside
contractor to develop a Town Services and Facilities Element and a Land Use Element. As
for the Master Plan, I am hopeful that we can issue the RFP in early to mid-June. Responses
most likely due within 30 days. The award would be based on a combination of
qualifications and price. I would estimate 60-90 days after issuance for NTP but that would
be subject to a variety of factors. As for completion, I would anticipate the Board will be
looking to have the work completed in 6-9 months, though we have yet to discuss this part
of the RFP.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT AND COVID-19 UPDATE
Primary School Fire Alarm:
I was notified at the end oflast week that the School Facilities Director received a proposal from a
company on the Statewide Contract List for theupgradeto the Primary SchoolFire Alarm System. The
original estimate for this project was for $127,000 and this proposal came in at approximately
$62,000. Given thisnew information, therecommendation by the Superintendent will beto proceed with
this work this fiscal year, utilizing the $25,000 earmark and theremainder from an anticipated surplus in
the FY21 school budget.
Complete Streets Update:
The DPW Director and I had a preconstruction meeting with the Complete Streets contractor and our
engineer last Wednesday and the project willbegin around the end of May to beginning of June. They will
save the last portion of the project, the intersection at Oak Ave and Main Street, until after school gets out
in order to avoid school buses and school traffic.
Department Head Updates:
Public Access: Public Access has been filming the Water District meetings and those meetings have
been viewed more than other public meetings. Public Access will be filming the Memorial Day ceremony
on May 31st. Currently a position for Senior Videographer is being advertised and interviews will take
place shortly. PACC will be testing out the equipment to run a hybrid meeting at the Town Hall meeting
room again to ensure we are ready for when in person meetings resume.
Police: Currently there are two officers in the full time academy and will be complete by late
September/early October provided there are no delays due to COVID-19. The second FY21 cruiser is
expected to be on the road in approximately one month. Officers will receive training on the Body Worn
Cameras the week of May 17th. The two new Reserve Officers are currently in FTO training. Sergeant
Mathieu has stepped down from the Sergeant position due to personal reasons and will return to the
patrolman position. Eligible candidates will be identified and the position will be tilled in the upcoming
months. The Chief recently applied for a grant to purchase training equipment for Active Shooter training.
===PAGE 11===
DPW: The DPW parking lot was recently repaved and Burrage and Townsend Harbor Road have been
paved. Whalom Road will be milled May 18th and 19th, the excavation for the ADA accessible ramps on
Whalom Road per the PROW ADA Plan will occur on May 25th, and road will be paved on June 9th.
Electric Ave. will be milled at night on May 20th and will be paved at night on June 7th.
The DPW Director has worked with the engineer and Unitil to relocate a utility pole that is in the area of
work for the Flat Hill Road culvert project, which will make the project easier. The DP W isperforming
some drainage improvements on Whalom Road, Goodrich Road, and Pleasant Street. The North
Cemetery garage is almost complete and the DPW will be performing a lot of the landscaping from now
until July1st.
Assessors: The commercial and industrial inspections are almost complete. The conversion from the old
CAMA system to the new assessing software, VISION, will be complete shortly and in time to do the
preliminary billing. The RMV was delayed in sending out MV excise taxes that should have come in March.
Finance Director: The Finance Director will be sending out notices to departments shortly about year-
end encumbrances. The Finance Director has periodically had to submit reports to DOR on CARES Act
spending and simultaneously the guidelines have changed frequently on the eligible and percentage
eligible towards FEMA reimbursement.
Land Use: The Baker Brook apartments at Tri-Town will be completed shortly. North End Subaru is
currently going through the Planning Board to construct a new building at their existing location. The
Land Use Director is drafting a REP for the Land Use and Public Services & Facilities chapters forthe
Master Plan. The Planning Board willreviewthe RFP shortly. Green Leaf Botanicals will be pursuinga
Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals for a Retail Marijuana establishment at 88 Mass Ave.
Library: The Library Director and Library Board of Trustees are in the final phase of gathering data for
their long term strategic plan. The staff librarian position that has been vacant this past year will be
advertised shortly.
Fire: The entire fleet is back in service. Calls are picking up recently. Two full time members of the
departmentsare almost complete their paramedic training. The Fire Chiefexpectsto beableto apply for
paramedic service by this fall.
Treasurer/Collector: The lockbox company will be changing in FY 2022 in order to save on lockbox
fees. Sufficient notice of the address change will be given. Fourth quarter taxes were due on May 3rd.
Town Clerk: The Town Clerk began poll pads at town meeting that electronically checked voters in and
this system worked well this past Saturday.
IT: Comcast users has been experiencing some issues around town, which Comcast has been addressing.
The IT Director is currently looking into a cybersecurity assessment.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements:
• Spring 2021 Yard Waste Days are the following Saturdays from 8 am to 4 pm: May 8th,
15th and 22nd. For information is found on the DPW page on the website.
• The Library isseeking input from the community to inform their long term strategic plan.
Please consider filling out a survey at surveymonkey.com/r/LPL2021or fill out a paper
copy and return to the Library. Paper copies are available at the Town Hall and Library.
===PAGE 12===
COVID-19 in Lunenburg:
The Board of Health issued their weekly update and the cumulative laboratory confirmed number of
COVID-19 cases reported to the Town as of April 30th was 772. The state report showed 734 cases as
of April 27th. There has been one death in town since the pandemic began. This is an increase of 5
cases since April 16th.
Town Offices, Eagle House, and Library:
Town offices are now open during all normal office hours: Monday & Wednesday 8 AM until 4 PM
and Tuesday & Thursday 8 AM until 6 PM.
The Eagle House is now open Monday thru Thursday 8 AM until 5 PM and Friday 8 AM until 4 PM.
The Lunenburg Library is now open for browsing Monday thru Thursday 10 AM until 2 PM and
Saturday 10 AM until 2 PM.
Vaccination Update:
Ms. Lemieux attended a meeting this afternoon concerning the Nashoba Valley regional vaccination
clinic and there are a lot of logistics that are still being worked out regarding the operation of it.
They are looking for volunteers, both clinical and non-clinical, to help run the clinic. Volunteers
can email her at hlemieux@lunenburgonline.com for more information on how to participate.
Mr. Alonzo stated the vaccine appointments are readily available now for those looking to schedule
one.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo announced their next meetings this month are May 11 and May 18.
The Annual Town election is May 15".
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none at this time.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd:J. Marino
To adjourn the meeting at 9:00 p.m.
Vote: Mr. Dwyer, Ms. Adams- aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Marino-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Respectfully submitted,
ElaiM Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
