===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Zoom, Michael Chapdelaine, Mark Chapdelaine, Anthony Sculimbrene, Greg Roy, Tom
Gray, Brian Lehtinen via Zoom, Dave Blatt
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Franco announced the Lions Club pancake breakfast is tomorrow morning at Eagle
House Senior/Community Center on Memorial Drive from 8-10 a.m. Ms. Lemieux reminded
all the Special Town Meeting is November 15' at the Middle/High School auditorium at 7:00
p.m.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Mr. Jeffreys reported a communication from the Conservation Commission regarding the
property at 35 Leominster Road being up for sale. They are not interested in it for
conservation purposes, but wanted to let the board know. Mr. Alonzo noted this property is
coming out of Chapter 61 status. It will be discussed at a later time.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Resignation of Full-time Police Officer Nicholas Marino effective October 12, 2022
Chief Gammel thanked Officer Marino for his time in Lunenburg and noted he served the
Town well and was moving on to the Acton Police Department. He was sorry to see him go
but was confident wherever he goes he will be a great addition.
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Paul Theodoulou to Full-time Police
Officer effective October 12, 2022
Chief Gammel stated we interviewed seven candidates and they were ranked based on the
interview results. Officer Theodoulou has been a Lunenburg Reserve Officer since May 2022.
He completed his Field Training Officer (FTO), and has worked numerous hours covering
cruiser shifts, prisoner watches, desk shifts and details. Recently he has covered the open desk
position, made a seamless transition and has taken over the initial intake process for License to
Carry Firearms. He grew up in Fitchburg, and served in the Army National Guard until 2018.
He obtained the rank of Sergeant and received several commendations and awards. His unit
was activated and deployed to Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. Officer
Theodoulou was hired full-time by the Fitchburg Police Department in 2015. He attended the
===PAGE 2===
Officer Theodoulou stated he got here and fell in love with the position immediately. It's a great
department and he is grateful to be here. The board members welcomed Officer Theodoulou.
Motion: , Alonzo
2nd': L. Franco
To ratify the appointment of Paul Theodoulou as full-time officer effective October 12,
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of George Tibbetts to Reserve Officer
effective October 12, 2022
Chief Gammel continued on:
We have been actively recruiting to fill vacant reserve officer positions. We identified a
Fitchburg State University Police Program candidate who we believe will be a great fit for our
department and community. I am pleased to recommend George E. Tibbetts ("Trey") for
appointment as a Reserve Police officer. Trey is a lifelong resident of Lunenburg, graduating in
2018. Trey was an accomplished athlete and earned a scholarship to Assumption College. Trey
left Assumption College after his freshman year to take advantage of the Police Program at
Fitchburg State University. He successfully completed the program, earned a Bachelor of
Science degree in Criminal Justice in May of 2022, magna cum laude. Upon graduation Trey was
enrolled in the 5th Recruit Officer course at Fitchburg State University, graduating in September
of 2022. Trey is currently enrolled in the Master of Science program at Fitchburg State
University as part of the Police Program, with an anticipated graduation date of May 2023. He
has successfully completed his background investigation, pre-employment physical, and pre-
employment psychological test. He has met all requirements of Peace Officer Standard and
Training Commission (POSTC), and is a certified police officer. Trey comes to us with an
impressive resume. Trey has constantly demonstrated strong leadership skills. As well as being a
leader, Trey has volunteered for several community programs, including Working for Worcester,
Lunenburg Youth Football, and the Lunenburg Gift Mart.
Trey was on our radar since he was a step intern with our department through LHS. We
recognized his potential and maintained contact with him. I am impressed with his work ethic, as
he continued to hold seasonal jobs throughout high school and college, while maintaining a high
GPA.
Upon completion of his background investigation, I was not surprised to hear all positive
statements. Trey was found to be a very level headed person, hard worker with a strong work
ethic. We believe Trey will be a valuable asset and we look forward to seeing his future
accomplishments. I request that George E. Tibbetts be appointed to the position of Reserve
Police Officer to be effective October 12, 2022.
Officer Tibbetts thanked Chief Gammel for all his comments and he thanked the Town for their
support. The board members welcomed him and thanked him for serving the town in his new
position.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of George Tibbetts to Reserve Police
officer effective October 12, 2022
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
for the hayride and the library has granted permission for parking in their lot.
Mr. Alonzo clarified this club event is in its fourth or fifth year and is called Shrieks and
Krieks. They were seeking permission to hold the event and have Memorial Drive
closed during the duration of the event and perhaps earlier (5:00 PM) to allow food
trucks and road closure equipment to set up. There is also a rain date of October 30t, if
needed.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"': T. Dwyer
To approve the request from the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club to hold the
Haunted House event as discussed on October 29 Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention
(Jeffreys)
Mr. Geneau and Ms. Foreman thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Review of Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles with representatives from
article sponsors including Personnel Committee/HR Director, School
Committee/Superintendent, Citizen Petitioner for 199 Mass Ave, and APDC
Mr. Jeffreys reported this is a continuation of the review of the Special Town Meeting
articles.
Erik Arnold, Personnel Committee Chair was up first regarding the amendment to the
Salary Administration Plan. The warrant article adds some new positions and reads as
follows:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A, entitled
"Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, as follows: the position of Administrative Assistant - IT
to be added and assigned to Grade 8; the position of Facilities Director to be added and assigned to
Grade 16; the position of Civilian Traffic Member to be added and paid at the Sergeant overtime
rate per Local 353; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel
Committee"
Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr. Arnold if the Personnel Committee has revaluated the Town Clerk's
annual salary of $52,000 recently as it seemed low. Mr. Arnold replied we have put out
requests to have all of the positions reviewed, how they're graded and the qualifications that
are needed. We're looking to have a consultant review comparable towns to make sure that
we're competitive and that process is underway and hopefully will be done between January
and February.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": T. Dwyer
To recommend approval of the warrant article submitted by the Personnel Committee
Vote: All in Favor
The next warrant article was from the School Committee.
"To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money necessary to amend the amount voted for approval for the Primary School Air
Conditioning; (#LPS 19-3-B under the FY 2023 Capital Plan) under Article 6 of the May 7, 2022
Annual Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the School
Committee)"
Dr. Burnham and School Committee Chair Carol Archambault presented for the article.
===PAGE 4===
The partial, just to cool and dehumidify the classroom spaces came in at a little over $1.7
million. The funding secured at town meeting was $232,800 so clearly we cannot proceed
with either of these options at this time.
My team and I had a conversation after we met with the engineers to see if you would
consider an alternate plan to accomplish cooling and dehumidifying at least the classroom
spaces that does not cost $1.7 million, but stays within the scope of the monies that have
already been allocated for the AC project at the primary school. The proposal would be to
install mini-split systems. We took a look at this and based on Facility Director Pusateri's
experience, he believes that the split systems will provide cooling and dehumidification in the
classroom spaces with the monies that have been allocated if you are willing to entertain that
alternate plan.
We ask you to allow us to amend the language of the warrant article that we submitted for
Special Town Meeting as follows:
"To see if the Town will vote to re-appropriate the sum of money from the approval for the Primary
School air conditioning under Article 6 of the May 7, 2022 Annual Town Meeting to support the
purchase and installation of ductless mini split systems."
If that's not an option I think our request is to withdraw the warrant article that we submitted.
When asked, Dr. Burnham did not have a cost of the mini-split because it was just discussed
earlier today.
Discussion occurred about the past estimate provided and how this new estimate from a new
engineering firm was arrived at, as well as getting a firm number to present to Town Meeting.
Suggestion was made to wait until next Annual Town Meeting and to further research if the
mini-split option would work. Mr. Jeffreys described what he found during his walk through
the Primary School last spring regarding the preservation of the building. After more
discussion, Dr. Burnham and Ms. Archambault requested to withdraw the warrant article.
The next article was a citizen petition to change zoning on an area of Massachusetts Avenue:
"To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Map by rezoning a portion of the land located at
199 Massachusetts Avenue from Residence A to Commercial District so the entire lot is in the
Commercial District, as shown on a plan on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Select Board and
Planning Board; or take any other action thereto. (Citizen's Petition)"
Michael Chapdelaine, 208 Leominster Road, and Mark Chapdelaine, 616 Northfield Road,
stated this request arose when they closed their auto dealership and had someone interested in
leasing-to-own part of the property. We assumed our entire property (16.93 acres) was zoned
commercial. The back portion is actually zoned residential.
Discussion ensued about future plans for the property, the appearance of some wetlands on
the west side of about 3-5 acres, the presence of residential homes adjacent to the property on
Tilton Ave. and White Street and what abutters might think about the zoning change.
It was suggested to approach the Planning Board about their proposal in advance of Town
Meeting.
===PAGE 5===
those particular sections that we identified. It was not to question the whole bylaw. If the
Select Board moves forward with the entire APD bylaw, we'll withdraw it and resubmit a
consolidated version at the Annual Town Meeting next May. We proposed the change to
make our work more effective for the town. After some discussion it was evident the majority
of the board were in favor of printing the condensed version. It was suggested to have a
policy so people know what to expect when submitting a warrant article and work with Town
Moderator and Town counsel on it.
Joint Meeting with Municipal Building Design Committee (MBDC)
Mr. Jeffreys, also a MBDC member, noted other members present: Greg Roy, Tom Gray
and Brian Lehtinen via Zoom. Mr. Roy, Acting Chair, called their meeting to order at 8:38
p.m. Mr. Roy reported the committee has drafted three concepts for how the TCP
Building, Town Hall, Ritter Building and Brooks House could potentially be used. He
stated he would go through all of them and then take feedback on each one.
TC Passios
Town Hall
Ritter Building
Concept 1
Future Town Hall:
Community Building/
School Administration
Brooks House
Seldemolish
Demolish north ving:
Preserve 2nd floor
renovate kitchen and gym;
Meeting Room
keep PACC (identify cost
contrbution)
Concept 2
School Programs &
transition space - future
site for Turkey Hill or
Community Rooms;
Preserve 2nd floor
Meeting Room
NewTown Hall: Annex
to Ritter for Town
offices
additional fields
Concept 3
Hybnid
Concept
Transition space, then
Community Center -
Demolish north, central,
and part of west wings;
create small office and
community rooms; pantry,
renovate kitchen & gym
PACC studio (identify cost
contribution)
Transition space, then
Community Center -
Demolish north, centrai,
and part of we st wings;
create small office and
town derk storage; pantry,
novate kitchen & gyn
ACC studio (identify co
entribution; publi
throoms; parkin
Community Rooms;
Preserve 2nd floor
Meeting Room
School Administration
Lease to
business; Lease
as house (ZBA
Variance); PACC
Studio; demolish
and convert to
athletic building
for seniors/B&G
dub
Storage School
& Town Facilities
Department
Meeting House - 1st floor. NewTown Hall: Ritter
3 meeting rooms; 2nd
Second floor and
floor. remove TM & HR
basement for school
offices to increase size of
administration and
2nd floor meeting room.
ACE; current planning
department bridges to
new2-story Town Hall
annex
Demolish or Sell
===PAGE 6===
school programs to the Ritter Building. He stated the committee has done a good job at
minimizing new construction costs with these options.
Mr. Franco preferred the hybrid concept because it envisions the most robust uses of the
Ritter Building and Town Hall, especially in light of the $30/40 million price tag for the
TCP building renovation/new build.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the committee for presenting options, although he was afraid that when
you give people multiple options they get frozen and fractioned, which could be averse to a
decision being made. If he had to rate them he would be for the hybrid option; everybody is
taken into consideration. He also liked the fact that 30 School Street remains a green space.
His second preference was Option 1. He did note in any scenario the Brooks House will be a
challenge to get over.
Ms. Lemieux stated obviously a lot of thought and discussion went into this so thank you.
She stated we haven't seen how those figures align/don't align as far as space needs if you're
trying to fit in what we have for available space versus the needs that were addressed. Mr.
Jeffreys responded we haven't addressed details yet as the intent tonight was to get feedback.
After tonight's meeting the Municipal Building Design Committee is also going to go before
the Planning Board and the School Committee with these concepts to get their feedback as
well. Then based on the square footage of these buildings what was proposed at the TCP
Building fits into these footprints and that's how we came out with the square footage of what
the needs for an annex would be.
Ms. Lemieux noted even in a year's time we have changed as far as composition and staffing
so looking long-term we wouldn't want the plan to be short-sighted on office spaces.
Discussion about costs per square footage ensued. Ms. Lemieux asked how this is going to
compare to what we got for costs if you're renovating, new construction, all these different
buildings, demolishing; where does that compare to we where we were at a year ago. She
also recommended discussing alterations with the APDC as all of these concepts would be
going before them. Mr. Jeffreys noted the committee has incorporated an APD member
into all of their meetings and they participate fully as a member and provide feedback.
Mr. Sculimbrene stated the APD appreciated the opportunity to participate.
Mr. Jeffreys stated the hybrid option also appealed to him. One of the good things about
the meeting house plan is that a meeting house is a historical New England thing; before
there were town halls you had meeting houses. This building comes with a lot of challenges,
number one being that it is very old and has a lot of the original wood. There are definitely
some structural concerns. One of the things with older buildings that helps them last long is
sometimes minimizing the usage.
Discussion ensued about the reasoning of addressing all the buildings and keeping them
standing and usable. Mr. Jeffreys thanked the committee for coming in this evening.
The LMDC adjourned their meeting at 9:41 p.m.
OLD BUSINESS
Review Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
===PAGE 7===
Subtotal FY23 Omnibus Budget Adj S
Total FY23 Omnibus Budget Adjustments from Above S
Change in Cherry Sheet Offsets S
Change in State Assessments S
Prior Year ExpenseS
Total Expenditure Adjustments
517/22 ATM Revenue Surpius - Raise & Appropriate
Change in Cherry SheetS
Change in New Gromh S
Total Revenue Adjustments
Current Surplus Available
359,064.60S
41,568,744.92
131,710.00
1.134.931.00
500.00
10,390,105.00
213,523.00
92.500.005
92,500.00
8.277.00
47,329.00
1,804.54
149,910.545
186,044.92
110,023.00
22,479.00
318,546.92
168,636.38
451,564.60
41,661,244.92
139,987.00
1.182 260.00
2,304.54
149.910.54
10,500.128.00
236.002.00
The adjustments include Historical Commission funding of $12,500 because they're looking
to apply for a grant this year and this would be their 50% match. Under Town Manager
expense I don't have actual estimates, but I'm looking to do a climate survey; 1 put in $15,000
for funding into that line.
Under Assessor's Administration, data collection expenses were unanticipated when we put
together the budget; this is necessary to fulfill our revaluation and the high estimate is
$60,000, but I'll know a better number this week. The Planning Board (APDC expenses),
missed asking for funding for a budget line for administrative expenses. That totals $92,500
out of an available $262,500. There's other budget adjustments including the cherry sheet
offset/state assessment numbers.
On the revenue side there are changes (increases) in cherry sheet numbers as well as New
Growth.
Prior year expenses in the amount of $1804.54 will be on the second Town Meeting warrant
article and would come out of that total available amount to appropriate of $262,500, leaving
a balance of $168,636.38 of available money to appropriate. Her recommendation would be
to put in a Special Purpose Stabilization account which is another warrant article.
Ms. Lemieux noted the citizens petition contact, Deb Christen, was unable to attend but sent
the following reasoning for the article to change Annual Town Meeting/Election dates to
Reasons to consider this change: The month of May has many activities happening around town
that can conflict with people taking the time from their other obligations to attend town meeting.
Many events happen during this month (graduations, weddings, recitals, etc.). The warmer
weather often sees people outside getting ready for their spring activities (cleaning up winter
debris, readying their gardens, etc.) Baseball, softball, and soccer are among the many activities
that people are involved in at this time. We now have the bylaw that calls for a Special Town
Meeting in the fall where any adjustments to the town's budget can be discussed and voted upon.
The majority of the people signing this petition felt we would have more participation if town
meeting moved back to April.
===PAGE 8===
Discussion ensued on the potential impact of changing the dates, such as lengthening Special
Town Meeting in the fall and the preliminary town budget would have to be completed
before the Governor releases their budget proposal. It was noted there is no evidence that
would show increased attendance by changing the dates of both ATM/Annual election.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approval of Minutes of September 20, 2022
Motion: T. Dwyer
To approve the minutes of September 20, 2022 Vote: 4 in favor; 1 abstention
2"': H. Sroka
(Alonzo)
2. Warrants
The board signed a Payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $651,576.63; an
accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,449,216.52 and a payroll warrant in the
amount of $976,463.21.
Mr. Franco read aloud a letter from the Salvation Army envoy, Lynnette Valentine,
requesting assistance in collecting donations for the Christmas season via either standing in
front of a kettle or adopting a family for the Salvation Army Angels program.
3. Action Items:
Mr. Alonzo in response to a Facebook posting inquired about the weathervane for Town Hall.
Ms. Lemieux stated the tower needs to be repaired before the weathervane can be placed
back but the job has not been out for bid yet.
4. Committee Reports
Ms. Sroka reported the School Committee met last week and they also held their Meet and
Greet for their Facilities Director but not a lot of people participated. The SC worked on the
Superintendent's goals. They talked about Turkey Hill School and the need for a new
building project. They also had the principals in briefly and they talked about school
improvements. They meet again next week.
Mr. Franco attended the first hour of the Council on Aging meeting and COA Director
presented her budget report.
Mr. Alonzo reported he attended the APD meeting with Town Manager where they
discussed their warrant article as well as the Certificate to Alter application for the Ritter
Building and denial of the windows replacement. We had a constructive conversation about
their position and what they are looking for. They also expressed what they felt wasn't
provided to them to make a decision other than the one they made. Our Facilities Director
Paul Visconti attended and presented a very good perspective from his position. The APDC
also felt there is no mechanism in their bylaw to suspend their decision and extend it. There
also was a commitment from some of the individual members that any resubmittal would be
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Jeffreys noted the following upcoming meetings: Site Visit- Saturday, October 15,
October 18, November 1, November 8, November 15 (STM), November 22 (if needed)
Mr. Jeffreys announced the board would not be going into Executive Session tonight.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Rhonda Lizio, 181 Reservoir Road, stated the public could not read the concepts presented by
the MDBC earlier this evening. Mr. Jeffreys stated they would be on their website page.
Mr. Jeffieys to the other members, noting how long the past few weeks' meetings have been
over three hours long, stated he was appreciative of the board and how well they are able to
work together. He thanked them for the work they do for the town, adding he thought they
were making good progress. He also thanked Ms. Lemieux. Mr. Franco echoed his statement.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 10:20 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
