===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; John Kimball, Unitil Representative, Alan
Wernick, Aaron Wernick, Police Chief Thomas Gammel, Jesse Reed, Judit Ernst via ZOOM,
Joe McLoughlin, BETA Group Inc. via ZOOM,
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote
participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, wanted to remind the public that tomorrow night at 7:00 PM
at Town Hall the Parks Commission will be reviewing two design proposals from WOLA
Landscape Architecture for Marshall Park.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Warrant articles for the Annual Town Meeting are due by March 215 at 4:00 p.m. to the Select
Board office.
Hearing for All Alcoholic Liquor License and Change of Manager for Genghis Inc. d/b/a
Jaxx Country Variety, 1353 Massachusetts Avenue
Mr. Alonzo read the hearing notice aloud.
"The Lunenburg Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on Tuesday, March 15,
2022 at 7:05 p.m. on the application submitted by Genghis Inc. d/b/a Jaxx Country Variety
for a change from Package Store Wine & Malt to Package Store All Alcoholic Beverages,
and Change of Manager to Aaron Wernick, located at 1353 Massachusetts Avenue,
Lunenburg, MA. The premises is described as a single level variety store providing food for
takeout, 1500 square foot area, with 2 exits/entrances, 2 bathrooms, sink prep area and
office. The hearing will be at Lunenburg Town Hall, 2'd Floor, 17 Main Street."
Owner Alan Wernick presented for the application for the license and noted he did not plan
to change anything at this time. He did note that everyone is TIP Certified for Off Premise
As he had stated they would do. He intended to continue selling everything else that is non-
alcohol related as he always has, just in a smaller volume. Groceries will be on one side and
===PAGE 2===
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the all alcohol liquor license and the change of manager for Jaxx Country
Variety at 1353 Massachusetts Avenue
Vote: All in Favor
The Wernicks thanked the Select Board and exited the meeting.
Continuation of Pole Petition Hearing-Kilburn Street - Plan 971-L dated 2/2/2022
Unitil Representative John Kimball returned for their project to connect Leominster Road to
Goodrich Street via Kilburn Ave. with four new poles. Mr. Jeffreys had suggested deferring in
order to go look at the road and proposed pole locations. There were no further questions but
discussion about poles crossing over the road ensued. Unitil's position was that they did this to
avoid cutting down some very large trees.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2': T. Dwyer
To approve the pole petition for Kilburn Street, Plan 971-L dated February 2, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
Chief Gammel announced that he has issued a letter of commendation to Officer Nick Marino.
During a domestic violence investigation in February Officer Marino had determined that a child
was involved and during the incident the child's toy had been broken intentionally and the child
was devastated. Officer Marino went to his house and grabbed his own Nintendo switch and
brought it back to the child. That goes above and beyond what is required of a police officer.
The second recognition is for two officers, one who is here tonight. Officer Mathieu and Lt.
Thibodeau have been dealing with an elderly resident for well-being checks, assisting with
shoveling his driveway etc. Recently Officer Mathieu discovered this resident had no heat and
had been heating his home with space heaters and a wood stove and it just wasn't conducive. The
house was in disarray. Officer Mathieu through Veterans Services, had contacted a heating
company to come out and inspect it, but they would not go in the house until it was cleaned. So
the final in an ay com than lending th the meantime and paid plea by binst and load od
firewood to the elderly man's house so he had heat. This shows acts of kindness that go beyond
what is expected of them and is well deserving of letters of commendation. This is exactly what
we are looking for in community policing. Applause filled the meeting room.
Mr. Alonzo echoed Gammel's statement. He commended the Chief and the officers.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Jesse Reed effective April 4, 2022
Chief Gammel was pleased to recommend Jesse Reed as a full-time police officer. Jesse holds a
bachelor's degree of science in criminal justice from Fitchburg State University. He completed
the Methuen full-time municipal police training academy in 2019. Upon successfully completing
the academy he was hired by the Berlin Police Dept. and has been there since. He has completed
specialized training in various disciplines.
===PAGE 3===
here and happy to meet everyone. He stated Lunenburg is the town he wanted to work for and he
had worked in the Town of Berlin to get a couple of years of experience and he was grateful to
them. But he felt he would be a great fit for Lunenburg. The Board members welcomed and
congratulated Officer Reed.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Jesse Reed to full-time Police officer effective
April 4, 2022
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Chief Gammel announced Reserve Officer Bonilla-Perez is resigning effective April 4, 2022 due
to accepting a position with the Fitchburg Police Department.
Board of Registrars- Shirley McBride, 159 Hollis Road - term runs April 1, 2022 - March
31,2025
Mrs. McBride was not present as she does not drive at night but she has served on the BOR for
several years and would like to be reappointed,
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To reappoint Shirley McBride to the Board of Registrars from April 1, 2022- March 31,
2025
Vote: All in Favor
Appointment of member to the Cultural Council-Judit Ernst-568 Flat Hill Road-term to
expire June 30, 2025
Ms. Ernst, via ZOOM, stated she has lived in town for 25 years and is a piano teacher. Her
children are in college and she has more time now to something for the town. The board thanked
her for coming forward.
Motion: L. Franco
2": T. Dwyer
To appoint Judit Ernst to the Cultural Council with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting with Environmental Consultant on Next Steps for 925 Mass. Ave (old Gas Station)
Ms. Lemieux stated this abandoned gas station has been the source of discussion for many years.
We have submitted an application to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for a targeted
Joe McLoughlin of BETA Group Inc. via ZOOM, stated under a grant that Montachusett
Regional Planning Commission (MRC) received, we assessed the site and some contamination
was detected but not anything that was unexpected. The biggest issue remaining there are
underground storage tanks, a septic system and some underground piping; a dry well is there too.
They have been trying to find additional funding to do more work on the property and were
referred to the EPA by the Dept. of Environmental Protection. The EPA has received funding
through the federal infrastructure funding program. The EPA can use the funding to remove the
andiandirely tane Toilty ey wil the de siesyes One stickdry poll. i chetro and avies
===PAGE 4===
The board thanked him for the information. Ms. Lemieux thanked Mr. McLoughlin as he has
been working with her through every step of the process. Mr. Alonzo commended Ms. Lemieux
for all her work on this through the five years she has been with the town.
Mr. Alonzo asked for any public comment related to the earlier public hearing scheduled at 7:05
PM as he had neglected to ask at the time.
Ann Penney, 1361 Mass. Ave., stated her driveway is right next to the store. Ms. Penney stated
she gets trash from the store in her driveway all the time and she and her husband go out and
clean it all the time because she has asked the store several times to clean it up. She has difficulty
with them (owner) and does not want to get into arguments, so she cleans it up herself. More
open and a trailer is being stored on the property. Mr. Alonzo noted the trash issue is not a liquor
license issue but if something comes up concerning the license he advised her to contact the
Select Board office. He did agree with Ms. Penney that the store property should not be
unbecoming. Ms. Penney thanked the board for any assistance.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large and one
representative from Historical Commission)
• Council on Aging (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (3 vacancies)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can
be sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities
can contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part-Time Benefitted)
• DPW Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Minutes Clerk positions (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
Status of FY21 and FY22 Capital Plan Projects
FY21 Capital Plan Projects:
===PAGE 5===
• Ritter, Kitchen Remodel: On hold until Monty Tech Instructor hired
• 2 Marked Police Cruisers: Complete and balance of $13,593 can be added to
unexpended capital funding available for the FY23 Capital Plan
• ALSEquipment: Remainderof funding for purchase of medications closerto time
ofParamedic Licensure
• Police Portable Radios: Two remaining radios to purchase
• ADA Ramp Design: Design complete, some funds still needed for architect to assist
with APDC process
FY22 Capital Plan Projects:
• Fire Dept. Turnout Gear: Purchased and closed out.
•
Police Bulletproof Vests: Purchased and will be closed out shortly.
DPW 6 Wheel Dump: Difficulty procuring the truck.
• PSB Chiller Replacement: Bid awarded and work will be done by May.
• Flat Hill Culvert Construction: On hold for additional funding; applied for SBG.
• 2 Marked Police Cruisers: Ordered in the fall; notified recently just sent to production. May
receive this spring and then will be up-fitted. On the road by this summer.
• THES Ext Envelope Repairs: Complete; Unexpended $7,100 going towards FY23
Capital
• Ritter ADA Ramp Construction: Design complete and project needs to go before APDC
before being bid.
• Town Hall Repairs: Design complete; needs to go before APD before being bid.
• Page Street Survey/Design/Permit: Engineered design nearing completion.
• Ritter Envelope Repairs: Design complete; needs to go before APDC before being bid.
• PSB Replace Carpeting: On hold until drainage issues addressed.
• Marshall Park Masterplan: Currently underway; project complete by May.
• DPW 3/4 Ton Pickup Truck: Ordered in fall; no delivery date yet.
Invitation to Bid/Request for Proposals:
Assistant Town Manager Belliveau put the Cleaning Services out to bid and we received 5 bids.
The bid was awarded to All Pro, who was the lowest, responsive, responsible bidder. The contract
price is within our budgeted amount for cleaning for facilities. The new cleaning company will
begin at the end of the month.
===PAGE 6===
Committee and I believe we are closer to coming to an agreed upon purchase price in order to
execute a Purchase & Sale.
I have worked with the Green Communities Committee to put together a RFP for LED
Streetlight Design and Project Management Services that will be finalized and advertised later
this week.
COVID-19 Update
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of
March 5th was 6 and the positivity rate was 1.12%.
Public Employee Committee
The Health Insurance Broker, representatives from MIIA Health, the Assistant Town Manager
and 1 are meeting with the Public Employee Committee tomorrow to review the health
insurance renewal rates and discuss any possible plan design changes and review the PEC
Agreement between the Town and the Committee. The Agreement is set to expire on June 30th
and will need to be renewed prior to that date. I will keep the Board updated with any new
information.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• There will be a Tax Lien Auction on March 17th at 10 a.m.
• The warrant to submit articles for the Annual Town Meeting is open for submission of
articles until Monday, March 21, 2022 at 4 p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Architectural Preservation District Commission (APDC) Certificate
to Alter filing for 30 School Street
Mr. Alonzo reported last Thursday the APD held the hearing and there were several people
there. The APDC heard several peoples' perspectives and concerns. The APDC continued the
hearing to Monday the 21s', so we will not know their decision until they take an official vote.
The meeting is recorded and available for viewing on YouTube public access.
2.
Warrants
The board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $917,564.43; an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $526,790.49 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of
$615,349.44.
3. Action Items-there were none
4. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo stated the Finance Committee heard from the DPW Director for his budget.
===PAGE 7===
review the by-laws every five years and actively engage those boards and committees to see
about changes. He did speak with Chair Mary Foyle and she had reported participation has been
low, but there could have been more opportunity for the committee to engage with board and
committees. Further discussion ensued about this.
The next article seeks funding for the demolition of the old Primary School and for final
engineering and design services to create a passive recreation/open space area at this property.
Ms. Lemieux moved on to three Planning Board articles which;
• amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, a.k.a. the Protective Bylaw, Section 4.15,
entitled "Non-medical marijuana establishments,
• amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.2, which is a Section of the Protective
Bylaw entitled "Location of Districts," by deleting "May 3, 2008" as the date of the
map referenced therein and substituting "May 7, 2022" therefor, and by adopting said
revised map,
• amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, which is a Section of the Protective
Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District," § 250-4.9 Water Supply Protection
District.
Discussion ensued about the proposed changes to the by-laws. Clarification from the Land
Use Director was requested on why these changes were proposed.
Update on Cease & Desist and Non-Renewal of Common Victualler License for Conrad's
Drive-In
Mr. Alonzo stated this was discussed last week and we have informed the licensee that they can
have a hearing on April 5'h regarding the license not being renewed due to delinquent taxes
related to the property. Ms. Lemieux reported another payment was made on the overdue taxes
today. If a payment arrangement is entered into with the Treasurer/Collector before then, the
hearing will be canceled.
Discussion on Article to Address Deficiencies in APD Bylaw
Mr. Alonzo stated this article would probably not make it to the Annual Town meeting but it
should begin a conversation about what needs to be changed. There has been talk about deadline
and response times for the Certificate to Alter process and Town Counsel has communicated that
some of the APD's regulations are actually stricter than the by-law, which may overstep their
bounds. This will be worked on in anticipation of fall town meeting with the APD and Town
counsel.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted this board's next meeting is March 22, and Mr. Jeffreys will Chair as Mr.
Alonzo will be away. The next meeting following that will be April 5th
===PAGE 8===
Mr. Alonzo noted that State Senator Markey has introduced legislation keeping daylight savings
time 365 days a year. It did pass the Senate and he hoped it would pass the House. He thanked
Senator Markey for putting it forward and all who voted in favor of it.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:36 p.m.
Respectfully submitted
Elaire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
