===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Paul Sarapsas
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel,
on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24
hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the
sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo welcomed newly elected member Heather Sroka. He also thanked Mr. Jeffreys on his
being re-elected and thanked everyone who voted for himself.
Ms. Sroka thanked everyone for electing her and hoped she could contribute to the discussions and
bring a new and fresh perspective to the board. The other board members welcomed her as well.
Mr. Jeffreys read a prepared statement following the election:
Five years and a few months ago I stood at the podium in this great hall and my first Board of Selectmen
meeting to raise concerns about what I termed to be a Gillette stadium of pot; a 300,000 square foot
facility proposed to be built in my backyard, a residential neighborhood. In preparation for that meeting
I went door to door and spoke to all the abutters willing to talk to me on Mass Ave., Arbor Street, Page
Street and Rolling Acres Road to build opposition to a marijuana growing facility that was trying to slip
into our town under the guise of agriculture prior to the approval of a marijuana bylaw and the state
excluding marijuana for being a farming activity. At that time my primary concern was my sick father
and what I perceive to be an encroachment on property rights, town sovereignty and the potential
disruption to the quality of life for so many at the expense of millionaires trying to earn more millions.
In these past five years I have gotten married, graduated from college, retired from the Army and served
our town on the Planning Board and Select Board. I've served as a member of the Montachusett
Regional Planning Commission, Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee, Montachusett Planning
Organization and Montachusett Regional Transit Authority. I've served on the Lunenburg Municipal
Building Design Committee, the Charter Review Committee and liaised with the Library Trustees, the
Council of Aging and our high school civics teachers. Serving my fellow residents has been an honor
and I am beyond words at the support from those in our community who've elected me to serve for three
more years. There's a lot of work to be done still but I first have to give glory and honor to God who is
ahead of my life. I have to thank my husband Ezra for his support albeit on the condition that he doesn't
have to get involved. I want to thank Dave and Karen Rogers who are my surrogate parents; Ezra and I
have nothing but love for you. I want to thank Jane and Jack Rabbitt for their enduring friendship and
===PAGE 2===
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
•
Vote to Approve Exemption per MGL 268A, § 20 (f) request from Police Chief regarding
Firefighters to serve as Civilian Traffic members and ratification of appointments of Firefighters
Christos Lekaditis, James Ricci, Melissa Buchanan, and Olivia Hayes as Civilian Traffic
members
Ms. Lemieux reported Police Chief Gammel has requested to hire four full-time firefighters due to
difficulty hiring Detail officers. In a memo to the Town Clerk:
"As Detail season is in full swing, we are finding it difficult to fill "road details." To address this ongoing issue the
Police Department created a Civilian Traffic Member Unit. This unit is dedicated to traffic control on various details
throughout Town. Due to the number of detail request we receive we would like to add four (4) Full Time Lunenburg
Firefighters to our Civilian Traffic Member Unit.
I am requesting the following Lunenburg Firefighters:
1. Christos Lekaditis
2. James Ricci
3. Melissa Buchanan
4. Olivia Hayes
receive an exemption under G.L. c. 268Aş 20, (f), which states: "(f to a municipal employee if the contract is for
personal services in a part time, call or volunteer capacity with the police, fire, rescue or ambulance department of a
fire district, town or any city with a population of less than thirty-five thousand inhabitants; provided, however, that the
head of the contracting agency makes and files with the clerk of the city, district or town a written certification that no
employee of said agency is available to perform such services as part of his regular duties, and the city council, board of
selectmen, board of aldermen or district prudential committee approve the exemption of his interest from this section."
This proposal has been addressed with the Lunenburg Police Officers Union, I.B.P.O. Local 353, and the Lunenburg
Firefighters Union, P.F.F.M. Local 5358A. Both unions are in agreement to allow the above firefighters to work details
for the Lunenburg Police Department upon completion of a certified Traffic Control class."
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the exemption of c. 268A, §20(f) to allow firefighters to serve as civilian traffic
members
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To ratify the appointments of Firefighters Christos Lekaditis, James Ricci, Melissa Buchanan,
and Olivia Hayes as Civilian Traffic members
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo noted the resignation of Ryan Stober from the Agricultural Commission. He also
announced the resignation of Jeffrey Bajko from the Public Access Cable Committee.
===PAGE 3===
To appoint Paul Sarapsas to the Public Access Cable Committee with a term to expire June 30,
2023
Vote: All in Favor
It was noted that PACC Chair Steve Weaver sent a message via ZOOM that the committee was very
pleased to have Mr. Sarapsas on board.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2
Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Library Page (Part-Time Non Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Seasonal Lifeguards(Non Benefitted)
•
Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
•
Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Department Head Updates:
Library: The Library is preparing for opening on Fridays after the start of the new fiscal year.
Hours will be 2-6 PM. The Summer Reading Program is beginning.
IT: The network equipment installation will begin in the beginning of June. Wewill need to upgrade
our accounting software to a newer version before the end of the fiscal year. New equipment will be
ordered to enable hybrid meetingsto be conducted in the DP W Conference Room and the Ritter
lower meeting room. The delivery date and installation date are still unknown at this point.
Police: Police Officer Matt Pingitore graduated from the academy last week. The appointment of
additional Civilian Traffic positions will help fill all the details that are needed right now.
Fire: The Fire Chiefisadvertising forthe 9th paramedicposition currently. The Chiefwillbelooking
===PAGE 4===
Finance Director: Departments will be notified shortly about the last date to open purchase orders
for FY22 and about any outstanding purchases or services that invoices will not be processed by
June 30th that will need to be encumbered.
Public Access: Public Access is still working with the HR Director to try to fill the
Production Technician and videographer positions.
DW: The DPW Director provided the roadwork schedule for the next few weeks, including that
catch basin repairs would be occurring today on Main Street, Memorial Avenue, Oak Avenue, and
Highland Street in preparation for the upcoming paving and Goodrich Street was being paved
today. The Director spoke with PJ Keating about the paving on Main Street, Memorial Avenue, Oak
Avenue, and Highland Street and the preliminary schedule is to start paving Highland first on May
31st, then move to Memorial and Main on June Ist, and Oak Avenue last. This is subject to change
but will be announced by the DPW Director.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Memorial Day Ceremony will be on Monday, May 30th at 10 a.m. at Veterans Park.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th and be every Sunday until
Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will on the following dates: July 11th, July 18th, July 25th, August 1st,
August 8th and a rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once
again be held on the lawn in front of the TC Passios Building.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review and Approve the Town Manager Evaluation
Last meeting Mr. Alonzo presented the draft composite of the Ms. Lemieux's performance evaluation.
Part I. Performance on Prior Year Goals
1. Continuation of the goal to redevelop/reuse 925 Mass. Ave. In Progress
2. Enhance Facilities Management and Maintenance In Progress
3. Establish Means Tested Senior Citizen Property Tax Exemption In Progress
Notes: As a general consensus comment, the Select Board was pleased with the progress made on these goals,
several being large, multi-year tasks. The Town Manager never loses sight of these goals and is able to further
their progress while still attending the daily tasks of running the Town.
Part II. Performance Standards and Core Responsibilities
A rating scale of 1- 4 was used to rate the Town Manager's performance in all categories. An average
of all the members' evaluations determines the final rating.
4
Consistently Exceeds Expectations:
Performance consistently exceeds expectations. The overall quality of work is excellent, results far
exceed the position requirements and annual goals were met.
3
Often Exceeds Expectations:
===PAGE 5===
met.
0
Unsatisfactory:
Performance is inadequate and employee demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to meet job
standards and performance expectations of the position. Immediate and sustained improvement is.
required.
N/O
Not observed:
This rating is used when the reviewer has not directly observed the actions of the Town
Manager. It will not be counted in the compilation of scores.
1. Individual Characteristics/Professionalism
• Is dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public and personal relationships in order to
merit the respect and confidence of the elected officials, other officials and employees, and of the public.
Demonstrates accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and honestly.
•
Treats others in a fair, consistent, impartial, and professional manner. Is effective in dealing with
people without arousing antagonism and demonstrates an understanding of difficult situations.
• Maintains an open and approachable manner, presents a positive outlook and sets an example for
subordinates.
Rating - 4
The Select Board unanimously recognizes that the Town Manager is the consummate employee who
conducts herself with the utmost professionalism in every facet of her job. She deals with everyone equally
and impartially, is personable, honest, collaborative, approachable and available while maintaining a steady
and calm demeanor throughout all her interactions. She is a strong advocate for her staff and their respect
for her makes her leadership very effective. She is very firm and resolute in her convictions while still being
open to suggestions and always amenable to listening to differing viewpoints.
2. Problem Solving/Decision-Making/Planning:
• Anticipates and analyzes problems to develop effective approaches for solving them. Willing to trynew
ideas proposed by the Board members and/or staff.
• Anticipates future needs, organizes work operations, and establishes timetables for work units or
projects. Is aware of technological advances and changing standards; identifies and understands trends.
Effectively allocates resources and predicts the impact of service delivery decisions.
..
Knows when to take actionand what type of action is appropriate.
Effectively allocates resources to provide service to the community. Anticipates stakeholder needs and
attitudes, and the impact of policies and procedures, and responds appropriately.
Rating - 3.25
===PAGE 6===
• Maintains knowledge of current developments affecting the practice of local government management
and is familiar with applicable local, state and federal legislation and regulations related to Town
• Demonstrates skill in listening, speaking and writing, persuading without diminishing the views of
others.
• Has a full working knowledge of the administrative and management systems and procedures.
• Understands and implements long-range and strategic planning techniques; identifies trends that will
affect the community; demonstrates an understanding and ability to analyze and facilitate policy choices
that will benefit the community in the long run.
Rating- 3.5
The Town greatly benefits from the Town Manager's knowledge, skills and experience as she is clearly well-
versed in all aspects of municipal government. She is a good listener and her verbal and written
communication abilities are excellent. It was noted that one of her greatest strengths as a leader is
acknowledging when she doesn't know the answer to a question, then going out and researching it and
coming back with an answer at a subsequent meeting. This instills confidence that what is being asked is
taken seriously, that information is seriously sought and considered and a response is reasoned and
thoughtful.
4. Organizational Leadership and Personnel Management:
Builds cooperation and consensus among and within diverse groups, helping them identify common
goals and act effectively to achieve them; recognizes interdependent relationships and multiple causes of
community issues; and anticipates the consequences of policy decisions.
• Encourages the development and high-level performance of staff and employees throughout the
organization. Effectively selects and hires employees for position vacancies.
Professionally manages the compensation and benefits plan.
• Develops and executes sound personnel procedures and practices. Seeks to foster high morale and
cohesiveness among employees.
• Effectively plans, organizes and delegates work. Monitors results and evaluates performance of those
supervised, and provides feedback in a timely manner.
Rating- 3
===PAGE 7===
Among other minority criticisms in this category included the lack of an employee survey to determine
employee satisfaction and Town Hall still being open only 4 days a week.
5. Community and Public Relations:
• Understands the basic principles of service delivery in functional areas (e.g. public safety, community
and economic development, human and social services, administration, public works).
• Provides responsive, equitable service to town residents and instills the value of good customer service
in staff.
• Communicates effectively with the public. Maintains respectful, polite, and civil speech and demeanor
in dealings with all.
• Maintains good working relationship with legislators, media, and public groups/organizations, as well
as with other regional, state, and federal governmentagencies.
RATING - 3.5
The Town Manager continues to have an excellent relationship with the numerous and varied people
with whom she interacts including elected officials, employees, business entities, charitable organizations
and residents. Throughout, she is open and engaged, caring, even-handed and responsive providing
detailed replies. As the public face of Lunenburg, she proudly represents the Town in every aspect.
6. Fiscal Management:
• Prepares and administers the budget; shows knowledge of budgeting principles and practices, revenue
sources, projection techniques, and financial control systems; presents information in an intelligent and
accessible format.
Makes the best possible use of available funds, conscious of the need to operate the local
government efficiently and effectively. Determines the cost effectiveness of programs, and compares
alternative strategies.
• As Chief Procurement Officer, effectively manages Town purchasing of supplies and services,
disposition of town property, and construction projects
• Establishes and manages sound fiscal policies including Five Year Financial Forecast, financial policies,
and Capital Plan.
Rating - 4
Once again this year, the Select Board unanimously recognizes the Town Manager's skill and creativity as a
fiscal manager. Her budgets meet the needs of the community, save for the future and are consistent with all
financial policies. She maintains fiscal discipline that keeps the Town on solid financial footing, monitors all
economic data, even in these current times of economic uncertainty, to determine budgeting objectives and
strategies to achieve them. Because of her hard work, the Town is well-poised to weather most any global
and/or national economic situations might arise.
===PAGE 8===
The relationship with the Town Manager and the Select Board is very strong. It is so because the Town
Manager is very equitable in her communications to each of the board's members. She shares information
openly and to every member. She is always available (some say maybe too available) to speak about any
matter, quick to respond and/or provide further information, open to hearing arguments counter to her own,
and is willing to spend as much time as needed to ensure that all board members are up-to-speed on any
issue. This is especially important to newer members of the board just learning the position.
8. Reporting
• Provides regular information and reports to the Board concerning matters of importance to the local
government, using the Town Charter as a guide.
• Reports produced by the Manager are accurate, comprehensive, concise and written to their intended
audience.
• Produces and handles reports in a way to convey the message that affairs of the organization are open to
public scrutiny.
Rating- 3.75
The Town Manager's reporting on all topics is strong, timely and thorough. Her Town Manager Report, given
during Select Board meetings, continues to provide important information to the board and the public on current
(and upcoming) topics of interest. Her financial reports are detailed, well-explained and well-documented. While
the content is admired, it is noted that the documents don't always translate well to broadcast or Zoom
presentations, with fonts and spreadsheets being too small for the public to read; also requested was that the
board be able to receive the reports at least 24 hours before their presentation so that they can be reviewed in
advance.
Part III. Overall Performance Summary
Best Achievement
There was no unanimity on any single "best" achievement, but the board members did offer the a list of noted
accomplishments including: (i) the establishment of a Facilities Department, (ii) consistent fiscal discipline and
sound budgeting practices, (iti) continued progress on 925 Mass. Ave.
Subject Which Would Benefit Most from Further Attention:
The majority of the board agrees that more attention needs to be paid to personnel management. It is widely
acknowledged that staffing has become a big challenge and will likely continue to be going forward. Hiring
and or maintaining staff will require diligence and continued communication with department heads and staff.
Morale will be very important. Addressing these will all take additional time and attention.
Also, the Town Manager should re-assess her time commitments and be sure to maintain a healthy,
sustainable work/life balance to avoid undue stress that can jeopardize long-term success. While we applaud
===PAGE 9===
Part IV. Town Manager Goals and Professional Development Plan
The Town Manager and the Board of Selectmen will work together to develop specific goals or performance objectives
for which the Town Manager will be accountable. Goal statements should include a short descriptive title, desired
outcome, the actions the Town Manager will implement to obtain the goal, and a date that the goal will becompleted.
The Town Manager's professional development plan should:
• Identify desired outcomes related to areas of growth discussed during the Town Manager's performance review.
• Include both corrective and developmental outcomes, including any "stretch" areas that would improve the
Town Manager's overall effectiveness or increase the organization's capacity.
• Identify appropriate training, education, and experience to promote the desired outcomes.
Ms. Lemieux thanked the board for the process. It's very helpful to have that self-evaluation piece and
meet with the members individually. She appreciated the feedback and finds it valuable.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: L. Franco
To accept the composite Town Manager evaluation as a public record
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Sroka-abstain
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Reorganization of the Select Board
After some discussion the following nominations were made.
Motion: T Alonzo
To nominate Mr. Jeffreys as Chairman
2'': L. Franco
Vote: 4 in favor; 1 abstained (Jeffreys)
Motion: L. Franco
To nominate Mr. Alonzo as Vice Chairman
2': T. Dwyer
Vote: 4 in favor; 1 abstained (Alonzo)
Motion: T. Dwyer
To nominate Lou Franco as Clerk
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: 4 in favor; 1 abstain (Franco)
Select Board designees to certain committees and liaison assignments
The Board reviewed the current positions and it was suggested for members to send their choices via
email to the Chairman. The final decisions will be made next meeting.
Select Board Representatives/Liaisons 2021-2022
American with Disabilities Act Commission
Katey Adams (2022)
Capital Planning Committee
Tom Alonzo (2023)
Council on Aging
Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Representative
Member
Liaison
===PAGE 10===
MRPC
Open Space
Planning Board
School Committee
Lunenburg Bldg Design Committee
Senior Tax Relief Subcommittee
Middle/High School Civics Classes
vacant
Lou Franco
Todd Dwyer
Representative
Liaison
Liaison
Liaison
Member
Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Lou Franco/Tom Alonzo
M.Jeffreys/L. Franco
Liaisons
Approval of April 12' Minutes
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'd: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of April 12, 2022 as presented Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstain (Sroka)
Warrants
The board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $876,803.74; a Payroll warrant in the
amount of $3031. 60, a Payroll warrant in the amount of $999,464.02 and a Payroll Deductions warrant
in the amount of $211,991.09.
Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported the School Committee on May 18" approved the draft election sign policy that this
board sent to them.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees met and there were some questions about trust funds
administration once it passes at the state level. It is still working its way through the state house. More to
come on that later.
Mr. Alonzo reported he and Mr. Franco met with the senior tax relief group and reviewed data that had
been provided by Principal Assessor Carroll after our initial meeting. The Chair of the Board of
Assessors also attended the meeting along with the Finance Director. We started working on what the
framework of such a program would be. Mr. Carroll has researched what properties may be eligible
given the residency and age requirements. He also reviewed with assessors from Wakefield and
Andover who already have a program about how they work and how much they are abating. The next
step is to put what we've discussed into writing for a framework and start working with town counsel on
language. We also have to determine what the age and income requirements will be. We want to make
sure the right people benefit from the program and we have to determine if there is a cap on the amount
abated.
Mr. Jeffieys reminded all about the Memorial Day ceremony on May 30" at 10 am at Veteran's Park;
the APDC Hearing for Ritter Building and Town Hall Certificates to Alter: June 6" at 7:30 PM;
Volunteer Appreciation Event at Eagle House on June 16' 5:30 PM-7 PM. This board meets again on
June 7"', June 14 and June 21st.
===PAGE 11===
The meeting adjourned at 8:06 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
