===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Counsel
Park Commissioners present: Karin Menard, Ana Lockwood, Chris Sullivan, Patrick Hakey
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo wished his best to the Comeau family following the horrific dog incident that
occurred at the ACO kennel yesterday. He wished Wayne Comeau the best in his recovery.
Mr. Jeffreys echoed that and sent warm wishes and prayers during this time noting that they
have been dedicated public servants for decades.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, stated that Townsend Harbor Road and in front of Town
Hall has not had the lines painted yet.
Mike Clark, 275 Cross Road, Chair of the Republican Town Committee, stated they were
looking to keep good visibility and their presence in town going in a positive format in the
upcoming election cycle. Part of their activity is to participate in signature drives to get
candidates on the ballot. Mr. Clark noted Secretary of State Bill Galvin sent out a letter to
some of the box stores and supermarkets to let them know that citizens have rights to hold
these signature drives and nobody has a right to interfere with this. He cited an incident in
town where someone showed up and was interfering with the drive. She was asked to move
on eventually. He hoped the Select Board and Police would embrace this civil right.
Karen Chow, 53 Chestnut Street, inquired about how to get a 25 MPH speed limit sign placed
on Chestnut Street. Ms. Lemieux will forward this request to the Police Chief. Kristen Tuttle,
25 Chestnut Street, supported the request as her stone wall has been hit twice this year.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Jeffreys announced there is composition notebook drive to support the elementary and
primary schools. If you would like to donate, please drop them off at the Lunenburg Boys and
Girls Club or the public library.
===PAGE 2===
•Open main lot with no designated lines or ADA compliant handicap spots
• Unusable areas due to years of neglect: fitness circuit, basketball court, remaining skate
Tamp
Why Marshall Park?
•Central location ideal for multigenerational use. Located near Senior Center, Teen Center,
Library, Middle/ High School, Turkey Hill Elementary, Town Offices and town center.
• Large footprint provides the opportunity to enhance the quality of existing baseball and
softball facilities while adding high demand uses: dog park, skate park, walking trails,
pickle ball basketball, picnic areas, updated playground and bathroom facilities.
•Parks contribute to the health and wellness of a community and the location and condition
of Marshall Park makes this a prime target.
• Park Commission has prioritized updating and proper maintenance of the current parks
before developing new parks.
How We Got Here
• May 2021 - Town Meeting approval of Capital Plan that included $50k for Marshall Park
Master Plan (expended to date: $36,622.84)
•November 2021 - Interviewed 4 Landscape Architects and Wright Ostermier Landscape
Architects (WOLA) was awarded the contract and began working with the commission.
• January 2022-April 2022 - Through a series of public meetings WOLA collected Parks
Commission and community feedback and used survey results to present two designs.
• April 2021 - WOLA presented Park Commissions preferred design choice
Community Engagement.
Initial Survey: July 2021-433 responses
Feedback Survey: January 2022 - 121 responses
Community Meetings with WOLA:
• January 2022 - 48 attendees
• March 2022 - 30 attendees
She stated the commissioners are excited that people are involved and are hoping they will stay
involved.
Skate Park**
Lunenburg Skate Park is working to build an 8,000 square foot skate park at the location shown.
===PAGE 3===
MASSACHUSETTS-AVE
• The Skate Park group just completed a site engineering and geotechnical report.
Next steps are to determine final design and budget.
Their target build date is currently spring 2023.
Park Commission will continue working with them to make their hard work a reality.
**Lunenburg Skate Park is a 501(c) (3) organization independently fundraising and planning the
skate park.
New Features
• Improved Parking on Chestnut Street -around 38 parking spots to resolve long term
parking issues
• 94 parking spots on the Massachusetts Ave. side including handicapped accessible spots
• Pedestrian access from Mass. Ave, allowing safe entry
• Basketball court and three pickle ball courts
• Pavilion area for concessions and shelter
• Permanent Restrooms
• Accessible playground
• New 90 foot diamond with 325' foul poles, eliminating netting behind home plate
• New softball field
• Walking Paths totally a mile-8 foot ADA compliant
• Dog Park
• Connection of main park area to Marshall Pond
• Marshall Pond parking area, picnic area and pond overlook
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Lockwood stated they are seeking the Select Board's support. Our goal now is to figure out
how to fund the next phase.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the commissioners for the presentation. He asked for feedback on the
process.
Mark Diamond, 47 Highland Street, stated his property abuts the pond and park and wanted to
confirm the pond is beautiful, but unusable in warm weather due to the lily pads. People use it in
the winter for hockey. It would be nice to see more people use it.
Greg Roy, 105 Chestnut Street, appreciated all the work the Parks Commissioners have done on
this; it's exciting to think about the park being revitalized.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, offered any help he and his wife could offer, as he totally
supports the project.
Diane Haglestein, 64 Chestnut Street, was in favor of the project as it would get the parking off
the side of the street.
Karen Chow thanked the commission for their work and inquired about funding sources. Will it
be funded by grants, a fundraiser or taxes?
Ms. Menard stated she anticipated applying for grant funding but sometimes they require a
matching amount of funding. When asked for numbers, she responded the amount spent to date
is $36,000 and the next phase is $160,000. Ms. Lockwood stated she had gotten a ballpark figure
of $150,000 to $200,000 for the engineering phase. WOLA had given us a total estimate of
around $5 million for the project. Ms. Lockwood stated by phasing the project the costs would be
more manageable.
Ms. Sroka stated this looks like an exciting project. She asked for an estimate of how long it
would take with the phasing of the project. Ms. Menard stated it would depend on the funding.
Mr. Sullivan added it would depend on the time of year as they want to keep the fields in use
during the spring and summer.
Mr. Dwyer asked about the lighting in the park. Ms. Menard stated they would discuss the
lighting in the schematic design phase.
Mi: Franco asked about the removal of the lily pads and conservation implications. Ms. Menard
stated she has asked the DPW Director to look into this along with the Conservation
Commission.
Mr. Alonzo commended the Parks Commission for their work on Marshall Park. He fully
supported their next steps; he liked the vision and the plan including the revitalization of the
pond. This is a project that is long overdue.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the 97 parking spaces, how many of these are additional to what is
there? Ms. Lockwood stated around 60 are there currently.
When asked if they had a policy for naming items in the park things after people, Ms. Menard
noted some of the items there have previously been named but they would be coming up with a
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo stated if this project as depicted has those additional parking spots, the town could be
more aggressive in approaching no parking on either side of the Chestnut Street. It is hard to do
that now with no alternative. Ms. Lemieux reiterated gratitude for all the work the
commissioners have done. Outreach has been a focus and that is commendable. Thank you for
all your work.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"'I: H. Sroka
To support the master plan as presented by the Park Commissioners Vote: All in Favor
The Park Commissioner adjourned their meeting at 8:08 pm.
Update from the Conservation Commission Chair on Conservation properties
Mr. Pease noted this was an update for the Cowdry Conservation area only. In the fall of 2020
during a review of aerial photography on the Assessor's GIS website, it was noticed the driveway
and other materials pertinent to 192 Townsend Harbor Road appeared to be on the Cowdry
Conservation land. In October of 2020, Town counsel sent the trespass request to file Notice of
Intent for restoration letter to the residents at that address. The resident's response indicated they
were unwilling to comply so Town counsel recommended that a survey be done to identify
where the boundary was and what materials were on or not on conservation land.
The Select Board approved funding the survey and it cost eight thousand dollars. During the
authorizing discussions Mr. Jeffreys had suggested the commission pursue all encroachments on
conservation lands and not single out the 192 Townsend Harbor Road residents. The survey of
the Cowdry boundary from Mulpus Brook to the southeast corner of Woodland Drive was
completed in December of 2021. The survey identified five properties with encroachments:
192 Townsend Harbor Road, 14 Townsend Harbor to 40 Townsend Harbor, 104 Woodland
Drive and 116 Woodland Drive.
Aerial photography on the Assessor's website was used to inspect all the conservation lands for
possible encroachments. Sixteen other possible encroachments by abutters on the conservation
lands have been identified. At the suggestion of Town counsel, the commission will deal with
these in the future serially in groups of approximately five after the current five encroachment
cases have been concluded. In March of 2022 Town counsel sent an initial notice of
encroachment or trespass letter to the four newly identified properties and a second more stern
further notice of encroachment or trespass to 192 Townsend Harbor Road, all with a 60-day
response timeline. Within the 60 days, 214 and 240 Townsend Harbor sent letters to the Town
that they would remove the encroachments. Both have sent subsequent letters indicating they
have completed the removal. 192 Townsend Harbor Road approached the commission and
indicated interest in removing the encroachments. Subsequently the residents have removed the
movable items and they filed a Request for Determination containing a plan to remove the wall;
there was a paved driveway and a lamppost that had been installed on Cowdry conservation land.
===PAGE 6===
The initial notice of trespass to 116 Woodland Drive was inadvertently sent to an incorrect
address that was supplied to Town counsel, so he sent the same letter properly addressed
and it was received and signed for by the residents there. I asked Town counsel to send a further
notice of encroachment or trespass letter similar to the one that was sent to 192 with a 30-day
response time. I'm not quite sure when that letter was sent but if that letter is also ignored then
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Pease for the update and Ms. Wilson for the fresh eyes. Mr. Alonzo
also thanked him for the thorough report of where we stand and was glad there was progress.
Mr. Pease stated he needed to speak with Town counsel again and would not return to the board
for another couple of months.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARD
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees have been in communication with us and Town
Manager and myself as the liaison for the library with regards to the status of the legislation to
authorize the use of their trust funds to be utilized in different investment mechanisms. I've been
in contact regularly with Mike Kushmerek and Senator Cronin about this. As of three weeks ago
the update was that it was through the House and up for its final reading in the Senate. Ms.
Lemieux reported last week she had reached out and it had gone to a third final reading and it's
with Senate counsel. That's the last step before because they review all the language but they
usually contact us at that point to make sure there's no discrepancies before it gets signed off by
the Governor. She explained to the Library Trustees Chair that this is taking a very long time, but
it's actually a typical length of time for special legislation to go through.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Finance Committee has requested help from Town counsel with putting
together a proposed bylaw change that would ensure town meeting voters can amend the Capital
Plan by individual items and monetary appropriation.
Ms. Lemieux reported this request was addressed to me but I am asking the board to weigh in
because Town counsel works for the board and there wasn't a clear consensus on this going into
town meeting about the bylaws.
Mr. Jeffreys was opposed to a bylaw because he did not think it was in the best interest to engage
in on-the-floor modifications to the Capital Plan. There is a lengthy process prior to town
meeting for input from members of the public over what ultimately gets into the Capital Plan.
There's discussion at Select Board meetings for there to be engagement with the Capital Plan and
while I am in favor of members of the public submitting bylaw changes as well as committees,
I'm not in favor of using utilizing Town counsel for that purpose. Ms. Sroka having sat on the
Capital Planning Committee, stated that takes away all of the work that people on the committee
do for months. You put things in order, you vet everything; I get the concept because that you
might want to pull one thing out, but no, we already have really long meetings.
===PAGE 7===
counsel's retainer.
Mr. Alonzo wanted Town Counsel to review it, but from the request as read they sound like they
want to give him notes and have him just write something up. They should at least make a
concerted effort to come up with what they want and come up with some framework language
that Town counsel can work with. Like Chairman Jeffreys, I would fight vehemently against
such a bylaw because of what has already been said. As a sitting member of the Capital Planning
Committee and echoing Select Board member Sroka's past membership, it undermines.. Why
would there be a Capital Planning Committee if you wanted that? Then dissolve the capital
planning committee and put 37 articles in a row up for everything off of the capital plan and
make everybody wade through a vote one by one on one on every one of them, which is what
used to happen before the committee was formed. We're trying to consolidate and streamline
town meeting at the request of voters who say it's too long.
Mr. Jeffreys to Town Manager stated the guidance from the board is clear, the Finance
Committee is authorized to utilize resources of Town counsel with the understanding that they
come with a proposal for Town counsel to revise and work with them.
Mr. Franco asked could there be like a consent calendar could there be a consent capital plan
where the entire capital plan is put forth but then people could remove articles from it? Mr.
Alonzo stated that is what they are asking.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Conservation Commission
Administrative Assistant Rebecca Manley
Ms. Lemieux asked the board to ratify this appointment. This is for a new position that's part of
the FY 23 budget. It's for an administrative assistant for the conservation administrator and
Rebecca Manley is the chosen candidate. We had eighty applications and chose the top seven;
four accepted interviews. Rebecca stood out as the top choice, she has her Bachelor's in
Geography and is finishing up her Master's in Management and has prior experience with
working for a municipality and doing GIS work.
Motion: L. Franco
To ratity the Town Manager appointment of Rebecca Manley as Conservation
Administrative Assistant
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
===PAGE 8===
• 3 Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-time Benetitted)
• Facilities Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Meal Site Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full-time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on
the town website.
Department Head Updates
Land Use: The Intersection Design Report and 10% design concepts plans that were required for
the Lunenburg Central project are complete. The UMA Flowers site plan approval should be
finalized by the next Planning Board meeting on August 22nd. UMA Flowers received their
provisional license from the CCC in July.
COA: The COADirectorreported that the COA staff and Policeand Firedepartments willbetrained
on the new Elder Connect platform on August 2nd. The Council on Aging is looking at changing
their logo to be more inclusive of the 50+ residents.
Assessors: The Principal Assessorreported that Motor Vehicle excise bills will be going out
shortly. Working with the TownManagerand the owners of265 Pleasant Street on PILOTto
bring to the Select Board. Tomeet the cyclical inspection cycle, 1,500 parcels will need to be done
by next July Ist.
DPW: The DP W Director reported they have been busy with a number ofreports of dead trees and
fixing potholes. The Public Safety Building is currently having AC issues on the Fire side of the
building and working on a solution. The Director has been in contact with the Cemetery
Commission and Town Counsel about the location of the remains of those related to the West Street
Terrace Memorial but the remainsare on private property (Town Counsel isreviewing
recommendations). The Director attended the Park Commission meeting regarding the
installation of a septic system at Marshall Park.
Police: The Police Chief reported there have been 2,200 calls for service in the last 4 weeks and
27 arrests. The accreditation process is complete and they should hear by August and receive
their accreditation by March 2023. There are currently 2 reserve officers that will need to go to the
Bridge Academy but the State is reimbursing towns the cost of the academy. The Chief received
the final cost for a Co-response Mental Health Clinician and related costs that would be shared
with the Town of Lancaster. This will be submitted as a request for ARPA funds.
Fire: The new position for FY23 has been filled (Jenny Smith) but she will need to attend
Paramedic School.
Finance Director: Working on finalizing the closeout of FY22.
===PAGE 9===
well as repairing or replacing the existing storm windows. This would also require the complete
specification package submitted by our architect to be changed as well. I'm looking for guidance
from the Board on whether we want to resubmit a new CTA without the windows or appeal to
Town Meeting.
Discussion ensued on the APDC ruling. One suggestion was to discuss further with the APDC
and another was to remove the window replacement and go forward with the remaining
approved items in the application and resubmit the windows separately. This will be discussed
in detail next meeting.
Green Communities Competitive Grant Award
This past Friday I received notification that we were awarded the full request of $187,140 based
on the Competitive Grant application that I submitted in April 2022. The breakdown of the
award is $172,140 for the LED Streetlight conversion project, $5,000 towards the purchase of a
hybrid police cruiser, and $10,000 for administrative assistance.
Flat Hill Road Drainage Study
Weare moving forward with the original scope of work proposal from McCarty Engineering for
the Flat Hill Road drainage study project. Initially the DPW Director, Land Use Director, and I did
not think it fully captured the Town's intent, after the DPW Director discussed this with Brian
Marchetti, this scope will identify what our options are once this portion is complete and that
cannot be identified in this proposal until this portion is complete. Under this scope, McCarty
will collect and review all the available record plans and storm water calculations for the
Village at the Flat Hill subdivision and compare its compliance with current day storm water
regulations. The final work product will be to provide recommendations on minimizing and
improving the flooding condition that has been occurring on the abutting properties on Flat Hill
Road.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sunday until Sunday, September 25' and the
Historical Society is open during the Farmers Market hours.
• The Band Concerts will be on the following dates: August 8th and August 15th. Band concerts
will once again be held on the lawn in front of the TC Passios Building.
OLD BUSINESS
Vote to Sign Purchase & Sales Agreement and License Agreement with Unitil for
Streetlights Purchase
This will be tabled until the next meeting as the final draft from Unitil has not been received.
===PAGE 10===
pavement management plan is we've secured a vendor to do that by this fall, and T'l be doing a
lot of the capital planning work soon because we're having our first capital planning committee
meeting this Wednesday. My third goal for the recruitment recognition retention; I've talked to a
couple area towns about a regional approach to recruitment and they were fully supportive of
that as well. The Assistant Town Manager has already come up with a preliminary design for a
job posting that's a little flashier.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Sign End of Year Transfer Form for FY22 totaling $2,190.28
Mr. Jeffreys reported the requested year-end adjustments transfers were to;
• Conservation Commission $1,150.00 for Conservation Administrator Payroll
• Conservation Commission $581.42 for Conservation Administrator Payroll
• Inspector of Weights & Measures $436.88 for supplies
• Board of Health $21.98 for BOH Admin. Asst. Payroll
Motion: T. Alonzo
2™:T. Dwyer
To recommend the board sign the end of the year transfer form for FY22 totaling $2,190.28
as presented in the document by the Town Manager Vote: All in Favor
2. Approve Minutes of June 14, 2022
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of June 14, 2022 as written
2": T. Dwyer
3. Warrants:
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Franco)
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $603,935.78; a payroll warrant
in the amount of $742,833.78; a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $26,822.22 and a
payroll void warrant in the amount of -$1,230.
4. Action Items
Mr. Alonzo reiterated the previous comment about the line painting on the roads. Townsend
Harbor Road is a very dangerous road at night.
Ms. Lemieux stated the DPW Director is working with the contractor and scheduling line
painting for not only the newly paved roads, but also the handicapped placard for the front of this
building.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Sroka reported the Council on Aging met on the 19 and are working on new member
packets. They are also working on a vision for FY23. In our review of Town Manager they
thought the senior tax write-off was unfinished business and they did not like that. Mr. Alonzo
stated there's a senior tax write off that's been in place for years; that's totally different. We're
===PAGE 11===
boulders were removed from the right of way on Memorial Drive but they think all of them
should be removed. Ms. Lemieux noted the other rocks are not in the right of way.
Ms. Sroka, regarding the Elder Affairs Formula grant, stated the funds information is not
available yet. Ms. Doherty had stated she doesn't have the budget yet and the Personnel
Committee's new pay schedule affected her budget a little bit with a new hire. Ms. Doherty is
hoping to get the formula grant money information by the end of the summer. The Eagle House
Supporters are working on a fundraiser with the Epilepsy Foundation, but they haven't approved
it yet.
Discussion ensued about a previous SB meeting regarding an appointment to the APDC that
already had another household member serving on it. Allegedly Mr. Jeffreys stated the COA is
an unimportant board. Mr. Jeffreys stated I have drawn distinctions between regulatory boards in
which their decisions are requests from residents that require decisions that can be appealed to
court and cost of town money, and boards that are non-regulatory advisory boards or boards like
the COA which are committed to public good. Those boards are different and I have made
several statements that I don't have a conflict on an advisory board or boards of that nature, but
when it comes to regulatory boards, I do have very strong opinions that it's really important to
have the appearance of fairness. To whomever who may have felt hurt by me saying that, I
sincerely apologize, it was definitely not my intent and does not represent my actions or
beliefs. Mr. Franco remembered that conversation; the line that you drew between regulatory
and non-regulatory was not the only rationale on which the decision was made that we couldn't
put two people from the same household on APDC. But we allowed it on COA, the other
rationale was that those appointments on the COA were already in place. We drew a line of
distinction between appointment and reappointment and not wanting to undo the work or opinion
of a prior board.
Mr. Dwyer reported the Storm Water Task Force meeting had to be rescheduled due to an
agenda posting issue, so has been rescheduled for the August 4 at 7:00 PM.
Mr. Franco reported Economic Development met last Thursday and discussed the business
survey. They have been getting responses back but not as many as they would like, so they are
pushing that out and trying to get the word out. In September we will have a visit from the
Lunenburg Business Association.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee met and reorganized. Evan Watters is the new Chair
and Chris Menard is the Vice Chair. There was discussion about the capital planning bylaw.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee met and welcomed
new member Tom Gray from the Finance Committee. We hadn't met for a couple of months so
the meeting was an overview of where we are. We will meet again on August 29th
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys stated this board's next meetings are August 9, 16 and 23. He invited Ginny Albertson
to attend the meeting on the 16'" to speak about pollinator habitats around Lunenburg.
===PAGE 12===
position and the Chair so declares, namely ATB Case FY21 Docket No. 342747, Town of
Lunenburg v. Alleva, Central Housing Court Docket No. 16H85C V00812, and approval
of Executive Session meeting minutes related to these cases.
Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
***************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE****************
The meeting adjourned at 9:13 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
ElaineM. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
