===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ASo Present: tow Manager Healer Leme va LOOM; Cle Prokowiew, James McGuigan,
Richard McGrath
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:03 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none at this time.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM THER BOARDS
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Parks Commission would like to meet with the Select Board for a presentation
of their plans for Marshall Park. A meeting will be scheduled for August.
APPOINTMENTS
Public Hearing for Special Event License for Chloe Prokowiew for July 13th; 4:00 PM on the
Ritter Building lawn
Mr. Jeffreys read the hearing notice:
The Lunenburg Select Board will hold a public hearing on June 21, 2022 at 7:10 PM in Town
Hall, 1/ Main St., 2nd Floor, Lunenburg, MA on the application submitted by Chloe Prokowiew for a Special
Event License for use of the Ritter Building Lawn, located at 960 Massachusetts Avenue on July 13th at 4:00 PM
for a Gay Pride event. Anyone who would like to submit written comments in advance of the meeting should
submit them to the Select Board office, 17 Main Street, P O Box 135, Lunenburg, MA.
Ms. Prokowiew, 733 West Street, was requesting use of the Ritter Building lawn for a small Pride
gathering on July 13" from 4:00-5:00 PM. She is a sophomore at Lunenburg High and as part of her
Civics and Community Engagement Class she decided to hold an event is support of the
LGBTQ+ community of Lunenburg. So far that includes speakers from NOWOCO Pride who are also
planning on holding a Gay Pride flag raising that day in town. Other speakers are from GSA Link, an
organization that LGBTQ+ students and their families use through mentorship and group support
meetings. Her plan is to gather donations for a raffle and the proceeds will go to GSA Link. She is
planning to have informational pamphlets so people can find support and resources. She plans to ask the
Library to display LGBTQ+ literature also. She needs to finalize the liability insurance and work on a
parking plan for public safety. She plans to put up posters, if approved. She did not expect more than
fifty people to attend. She will advertise the event via the posters and Facebook posts. She has recorded
a video for GSA Link. It was noted the Board of Health has informed her she can't sell baked goods.
Mr. Alonzo did not have any additional questions but fully supported the event. The board concurred on
waiving the liability insurance requirement and discussion ensued about the board reconsidering what
constitutes a "special event."
Motion: T. Alonzo
To waive the liability insurance requirement for the gathering
2nd: H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 2===
.AA-
awareness event doesn't require a lot of setup and safety issues; we should be able to evaluate that to
make this more streamlined.
Vote: All in Favor
The board wished Ms. Prokowiew good luck with her event and advised her to check with the Town
Manager's office for follow up on the power supply for the microphone.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Appointment to Council on Aging- James McGuigan, 187 Leominster Road -term to expire June
It was noted Mr. McGuigan was appointed at the Select Board meeting two weeks ago but were reminded
by the Council on Aging members that he was not interviewed per past practice, so he is here tonight.
Mr. McGuigan has lived in town for 43 years. He served in the Army for four years, the last year in
Vietnam. He has a mechanical engineering degree and has been retired since 2010. He heard about the
COA van driver position and enjoyed holding the job for twelve years. The staff in the Senior Center are
great. He decided this year he was going to retire again. Deb Lincoln reached out to him about the vacancy.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": H. Sroka
To appoint James McGuigan to the Council on Aging with a term to expire June 30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
The Board thanked him for coming in.
Meeting with Architectural Preservation District Commission (APD) Chair Richard McGrath
on Historical Commission and APDC Activities
Mr. McGrath, 22 Cushing Lane, greeted the board members and read an excerpt from a 1903 Old
Homes Week booklet relevant to Lunenburg:
"Old home week was a five-day summer celebration when people originally from Lunenburg came from all over
the country to visit family, friends and reconnect with their roots. Reverend Alonzo Sanderson spoke at the
opening ceremony and lamented," Some of our homes are gone...the greed of avarice has destroyed them and
much that was beautiful around them. During the week-long festivities people walked or rode about the village to
visit once more the old Putnam house or Whiting household with its big brass knocker or the Cunningham
mansion on Leominster Road with stately pillars and wide piazza, or the Cushing house erected in 1724. Greatly
missed was the old tavern, the Revere house which was where the Ritter building is currently, for many years
conspicuous in the village center but recently torn down. It was hard for old timers to understand how the place
could exist without stagecoach and tavern. They discovered too that the last little brick schoolhouse built on the
common was changed into a neat cottage house. Other homes around the square soon to be graded are those of
A.K. Francis whose barn was the first structure in town built without rum. The home of the Johnsons, that of
George Jones, transformed from a school building, and the store and home of Warren Lewis which also included
the post office. One old man leaning on his cane stood beside the roadway looking with puzzled eyes at the fine
new house before him. A younger man spoke to him in passing, " How do you do sir?" "I'm sos to be crawling,
thank you, was the cheerful answer. "Do you know where the Putnam place was?" "I think it was about here
bouts, but I can't make out it, don't look just right to me." "Do you expect to find an old house here?" the citizen
inquired. "Well yes I had that notion, but I ought to know better, we Americans don't keep old houses for
souvenirs." With a tremulous smile he trudged on."
===PAGE 3===
have in this town. He stated New England is a unique area; I've done work on the old Custom House in
Boston and along the historic waterfront pier and I've met people who come from all over the world to
tour its historic cities and towns. Many people move here because of its history and ambiance. We had
two people from Texas buy houses in the district and they're thrilled. One family from California
searched all over to find a home to raise their children and chose Lunenburg with plans to restore their
historic home and pass it on to their progeny. Studies show real estate values appreciate faster in historic
districts and adjoining neighborhoods than in other parts of town.
The Historic Commission voted me to continue as Chair at our last meeting. It just seems to be my lot to
end up being chair in the position. Bill Lakso is going to continue as vice chair and we have a new
scribe, Kevin Boussom. Our commission is composed of five members; the full commission has six.
We're short one member; we're working on changing the bylaw language as six doesn't work. We've had
a consistent problem with getting a quorum.
A couple of years ago the Historical Society approached the commission with a proposal for a memorial
to restore the desecrated cemetery of the Arnold and Litch families located on West Street Terrace. The
commission voted to take part in the project. Mr. McGrath discovered one of the stones at a nearby
residence. The cemetery had been dismantled by a land developer in the 1950s and the gravestones
placed face down for a white marble sidewalk at the developer's nearby home. The one retrieved stone
was broken and the others had been given away or are lost. He made a drawing of the memorial which is
in your packet. The Historical Commission had a bronze plaque made with the names of the interred. A
blank marble grave slab was found in the nearby barn of the Comeau family and they donated it to the
project. He set the bronze plaque into the stone which was to be erected at the site. Former DPW
Director Rodriquenz guided us in the memorial placement. Lever Excavating of Lunenburg cleared
brush, cut trees and dug and provided the foundation and assisted with setting the stones. Pretty much
everything was volunteer work. Lots of hours went into that project. Neighbors helped in setting the
stones and clearing brush. Powell Stone and Gravel donated curbing to the project to be used as a
perimeter. The commission bought the granite base stones in which the marble stones were to be set and
the Historical Society paid for equipment to set the curbing and did all the research. COVID-19 set us
back with the time of completion, but we should be done in the next few weeks.
The commission has instituted a research project on the history of African Americans and their
contributions to Lunenburg history. Presently there's no records of the history of African Americans in
this town, so we have to dig through census reports and research from other historical societies.
Fitchburg might have some records as they were part of the Underground Railroad.
I would also like to initiate a project to research the contribution of LGBTQ citizens to the town history.
That might require a lot of digging in old diaries and records because it was hidden.
These projects are important to fully understand the history of our town. We're providing historic
plaques at notable sites in town outside the APD to bring attention to the rich history of Lunenburg and
are forming a plan to do a town-wide survey of historic homes. The Massachusetts Historical
===PAGE 4===
TAAA
historic value and appearance of these properties. Our purpose is to educate and guide building owners
as well as to advocate for the district's properties preservation and to facilitate the APDC rules,
regulations and process.
I've appointed Tony Sculimbrene to the Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee. He should prove to be
a valuable asset to you and the committee; he's very well qualified. He seems to be enthusiastic about it.
Were working on an educational brochure about the APD and APDC and hopefully we will have a
walking tour of the town to visit different sites. We hope to have bronze plaques at different places like
the Town pound denoting the historical significance. Education helps to make strong district support
from the residents and general public as well as a Town Manager and Select Board are vital for strong
APD and National Historic districts.
We have a public hearing on the 27th at the Ritter Building for the Certificates to Alter for Town Hall
and the Ritter Building to review proposed upcoming work on them. The architect that the Town hired
and his plans were quite excellent. He was a pleasure to meet with. The plans were very clear and well
done from an artisan's point of view.
Language in the APD bylaw and the rules and regulations needs some changes, particularly concerning
timelines; they don't work with meeting schedules or allow time for questioning or any problems that
might come up. We'll be working on updating this language this year. For example, drafting the rules
and regulations was a long process, taking over two years. We had to bring it before the Select Board a
number of times for review, consider their suggestions and then redo and bring back, as well as hold a
public hearing. I plan for the two commissions to publicly update you as to our proceedings regularly.
Good communication creates good relationships and clear understanding.
Ms. Sroka thanked him for all the information. Mr. Alonzo thanked him for his work on both
commissions. He noted Mr. McGrath has a wealth of information, experience and a passion for this to
contribute. He supported reducing the membership of the Historical commission to five members.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked him, noting the Historical Commission has the youngest volunteer in town (Kevin
Boussom). He acknowledged APDC member Tony Sculimbrene's contributions to the Lunenburg
Municipal Building Design Committee meetings. Referring to the APD, he wondered if there was a way
to inform new homeowners that they are living in a district with special rules and regulations. Perhaps
providing a brochure to them through the Assessors' office when a home is sold or the Building
Department if they are doing renovations? Mr. Jeffreys suggested creating a map of key historical
Locations around town as it would be helpful for civics students for school projects and the general
public. Mr. McGrath stated they were working on something based on other town's models to educate
people on how special Lunenburg is.
When asked if there were questions about the restoration of the disturbed graveyard, Mr. Alonzo
thanked all for their donations and work on recreating a place of respect for the families. Mr. Jeffreys
thanked him for coming forward with the information not only for the board but for the public.
===PAGE 5===
• Agricultural Commission (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
(978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• 2 Library Assistants (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• 3 Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Facilities Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Meal Site Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
• Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Planning Assistance Grant through MRPC
We were notified last week that the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs awarded MRPC the
grant funding to pay for planning staff from MRC to assist the Town in exploring methods of compliance with
the G.L. Chapter 40A §3A, the MBTA Zoning Requirements. This would need to be completed by June 30, 2024.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will be on the following dates: July 11th, July 18th, July 25th, August 1st, August
8th and a rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once again be held on the
lawn in front of the TC Passios Building.
Mr. Jeffreys reminded all that the Historical Society is open during the Farmers market hours on
Sundays.
WORKSHOP: REVIEW SELECT BOARD POLICIES AND PROCEDURES, ARTICLES I & II
This agenda item was postponed until the August 12' meeting.
===PAGE 6===
Lemieux had no preterence. It was suggested to allot a payout due to her not having time to take all her
vacation days. Mr. Alonzo agreed but encouraged her to take full vacation time, as he does for himself,
and really take it as a vacation, because it's not only a benefit, but you get to spend time with family and
do other things, and also to "regenerate,' and be removed from the daily stress of running the town. Mr.
Jeffreys noted that although he values her contributions to the town, Ms. Lemieux works while on
vacation and he echoed Mr. Alonzo's comments adding there are other staff that could cover for her.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"°: H. Sroka
To approve payout of five unused vacation days from FY22 to Ms. Lemieux
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants: The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $483,239.12, a payroll
warrant in the amount of $937,240.42, a payroll warrant in the amount of $311,175.51, a deductions
warrant in the amount of $605,287.99, and a deductions warrant in the amount of $215,078.13.
Action Items- there were none this evening.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Sroka attended the School Committee meeting and Sadie Shapiro has resigned in order to focus on
continuing her college education. A resignation letter is needed before the vacancy can be posted.
There were questions from the School Committee to Ms. Lemieux, who also attended the meeting, about
the town debt policy related to future Turkey Hill Elementary improvements or a rebuild. Mr. Alonzo
stated they are asking now because the process with the Massachusetts School Building Authority is
lengthy and needs to be planned well in advance. Ms. Sroka reported there were pre-recorded
presentations discussed but not presented at the meeting for the public. She believed they were on the
School Committee website for viewing, but it was difficult to follow along without knowing what they
had watched. Ms. Sroka was encouraged to give feedback to the School Committee Chair.
Mr. Alonzo reported prior to this meeting the Finance Committee Appointing Committee met and
reappointed Peter Beardmore and Evan Watters to the Finance Committee for another three year term.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees met last Thursday and discussion centered of having more
control over library trust funds. An Edward Jones representative was present to discuss their options.
Wording in a previous warrant article was intended to give them the ability to invest their funds in a
more diverse pool than what is available for municipal funds but it conflicts with the legislative
wording. The Municipal Building Design Committee is meeting next week.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr: Jeffreys reviewed the upcoming meeting schedule for the board; July 5, July 12 and July 19.
The July 5'' meeting may be canceled if there is not pressing business.
PUBLIC COMMENT-there was none this evening.
Mr. Jeffreys announced the Board would be entering Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30,
===PAGE 7===
********************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE**************
Respectfully submitted,
Claire M. Petuson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
