===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
October 4, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Heather Sroka
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Lt. Christos Lekaditis, Adam Burney, Land
Use Director via ZOOM; Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard via ZOOM; Park Commissioners,
Cullen Dwyer
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo reported the Zoning Board of Appeals is hearing a 40B housing development
application that opened a few weeks ago for Pond View Commons on Howard Street. This
project could possibly impact the sewer district and therefore people who are in the district and
pay sewer fees. This could also affect the water district and the users. He encouraged people to
attend or listen to those meetings because it could affect those districts and their rates. The next
hearing is Wednesday October 12'" in this meeting room at 7:00 p.m.
Mi. Jeffreys expressed condolences to Cheryl Lauziere who lost her life partner, Linda Betti. He
asked those who know Cheryl to offer love and support to her.
Mr. Alonzo reported that Bill Gustus, the Town's first CAFO after the Town adopted the Charter
had passed away. He expressed condolences to his family on his passing.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Heavy Equipment Operator Matt
Lubao
Ms. Lemieux reported Matt Lubao is being recommended by the DPW Director and the
Superintendent. Mr. Lubao worked for the water department as systems mechanic in Arlington
and before that at Mayor Tree Service. He has his CDLB and his hoisting licenses.
He is also a resident of Lunenburg.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Matt Lubao as heavy equipment operator
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux announced the resignation of Nadia Madden as Conservation Administrator. She
has taken a position with the DCR.
===PAGE 2===
Review of Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles with representatives from article
sponsors including Fire Lt. Lekaditis on acceptance of MGL c. 32B, Land Use
Director/Planning Board, Parks Commission, and APDC
The first warrant article discussed was
E. To see if the Town will accept the provision contained within M.G.L. c. 32 § 4(2)(b) written as such:
"For a reserve or permanent-intermittent police officer or a reserve, permanent-intermittent or
call firefighter retiring from a governmental unit accepting the provisions of this sentence, the
board shall credit, in addition to the five years of credit allowed pursuant to the preceding sentence, as
one day of full-time service each day in any year which is subsequent to the fifth year following
said appointment and on which a reserve or permanent-intermittent police officer or a
reserve, permanent-intermittent or call fire fighter was assigned to and actually performed duty as a
reserve or permanent-intermittent police officer or reserve, permanent-intermittent or call fire
fighter; provided, however, that such service as a permanent-intermittent or call fire fighter shall be
credited only if such fire fighter was later appointed as a permanent member of the fire department;
provided, further, that this sentence shall take effect in a city by vote of the city council in accordance
with its charter, in a town which maintains a separate contributory retirement system by vote of the
town meeting, in a town whose eligible employees are members of the county retirement system of
the county wherein such town lies by vote of a town meeting and by acceptance by the
county commissioners of said county, in a district which maintains a separate contributory
retirement system by vote of the district meeting, and in a district the eligible employees of which are
members of a county retirement system by vote of the district meeting and by acceptance of the
county commissioners of said county."; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town
Manager)
Lt Lekaditis introduced himself adding he was also President of the Lunenburg Professional
Firefighters. What we're looking is to adopt the local option of Massachusetts General Law c. 32
§ (4)(2)(b) which allows call firefighters that worked for Lunenburg, that became full-time
firefighters in the town to buy their call time that they previously worked known as credible
service to put towards their retirement. Currently call firefighters pay into a deferred
compensation, not the Worcester County Retirement System. So what we're currently able to do
is to buy back up to five years of credible service. That's time actually worked based on hours.
He believed on January 28th the Worcester County Regional Retirement Board submitted to
PERAC (Public Employees Retirement Administration Commission) that they approved
the local option for the board to allow members that pay into Worcester County to buy back
more than five years. On April 22'd PERAC approved that regulation which is before you.
Now they're able to process claims should members have more than five years. Of the full-time
staff at the Fire Department, we currently have four members that could benefit from adopting
this local option, gaining these employees anywhere from six months to two years of additional
credible service. It's beneficial because we have some members that will never reach maximum
retirement due to the age they started. It will allow the Town to now recognize that they put this
time in and give them a little bit of a higher pension when they retire. It's on the Retirement
Board to calculate what the employee is able to purchase back based on the hours submitted from
the Town. It's optional for the employee to buy back those credible years. There's no impact on
the operating budget for the Town. However, in discussions with the Town Manager there could
be an impact as far as the Town's obligation to retirement benefits. That is nearly impossible to
calculate because you never know when someone's going to retire.
===PAGE 3===
The board thanked Lt. Lekaditis for his explanation of the warrant article. Discussion ensued
about the potential financial impact on the Town. Ms. Lemieux has reached out to the Worcester
County Retirement Board as what the impact would be, but has not heard back from them yet.
She also reached out to our Actuarial about OPEB and the cost is minimal. It's really the town
assessment from Worcester County that could be affected.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To accept the article as presented and place it on the Special Town Meeting warrant
21d: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Next up was the Planning Board proposed warrant article:
L. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.1G, which is a Section
of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Use Table," by changing 4.1K(10) Motel in the Commercial District
from "Y" to "SP-Z"; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
Mr. Burney stated it came to the attention of the Planning Board that in the Use Table, the use of
Motel was permitted by right in the Commercial District. The Planning Board discussed whether
they felt that was an appropriate approval standard for Motel and while they don't want to
prohibit the use of Motel, they felt that the commercial districts in town are very proximal to
residential uses. A by right use of Motel could present some conflict for residents' quiet
enjoyment of their property. They felt that a Special Permit process through the Zoning Board
would allow Motel but gives the Town some ability to be subjective and shape the use based on
what/where the proposal is; how it may or may not impact abutting properties and the
neighborhood in general that it would be located in or near.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To include the Planning Board article in the STM warrant
2°°: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Burney thanked the board and exited the meeting.
The next article presented was the Parks Commission article:
E. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money
for the property known as the Marshall Park, 100 Chestnut St, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 018,
and for final engineering and design recreation/open space services area at this property, including all
costs related or incidental thereto; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Park
Commission)
Parks Commissioners Chair Ana Lockwood was present and Karin Menard was via ZOOM. Ms.
Lockwood stated the article is requesting funding for the engineering phase of the Marshall Park
Master Plan. We would like to expedite that phase of the project because there is a lot of money
coming out of the federal government. During the last state session there was a Bill that we could
possibly get funding through that's going to come up soon. So as soon as we can get engineering
done the sooner we can go out for those other funding.
When asked what amount of money was needed, Ms. Lockwood replied the engineering cost
starts at $165,000. On other projects they have seen the engineering costs at around seven and a
half percent which put us at around $300,000 - $400,000. We don't know what that number is
yet. A number will be needed on Town Meeting floor.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: H. Sroka
To include the Parks Commission article in the Special Town Meeting warrant
===PAGE 4===
Vote: All in Favor
The next article discussed was the Architectural Preservation District Commission's. Chair
Cullen Dwyer stated the article cleans up the language of the APD bylaw, particularly
procedures which we found were impractical once we tried to apply them as well as the timeline.
The change is to get rid of some of the timeline restrictions and that we will render a decision
one way or another within that 90-day window. The other issue that we ran into was a legal flaw
with the way the bylaw was originally drafted. Many instances where the bylaw says the
applicant should do this when literally what we meant was they must. We would remove all
instances of the word should and replace it with must. Another change would be in the
determination issued by the APDC; specifically if the APDC doesn't submit a determination
within 20 days after the hearing, the certificate to alter is waived.
Discussion about some of the wording and consistency of some wording throughout the
document or lack of, and the timeline changes ensued. It was noted that the homeowner could
wait three months to find out their application was denied and then have to start all over again in
the process. It was suggested to take the article and amend it to state the applicant will be
notified within 5 business days whether the application is complete or not. Mr. Dwyer stated the
APDC could discuss this further on Thursday. Town Manager had suggested that a summarized
version of the changes be submitted rather than submitting the full bylaw with changes, as it
would possible to amend other parts of the bylaw on town meeting floor if they were included.
Ms. Lemieux asked why the Certificate to Alter form submissions to the Planning Board office
was removed. Mr. Dwyer stated they wanted it moved to their guidelines rather than returning to
Town Meeting every time they want to change something that isn't working.
Ms. Lemieux asked if the guidelines have been changed since they adopted them. Mr. Dwyer
stated no. Further discussion ensued about the difference between making changes to a bylaw
versus the APDC guidelines as well as the lack of requiring a hearing somewhere in the timeline
after the application is submitted. Mr. Dwyer will return on either the 11'" or 18" with the
amendments.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (2 associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large
vacancy)
• Planning Board (1 vacancy jointly appointed by the Planning Board and Select Board until
the next ATE
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select
Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
===PAGE 5===
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• IT Administrative Assistant (Part-time Non-benefitted)
• Public Safety Front Desk Clerk (Full-time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full-time Benefitted)
• Tax Collector Principal Clerk (Full-time benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-time Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
• Conservation Administrator (Full-time Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (Full-time Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Business View Magazine Article on Lunenburg
Business View Magazine has chosen the Lunenburg as a feature in Business View: Civil &
Municipal which focuses on community development and growth in Massachusetts towns and
cities under 100,000 in population. Theyhavedonefeatureson Brockton, Taunton,
Newburyport, Foxborough, Easthampton, Weymouth and Gardner. The Land Use Director and I
spoke with them to provide them demographicaland historical information, as wellas
information on current and upcomingprojects, sustainabilitymeasures, waysthe Townhas
worked with the business community, and infrastructure that the Town has invested in. This
feature is expected to come out in November.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals
• IFB for Assessors Data Collection Services: Due October 11th
: UPB Survey Work at Marshall Park: Due October 13th
RFP for Lease of Space at Town Hall for Communications Equipment: Due October 18th
REP for Cleanup of Solid Waste Materials at Woodruff Property: Due October 24'
Department Updates
• DPW:TheDPW Directorisapplying for Workplace Safety Grant from the Department of
Industrial Accidents. The primary purpose of this Safety Grant isto fund programs that
reduce the risk of injury and illness to workers and promote safe and healthy conditions in
the workplace through training, education, and other preventative measures. The
maximum grant award is $25,000. The traffic line painting company has once again
pushed off their date to be in town until next week. The Highway crews have been
catch basins. The DPW Director attended the walking tour of sidewalks in the area of
Northtield Road, Highland Street and Chestnut Street. The Director met with different
contractors about the ponding issues at Town Hall and looking at different solutions. Our
paving and reclamation contractor will be reclaiming the Senior Center circle parking
lot and adding a catch basin to eliminate the puddling in the parking lot at the entrance of
that building.
•
Facilities: The Facilities Director is currently working on consolidating all building
monitoring work under one vendor. Heisworking with the COA Director and engineer on the
ADA Patio design and getting soil testing the week of October 3rd. During an inspection
===PAGE 6===
of HVAC systems at the Public Safety Building two roof leaks were identified and he is
working on getting a quote. The Facilities Director has overseen and worked with PSB
Chiller project contractor, which should be wrapped up shortly. A remediation company
removed the asbestos at the McNally Park building and the Facilities Director will work with
DPW to see if demolition can be done in house or if not, outside contractor. He is currently
getting proposals for roof work at the Senior Center, quotes for generator and condensers
at Senior Center, carpeting at the PSB, and will work with the Assistant Town Manager
on all the projects that require to be put out to bid. He is also working on building
organizational plans and ID's for staff.
Assessors: The Principal Assessor noted that the IF that is out for data collection services
will cover 1,500 parcels, 95% which are residential and the work will be wrapped up in
April 2023. Currently working on finalizing New Growth to be submitted to the Division of
Local Services.
• Land Use: Comments for the October 12th ZBA hearing for Pond View Commons are
due by October 10th. This hearing will focus on Water and Sewer. The Land Use
Director is going to revisit the rocks at the corner of Reservoir Road with PJ Keating and
see ifthey will work with the Town on removingthem.
•
Fire: Calls have increased for the FD as the local private ambulance companies are not
fully staffed, so there is an increase in calls for mutual aid. The 3rd Paramedic takes
their exam on October 23rd and the 4th Paramedic graduates in December 2022.
• COA: Theannual Volunteer Recognition program is on October 31st at 9:00 AM as
well as a legislative update and presenting of $100K check for the ADA patio from
Senator Cronin.
•
Town Manager: I have scheduled a benefit seminar from for employees that are
members of the Worcester Regional Retirement System on November 7th. The date for a
joint "Meet and Greet" with the School Facilities Director and Athletics Director did not
work out so I am working with the DPW Director and Facilities Director on an alternate date
to do before a Select Board meeting
Ritter Breakroom Project
The students from Monty Tech were able to recommence the break room project at the Ritter
building to continue addressing all the preliminary work while the Town works on finding the
source of the leak in the foundation on October 6th.
30 School Street Hazardous Materials Abatement and Demolition
The Facilities Director has been working with Ray Dunetz and the environmental consultant on
the scope of work for the remaining hazardous materials abatement and demolition of the
building. A draft specifications and progress drawings have been submitted for our review with
a goal of putting this project out to bid in January with an early spring start.
Page Street Culvert Design and Construction
McCarty Companies is 90% done with the bid documents and will be meeting with the DPW
Director this week. There is $150,000 in FY 2023 Capital Funds to pay for this project.
Flat Hill Bridge Replacement Project
Our'engineer for this project is currently working on the utility coordination and easement
coordination and this is expected to be completed by February 2023. They have produced an
updated utility plan and are contacting the utility companies about an on-site meeting for next
week. Weplan to advertise the project in March of 2023. This will allow the contractor time to
===PAGE 7===
fabricate the culvert in time for October 2023 when the water in Lake Shirley is lowered and
construction is preferred.
Flat Hill Road Drainage Study Project
On August 1, 2022, we contracted with McCarty Companies to provide consulting services with
an estimated cost of $4,803.00 to conduct a review of the approved design for the Village at Flat
Hill subdivision. Specifically, to review the available drainage design and documentation to
compare its compliance with current day storm water regulations in an attempt to identify the
potential causes of flooding conditions and provide recommendations to minimize or alleviate
them. McCarty Companies started the drainage review but has not found any obvious sources in
the materials provided by abutters. He will be meeting with the Land Use Director this week to
review any additional plans and drainage calculations he may have. It is his preliminary opinion
that the flooding is a factor of groundwater elevations rising, groundwater I&I into the drainage
pipes, and no maintenance being conducted on the detention/infiltration basins.
Legislative Updates
I received a responseregarding whether we should be asking for funding for projects in the State's
supplemental budget bill and was informed that thereare not any opportunities forlocal funding
earmarks in the bill.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
Fall Yard Waste Days will be at the old Landfill, off of Young's Road, from 8 am until 4
pm on the following Saturdays: October 8th, 15th, 22nd, 29th and November 5th, 12th and
19th. This is open to Lunenburg residents only.
• The Zoning Board of Appeals will be having the next hearing on the Pond View Commons
40B comprehensive permit application on October 12th at 7 PM in the Town Hall meeting
room. This will held in person and via Zoom.
• The Lunenburg Business Association is planning on doing the Trunk or Treat event again
this year on Sunday, October 30th 12-3 PM at the LHS Upper Parking Lot.
• The Finance Committee will have their Public Hearing on the STM warrant articles on
Thursday, October 13th at 7 PM at Town Hall/Zoom.
• The STM will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the MS/HS Auditorium.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he is working with a longtime homeowner on Pratt Street who is trying to
sell her house. She went through the Title V inspection in June and it partially passed as she
needs to replace her distribution box and tank. I reached out to the Nashoba Board of Health for
a list of vendors to do the work. I must have called 40 to 50 people to try to get someone to do
this work; half the people on the list said, "We don't work in Lunenburg anymore, the process is
too slow. They don't do permits quickly enough." It takes a month to get a permit back and many
other people just wouldn't respond, so finally the work was contracted with Bobby Proctor. They
pull the permit, and this was three months after the Title IV and then Nashoba Board of Health
says, "Your Title V is incomplete, you need to do a groundwater test." For the homeowner if you
think about property values and interest rates and what they've done from June to now, this type
of stuff' is harmful. Mi. Jeffreys asked Ms. Lemieux how we are tracking customer service
satisfaction. Many people aren't going to complain about the Board of Health because they need
them to approve what they're doing and that same logic falls for all of inspectional services. I
understand the Nashua Board of Health has staffing issues but again the question is how do we
track customer satisfaction with Town services.
===PAGE 8===
Ms. Lemieux stated obviously different departments receive calls on service calls or complaints
to resolve issues and that's an everyday occurrence. If you deal with an elected board I would say
you need to go to the elected board. Mr. Jeffreys stated he would discuss this further with her.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion and Vote on 300th Anniversary Committee Charge
Mr. Franco read the most updated version aloud:
Lunenburg 300th Anniversary Committee
The year 2028 will mark the 300' Anniversary of the incorporation of the Town of Lunenburg. In order to recognize
and celebrate Lunenburg's Tricentennial, the residents of Lunenburg, by Town Meeting vote of May 7, 2022,
authorized and established a steering committee, subsequently designated the "Lunenburg 300" Anniversary
Committee," and hereinafter referred to as "the Committee." The Committee shail be comprised of no greater than
eleven (11) members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Select Board for a terin to begin on the date of
appointment and terminate when, as determined by vote of the Select Board, the Committee has discharged all of its
defined functions and is dissolved. As a body, the Committee shall:
1. Develop a celebratory plan including a timeline, proposed events, publicity plan, volunteer roster,
funding requirements, and funding sources.
2. Coordinate with other entities and officials within the Town government, including the police chief,
tire chiet, DPW director, historical commission, and superintendent of schools, in order to facilitate
safety and maximize resident participation.
3. Solicit, evaluate, and generate recommendations as to how the Town should manage the
commemoration of its tricentennial, and the celebration of its rich history.
4. Oversee
subcommittees
established for specified purposes, and supervise and
assist these
subcommittees in their functions.
5. Recruit, organize, task, and oversee volunteers from among the townspeople in furtherance of the
overall celebration and the execution of specific functions of the Committee and/or its subcommittees.
6. Plan, coordinate, manage, sponsor, and implement commemorative events including, but not limited
to, recreational and educational activities and social/cultural gatherings intended to enhance among the
townspeople awareness and appreciation for the history of the Town and the contributions that its
residents have made locally and nationally to various fields of human endeavor including, for example:
architecture, arts, civil rights, government, engineering, environmental protection, industry, invention,
law, literature, medicine, the military, politics, public policy, public safety, and science.
7. Encourage through effective communication and outreach maximum inclusion, attendance, and
participation by the townspeople in events and celebrations.
8. Partner with local businesses and community organizations to develop events that appeal to all ages and
encourage maximum participation by town residents
===PAGE 9===
8. Partner with local businesses and community organizations to develop events that
appeal to all ages and encourage maximum participation by town residents.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"': T. Dwyer
To adopt the 300" Anniversary Committee charge as eloquently read and written by
Mr. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys noted the next step is to advertise for the membership.
Donation Bins at Walmart
When asked, Ms. Sroka stated the area had been cleaned up again but stuff continued to
accumulate. She did not notice any cameras either. Mr. Jeffreys had a letter composed for
Brixmor and the managers at Hannaford's and Walmart that he will bring to the next
meeting.
Status Update on Town Manager and Select Board Goals
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property
and building at 30 School Street (a continuation of FY21 and FY22 Select Board Goal -
Objective 1, with modified actions).
1. Action: Oversee hazardous material abatement and demolition of Old
Primary School through weekly updates and timeline review with Town
Manager
Mr. Jeffreys noted we're waiting for a presentation next week from the Municipal Building
Design Committee, Also as Town Manager noted the RFP is expected to go out in January
with a start date for demolition in early spring. That would satisfy some of action 1. Then we
have additional actions on what those future plans will be so obviously that goal is about 25
% in the process.
Objective 2: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to establish a means-
tested senior citizen property tax exemption or abatement.
Mr. Alonzo reported there is no change. Mr. Jeffreys noted this is about 25% complete as
well.
Objective3: Review Select Board bylaws and propose updates for 2023 Annual
Town Meeting
1. Action: Review Select Board Policies and Procedures
Mr. Jeffreys noted they would be complete in reviewing the policies by the 18th. The next
thing is reviewing bylaws over the winter. So we are about 25% completed on this one as
well.
Ms. Lemieux reported the only update on her goals is related to 925 Massachusetts Ave. She
spoke with the EPA representative that she's been working with and the work to be done on
the property is expected to be done by the end of this calendar year.
Review Special Town Meeting Warrant
Ms. Lemieux noted some changes; the wording on the Capital Plan Amendment for the AC
project. Town counsel is providing wording that will conform to how it was voted at town
meeting. I already noted for the APDC bylaw that he had provided for alternative wording for
that article. The prior year invoices total about $1800.000 (there are two invoices) for that
===PAGE 10===
article. The funding amendment to the budget article; I don't have any final figures on that
yet, still waiting for new growth to be certified. That will affect that article that's available.
The Police Union agreement will be need to be voted on the final MLA at a future Select
Board meeting. I've recommended changes of the order of the articles; keeping all the
funding articles up front; all the funding articles to the beginning and doing the bylaws in
order of where they fall on the bylaw town code. Also related to the Capital Planning article
from the school, there should be an answer from them by our next meeting on whether it's
needed or not, they should have an estimate.
We have a few more sponsors for the citizen petition articles coming next week. There are
two and one cannot attend. Ms. Peterson reached out to the sponsor of the one to change the
annual town meeting/annual Town election dates. She cannot attend but submitted in writing
the rationale for that. I've also asked Ms. Peterson to put together in the google drive is how
that would affect our entire budget calendar. It would move things up five weeks which is a
significant change and there's a lot of unknowns in the process as you're going along the
budget process and it would further the unknowns at the time of perspective in Annual Town
Meeting in April. The Personnel Committee will be coming in next week regarding their
article.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Review American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Funding Requests
Mr. Jeffreys stated the intent tonight is to ask any questions regarding the requests and we
will review again in November. We received $5.2 M in requests and we have $3.6 M funding
available.
Ms. Lemieux reported the process is entirely discretionary. The requirements are that funds
have to be committed by December 31, 2024 and fully expended by December 31, 2026.
There's certain requirements the Town has to do as far as auditing the funds. We have to do
reporting to the U.S Treasury on the expenditure of the funds so that's an administrative cost
that we'll be looking to outsource. But beyond that the U.S Treasury and their final rule on
use of the funds opened it up to any category under Lost Revenue if you're a community that
gets $10 million or less in ARPA funding; we fall in that category. She recommended the
board use a process similar to Capital Planning to create certain criteria.
The requests are as follows:
1. Council on Aging: Recreation Area Patio Construction; ADA compliable patio to
be constructed in the existing recreation area at the Lunenburg Senior Center. Elders
and others with mobility challenges will be those who benefit most from this project.
Estimated cost $400,000. Have $100K local appropriation, $10OK state earmark, and
seeking grants as well.
2. Police Dept.: Mental Health Co-response Clinician; The Department is proposing a
Mental Health Clinician be embedded within the Department. The clinician will be
assigned to a Patrol Officer to respond to Mental Health calls and follow ups. The
members of the community would directly benefit from this program, as well as
Department employees. Total cost of the project is $150,679.58, which is being
shared by Lancaster. Lunenburg's estimated cost $75,339.79.
3. Public Aceess Cable Committee; Communication and Media improvements: Add
new and/or upgrade current video and communication equipment to help increase
quality and efficiency of public access performance. The Town will benefit from all
improvements. $67,590
4. Fire Dept.: Replacement of Ambulance (Rescue 1); Request for $460,000 to
replace Rescue 1 (2014 Ambulance). This unit would become the primary
===PAGE 11===
Ambulance for the Town with Rescue 2 becoming the backup unit. Primary
beneficiaries would be the Town residents in general.
5. Townwide: Hazard pay for Front Facing Staff: Proposal is for one-time payment
of $1000 for all front facing staff that were required to regularly interface with the
public during the first year of the Pandemic. (4/2020-4/2021) Estimate is based on
the following staff who were not able to work remotely and, by nature of their work
had to directly interact with other staff and residents on a daily basis.
DPW - 10; Staff Fire- 41; Staff Police- 28; Staff I/T Services- 3 (Does not include
Dept. Heads as they are not eligible; Facilities personnel included under DPW)
$82,006.
6.
Public Safety- Police/Fire: Update/Upgrade of Public Safety Communications
Infrastructure: Project would replace 12+ year old UHF repeater/receiver systems
for Emergency Service communications within the town. Project would also upgrade
current receiver only sites to full simulcast transceivers, boosting effective radio
coverage for a large part of town. System would also be configured to allow for future
expansion/coverage in areas of town where radio coverage is poor: $485,020
7. Department of Public Works: Sewer Pump Station Upgrades; Funds will be used
upgrade the aged pump station controls, pumps, and standby generators.
$300,000
8. Sewer Manhole Repairs: Make repairs to sewer manholes to prevent infiltration and
inflow of outside water sources. This includes engineering to help produce a contract.
The estimated cost of the project is $200,000.
9. School Committee: Sidewalk Expansion; Add sidewalks near the Lunenburg
Middle-High School and the Turkey Hill Elementary School. The students at these
schools as well as the general public will benefit from increased safety while walking
these roads. $101,640 Northfield Rd. to Turkey Hill Rd, Turkey Hill Rd. to Oak Ave.;
Turkey Hill Elementary School to Northfield Rd. and Marshall Pond to Marshall Park
(this is a portion of Highland St. to Chestnut St.
10. Town Manager: Regional Business Investment Fund; Funding to support a new
Regional Business Investment Fund through a program created by North Central MA
Chamber of Commerce. The fund is to provide low or no cost funds to developers for
engineering, soft costs, site work, infrastructure and hard costs for project specific
developments in the 26 communities within the One North Central business
development plan service area. $50,000
11. Town Manager: Financial Consulting and Audit Services to ensure compliance;
There are reporting requirements tied to the use of ARPA funding that will need to be
submitted to the federal government and we will need to conduct a special audit each
year until completion as part of this requirement. $60,000
12. Department of Public Works: Sewer Mobile Generator; Funds will be used to
purchase a mobile generator set. The generator will be capable of providing full
electrical power to our 10 pump stations in the event of an electrical power failure and
a failure of the existing generator at the pump station it is needed at. The generator
will be mounted on a trailer that is towable by a truck. It will be stored at the DPW.
$90,000
13. Town Manager; COVID Related Expenses; All related additional expenses to
administer COVID related activities, including but not limited to BOH and Remote
Meetings $50,000
14. Park Commission: Marshall Park Master Plan Engineering and Schematic
Design;
===PAGE 12===
The funds will be used to develop the engineering and schematic design for Marshall
Park so the project will be bid ready. $500,000
15. Park Commission: Marshall Park Construction; Funds will be used towards
construction site development of the overall master plan of Marshall Park. We are
seeking $2,000,000 of ARPA funds to be used towards part of the construction of
Marshall Park Master Plan - the total cost of the project is $5,131,584.
16. Town Manager; Communications Tower; Funds would be used towards
constructing a communications tower that would provide better coverage for residents
and a revenue stream with cell providers.$500,000
17. Town Manager: Food Pantry Assistance; Funds would be used to assist the Food
Pantry in equipment or other resources needed to further promote food security.
$50,000
Mr. Alonzo will take the Capital Plan process and try to adapt it for this process and have it
ready for the first meeting in November. Mr. Alonzo asked the other members to send ideas
on how to prioritize the requests.
Renewal of BAN for Saliba Property & Ladder Truck
Ms. Lemieux reported a bond anticipation note is up for renewal. It is for $304,998 with an
interest rate of 3.75%. It should be paid off in five years or we could pay it off early in
anticipation of rising interest rates.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the BAN for the Saliba property and ladder truck as presented by Town
Manager
Vote: All in Favor
Approval of Minutes of September 6, September 13, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of September 6 and September 13, 2022 as presented
2"d. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Vote to Release the following Executive Session Minutes: March 24, 2015; April 21,
2015; May 12, 2015; December 15, 2015; January 5, 2016
Motion: T. Alonzo
To release the executive session minutes as listed
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Committee Reports
Ms. Sroka reported the School Committee met two weeks ago. They discussed their new
hires. They had 16 new LEA members, 10 new paraprofessionals, 3 new custodial workers
and 3 lunch workers. A total of three new positions were created: athletic trainer, Lunenburg
Primary School social worker and a Lunenburg High School interventionist teacher. LEA
includes social workers, guidance and nurses. They also have 3 grant-funded positions that
are new; LPNs for the Ace Program, Lunenburg Primary School and the Turkey Hill
Elementary School. I asked for clarification on the bus transportation; they had 162 late
requests for regular bus transportation that didn't include the walkers. That was just people
who didn't accurately understand the email that went home in the spring. They are working
on the Superintendent's goals right now and one of them is effectively communicating. Mr.
Beardmore was participating in that meeting. They meet again tomorrow.
Mi. Alonzo reported Capital Planning met a week ago and he is now the Chair and Mr.
Passios is the Vice Chair. We meet again on October 17" and we will begin reviewing
department head requests.
===PAGE 13===
Mr. Jeffreys reported we were invited by the school committee to attend a walk; DPW
Director Bernard was also present as well as Officer Russell from Police Department. We
walked down Northfield Road towards Turkey Hill Road, came back and walked to Marshall
Park. There were a lot of cars as the elementary school was getting out and we did not see
any students walking. We also observed some traffic concerns because a lot of cars were
making U-turns at Northfield Road. This will need to be resolved. Ms. Sroka noted there is
no yield sign there. Mr. Jeffreys reported we identified right at the elementary school that it
seemed to be a beneficial concept to put a sidewalk that would continue from where it
currently ends around the corner onto Northfield heading toward Turkey Hill. I think the idea
was a full loop of sidewalks going down Northfield to Turkey Hill banking right and coming
back towards center of town. That would be a complete loop. Also the sidewalk going
towards Marshall Park ends at Marshall Pond and that was another area where we noticed
there wasn't a lot of traffic going down Chestnut Street. Highland's very busy and then at the
intersection of Oak Ave., Highland Street and Main Street where they come together, we
were watching to see how many people actually use that intersection. Somebody jogging
actually used crosswalks but everyone else just went around a blind corner and you can't
really see. The school was very interested in a sidewalk that would continue from Marshall
Pond all the way to Marshall Park and those were the limited areas of sidewalks. The walk
was very insightful. We need to do another one when the high school gets out.
I also attended the Green Communities Committee meeting last week. It was a meeting with
an MIRPC representative present. The meeting was about the requirements to complete the
annual reports that keep track of energy consumptions, fossil fuel consumptions, etc. MRPC
was advising about different programs they have available to provide support. I asked what
could be done to get solar panels at the old landfill. There's a lot of money for Brownfield
development; one of the requirements is that it needs to be an economically distressed area
which basically means no town is going to be eligible. It's really for urban areas. MRPC had
a lot of information about this. I think we have an opportunity with ARPA funding that we
could create a model where we are the sole owner of the solar parels and after the initial
investment we pay ourselves back and have a steady stream of revenue coming from it for
years to come. The Green Communities Committee is going to look into this.
Municipal Building Design Committee met and we went over the three option/concepts and
the key points in all three concepts. Our goal was to come up with three distinctively different
concepts in which we're looking at different ways to use the buildings and there was a
suggestion for a hybrid concept which in some ways takes some of the best aspects of all of
them by addressing more needs. The joint meeting with the Select Board will happen next
week when the Municipal Building Design Committee will come forward and present these
options. There's also a request to the Planning Board and to the School Committee for the
MBD Committee to meet with either of those boards if they so choose to provide more
insight into the concepts and to get feedback.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
October 11th,
, October 18th
!, November 15t, November 8th, November 15'" (STM)
Discussion ensued about whether to meet on November 22'°. No decision was made.
Public Comment- there was none
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 9:56 PM
2'': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 14===
Respectfully submitted,
Each Peterson
Blaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
