===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ZOOM
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Dwyer wished his wife a very Happy 48th Birthday. The board echoed his wishes.
Mr. Franco thanked people for voting and all the poll workers; the Town Clerk, registrars,
election workers and campaign supporters.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Jeffreys announced the polls are open until 8 PM tonight at the TC Passios Building for
those who haven't voted yet. Mr. Alonzo noted there was a hole in the sidewalk outside the
TCP. It is marked off so no one steps into it but it needs to be filled in and patched.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Mr. Jeffreys stated there was a communication that went from the Municipal Building Design
Committee to Ms. Lemieux as Town Manager and Dr. Burnham as School Superintendent
that all permutations of plans will minimize long storage capacity and to reevaluate their
long term storage space requests. In addition the committee requested they submit revised
proposals with the explanation for why some records cannot be put in digitized or put in off-
site storage. This will be mentioned in more detail under Committee Reports.
One Day Wine & Beer license for St. Boniface Parish on September 17h
Jamie Toale, Peninsula Drive, was representing the church this evening for the request for the
wine and beer license along with Tom Bodkin, 64 Beal Street. They plan to resume an annual
event that was put on hold due the pandemic; their Oktoberfest on September 17", from 10
a.m. to 6 p.m. Ms. Sroka announced for the record that she was a member of the parish. Mr.
Dwyer noted the application was complete and well put together. There were no questions
from the board.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the request for the beer and wine license for St. Boniface Parish on
September 17th
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Sroka)
===PAGE 2===
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the Boys and Girls Club request for a tollbooth on September 17t from 9
a.m. to 1 p.m. in the Town center
2nd: H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Geneau thanked the board.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Interview for the Conservation Commission vacancy with term to expire June
30, 2024 -Richard Tremblay, 386 Sunset Lane
Mr. Tremblay has been a full-time resident for 36 years. He has a great appreciation of the
outdoors and has been an Associate member of the Conservation Commission for 8 months.
He has been attending their meetings and site visits. Ms. Sroka thanked him for applying
again even though the board did not appoint him last time there was a vacancy. Mr. Dwyer
thanked him for stepping up and based on what his colleagues have said, he was in favor of
appointing him. Mr. Franco echoed Ms. Sroka and Mr. Dwyer's comments. Mr. Alonzo was
glad to see Mr. Tremblay was still interested in full membership. Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr.
Tremblay if he had any perspective about allowing hunting on conservation land. Mr.
Tremblay did not think there was one answer to that but that requests should be taken on a
case by case basis.
Motion: L. Franco
2°: T. Dwyer
To appoint Richard Tremblay to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire
June 30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Tremblay thanked the board and exited the meeting.
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Heavy Equipment
Operator- Eric Babin
Ms. Lemieux stated we've had multiple vacancies for this position; it's been a hard position to
fill due to the CDL and federal requirements for being a heavy equipment operator. Mr.
Babin comes from Waste Management; he's been there since 2006. He has his CDL B license
and his 2-way and 1C hoisting licenses. While at Waste Management he was safety leader
and lead management person for their trucks. When Waste Management was in Lunenburg,
he was on that route so is familiar with our roads. When I met with him I saw he is very
enthusiastic and can't wait to join the team; this recommendation also comes from the DPW
Director.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Eric Babin as Heavy Equipment
Operator
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
manager as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux announced that Recreation Director Rob Thompson resigned in late August.
We are currently reviewing the position description before advertising for it.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (2 associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Planning Board (1 vacancy jointly appointed by the Planning Board and Select Board
until the next ATE
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent
to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the
Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
•
Heavy Equipment Operators (Full Time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
WRAP (Winter Recovery Assistance Program) Funding
Aspreviously reportedtotheBoard atthe May 3,2022 meeting, Lunenburgreceived $272,679 inone
time state funding through the Winter Recovery Assistance Program.
Municipalities must spend their WRAP fundingallocation by June 30, 2023. Any program fundsleft
unspent by this date are no longer available for use.
Eligible WRAP Costs
• Rehabilitation, reconstruction, resurfacing or preservation of roadways and
appurtenances (including sidewalks and bike lanes/paths)
• Repair or replacement of traffic control devices, signage, guardrails, and
===PAGE 4===
Pavement/Roadway Resurfacing
Pavement/Roadway Preservation
Sidewalk or Bike Lane/Path Repair or
Reconstruction Repair or Replacement of
Traffic Control Devices Repair or
Replacement of Signage
Repair or Replacement of Guardrail
• Repair or Replacement of Storm Grates or Other Drainage
Feature Road Striping orPainting
Based on the DPW Director's assessment of needs, his rough plan is to use the funding as follows:
$30,000 - Road Striping or Painting
$167,000 - Sidewalk Repair or Reconstruction
$50,000 - Repair or Replacement of Guardrails
$25,000 - Traffic signal controller replacement - Whalom/Electric
• $272,000 - Total
The locations for the sidewalk repairs will include another section of Lancaster Avenue from Whiting
Street to Rolling Acres, then Highland Avenue from Oak Avenue to Marshall Pond, and then based on
the 2020 PROW ADA Transition Plan. The Director is working on the specific locations for the
remaining categories, with the exception of the traffic signal controller. Once those are known I will
update the Board.
Collaboration with School on Facilities and Athletics Director
I have been communicating with the School Superintendent on setting up an internal meet and greet
between our new Facilities Director, the DPW Director, and their new School Facilities Director and
Athletics Director. We are both on the same page that our staff will be working as a team and
meeting on a scheduled basis. The future Recreation Director will be included in this group as well.
The internal Meet and Greet will be this week, but the Superintendent and I have also discussed doing a
larger Meet and Greet with different organizations and the committees at a later date.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• TheLunenburgBusiness Associationisplanningondoingthe Trunk or Treat
eventagainthis year. They have been in touch with the school and tentativedate
is Sunday, October 30th.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market is every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th and the
Historical Society Building is open during the Farmers Market.
• The Special Town Meeting warrant is open for submission of articles until 5 pm on
September 20th and the STM will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the
===PAGE 5===
1. Discussion of 300t" Anniversary Committee Charge
This was tabled until next week's meeting.
2. Review and Discuss Section 2.07 - Appointment Policy
Mr. Jeffreys recalled the board was talking about dividing this into three sections of a policy:
appointments, reappointments and ad hoc committees. He directed the board to the list of
appointed volunteers and how long they have been serving. Discussion ensued and it was
suggested if the board does not want term limits to keep the status quo and take each
appointment on a case by case basis.
Discussion turned to the appointment process and advertising vacancies annually on April 1st
and asking those who want to be reappointed to let the office know by May 1st. Also
discussed was what to do with multiple applicants for one position, having "associate" non-
voting positions, and possibly having a formal process to qualify someone for appointment.
No action was taken on these items. Mr. Jeffieys will finalize the changes according to their
discussion and return with an updated draft.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
Ms. Lemieux reported there were only three articles currently; a FY23 budget adjustment,
paying any prior fiscal year's unpaid bills and funding the first year of the Police Union's
collective bargaining agreement.
2. Minutes: Vote to Release the following Executive Session Minutes: March 24,
2015; April 21, 2015; May 12, 2015; December 15, 2015; January 5, 2016
This was tabled until the board reviews the Executive Session minutes.
3. Approve Minutes of August 9, 2022
Motion: T. Dwyer
2n: T. Alonzo
To approve the Minutes of August 9, 2022 as written Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention
(Jeffreys)
Warrants- there were none this evening
Action Items - Mr. Jeffreys reported a resident had concerns about the pavement
management plan. Due to the change between DPW Directors, line striping scheduling fell
behind the paving schedule. Now it is taking longer to have it done due to the vendor's
schedule. Ms. Lemieux reported they are researching whether they can find another vendor
through contract administration. Mr. Jeffreys reported he had gotten back to the resident to
explain why this hasn't happened yet.
===PAGE 6===
found any remodel of an existing town building or any new construction would require long
term storage space. The cost of digitization and off-site storage is lower than the cost of
constructing, remodeling or maintaining space. We are encouraging school and town
departments to digitize for long term record storage. We also encourage a response from the
Town Manager and School Superintendent by the end of September that identifies their
storage needs for records that cannot be digitized or stored off-site, and the reasons why.
We reviewed all the Tappe and Vertex reports to identify what the needs for all these
buildings were and what remains outstanding. Everything that remains will be addressed as
part of a change in use. We did an exercise that was if you were in charge of Lunenburg what
would you do with all these buildings. We took those ideas and created three plans to address
all of the town buildings. At our meeting on the 19th we will look at those three ideas and
finalize them. We will be seeking a meeting with the Select Board in October.
The Library. Trustees have not met but they will be seeking a town meeting vote to have more
control over the investment of their trust funds.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Jeffreys noted the board will meet again on September 13th and September 20 (Joint
meeting with the Finance Committee).
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none at this time
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
2"d: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:40 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine h Petiosan
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
