===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Member not present: Michael-kay Jeffreys, Chairman
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Robert Robertson, P J Keating via ZOOM;
Dan Proctor
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He provided information to the public on
how to participate remotely via ZOOM.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Sroka, in regards to Republican Town Committee Chair Mike Clark's public comment on
August 2nd
, noted they reached out to her after the meeting and said that all of the Republican
signs on Highland Street were taken down after he had spoken. They had notified the Police
Department. Mr. Alonzo stated the Select Board cannot do anything, but it is an egregious act
and unfortunately it's done all the time. Mr. Franco announced the Lion's Club pancake
breakfast tomorrow at the Eagle House Senior Center from 8:00 to 11:00 a.m. In regards to the
stolen signs being stolen; they were attacking democracy and speech. It's just not a patriotic
American thing to do.
Mr. Alonzo reminded that next Monday is the last summer band concert and he encouraged
people to attend. He thanked the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors for sponsoring last night's
concert. He also thanked Band Director Steve Archambault, all the band members and the
townspeople for modestly increasing their funding so they could purchase new music this
year.
Peter Beardmore, 292 Pleasant St., expressed disappointment about the discussion regarding
the Finance Committee's request to use legal counsel. He noted he was speaking for himself
only at the time. He had sent the request for legal counsel to the Town Manager and was not
informed she would be bringing it before the Select Board as it was a simple administrative
request. He believed the SB discussion was blown out of context and went beyond the
limitations of the Open Meeting Law. He felt disrespected and looked forward to an honest
and vigorous debate when all sides can be heard.
===PAGE 2===
Shirley Road. Discussion ensued about Police Chief Gammel's comment about ongoing
construction at the new warehouse site on Leominster-Shirley Road.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d: L. Franco
To approve the Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride on September 24* contingent upon the
applicant either confirming or resubmitting a route if they decide that they want to alter it
due to the construction
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting with Building Commissioner on Renewal of Earth Removal Permits
Mr. Alonzo noted there are two permit holders; PJ Keating and Dan & Jean Proctor.
Building Commissioner Burlingame was unable to attend this evening but had forwarded a
report on each permit and his recommendations for renewal.
"An inspection of the premises at 998 Reservoir Road, known as P.J. Keating took place on July
25, 2022. The purpose of this inspection was to ensure the language and conditions of the 6
Earth Removal Permits were being met, so renewals could be granted by the Select Board.
Present at this inspection was the Vice President of Aggregate Operations Robert Robinson
and Town Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer Casey Burlingame.
Permit #15
This permit covers an area used as an overflow yard, and loading area. It covers an approximately
165 acre parcel of land located northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road & westerly of Reservoir
Load To parent has fated norat
Road. This permit has 6 listed instructions/conditions. Condition 6 has sub conditions (a) (b) (c)
(d) (e) and (f). A general overview of the conditions is concerns regarding maintaining a buffer
zone, maintaining grade level slopes from property lines, establishment of vegetation on said
graded areas, and maximum depth of excavation. During my site visit I found these conditions to
be met and satisfactory. Recommendation: Ok to renew
Permit #16
This permit covers an area used as an aggregate processing area and asphalt plant. It covers an
approximately 170 acre parcel of land located northerly of Leominster-Shirley Road &
easterly of Reservoir Road. This permit has 8 listed instructions/conditions. Condition 6 has
sub conditions (a) (b) (c) (d) (e} and (f). A general overview of the conditions is concerns
regarding maintaining a buffer zone, maintaining grade level slopes from property lines,
establishment of vegetation on said graded areas, and maximum depth of excavation. During
my site visit I found these conditions to be met and satisfactory. Recommendation: Ok to renew
Permit #17
This permit covers an area used for recycling purposes. It covers an approximately 180 acre parcel
of land located southerly of Leominster-Shirley Road and easterly of Fort Pond Road. This
permit has 7 listed instructions/conditions. Condition 7 has sub conditions (a) (b) (c) and (d). A
general overview of the conditions is concerns regarding maintaining a buffer zone, maintaining
grade level slopes from property lines, establishment of vegetation on said graded areas, and
maximum depth of excavation. During my site visit I found these conditions to be met and
satisfactory. Recommendation: Ok to renew
===PAGE 3===
Permit# 30
This permit covers an area used for recycling purposes. It covers anapproximately 28 acre parcel of
land located in the southeast corner of Lunenburg. This permit has 5 listed
instructions/conditions. Condition 5 has sub conditions (a) (b) (c) and (d). A general overview
of the conditions is concerns regarding maintaining a buffer zone, maintaining grade level
slopes from property lines, establishment of vegetation on said graded areas, and maximum
depth of excavation. During my site visit I found these conditions to be met and satisfactory.
Recommendation: Ok to renew
Permit#57
This permit covers the main quarry. It effectively replaced permits #14, #18, and #42. This permit
covers an approximately 30 acre parcel of land located westerly of Fort Pond Road, and
southeasterly of Leominster-Shirley Road. This permit has 4 listed instructions/conditions.
Condition 3 has sub conditions (a) (b(c) (d) and (e). A general overview of the conditions is
concerns regarding maintaining a buffer zone, minimizing dust and noise, and traffic concerns.
During my site visit I found these conditions to be met and satisfactory.
Recommendation: Ok to renew"
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"°: L. Franco
To approve the renewal of permits #15, 16, 17, 27, 30, 57
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo noted this is our customary action to ask the Building Inspector and
Zoning Officer to inspect all these and having no other evidence to go on except his approval
that they're following their permits this is all we need.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Robertson thanked the board.
The next permit up for renewal is located at 1325 Massachusetts Avenue and under Daniel and
Jean Proctor, 1529 Mass. Ave.
From the Building Commissioner:
"An inspection of the premise at 1325 Massachusetts Avenue took place on July 26, 2022. The purpose of
this inspection was to ensure the language and conditions ofthe Earth Removal Permit was being met, so a
renewal could be granted by the Select Board. Present at this inspection were the land owner representative
Ryan Proctor, Building Commissioner/Zoning Officer Casey Burlingame, and Land Use Director Adam
Burney.
Permit #60
This permit is for an approximately 5.75 acre parcel located on the north side of Massachusetts Avenue.
Permit restrictions included establishing and maintaining a buffer zone, no rock crushing onsite, depth of
excavation limitations, and screening of top soil limitations. The pond excavation is complete. Grade
bottoms have been established and rough grading is complete. The pond area vegetation has been
established. The berm in the rear ofthe property iscomplete with grass growing. There was approximately
7,000 cubic yards removed off-site this year, with the need for an approximate additional 3,000 yards to be
removed. The applicant states he intends on having the remainder of material removed offsite bedewinter.
Recommendation: Allow for renewal of permit"
===PAGE 4===
with attention to detail and the cause of potential complaints. He thanked the Proctors
for handling that with grace. Mr. Proctor thanked them both.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: H. Sroka
To renew permit #60 under Dan and Jean Proctor as presented
Vote: All in Favor
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Select Board Appointment of Election Officers: (terms to begin September 1 through
August 31, 2023) Warden-Glen Reinhardt (R), Deputy Warden-Anne Shattuck (R), Clerk-
Darlene Steele (D), Clerk-Judy Haley (D), Inspector-Susan Andrews (D), Deputy Inspector-
Joanne Bergeron (D), Inspector-Jane Ranley (R), Deputy Inspector- Lorraine Rudd (R)
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"°: L. Franco
To approve the appointment of the election officers as presented for a term from
September 1, 2022 to August 31, 2023
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Appointment of Town Clock winder - John Lynch, 453 Page Street- term
to expire June 30, 2023
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: H. Sroka
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of John Lynch as Town Clock winder with a
term to expire June 30, 2023
Vote: All in Favor
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion of 300th Anniversary Committee Charge
Lunenburg will turn 300 years old in 2028. The board had anniversary charges from other
communities and they all were similar. Mr. Franco will compose a draft and present at the
August 23rd meeting.
2. Vote to Sign Purchase & Sale Agreement and License Agreement with Unitil for
Streetlights Purchase-this was tabled until the next meeting as Unitil was not ready in
time.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote on Finance Committee Request to Use Town Counsel to assist drafting
proposed bylaw regardingamending the Capital Plan at town meetings
This request came to the SB through Town Manager because she did not think this was a
routine request such as a written opinion or interpretation. Town counsel is appointed by and
works for the Select Board. Their policy states requests for town counsel come through the Town
Manager, but this was a request to draft a bylaw regarding Capital Planning. Mr. Alonzo advised
===PAGE 5===
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"°: L. Franco
To approve the proposed STM date of November 15, 2022 at 7:00 PM and the
opening and closing dates of the warrant (August 23"/September 20t" at 5 PM)
Vote: All in Favor
3. Letter from Board of Registrars re: Required Action by Board related to the Votes Act
Mr. Franco read the letter from the Board of Registrars to the SB aloud:
"RE: Changes to State Election Laws
On June 22, 2022 an election reform law titled "The VOTES Act" was signed into law.
Among other things the law made many of the temporary changes from the pandemic
permanent. Effective immediately, the law, regarding assignment of police officers at polling
places is amended to require the Select Board to assign police officers and constables to
polling places. Previously this was the responsibility of the Chief ofPolice.
Since this change is taking effect before the primaries, the state has reminded us that we needed
to communicate with your Board In order to vote at a summer meeting before September. As
our elections budget is already stretched thin we as Registrars would like the Select Board to
consider the option of constables at our elections in the hopes that this small change will reduce
one of our election expenses. The Registrars have no power to make this change. As Registrars of
Voters our budget and handling is determined by Federal, State and Local laws and schedules.
If the Select Board does not want to use constables, the Registrars recommend the following:
Motion: Move to approve a sufficient number of police officers, but not less than 1, at the
polling location at every election therein to preserve order and to protect the election officers
and supervisors from any interference with their duties and to aid in enforcing the laws relating
to elections, as required by Section 72 of MGL Chapter 54, which was changed in section 13 of
Chapter 92 of the Acts of 2022.
Further, move to designate the Police Chief the authority to assign specific police officers
according to scheduling and availability. The Town Clerk will advise the Police Chief on the
location and time the officer is needed. For local elections, towns may choose to have in-person
early voting. To opt-in to early voting for local elections, at least two registrars need to
recommend it, and the Select Board must then vote to authorize in-person voting. At the
Registrars' meeting on July 22, 2022 it was voted to NOT recommend early voting due to the
expense and that absentee voting is available."
Acts of 2022
SECTION 13. Said chapter 54 is hereby further amended by striking out section 72, as so
appearing, and inserting in place thereof the following section:-
Section 72. The select board, board of selectmen, town council or city council of each city
and town, in consultation with its election officers and registrars, shall detail a sufficient number of
police officers or constables for each building that contains the polling place for 1 or more precincts
===PAGE 6===
Chapter 34, which was changed in section 13 of Chapter 92 of the Acts of 2022.
Further, move to designate the Police Chief the authority to assign specific police
officers according to scheduling and availability. The Town Clerk will advise the
Police Chief on the location and time the officer is needed.
Vote: All in Favor
Discussion on next steps in response to APDC denial of Ritter Building Certificate to Alter
Ms. Lemieux had written a memo to the SB regarding this:
In reference to the Board's agenda item to discuss the next steps in response to the Architectural
Preservation District Commission's denial of the Ritter Building Certificate to Alter application, I
would like to offer the following comments:
1. Per the APD Bylaw, §113-8 (C), "If the APDC does not achieve a majority vote that the
alteration is compatible with the standards and the design guidelines, it shall make a negative
determination....In making its determination, the APDC shall provide a rationale for its
action, including a description of how the alteration does or does not meet the standards set
forth in §113-9 and the design guidelines." In their written determination there was not a
clear description how the windows did not meet any of the design standards. The windows in
the specifications from the architect were Architect Series Reserve Double Hung windows
and designed with the Department of Interiors input for National Parks projects.
Storm windows, which are an interior feature of the building, are exempt under the APD Bylaw,
§113-6 F) but was referenced as a recommendation in the APDC decision.
3. The Commission wrote in their determination that they found "most windows in good
working order". After speaking with staff, it takes 2 people to open/close windows.
4. Part of the work to be done to the windows is to remove the glazing compound on the
exterior of the window due to cracking and it was determined that it contains asbestos.
5.
Energy efficiency: The APD Design Guidelines state that "When considering an
alteration, property owners are rightly concerned with heat loss and energy conservation.
If windows must be replaced, it is preferable that new, double-paned windows that are
made of wood and crafted in a similar way to antique windows are installed. While not
preferable certain non-wood construction double-paned windows may be approved
provided they meet the historical design standards of those windows currently installed
on the building." I would ask the APD to reconsider our original application that
proposes an architectural window and be more energy efficient than the current windows.
We can ask for a mock-up window from the window manufacturer and perform a
presentation to the APDC that demonstrates heat loss. Also, under the APDC Decision
Approval Process in the Design Guidelines, it states "If a proposed alteration degrades
the historical value of the structure, the APDC shall first determine if the alteration is
necessary. Necessary alterations would include those needed to preserve the structure or
parts thereof. Improved energy efficiency would also be considered necessary, as would
renovation of dilapidated structures or parts thereof." In re-applying, I would include the
Board's position is this is a necessary alteration.
6. The architect who prepared all the drawings and specifications has since retired. He was
===PAGE 7===
acts carra dev dise viol
be to resubmit the CTA without the window replacement. The second would be to present
an appeal for the window replacements to the APDC under the umbrella of the original
application or lastly, going to Town Meeting to request overriding the denial. Ms.
Lemieux noted if the CTA is resubmitted without the windows, it starts another 90 day
period to review. Further discussion ensued on having the APDC acknowledge the
resubmittal without the windows would be providing additional information on the initial
application. Suggestion was made to put a placeholder article on the warrant in case the
APDC denies the application again. The SB can always have it on the warrant and pass
over the article if not needed.
Consensus was to have Ms. Lemieux contact the APDC and see if they will agree to an
appeal regarding the windows.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To authorize Town Manager acting on behalf of the Select Board to contact the APDC for
their consideration in extending the determination of the submitted CTA for one meeting
so we can rebut their points but not triggering a new submission and using the waiver
authority granted to them in the APD Design Guidelines
Vote: All in Favor
4. FY23 15 Quarter Water Commitment $12,061.73
Motion: L. Franco
2"': H. Sroka
To approve and sign the FY23 15 Quarter Water Commitment of $12, 061.73
Vote: All in Favor
5. Approve Minutes of June 21, 2022- this was tabled until the next meeting
6.
Warrants:
The board signed a motor vehicle excise refund warrant in the amount of $4211.18.
7. Action Items-there were none this evening
8. Committee Reports
Mr. Franco attended the Council on Aging meeting and updated them on the progress of the
Senior Tax Relief work. They now understand this will be a lengthy process that requires special
legislation. Principal Assessor Carroll will be attending the September 16 meeting and providing
more detail. The COA is looking to rebrand/rename themselves not so much as a senior center
but as a 50+ adult activity center and actually have a graphic logo. They will discuss further and
possibly vote at their next meeting. They also want to have monthly press releases in the
Lunenburg Ledger to further communicate to the community what they do at the center.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met last week and reviewed their calendar
for the upcoming year as well as their scoring of requests. Another category was added to the
===PAGE 8===
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:38 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
