===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Frank Serreti, Ben Adsit, Karen Brochu, Finance
Director; Patrick Sullivan, Fire Chief
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to
the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is
available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law. He asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Sroka wished Mr. Dwyer a Happy Birthday. Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who attended the
candlelight vigil this past Friday. About 100 people attended and 85 people signed the resolution and
anyone who would like to sign it can go to Town Hall or the Library for about a week or so.
Dave Passios, 81 Whiting Street, welcomed Ms. Sroka to the Select Board. He asked for clarification
about the APDC appointment later this evening. Mr. Jeffreys confirmed Mr. McGrath is the
Historical Commission's representative to the APDC, but the Select Board makes the APDC
appointment.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the Council on Aging/Senior Center celebrated their 55' anniversary earlier today.
He also reminded about the Volunteer Appreciation Reception this Thursday from 5:30 - 7:00 p.m. at
the Senior Center.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
From the Parks Commission Chair: the Town Beach will be opening this Saturday the 18th
APPOINTMENTS
FY21 Audit Review by Powers & Sullivan
Frank Serreti thanked the board for having himself and Ben Adsit here to present the results of the Fiscal
Year 2021 audit. They completed their preliminary work in early June 2021 and came back for their
year-end audit work in October. Part of the year end audit is testing a series of transactions and all the
different transaction cycles; looking at revenues and expenditures, and looking for supporting
documentation. We did not find any issues. We check that everything has been done according to your
financial policies and procedures. We look at the reconciliations for cash and receivables and to see if
you have good reconciliation procedures in place. We found the reconciliation is being done on a
monthly basis. There were no outstanding issues there as well.
===PAGE 2===
Free Cash voted to fund the FY22 budget. That left you with a General Fund Unassigned fund balance
of $7.2 million dollars which is about 16% of your budget and your unassigned fund balance has
increased since 2013 when it was $1.6 million or about 6% of the budget. That's a very positive trend
because you're developing substantial reserves which will help you with the credit rating agencies and
to improve your credit rating to possibly an AAA rating along with other factors that the rating agencies
look at. Your stabilization funds are included in the general fund balance. Your general stabilization
fund totaled $2.5 million. That has steadily increased since 2013 when it was a million dollars, that's
another positive trend that you're setting money aside for unforeseen and unexpected things. Zoning
stabilization totaled $230,000, consistent with the prior year and you also have a vehicle equipment
stabilization fund that totaled $1.2 million which was about a $250,000 increase from the prior year.
Real estate and personal property tax collections continue to be strong at about 98% of the commitment.
The general fund balance increased by $872,000 and that was mainly due to a revenue surplus of
$966,000 related to motor vehicle excise tax liens and intergovernmental revenues. Expenditures came
in $1.4 million under budget and that was mainly related to general government expenses, education and
employee benefits. Those two things increased your fund balance and you had some things that
decreased it. You used $858,000 of Free Cash to balance the FY21 budget and your encumbrance has
decreased by $522,000 and those budget results are very good. You have a sound budget process and
good budgetary controls in place.
Your enterprise funds, sewer fund balance totaled $1.6 million, about a $227,000 increase from the prior
year. If you look at the financial statements that's on a gap basis, this includes fixed assets such as OPEB
liability, your pension liability, and all your long-term liabilities that you do not budget for. Similarly
with the solid waste recycling fund; your fund balance was $134,000 at the end of the year, about a
$123,000 increase from the prior year. Cable television enterprise fund totaled $857,000, about $107,
000 increase from the prior year. You have built up your reserves and with all of those funds you had
positive results and your rates and your fees covered your costs and then some.
Next is the OPEB liability; the Town contributed an additional $111,000 to the OPEB trust fund. In
2021 the fund balance at the end of the year was $589,000. You had a good return on investments during
the year, about a 24% return and earned about $104,000 of investment income. Your net OPEB liability
totaled $65.6 million, about a $9.8 million increase from the prior year. The actuary takes a look at what
your balance is and what you have to pay out over time and depending on what your balance is, you can
qualify for a higher discount rate. Your discount rate was 2.75% so you got credit for having money in
your trust fund. You're basically at a blended discount rate and a 1% change in the discount rate gives a
pretty significant impact on your liability, the more you fund the better your discount rate is going to be
in the future. You're slightly less than 1% funded on the OPEB trust so you have a ways to go. For net
pension liability, the Town is a member of the Worcester Regional Retirement System for people that
don't qualify to be in the Mass Teachers Retirement System. Teachers and certain administrators qualify
for the Mass Teachers Retirement System and their pensions are paid for by the Commonwealth. The
others are in the Worcester Regional Retirement System, your liability associated with that is $19.8
===PAGE 3===
As far as debt, you had $610,000 of outstanding short-term debt that was to fund the capital plan and a
land purchase and for long-term debt. You didn't issue any new long-term debt during the year for your
governmental activity. You had $37.6 million outstanding and for your sewer activities you had $4.5
million outstanding. Your general fund debt service is at roughly 9% of your total appropriations and
over the past eight years you were as low as 6.8% and as high as 10.6% percent; you're kind of in the
middle of that range.
The report on Federal Awards is required for any municipality that spends more than $750,000 a year in
federal funds. The Town expended $1.9 million, of that $338,000 was related to school lunch, $702,000
related to the Coronavirus refund grant. That was your largest federal expenditure related to COVID and
then more COVID money related to the education stabilization fund grant, about $200,000 and then
another $663,000 on other educational grants. We had to test the Special Education cluster and the
Coronavirus relief fund grants as major programs. We determine which grants we need to look at each
year based on the level of expenditures, the risk and when was the last time they were audited. We were
able to issue unmodified opinions on the compliance with the program requirements so we didn't have
any issues related to compliance with the grant requirements. No deficiencies were noted in internal
controls so it was a clean report.
The last report is the Management Letter. These are prior year comments that have been there and being
worked on and there's been some significant progress. One relates to old outstanding checks and there
was a lot of progress made on that in 2020 and 2021. The balance at the end of 2020 was $61,000, now
down to $9,000. You want to keep that number low because there's a risk to having old outstanding
checks/checklist from an internal control standpoint. We always make that recommendation and the last
piece is that a formal policy be established so there are guidelines for the treasurer in terms of contacting
the person that the check was issued to try to see if it was lost and it needs to be reissued. There's a
process where you move it to a tailings account and once it goes into the tailings account it comes off
the outstanding checklist which is a more secure place to keep it. Once it's in the tailings account you
can go through a process to advertise and if they don't get claimed you can bring them back in as
miscellaneous revenue to the town. We're recommending that a formal policy be established with aging
milestones and when that process should be started.
There was a comment related to uncollectible ambulance receivables. The ambulance receivables
balance at the end of the year totaled $622,000 and $552,000 of that was over 180 days old. I know the
Town has been working on this and it's a tedious process to go through all of these accounts, but there
has been considerable progress made. That's something you're talking about tonight; establishing a
policy so there's guidelines going forward to deal with the uncollectible accounts on a timely basis.
The last comment relates to conducting a fraud risk assessment. This is a comment that we put in all of
our clients' management letters and it is looking at the different areas in Town where cash is collected or
where there's machinery and equipment and considering the risks associated with someone being able to
take these items and having proper controls in place to safeguard these things. It's a cost-benefit analysis
===PAGE 4===
policies. The board thanked Mr. Serreti and he and Mr. Adsit exited the meeting.
Meeting with Finance Director and Fire Chief to present Ambulance Abatement, Collection and
Hardship Policy
The following draft is being presented this evening:
AMBULANCE BILLING COLLECTION PROCEDURE
PURPOSE:
The purpose of this procedure is to establish a uniformed process for addressing aging ambulance billing
receivables and hardship requests on ambulance billings.
BACKGROUND:
The Town of Lunenburg contracts with an outside billing company to administer the billing and
collections for ambulance service provided by the Town through its Fire Department.
The Town of Lunenburg, as part of an agreement with the outside billing company, requires a standard method
of pursuing collections to ensure payment is secured that is owed to the Town, under prices set by the Town
and allowable under federal or state medical reimbursement expenses. In order to achieve these goals, the
Town may hire a credit and collection company or alternative means to pursue delinquent accounts.
PROCEDURDS:
A. WRITE-OFF OF UNCOLLECTIBLE AMBULANCE RECEIVABLES
1. The Town of Lunenburg shall receive and review a monthly balance of accounts, including all aging
and current accounts, prepared by the outside billing company. Said monthly statement shall be
reconciled by the Town and outstanding balances and receipts received shall be confirmed. The Town
and outside billing company will determine whether or not the billing company has the correct mailing
address for the outstanding accounts and the correct insurance information. Any differences must be
immediately resolved and corrected between the Town and the outside billing company.
2. The Town of Lunenburg shall meet/review with the outside billing company on a quarterly basis to
discuss aging receivables that have shown no activity within the prior 180 days to review the
processes utilized by the billing company to pursue said collection on accounts. Said methods of
collections that are considered to be a fair and reasonable effort at collection are:
a. Correspondence to the insurance company, if the patient was insured, or to the patient
directly, if uninsured;
b. Facsimile transmissions to the patient or their insurance company.
3. The Town of Lunenburg after receiving proof that items 1 and 2 have been met and collection has not
been successful, may authorize the billing company to write-off these receivables as uncollectible
accounts. Said determination does not constitute a forgiveness of the debt and it is still payable by the
===PAGE 5===
collections to the Town separately from the Town's billing company.
5. The Collection Agency shall report to the Town on a semi-annual basis a synopsis of their
collection efforts and recommendations for further write-offs as bad debt.
The Town of Lunenburg shall review the recommendations, and make a final determination if any of
the accounts should be written off as bad debts. Said determination is to be based upon the inability
of the collection agency, the billing company, or any agents they or the Town may use, to locate or
obtain direct contact to the patient, either by a registered receipt letter or some other means.
Upon the preparation of said final list of determination, this shall be forwarded to the Town Manager.
Upon approval, that said final list will be deemed uncollectible and removed from collection and
forwarded to the Town Accountant.
B. HARDSHIP REQUESTS
1. Requests for waiver of a portion or all of an ambulance bill shall be submitted by the patient to the
outside billing company for review and determination of financial conditions of the patient and
ability to pay. The request may be required to be submitted upon approved forms supplied by the
outside billing company and may require documentation, such as hospital free care confirmation, a
signed copy of the income tax return for the prior year, a letter from a third party such as a social
worker, or a letter from the patient himself attesting to such hardship that has been signed under the
pains and penalties of perjury.
2. The outside billing company will review all requests for waivers based upon financial hardship
and shall issue a recommendation based on the Mass. HUD income guidelines whether a waiver
should be granted by the Town of Lunenburg. The Town will make the final determination.
3. Amounts due of $50.00 or less to which patient returns the bill proving hardship with supporting
documentation will be written off.
4. The Fire Chief will have the authority to recommend if a waiver shall be granted where the balance
is $250.00 or less and the Town Manager shall have the authority to determine if the waiver shall
be granted. They will report the approval to the Town Accountant.
5. For balances in excess of $250.00, the Town of Lunenburg through the Town Manager shall review
the decision of the outside billing company for each requested financial hardship waiver. Unless
mitigating information is presented or obtained that would require a new review of the request, the
Town Manager shall confirm the decision of the outside billing company relative to the requested
financial hardship waivers.
6. The Town of Lunenburg shall notify the outside billing company of the decision of the Town
===PAGE 6===
portion of that has been outstanding for a long time. In the auditor's opinion they would consider a large
portion of that receivable balance to be uncollectible. What this procedure will do for the Town is it will
establish a written policy whereby we can collect those aging receivables. Or we would go through our
third party billing company and write off amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible so that we have a
realistic real receivable balance.
Chief Sullivan stated from their end a lot of this was going on and the part that wasn't happening was it
wasn't being written off at the final point. Ms. Brochu noted they have to do a little work to do with
Coastal in order to determine that number that has been out for collection for a long period of time. That
would be the dollar amount that we would be looking to write off of the receivable. I don't know when
they cut it off and say we're not going to collect this anymore but we would still make every attempt to
collect that revenue. It would just be a reduction of the receivable on the balance sheet to a more realistic
number that we actually expect to see.
Chief Sullivan stated we get a monthly statement from the billing company after a certain point, after
making attempts to collect they go out to the collection agency that they've tried to track down it make
sure we have all the proper billing information. That they make multiple attempts to contact the people.
If we've had no contact from them at all it goes out to collection. It would still be with the collection
agency but that's in a nutshell of narrowing that down. The second part of this is a hardship policy which
we've also had for quite some time and it's just wrapping that into this; that people can show financially
that they cannot absorb this and that they meet HUD standards for poverty level. We have a process to
abate those bills for someone that can show a legitimate hardship. Discussion about using a credit card
as a payment option ensued. It is now an option.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2°: T. Dwyer
To approve the ambulance billing collection procedure and hardship policy as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Brochu and Chief Sullivan thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Heavy Equipment Operator-Keith Babin
Ms. Lemieux stated as the board is aware we've had three vacancies for the heavy equipment operator
position at the DPW, so this will fill one. Keith Babin has worked for a family business doing land tree
design and landscaping. He has his commercial driver's license and has done snow plowing and all the
heavy equipment operation work when he worked for his family business. I met with him and he's a
great personality. I think he's going to fit in very well down at the DPW and he's excited to come on
board.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2': T. Alonzo
To ratify the appointment of Kevin Babin to Heavy Equipment Operator Vote: All in Favor
• Rescission of Appointment of Full Time Police Officer Joel Ortega and return of
===PAGE 7===
Rossi has been on the board previously and attended a number of meetings, especially when we did the
Complete Streets walks, so I am happy that she has asked to be reappointed.
• Annual Appointment- APDC - Richard McGrath- Historical Commission rep-term to
expire June 30, 2024
Ms. Lemieux read aloud the composition of the APD membership:
The Board of Selectmen shall appoint a five-member Architectural Preservation District Commission
(APDC) to oversee that pursuant to this by-law. Initially two members shall be appointed for one year,
two for two years and one for three years. Each successive appointment shall be made for three years.
The Board of Selectmen may also appoint up to two alternate members initially for terms of one, two,
and three years and for three year terms thereafter. If members are absent unable or unable to act or
recuse from voting due to a conflict of interest the APDC chair may designate one or both of the
alternate members to serve in their place to the extent achievable. The APDC shall be comprised of the
following persons: a member of the Lunenburg Historical Commission, a design professional, a craft
person or building contractor familiar with historic restoration and one resident of the APD and one
resident at large members and alternates of the APDC shall reason by reason of experience and or
education have demonstrable knowledge interests and ability to effectively carry out the APDC's
responsibilities.
Question was asked why this reappointment is only for two years. Ms. Lemieux stated the Executive
Assistant reviewed the appointments and this is to correct the alternating three year terms.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": T. Dwyer
To appoint Richard McGrath to the APD as a Historical Commission representative with a term
expiring June 30, 2024
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo wanted to thank Mr. McGrath for his time already served on the Historical
Commission and the APDC and while there has been some past conflict on certain things, he does an
excellent job; he comes with a wealth of experience. He has the best interest of the APD in mind as well
as the town and I think he has certainly earned the right to continue on this commission. Mr. Dwyer
concurred.
Vote: 3 in Favor, 1 opposed (Jeffreys)
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
===PAGE 8===
4 Heavy Equipment Uperators (Full-time Benetitted)
• Meal Site Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
• Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Pavement Management Plan Update
The DP W Director and I met with an engineering firm that commonly does Pavement Management Plans to
discuss updating our plan. We requested a proposal that would use LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging)
technology that would provide an updated evaluation of all our pavement and this process would also capture our
traffic signs, sidewalks, reveals, etc. and is a GIS-based platform that will integrate into our GIS mapping software.
Flat Hill Road Drainage Study Proposal
Brian Marchetti of McCarty Engineering provided a proposal related to the FY23 Capital Planning Project for the
Flat Hill Road Drainage Study and it has been reviewed by the Land Use Director, DPW Director and myself and we
all agreed it did not fully cover the scope of the work needed to be done. Mr. Marchetti has been asked to revise the
original proposal for this work and I will provide an update to the Board when I receive a revised proposal that
covers the full scope of the project.
265 Pleasant Street PILOT
The Principal Assessor and I have been meeting with Nugen, owner of the property at 265 Pleasant Street, about a
Payment in Lieu of Taxes agreement for the solar personal property equipment at that site. The Town voted to
authorize the Select Board to enter into a PILOT agreement for this site at a previous town meeting. Once a
valuation method is determined to come up with payment terms that is fair, this will be presented to the Board.
PAYT Trash and RecyclingUpdate
Due to the lack of applicants for the grant funded position of Trash and Recycling Coordinator, I sought proposals
from consultants that would take on these same tasks of improving the Town's solid waste and recycling program.
I received only one proposal, from Supportive Business Alternatives, a Lunenburg company owned by Jamie
Toale. The goal is to improve our processes surrounding the trash and recycling program, develop and distribute
educational materials on our programs, work with the School on educational programs regarding recycling, and
improve the service between the Town, its vendor, and the residents. This project will kick-off in June and is
expected to be complete by January of 2023.
COVID-19 Rapid Test Kits from theState
Thisweekthe Baker-Polito Administration willbegin distributing over 2 million free COVID-19 rapidtest kits for
towns to distribute to residents. Each municipality will determine how to distribute tests to their residents and in
Lunenburg, the Board of Health will be responsible for distributing the test kits. Information will be announced
once locations for pick-up are official.
===PAGE 9===
settle other terms of the agreement.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Dueto the new state/federal holiday of Juneteenth, town buildings will be closed on Monday, June 20th
in observance of the holiday.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will on the following dates: July 11th, July 18th, July 25th, August 1st, August 8th
and a rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once again be held on the
lawn in front of the TC Passios Building.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the Historical Society has been open during the Farmers Market on Sundays and he
had the opportunity to visit them this past Sunday. He encourage people to check it out. He also
thanked Ms. Lemieux for making his transition to Chairman easy and wanted to acknowledge all her
hard work for the town.
WORKSHOP:
SELECT BOARD AND TOWN MANAGER GOALS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2023
The board began with the previous year's goals.
FY2022 Lunenburg Select Board Goals
Objective 1:
Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and
building at the Old Primary School Site (a continuation of last year's Select Board Goal -
Objective 1, with additional actions).
i. Action: Engage, via the RFP process approved at the 2021 Annual Town Meeting, with a landscape
architecture firm to discuss the vision of a multi-use open-space/green space project at the site.
Invite the APD to participate in this kick-off meeting (and, potentially, subsequent meetings)
to evaluate the potential of incorporating some aspect of the current building in order to
address, include and/or memorialize its historic value.
ii. Action: At appropriate times during the process, advertise and hold public hearings in order to present
the current working plans at the time and to get feedback and guidance from the public
regarding the project.
ili. Action: Work with the landscape architecture firm to develop an article for the proposed project at the
site to be presented to the 2022 Annual Town Meeting (or some later Town Meeting) for vote,
including all estimated costs, plans, timeline and necessary funding.
iv. Action: In preparation for a Town Meeting vote on the project, prepare for any/all permits required to
achieve the project.
===PAGE 10===
Objective 2: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to establish a means-tested senior citizen property tax
exemption or abatement.
i. Action:
Discuss the authority allowing us to pursue this program. Evaluate examples of how other
towns have already adopted similar programs.
ii. Action: Discuss and determine the eligibility criteria for seniors to be able to qualify and participate in
the program.
ili. Action: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to create financial models and illustrations to
allow the Select Board to weigh options and to fine tune any proposal. At a minimum, these
illustrations should include what the exemption and/or abatement would be to the eligible
seniors and what the impact would be on all other taxpayers.
iv. Action: Hold public hearings when necessary (but at least one) to present the proposal and get feedback
from the public.
V. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final proposal for Town
consideration.
Mr. Jeffreys stated the board had anticipated this would be a multi-year goal. Mr. Alonzo as a member
of the two Select Board subcommittee, noted that he and Mr. Franco along with the Town Manager,
Finance Director and Principal Assessor have achieved action i. and ii, and we are somewhere in the
middle of iii. We have the other remaining actions in our sites.
Objective 3: Develop a policy designed to encourage volunteerism in Town, especially with regard to town boards,
committees and commissions. The policy should aim to determine how to improve existing methods, what new
methods might be tried, and how obstacles might be removed to garner more active involvement from the public.
Input from all current municipal body members and the public, at large, should be actively pursued
Mr. Jeffreys did not believe they had made much progress on this goal. Mr. Alonzo stated when we
brought this up there was a lack of ideas because everybody's been trying all these different things and I
don't know what else we're going to try. So I think we put it on as a policy and we'd have to review the
televised meetings about what the discussion was at the time, but I would encourage the current Select
Board to avoid such things that are hard to define and harder to implement. Even if you had a policy
that's not necessarily any expectation that you would encourage more people even if you had the best
ideas. Volunteerism is a tough thing to come by and it seems to be getting harder, but it hasn't gotten
better. Mr. Jeffreys stated I don't know what we say or do in terms of not making any progress on this
objective because I just don't have an answer when there's a lot of expectations but a lack of willingness
to be part of a solution.
===PAGE 11===
resubmitting the design project or the request as a town meeting article for the design money to do the
landscape architect's project and really promoting it.
Ms. Lemieux noted that from the recent report of the Municipal Building Design Committee, the path
they are on is in conflict with this goal. She suggested engaging discussion with the members as they
may be looking at the site for a future Town Hall.
Mr. Dwyer stated they needed to get more public engagement so we can be more effective as a board
when we make these decisions and have confidence bringing a proposal to town meeting.
Mi. Alonzo noted it depends on who shows up at town meeting, sometime different people show up
depending on the warrant articles. So you can have a diversity from one meeting to the next.
Moving on to a third goal, Mr. Jeffreys suggested creating citizen awards; some sort of recognition
program to acknowledge all the good work that happens around town.
Discussion returned to wording the action items for #2. Mr. Jeffreys will work on the wording and the
board members should send any suggestions to him during the week as well.
The Board moved on to the Town Manager goals.
TOWN MANAGER GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
Fiscal Year 2023
1. Goal #1: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave:
Objective: To address a blighted property that has been in tax title for over a decade.
i. Action: The Town Manager will perform all necessary tasks associated with the
funding from the Targeted Brownfields Assessment funding that is expected by late
summer.
ii. Action: Identify the best method of disposition of the property by working with
appropriate town boards and work with Treasurer/Collector and auction company if
property will be auctioned or put together IFB/RFP if property will be disposed
through
Ms. Lemieux is continuing her goal for 925 Mass. Ave., because she would like to see it through to
completion.
1. Goal #2: Long Term Planning:
Objective: To enhance the Town's long term planning in the areas of capital assets,
staffing, and infrastructure plans.
i. Action: Capital Planning: Include asset inventory list and expected date of
replacement of all vehicles, equipment, infrastructure (roads, culverts, bridges,
sidewalks), buildings, and grounds in capital planning documents. Utilize a platform
that will create greater transparency during the capital planning process.
===PAGE 12===
i. Action: Recruitment: Assess current recruitment methods and establish new
employee recruitment strategies:
a. Work with area towns/cities on regional approach to recruitment.
b. Design job postings that market the town and the position to attract greater pool
of applicants.
c. Attend college job fairs and explore internship program with local colleges.
il. Action: Create formal recognition plan:
a. Create recognition program that highlights town employees at public meetings.
b. Formalize annual employee appreciation event including "awards" for years of
service of employees.
ill. Action: Retention:
a. Survey department heads and staff on topics for trainings and conduct
quarterly professional development training schedule.
b. Conduct employee survey to assess job satisfaction. Based on results, create an
action plan.
When asked for comments from the board, Mr. Alonzo stated the goal #3 seemed like a lot to try to
achieve in one year. Discussion ensued on small types of rewards for employees that would be
appreciated and also provide local businesses with revenue. The board will revisit their goals once Mr.
Jeffreys has worked on the wording.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion and Amendment of Liquor License Policy Section 4.01, 1.21 Applications and Fees
Ms. Lemieux noted the board has a policy that when an alcohol license becomes available, it shall be
advertised for 30 days before anyone can apply for it. The policy does not address how the applications
will be reviewed or determine who gets the license if there is more than one applicant.
Mr. Alonzo recalled the board had added the advertising part due to a miscommunication in the past that
had prevented someone applying for an available license. But we never had an issue with how we
determined who gets the license. Ms. Lemieux stated it could be as simple as when the first complete
application is received because there have been times when applications are not complete. But it would
be good for applicants to know how they are being evaluated. Mr. Jeffreys will speak to Mr. Franco
about creating a draft.
Warrants: The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $939,717.33.
Committee Reports:
Ms. Sroka attended the Council on Aging meeting and they were confused about the appointment made
last week because newly appointed COA member, James McGuigan did not have to go through an
interview, which has been past practice. Discussion ensued and Mr. McGuigan will be invited back to be
interviewed and have his appointment ratified at their next meeting. Ms. Sroka stated they also would
===PAGE 13===
reappointments. Mr. Jeffreys reported the Trustees of the Library are meeting this week and the next
Municipal Building Design Committee meets the last Monday of the month.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys noted the June 16"" Volunteer Appreciation Reception and the board's next meeting is June
. He requested the board review the Select Board Policies and Procedures, Articles I & II, as it will
include a workshop on this.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Discussion ensued about the library clerk positions and who should apply for them.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2': T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:22 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
