===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
April 5, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk, via ZOOM; Todd Dwyer
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Karl Edmonds, Fire Chief Patrick Sullivan;
Jose Iris de Olivieira Ji., Anita Scheipers, Corrine Scouten
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced it accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote
participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Peter Beardmore, 282 Pleasant St., regarding the Annual Town Meeting facilities management
warrant article, specifically the new position for Director of Facilities, stated the position is
well warranted. He noted this is opportunity with no DPW Director and no School Facilities
Director and an upcoming position, if approved, of a Facilities Director to perhaps make some
changes.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, noted two weeks ago tomorrow that Chief Sullivan and
staff responded to their home and saved her husband's life. She wanted to thank them all
publicly.
APPOINTMENTS
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request by Shriner's Hospital (Local Fitchburg/Leominster) on
May 28, 2022
Karl Edmonds of Ashby, MA. stated he was here along with other Shriners to request to
conduct the tollbooth fundraiser for the Shriner's Hospital on May 28 from 8:00 am to 1:00
pm. He showed the sign they would be displaying the day of the event. Mr. Jeffreys asked
specifically how the organization would be using these funds. Mr. Edmonds explained the
money collected will go to local families for any assistance needed such as transportation for
their children.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2*: M. Jeffreys
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser on May 28' from 8:00 am to 1:00 pm at Route 2A
and Lancaster Ave.
Vote: Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Edmonds thanked the board.
===PAGE 2===
Hearing on Non-Renewal of Common Victualler License for Conrad's
Mr. Alonzo reported this hearing was scheduled in advance of the owner entering into a
payment agreement for delinquent taxes with the Tax Collector. The Tax Collector has
forwarded a letter noting the agreement is in place. So the license can be approved now that
everything is in order.
Motion: 1. Dwyer
2": M. Jeffreys
To approve the common victualler license for Conrad's Drive-In located at 835 Mass.
Ave.
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Meeting with Fire Chief Sullivan on the Emergency Comprehensive Management Plan
Chief Sullivan stated the plan is a guidebook for a major incident or disaster in the community
that would affect the town for a long period of time, not the day to day operations. We are
updating it to a digital format that makes it easier to update and place on the state's website
emergency operations center. The plan delineates the steps to take in one of these extreme
events. It references other emergency plans such as the continuity of operations and the hazard
mitigation plans. It was used in 2008 and 2011 for extreme weather incidents.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2''': T. Dwyer
To approve the revised emergency comprehensive management plan as submitted
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Class II Auto Dealer License Hearing for Jose Iris De Oliveira Jr. d/b/a
Lunenburg Auto Center, Inc. @, 36 Summer Street (continued)
Mr. Alonzo noted there had been two issues at the location that did not meet the special
permit conditions, Ms. Lemieux reported the Building Commissioner has revisited the
site and both issues have been resolved.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"': M. Jeffreys
To approve the Class I! Auto Dealer license for Jose Iris de Oliviera Jr. d/b/a
Lunenburg Auto Center, Inc. located at 36 Summer Street
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
Mr. Alonzo informed Mr. de Oliviera that the office will contact him when to pick up
the license.
Lions Club Update on Lunenburg Food Pantry
Anita Scheipers, 63 Chestnut Street and Corrine Scouten, Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lions Club
President, 830 Mass. Ave., presented an update on the Lunenburg Food Bank.
Ms. Scheipers introduced the Lions Club. They currently have 100 paying members, 50 non-
paying volunteers and high school volunteers.
Local Lions Club Chapter focus is on:
Community Service/Support
* Lunenburg Community Food Pantry
* North Star Meal Donations
* Vision & Hearing Exams/Aids
* Monthly Senior Pancake Breakfasts
* Easter Egg Hunt
* Trunk or Treat
* Gazebo Area Cleanup
===PAGE 3===
* Summer Band Concerts
* Boys & Girls Club support
* Scholarships
* Gazebo Christmas tree
The International organization focuses on five key areas:
• Hunger
• Vison
• Hearing
Environment
• Diabetes
Club Donations & Fundraisers
The cost of these projects is mostly covered by:
Donations
* Local residents & business
* Hannaford provides food and monetary donations
* Local Churches
* Schools
* Salvation Army Fitchburg
* Food Drives (Lions, Schools, Businesses)
* Social Media requests
We also apply and receive various grants throughout the year.
Fundraisers
* Christmas Tree recycling
* Meat Bingo (2x/year)
* February Calendar raffle
* Food sales at town events (band concert/boys & girls club)
Local Lions Club Chapter primary focus is on food insecurity in the community. Family need
has increased 100% since Feb/March of 2022.
The Lunenburg Community Food Pantry has a new location at the Thomas C. Passios Building.
The food pantry has recently established an Advisory Committee comprised of residents of all
ages, including students, to ensure the pantry meets the needs of the community.
Pantry is by appointment and serves approximately 16 families each week
Open: Sundays 10:00 am -1:00 pm, Tuesdays & Thursdays 6:00 pm - 7:00 pm
Walk-In Pantry - no appointment necessary-Serves up to 60 families each week
Open: Sundays 1:00 am-12:00 pm, Tuesdays & Thursdays 7:00 pm - 8:00 pm
Ms. Scouten noted the new location in the TCP Building; we also use the cafeteria as needed,
when it is available. It allows us to have a walk-in pantry. On behalf of the Lions Club I want to
extend our thanks for letting us have this space. We received the donation of a refrigerator and a
commercial freezer through the efforts of Mi. MacDonald, so we are now able to provide dairy,
fresh produce and frozen meats, which is a plus for these families.
Ms. Scheipers stated the advisory committee is to provide awareness of different dietary needs of
the families coming into the food pantry. She described the different levels of pantry service.
One requires pre-registration (by appointment) and the other walk-in service (no appointment
===PAGE 4===
required). Monetary donations fill in the items that are not donated. Volunteers are always
welcome. Anyone interested can call 978-660-8074 or they can go to our website:
https://www.lunenburglions.org/or follow us on Facebook.
Mr. Alonzo thanked them and their organization for all the work they do. He also thanked the
Town Manager for working with them to use the space.
Mr. Jeffreys asked how someone makes a food donation to them. Ms. Scouten stated right now
they would have to bring it to the food pantry as they don't have any drop boxes. Mr. Jeffreys
asked if all the families they serve are from Lunenburg. Ms. Scouten stated they only serve
Lunenburg.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Appointment to ZBA Associate- Donald Gurney, 37 Riley Road-term to expire
June 30, 2025
Mr. Gurney introduced himself and stated he had heard about the different volunteer
opportunities and believed the Zoning Board of Appeals was most appropriate for him. He has
been a full-time resident since 2013. He is a graduate of Tufts University and the University of
Virginia, School of Law. He is currently retired. He practiced law in New York City for 46 years
and his specialty is public finance serving as bond counsel and counsel of underwriters of debt
offerings for cities, towns, counties and states. He hoped he was able to learn about the ZBA
activities as an Associate Member. He met with the ZBA a couple of weeks ago. He stated after
moving to Lunenburg he was appointed to the Stone Farm Estates Board of Trustees as President
once development had been completed there.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2": M. Jeffreys
To appoint Donald Gurney as ZBA Associate with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
• Appointment to Council on Aging- Jacquelyn Dwyer- 361 Mulpus Road - term
expires June 30, 2023
Ms. Dwyer introduced herself adding she has prior experience serving on the Council on Aging.
She left to finish graduate school and has now finished so is ready to serve again. The boar
thanked her for coming forward.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"dl; L. Franco
To appoint Jacqueline Dwyer to the Council on Aging, term to expire June 30, 2023
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-abstain, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Cemetery
Laborers- Alexis Dimond and Danielle Peterson
Ms. Lemieux noted these are seasonal positions and one is a returning laborer from last year. The
other person is new but did interview for the position last year. Discussion ensued about the
Town Manager's appointment ratification process.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"': M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of seasonal Cemetery workers Danielle
Peterson and Alexis Dimond
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Civilian Traffic Unit
positions-Paul Bozicas and Tony Brennan
===PAGE 5===
Ms. Lemieux read Chief Gammel's memo:
"As you are aware the Civilian Traffic Unit was approved by the Personnel Committee on March 21,
2022. As a result we have two candidates that have applied for positions with the Unit.
The first candidate is Paul C Bozicas, who is a retired Deputy Chief from the Fitchburg Police
Department. Deputy Bozicas served the City of Fitchburg for over 30 years with distinction, retiring
in 2017. Deputy Bozicas is currently an Adjunct Professor at Fitchburg State University, and has
also taught various training courses for the Municipal Police Training Committee.
The second candidate is Tony Brennan, who is a retired Sergeant form the Massachusetts
Department of Correction. Sgt. Brennan served the Department of Corrections for over 30 years with
distinction, retiring in 2022, Sgt. Brennan was also a Reserve Police Officer with the Town of
Townsend, and the Town Ashby, retiring from Townsend in 2021.
Deputy Bozicas and Sgt. Brennan have both retired in good standing with their respective
departments. They are also currently certified to be a member of the Traffic Unit, and have
provided the required paperwork according to the Policy, which has been submitted to Julie
Belliveau.
I respectfully request that Paul C. Bozicas and Tony A. Brennan be appointed to the Civilian Traffic
Unit effective April 6, 2022."
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"Ii: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments of Paul Bozica and Tony Brennan
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Beach Director
Elizabeth Simeone and Seasonal Lifeguards-Paige Gengler, Ethan Gengler,
Jarrod Bowser, Nicholas Coronella
Ms. Lemieux noted all worked previously for the Town. Elizabeth Simeone applied for and is
qualified for the Beach Director position. The town beach should open around the close of school
for the summer.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2id: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments of Elizabeth Simeone, Paige Gengler, Ethan
Gengler, Jarrod Bowser and Nicholas Coronella
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Van Driver-Kimberly Moore
Motion: T. Dwyer
2ml: M, Jeffreys
To ratity the Town Manager's appointment of Kimberly Moore as Van driver
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large and one
===PAGE 6===
representative from Historical Commission)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (2 vacancies)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can
contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Conservation Administrator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Seasonal Lifeguards (Non Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Department Head Updates
Police: The civilian traffic unit position description and rate was approved by the Personnel
Committee. The Police Chief is working towards the development of a co-response team for
Mental Health calls for service. Patrol Officers would partner with a mental health clinician when
responding to individuals who are in crisis due to mental health or substance abuse issues.
Mental health calls are on the rise. Three reserve officers have completed the bridge academy that
certifies them to the level of a FT officer.
Fire: The Fire Chiefmet with the Staterecently abouttheplanto gettheir paramediclicensure
through the State. July 1st is the target date.
Library:TheDirectorreportedthatitlooksliketheDigitalServicespositionwillbehiredshortly.
The Director has been working on a Library Services and Technology Grant for a
STEM/Sustainability program. The annual book sale will be the first week of June and the
Library is currently accepting donations.
Land Use: The Stone Farm property has been sold and divided into 3 parcels. The new owner is
looking to open a marijuana social consumption business there. The Economic Development
Committee will be sending out a survey shortly. Powell will be tearing down their old garage and
rebuilding a 12,000 square foot garage that will require a water line expansion.
IT: Suzor IT is holding cyber security trainings for staff on two dates.
Public Access: PACC is looking to replace their remote switcher: Currently getting a new lighting
truss system that is not attached to the building. One of the Cable Manager's projects is working
with an ACE student on shooting video. Getting ready to advertise for the Production Technician
position.
Treasurer/Collector: Motor Vehicle commitment #1 is complete. Getting ready for auditors who
will be coming in June. Reported results of the Tax Title Auction.
Town Clerk: The 2020 Census has been finalized. The state redistricting has created new
precincts that will be labeled B1 and C1. The Annual Town Election will just be precincts A through
D but the State Primaries/Elections will include B1 and Cl, which means that a separate voting
area will need to be set up in the TC Passios Cafeteria space. The people affected have been
notified by mail.
Assessors: The Assessors finished the Personal Property and Real Estate abatements last week.
===PAGE 7===
The Principal Assessor is working on the cyclical data collection timeline.
Finance Director: The FY 2021 Audit will be issued shortly by Powers & Sullivan. The Finance
Director completed the final reporting on the CARES Act funding.
Councilon Aging: The Director reported a new van driver will bestarting soon. The COA, Police
and Fire will be starting a new Lunenburg Elder Connections which will be used to support the
seniors. A new platform will be created by the designer of My Senior Center to create a
communication platform between the Senior Center, Police and Fire and Nashoba Nursing and
Hospice. The software will allow for these departments to pull up vital information via different
types ofdevices.
Update on Electricity and Natural Gas Contracts for Town/School Accounts
Our energy broker solicited bids for the electricity and natural gas accounts as our current contracts
are expiring on November 30, 2022. For natural gas we locked in a 3 year rate of $4.39/DTH
(dekatherm). This is a decrease of $0.80/DTH.
The electricity rates came in higher than the current municipal aggregation rate therefore I am
working with our Municipal Aggregation broker to confirm that all our accounts can transition to
the municipal aggregation electricity supplier on December 1, 2022.
Response from MassHousing on 40B Project Eligibility/Site Approval for Pond View Commons
On Thursday, March 31st MassHousing emailed me a copy of the letter they sent to Pond View
Commons LLC notifying them that they reviewed the application and were issuing Site Approval.
This approval is effective for a period of two (2) years form the date of the letter and if the
applicant did not apply for a comprehensive permit through the ZBA within this period, the site
approval would be expired unless MassHousing extends the effective period in writing. A copy of
the letter has been forwarded to all the appropriate officials and boards/committees.
COVID-19 Update
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of March
26th was 8 and the positivity rate was 1.38%.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
There will be a Veterans Informational Expo at the Eagle House on Tuesday, April 12, 2022
from 6-8 pm. The Veterans Service Officer worked with the COA Director to put this
together.
• Yard Waste Collection Days at Youngs Road will begin Saturdays starting April 16th until
May 21st. The collection is open from 8 am until 4 pm.
• The Lunenburg Lions Club will host an Easter Egg Hunt on Saturday April 16th from 11
am until 1 pm in the field between the TCP building and Kids Kingdom. There will be face
painting and light refreshments provided. This event is for Lunenburg residents only.
• The Planning Board will be holding the public hearing on the three articles they submitted
to be voted on at the Annual Town Meeting on April Itth at Town Hall at 6:05 PM.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th until Sunday, September
25th.
Ms. Lemieux also reported that she had heard from MRPC regarding our Unified Planning work
and they have approved two projects; the freight truck corridor analysis along Leominster-
Shirley Road and the intersection study of Northfield Road and Chase Road. They did not
approve the study of Electric Ave. and West Street.
OLD BUSINESS
===PAGE 8===
1. Update on Creating a Senior Tax Relief Program through a Home Rule Petition
Ms. Lemieux reported they had a meeting about a week ago. Present was Mr. Alonzo,
Mi. Franco, Principal Assessor CJ Carroll and Finance Director Karen Brochu. We
reviewed some different communities that have adopted a senior tax relief program. The
criteria we used was the senior circuit breaker and those thresholds and different action
steps that we are going to take going forward. The Principal Assessor will be providing
data on what the impact is given different thresholds of different time that people have
lived in the community, 10 or 15 years and merge that with the data that he will receive
from the Town Clerk on age limits based on her residence list. This is basically the first
step where we can see how many properties we are talking about and what the impact
financially would be.
Mr. Alonzo noted the goal is to help seniors who meet certain criteria, residency and
age, to provide property tax relief, while making the burden minimal to the rest of the
residents. As soon as we hear back from the principal assessor we will have our next
meeting.
2. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast, and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux reported she updated the preliminary budget. She showed the operating
costs in addition to the indirect costs of the Enterprise Funds. The level of funding for
the Capital Plan changes the appropriations by increasing the unexpended capital
amount; there was additional unexpended capital from previous years thus decreasing
the amount to be taken from free cash. She recommended increasing the amount to the
special purpose stabilization account to $450,000.
3. Action Items
Mr. Jeffreys inquired if there was any communication back from the school regarding an Earth
Day street cleanup, Ms. Lemieux reported no community group or school groups step forward.
The DPW Administrative Assistant has trash bags that people can pick and leave at designated
spots that DW can pick up at a later time. Mr. Jeffreys suggested discussing next week to
encourage residents during school vacation week to try to do some roadside cleanup.
There is a lot of pollution on the streets and it seem like a lot of it is recycling. Last year I was
heavily focused on Walmart and this year it is not any better. We should be calling the property
management company Brickmor. He inquired if there were littering ordinances.
and the response given was there were none except for public safety through the Board of
4. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee met night and
they reviewed the programming that the space needs that everyone has and we reviewed
everything for the newest members. We encourage public participation at our meetings.
Discussion was about the amount of space needed for storage and any alternatives to physically
storing them as well as the after school program's needs.
We are looking to provide a handout at town meeting rather than providing an update.
We broke up into groups to look at the Tappe Study and Vertex reports to record all the
recommendations. I went through all the town meetings Capital plan reports and what
we have programmed already in order to create a baseline. We will meet again the week
of town meeting.
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee had their public hearing and reviewed all
the warrant articles.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Select Board Final Votes/Signatures on ATM Warrant Articles
The board reviewed the warrant articles and voted on their recommendations.
ARTICLE L To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town
Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr, Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards, committees,
agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning
July 1, 2022 to be expended in accordance with Chapter 138 of the Town's General By-laws; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available funds, a sum of money
($500) for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town
Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr: Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary to
amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2022 Budget, under Article 6 of the May 1, 2021 Annual Town
Meeting and Article 1 of the November 16, 2021 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jettreys
2"d: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to fund the first year of the FY 22 and FY 23 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2021 -
June 30, 2023 with AFSCME, Council 93, Municipal Employees Union; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds a
sum of money for the FY 2023 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Report; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLD 7. To see if the Town will vote to approve a reorganization of the Public Works Department in
accordance with a reorganization plan entitled "Administrative Organization Plan," dated April 5, 2022, and
===PAGE 10===
accompanying message of the Town Manager, both on file at the office of the Town Clerk and Select Board and
posted on the town website, under the authority provided for in Article 5, Section 1(b) of the Town Charter; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARI CLO8. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2023 and to fix the salaries and compensation of all
elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2id. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLES. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of money
Motion: M. Jeffreys
(otion: M. the sabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submi, . by whe Town Manager)
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum
of money ($450,000) to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Pranco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money ($266,696 and $656 from Sewer Enterprise) into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November
10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money ($1,213,082) to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Sewer Commission)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 13. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $35,548.86 into the Sewer Capital
Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money ($302,000)to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"': T. Dwyer
===PAGE 11===
To recommend approval
Vote: Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money ($25,000) to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2023; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
21d: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr, Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money ($163,567) to fund the FY 2023 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise operating and
capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the PAC Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr: Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 17, To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery
Lots account to be used for the care and improvement and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery Commission)Motion: M. Jeffreys
2id, T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-nay
ARCh 18. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds a sum of money ($100,000) to remove and dispose of solid waste materials and restore the
work area to prior natural conditions at the property known as the Woodruff Property, known as
and numbered 104 Fairview Road, as shown on Assessor's Map 080, Lot 021, including all costs
related or incidental thereto, including but not limited to consultants' fees and expenses; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
21: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum
of money ($450,000) for the demolition of the building at the property known as the old Primary School, 30
School Street, shown on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076, and for final engineering and design services to
create a passive recreation/open space area at this property, including all costs related or incidental thereto;
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 20. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A,
entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, as follows: the position of Council on Aging Assistant Meal
Site Manager to be added and assigned to Grade 3; the position of Council on Aging Meal Site Manager to be
changed from a Grade 3 to a Grade 6; the position of Firefighter/AEMT-Call to be added and assigned to Grade
10; and the position of Firefighter/Paramedic-Call to be added and assigned to Grade I1; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'': T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 21. To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg,
===PAGE 12===
Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A, entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, if and as amended by the
preceding Article 20, with a FY 2023 Salary Schedule as recommended by the Personnel Committee, which
authorizes wage increases for Fiscal Year 2023, for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining
unit agreement or individual contract; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel
Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": L. Franco
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffieys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 22. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled "Salary
Administration Plan" as shown on a document entitled "Amendments to the Salary Administration Plan Bylaw",
with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken through therein, the entire text of which is on file at
the offices of the Town Clerk and Select Board and posted on the town website; or take any other action relative
thereto.
(Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2id: L. Franco
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 23. To see if the Town will vote to create a special committee composed of not more than 11 members
to act as a steering committee to plan for the observance of the 300" Anniversary of the Town of Lunenburg,
which was incorporated August 1, 1728, said committee to be appointed by the Select Board, and to raise and
appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money ($5,000) to cover initial expenses of said committee;
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Select Board)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 24, To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By-laws of the Town of Lunenburg as follows:
(1)
by deleting all references throughout to "Selectman," "Selectmen" and "Board of
Selectmen," and substituting therefor the terms "Select Board member," "Select Board"
and "Select Board," respectively;
(ii)
by adding to Chapter 12, entitled "Boards, Commissions and Committees," to Article
Il, entitled "Building Committee," to Section 12-3, entitled "Membership,
appointment," second sentence, the phrase "one member of the Select Board appointed
by the Select Board" between the phrases "comprised of" and "one member from the
Planning Board";
(iii)
(iv)
by deleting Article IV, entitled "Computer Advisory Committee," from said Chapter
12, in its entirety, including Sections 12-7, entitled "Establishment and membership;
vacancies," and 12-8, entitled "Powers and duties";
by deleting from Chapter 12, entitled "Boards, Commissions and Committees," from
Article V, entitled "Public Access Cable Committee," from Section 12-9, entitled
"Establishment and purpose," second sentence, the phrase "Lunenburg TV Channels 8
and 9" and substituting the phrase "Lunenburg TV Channels 8, 9 and 99" therefor;
(v)
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled
"Membership," within Subsection A, the phrase "or full-time students at Lunenburg
High School";
(vi)
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled
"Membership," within Subsection C, the phrase "or any Lunenburg High School
===PAGE 13===
(vii)
(vili)
(ix)
(x)
student;
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11, entitled
"Membership," Subsection G in its entirety, and substituting the following therefor:
G. Vacancies. Vacancies shall be appointed by the Select Board to serve the balance
of the unexpired term.
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from Article VII, entitled "Americans with
Disabilities Committee," from Section 12-20. 1, entitled "Meetings," within Subsection
E, the word "Robett's" and substituting the word "Robert's" therefor;
by deleting from Chapter 81, entitled "Town Meetings," from Article I, entitled "Town
Meetings," from Section 81-I, entitled "Warrants," within Subsection A, Item G, the
phrase "Centre Pizza & Variety" and substituting "JAXX Country Variety" therefor;
and
by deleting from Chapter 168, entitled "Licensing," from Article II, entitled "Denial or
Revocation of Licenses for Failure to Pay Taxes," Section 168-6, entitled "Exceptions,"
in its entirety, substituting the following therefor:
§ 168-6 Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to the following licenses and permits:
Statute
Contact
MGL c. 48, § 13
Fire Department
MGL c, 101, $ 33
Select Board
MGL c. 149, $ 69
MGL c. 140, § 21E
School Department
Select Board
MGL c. 140, § 137
MGL. c. 207, §28
MGL c. 140, § 181
Animal Control
Town Clerk
Select Board
Subject Matter
Open burning
Sale of article for charitable
purposes
Children work permits
Clubs, associations
dispensing food or
beverage licenses
Dog licenses
Marriage licenses
Theatrical events, public
exhibition permits
Motion: T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Lunenburg Sewer Bylaw as follows:
2n°: M. Jeffreys
(i) by adding to Section 2.0, entitled "Sewer Service Area," at the end
of the second paragraph, which presently reads:
"The Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zones are delineated on the Sewer Service Area Map as
approved by the Town Meeting. The Sewer Service Area Map may be amended from time to time by vote
of Town Meeting."
===PAGE 14===
the following:
"The inclusion of a property, or portion of a property, in the Sewer Service Area may establish eligibility
to connect to the sanitary sewer but shall not create an entitlement thereto. All sewer connections shall be
subject to, and shall comply with, the provisions of this by-law, including but not limited to available
capacity, capacity limitations and Sewer Commission approval(s), where required. Neither the boundaries
of the Sewer Service Area nor the requirement that a property be located within said Sewer Service Area to
be eligible to connect may be waived."
and
(I) by deleting from Section 3.0, entitled "Connection Eligibility," the third paragraph, in its
entirety, which presently reads:
"Sewer connections shall be located entirely on the property they are to serve. The connection must enter
the property directly from the public way in which the sewer is located. No connections shall be allowed via
an easement. A sewer line must remain within the parcel that it serves."
• and substituting the following therefor:
"Sewer connections shall be located entirely on the property they are to serve. The connection must enter
the property directly from the public way in which the sewer is located. No connections shall be allowed
via an easement. A sewer line must remain within the parcel that it serves.
Not disadin the above ever rein as a beated in career aron a ring rogeries.
and
(iii) by deleting from Section 4.0, entitled "Sewer Extensions," the fourth paragraph, in its
entirety, which presently reads:
(Submitted by the Bylaw Review Committee)
Motion: T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2"d: M. Jeffreys
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 250, a.k.a. the Protective
Bylaw, Section 4.15, entitled "Non-medical marijuana establishments," Subsection K,
entitled "Special permit procedure," by deleting Item (1) therefrom in its entirety, which presently reads:
(1) Applicant shall submit proof of approval from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for the
proposed Marijuana Establishment by submitting copies of all required registrations, licenses
and permits issued to the applicant by the state and any of its agencies for the facility as well
as Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town and approval hereunder shall be
conditioned on final approval from the Commonwealth.
and by substituting therefor the following:
(1) An applicant shall submit a copy of its Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town,
authorizing its development of a Marijuana Establishment on the site subject to receipt of
applicable permits; as well as copies of all registrations and licenses, if any, issued to the
===PAGE 15===
applicant by the Commonwealth or any of its agencies for operation of a Marijuana
Establishment on the site. Licensure by the Commonwealth is not a prerequisite to
application submittal; provided, however, that commencement of use of or construction
inder a special permit is and shall be conditioned upon issuance of all requisite provisional
licenses and approvals under applicable law. Final licensure of the Marijuana Establishment
shall be required before commencement of operations.
or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Planning Board)
Motion: T. Dwyer
2™: M. Jeffreys
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 27. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, which is a Section
of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District," as shown on a document entitled "Section
250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District Updates 2022", with additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions
stricken through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the offices of the Town Clerk and Land Use Director
and posted on the town website; or take any other action relative thereto.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n°: T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLE 28. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.2, which is a Section
of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Location of Districts," by deleting "May 3, 2008" as the date of the map
referenced therein and substituting "May 7, 2022" therefor, and by adopting said revised map, a copy of which is
on file with the Town Clerk, as the Town's official zoning map; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Planning Board)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd. T. Dwyer
To recommend approval
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARU C22. To see if the Town will vote to amend the sewer service area map by adding the remaining
acreage for parcel known as 5 Chestnut Street to the Lunenburg sewer service area and sewer service zone
(known as parcel id 059-0032-00); or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Citizen Petition)
lotion: Mi. Jettreys
2nd: T. Dwyer
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
ARTICLD30, To see if the Town will vote to adopt the following "Resolution in Support of Changing the State
Flag & Seal of Massachusetts":
Whereas the history of Massachusetts is replete with instances of conflict between the European Colonists
and the Native Nations of the region, who first extended the hand of friendship to the Colonists on their
shores in 1620, and helped them to survive starvation during the settlers first winters on their land;
Whereas members of the Native Nation for who the State of Massachusetts is named were ambushed and
killed by Myles Standish, first commander of the Plymouth Colony, in April of 1623, barely two years
after the Pilgrims arrived on their shores;
Whereas the Colonial broadsword brandished above the head of the Native man on the Massachusetts
State Flag and Seal is modeled after Myles Standish's own broadsword, borrowed for that purpose from
the Pilgrim Hall in Plymouth by the illustrator Edmund Garrett in 1884;
===PAGE 16===
Whereas the belt binding the Native's cloak on the Flag and Seal is modeled after a belt worn by
Metacomet, known to the English as King Philip, who was among the Wampanoag leaders who
resorted to a mutually destructive war in 1675-76 in defense of Native lands against Colonial
encroachment;
Whereas the proportions of the body of the Native man in the Flag and Seal were modeled from a Native
skeleton kept in Winthrop, the bow modeled after a bow taken from a Native man shot and killed by a
colonist in Sudbury in 1665, and his facial features taken from a photograph of an Ojibwe chief from
Great Falls, Montana, considered by the illustrator to be a "fine specimen of an Indian," though not from
Massachusetts;
Whereas the history of relations between Massachusetts since Colonial times and the Native Nations
who continue to live within its borders includes the forced internment of thousands of so-called
"praying Indians" on Deer Island, in Boston Harbor, where they died by the hundreds of exposure in
1675, their subsequent enslavement in Boston, Bermuda, and the Caribbean Islands, the offering of 40
pounds sterling as bounty for the scalps of Native men, women and children in Massachusetts
beginning in 1686, increased to 100 pounds sterling for the scalps of Native adult males by 1722, half
that amount for Native women and children;
Whereas Native Americans were legally prohibited from even stepping foot into Boston from 1675 until
2004, when that law was finally repealed;
Whereas the 400# anniversary of the landing of the colonists at Plymouth Plantation in the year 2020,
afforded every citizen of the Commonwealth a chance to reflect upon this history and come to an
awareness of the possibility of a better relationship between the descendants of the Colonial immigrants
and the Native Nations of the Commonwealth;
Whereas Native Americans have long suffered the many abuses of racism, the appropriation of their
symbols for public schools and sports teams, the loss of their ancestral lands and the encroachment of their
cultural lifeways;
Whereas the area now known as the Town of Lunenburg shares a rich Native history with modern day tribal
Nations, who inhabited this area long before the first colonial settlers arrived circa 1718, such as the
Abenaki and the Nipmuc;
Now, therefore, BE IT RESOLVED that the Town of Lunenburg hereby adopts this resolution in support
of the work of the Special Commission Relative to the Seal and Motto of the Commonwealth, established
by a Resolve of the General Court in 2020 and appointed by the Governor to recommend changes to the
current flag and seal of Massachusetts; and in support of a new seal and motto for the Commonwealth that
may better reflect our aspirations for harmonious and respectful relations between all people who now call
Massachusetts home. The town clerk shall forward a copy of this resolution to Sen. Marc Pacheco and
Rep. Antonio Cabral, co-chairs of the Joint Committee on State Administration, who serve as members of
the Special Commission Relative to the Seal and Motto of the Commonwealth, and to Sen. John Cronin,
Rep. Michael Kushmerek and Rep. Danillo Sena, with the request they support the work of the
aforementioned Special Commission. (Submitted by Citizen Petition)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To defer recommendation until town meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
2": T. Dwyer
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
April 12'", no meeting April 19"', April 26", May 3d, May 7* (Annual Town Meeting)
PUBLIC COMMENT
===PAGE 17===
There was none this evening.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The meeting adjourned at 9:24 PM
Respectfully submitted,
EVanel Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2': T. Dwyer
