===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Dave Passios
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none this evening.
Ms. Lemieux reminded all of the upcoming Annual Town Meeting on May 7 at 9:00 a.m. at
the Lunenburg Middle/High School. She also noted some road closures: Lancaster Ave.
between Goodrich and Leominster-Shirley Road will be closed on April 27 between 8 am
and 2 pm for a crane to bring in a tight tank to a residence. Townsend Harbor Road will be
paved on the 27 and 28" and will be down to one lane on those days. Mr. Alonzo noted the
Annual Town Election will be Saturday, May 21st.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Lifeguards; Ean Laundree
and Mason Bowser
Ms. Lemieux reported these two individuals worked for the town last year and she is asking for
ratification of their appointments this year.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments as listed
2': M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo read aloud the upcoming appointments and added that some of the incumbents may
be requesting to be reappointed. He encouraged any people interested in any of the positions to
submit a talent bank form to the Select Board.
• Architectural Preservation District Commission
1 Historical Commission representative-term expires June 30, 2024
• Agricultural Commission- 3 members-term expires June 30, 2025
• 1 Associate-term expires June 30, 2024
• Conservation Commission-term expires June 30, 2025- 3 members
• Council on Aging-term expires June 30, 2025- 5 members
• Cultural Council-term expires June 30, 2025-1 member
===PAGE 2===
1. Discussion on Drait Commemorative Policy
The board had reviewed this at a previous meeting. Mr. Alonzo asked if there were any
additions, comments etc. with it. They also need to determine an amount of years for expected
life cycle under V. Expected Life Cycle of Commemorative Item. Suggestion was made of 25
years. Discussion ensued about naming things after people. Mr. Franco will contact the School
Committee about their policy.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To approve the Commemorative Policy as presented and with the amendment of 25 years
Vote: All in Favor
2. Foreclosed Properties Requested by Conservation Commission: Braeburn Circle, 867
Rear Leominster Road, 408 Lancaster Avenue
This was passed over until a review of all of the town properties is done by this board. Town
meeting approval is required so the board has until November. It was requested to know if on
any of these properties if there are wetlands or any restrictions by MGL as well as acreage and
valuation.
3. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast, and Annual
Town Meeting Warrant articles, including updates or votes of recommendation, Consent
Calendar
Mr. Alonzo noted the Capital Plan has been discussed extensively at the Finance Committee
meeting. Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, Finance Committee member, stated the committee is
not in agreement with the questions that have been brought up. At this point they voted to defer
until town meeting. Mr. Alonzo noted they have consulted with Town Counsel for an opinion on
what is and isn't in order as far as making amendments to the Capital Plan. The town meeting
could make an adjustment to the dollar amount of the budget, but in his opinion they couldn't
say they want this or that item that funding could be spent on. The Finance Committee will be
consulting with Town Counsel tomorrow. He will be attending that meeting and will report back
at the next meeting
Mr. Jeffreys asked if they had any more information about the citizen's petition article about the
state flag. Mr. Alonzo stated we did get an email asking how to present information about it. Due
to the pandemic they are not comfortable coming to our meeting in person or to town meeting.
They were told they have to attend annual town meeting in person. There has been no other
follow up since then.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Select Board Goal on Volunteerism Policy
Mr. Alonzo noted their first goal was for 30 School Street, which is in progress and we have a
warrant article for demolition and engineering costs for the project. The second goal is for senior
===PAGE 3===
through the weekend I saw others doing it too. There's certainly seems to be things we can do for
Earth Day. He was looking for someone to step up and take it on. Mr. Dwyer suggested holding
an event to get face to face with people and ask them if they want to volunteer for the town.
Perhaps set up a table at the Farmers market? Mr. Franco suggested making an announcement at
town meeting and maybe run some pieces in the Ledger periodically; put the word out on social
media.
Mr. Alonzo asked those watching the meeting if they have ideas about how to get people to
volunteer, to send in their suggestions. Mr. Jeffreys stated if we continue to struggle on certain
elected boards, it might be a good idea to look into providing some compensation, adding he
would be opposed to this board being paid. Ms. Lemieux suggested soliciting volunteers at the
55'" Anniversary Celebration at the Senior Center on June 14" at Noon.
Mr. Alonzo requested resurrecting the volunteer appreciation event at the Senior Center.
2. Draft Tailings Policy
Ms. Lemieux reported this addresses uncashed checks issued by the Town. This has come up in
our audit management letter for the past two years. The auditors would like to see a written
policy.
I. Purpose:
To minimize the liability posed by uncashed checks and the associated negative impact on cash
position certainty, this policy sets guidelines for the timely resolution of tailings.
Il. Applicability:
This policy applies to the Treasurer/Collector, Finance Director/Town Accountant, or their
designees.
Ill. Policy:
The town's policy is to identify and research all uncashed checks (tailings) as a part of the timely
reconciliation of all bank accounts. All checks that are not cashed within 90 days of the date of
issuance will be investigated. Checks that are not cashed after 180 days will be reported to the
Finance Director/Town Accountant as uncashed so the General Ledger can be adjusted to
increase cash and to record a corresponding liability.
A listing of all uncashed checks shall be published once a year consistent with Massachusetts
General Law. Checks not claimed must be reported by the Treasurer to the Finance
Director/Town Accountant so that revenue can be increased and the liability can be eliminated.
IV. Procedures:
• All town bank accounts shall be reconciled each month; uncashed checks (tailings)
===PAGE 4===
vendor's check disbursement report.
• The Treasurer/Collector's Office shall send a notice of the uncashed check and the
amount to the recipient at their last known address and retain evidence of thismailing.
• If the check has not been cashed 180 days after the date of issuance, the
Treasurer/Collector, consistent with Massachusetts General Law, shall submit a List
of Uncashed Checks to the Finance Director/Town Accountant so that cash can be
adjusted and the liability of the tailings/abandoned property can be recorded on the
General Ledger.
• The Treasurer/Collector shall publish the List of Uncashed Checks consistent with
state law.
• The Assistant Treasurer shall prepare a List of Abandoned Property/Uncashed Checks
for all checks that are not claimed after the public advertisement and submit it to the
Treasurer/Collector for approval.
• After signing the document, the Treasurer shall submit the List of Abandoned
Property/Uncashed Checks to the Finance Director/Town Accountant. The Finance
Director/Town Accountant will increase the revenue of the Town on the General
Ledger and eliminate the liability.
V. References:
This policy is allowed through the town's acceptance of M.G.L. c. 200A § 9A, which occurred
at the Special Town Meeting on November 20, 2010.
The board will review the policy and vote on it at a later date.
3. Amend One Day Liquor License Policy to include Insurance Requirement
Ms. Lemieux noted the current policy does not require liability insurance coverage. This would
be a criteria for approval of the one day license. Discussion ensued and a request was made for
sample language from other towns and who has applied for a one day license over the past five
years. This will be discussed at a future meeting.
4. Review Sign Policy re: Signs at Polling Places during Elections
Ms. Lemieux reported the current policy does not address signs at polling locations. Discussion
ensued on wording and what should be permitted. Mr. Jeffreys will work on a draft to bring back
for the board to review.
5. Approval of Minutes of March 15, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the Minutes of March 15, 2022 as written
2": T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 5===
$845,815.21.
Mr. Alonzo reminded the board members to meet with Town Manager regarding her annual
performance evaluation and then to forward them to him.
8. Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer reported the Storm Water Task Force met with Nick Christofor of Comprehensive
Environmental Inc. and reviewed the MS4 permit. When asked about a budget, Mr. Dwyer stated
we don't have a clear understanding of where the Town's efforts are expended in terms of
compliance with the MS4 permit. Right now we don't track separate DPW work, such as
cleaning out a catch basin, and this is something we need to do over the next year. Ms. Lemieux
reported our line item budget is $104,000 but most of that is for the consultant work on the MS4
requirements. Mr. Dwyer noted our consultant says Lunenburg does a better job than most
towns. Mr. Franco stated the School Committee meets tomorrow night. Ms. Lemieux reported
the results of the survey by the Economic Development Committee are on the town website.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted the upcoming meetings: Select Board meeting on May 3 and 10th and the
Annual Town Meeting is on May 7".
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios announced the opening day of Little League and the parade on Saturday April 30th
This is an opportunity for the public to take a good look at Marshall Park. Lots of great things are
going to be happening there. The Skate park group has relocated their sign to the new location.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:18 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
