===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
April 12, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, via ZOOM; Police Chief Gammel, Officer
John Morreale, Jim Donison, Elise Wiley, Dave Passios, Bob Pease via ZOOM,
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote
participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none this evening.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the upcoming Annual Town Meeting on May 7" at 9:00 a.m. at
the Lunenburg Middle/High School.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Police Sergeant- John Morreale
Chief Gammel read his letter for this appointment.
"As you are aware we have had a vacancy in the Sergeant's rank for some time now. As we were
able to backfill patrol positions, the vacancy was posted, and interviews were conducted on
Wednesday, April 6, 2022. At the conclusion of the process we were able to identify a candidate
to fill that vacancy. I am pleased to recommend Officer John Morreale for promotion to Patrol
Sergeant.
On February 2, 2022, the vacant Sergeant's position was posted in accordance with the
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) between the Town of Lunenburg and I.B.P.O. Local
353, Article XXX, Promotions. The position was posted for 30 days, and I received three letters
of interest for the position.
On April 6, 2022, an interview panel was assembled, that included yourself, Chief
Michael Luth from the Groton Police Department and Chief Richard Burrows from the
Acton Police Department. Questions were asked of each candidate and their response
was rated on a scale of 1-5. At the conclusion of the interviews the panel was tasked
with ranking the candidates based on the interview.
Upon the conclusion of the panel interviews, Lt. Thibodeau and I met with the panel to
discuss the results. We were informed that all three candidates did well, and "we could not
go wrong with any of them." The strongest candidate was identified as Officer Morreale.
Officer Morreale was described as very well-spoken, knowledgeable and compassionate to
===PAGE 2===
give a few examples. It was also stated that he has a good working knowledge of the
Department's Policy and Procedures. Officer Morreale was a lifelong resident of Lunenburg until
recently moving to Ashby and is a graduate of Lunenburg High School. Officer Morreale holds a
Bachelor's Degree of Science in Criminal Justice, graduating from UMASS Lowell in 2014.
Officer Morreale completed the Reserve Intermittent Academy in 2014 and was hired as a
Lunenburg Reserve Police Officer in July of 2014. In June 2017, he was hired as a full time
officer and attended the Municipal Police Training Committee Basic Recruit Officer Course
(ROC) in Reading, graduating in 2018 with the 8th ROC.
Officer Morreale has completed several instructor level courses and is currently one of the
Department's Firearms, Less-Lethal, and Taser instructors. As well as being use of force
application instructor he is also currently one of Department's Field Training Officers, as
well as the Department's Criminal Justice Information System (CJIS) representative.
As the Department was working on Certification with Massachusetts Police Accreditation
Commission (MPAC), Officer Morreale was assigned as the Department's Accreditation
Manager. Officer Morreale was then certified as an Accreditation Manager through
MPAC and has played an integral role as we near completion. This has been a major
process to complete and without Officer Morreale's tireless work we would not be ready
for our certification.
Officer Morreale often volunteers his time with various community events, such as the
Boys and Girls Club "Are You Smarter than Our 6" Graders?" Another organization that he
is involved with is the Massachusetts Chiefs of Police Jimmy Fund Walk, annually assisting
with the fundraising efforts at Fenway Park. Officer Morreale is also responsible for setting
up and collection of the Jimmy Fund Collection cans at various stores throughout Town.
In his relatively short period time with the department Officer Morreale has made the most of the
opportunities given to him. Officer Morreale's commitment to the department and the community is
beyond reproach, which I can personally attest to after working with him for the last eight years.
Officer Morreale possesses the leadership skills that we look for in our supervisors. I believe Officer
Morreale recognizes the strengths of others, and knows how to address deficiencies in a positive
manner using teachable moments. Officer Morreale's compassion and understanding will help him
grow and navigate the inherent challenges that come with a Sergeant's role. It is also my belief that
he has the skills to develop younger officers into leadership roles throughout their careers.
I believe with his work experience, education, and leadership skills Officer Morreale is extremely
qualified for Sergeant's position. I highly recommend that Officer John Morreale be appointed as a
Sergeant. I thank you for your consideration of my request."
He presented Officer Morreale to the meeting. Officer Morreale thanked everyone for
having him in this evening and his family and friends for coming in this evening. He stated
he was grateful for this opportunity and was excited to get started on this next part of his
journey and continue working with the Town and its citizens.
The board congratulated Officer Morreale on his promotion and Chief Gammel for his hires
to the department.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'': L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of John Morreale as Police Sergeant
Vote: All in Favor
Applause resounded through the meeting room.
===PAGE 3===
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of DPW Director- Jim Donison
Ms. Lemieux reported Jim Donison has worked for the past three years as the DPW Director in
Lebanon, N.H. and is responsible for overseeing around 50 employees. Prior to that he worked
for the City of Lowell as their Commissioner of Public Works and as the Assistant Director
Town Engineer for Hookset, NH. He has over 30 years of engineering experience. She was
requesting the board ratify her appointment as DPW Director.
After some discussion, Mr. Franco motioned to ratify the Town Manager's appointment of
Jim Donison as DPW Director. Mr. Jeffreys seconded the motion. Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Donison thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Update from the Cultural Council (Elise Wiley)
Cultural Council member Elise Wiley reported that when she was appointed to the council other
more experienced members' terms were ending. So she has been communicating with the MA
Cultural Council for guidance. The Lunenburg Cultural Council was having trouble reaching
quorums for their meetings until around February 2022 when they should have been meeting in
December 2021 and voting on the grant funding. She reached out to the community via
Facebook for more members in January. They are now up to 11 members. Ms. Wiley thanked
fellow member Donna Saiia for taking on the treasurer's role for the council. They anticipate
going forward more smoothly in the upcoming year.
Discussion ensued about holding anothel Art Festival. Mr. Alonzo thanked her for taking
initiative for the council's responsibilities.
Ms. Wiley reported for the 2021 funding they granted a music and dance group at the senior
center, various programs (storytelling, science) at the Library, a trip to the Acton Discovery
Museum, "Cheeseburger Chainsaws" for the Middle School. Going forward we need to inform
the town residents about the availability of the grant funding for local events. Mr. Alonzo
encouraged Ms. Wiley to come back and let the public know about their finding when it is time.
Appointment to APDC (Resident)- Anthony Sculimbrene-5 Valley Road- term to expire
June 30,2025
Mr. Sculimbrene stated he goes by Tony as his son of the same first name was recently appointed
to the School Committee. Historic preservation has been a significant part of his professional
career. While working as an environmental manager at Wright Patterson Air Force Base he had
been responsible for management and maintenance of one of America's historic military air
force base; partly associated with the Wright Brothers. There were a lot of other aviation firsts
there. He noted other parts of his career were associated with historic preservation, so he looks
forward to receiving the appointment to the APD. He has met with Chairman McGrath only
because their meeting was canceled, but is familiar with the APD bylaw and with the APDC's
charge.
Discussion ensued about working with the Municipal Building Design Committee and the board
members thanked him for coming forward.
Mr. Alonzo read an email from Chairman McGrath regarding the appointment,
"Gentlemen of the Select Board, I recommend Tony Sculimbrene to be appointed to the APDC. His
profession as a civil engineer and his extensive experience in historic preservation for the Air Force, as
well as experience with Wright Brothers historical sites and administrative duties dealing with
preservation, qualifies him to be appointed to the APDC. His understanding and skills will be useful in
the coming years as the village district is developed, in protecting the contributing properties and guiding
and communicating with the many different interests in our town to assure great outcomes for the APD."
===PAGE 4===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Doryer
To appoint Anthony Sculimbrene to the APDC (Resident Representative) with a term to
expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
Public Hearing on Administrative Organization Plan per Town Charter for Facilities
Director Position
Mi. Alonzo noted the public hearing notice was posted in the Lunenburg Ledger on April 1st
and read the hearing notice aloud.
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
Notice is hereby given that the Select Board wil
hold a Public Hearing on
Tuesday, April 12, 2022 at 7:05 PM to review the Administrative:
Organizational Plan presented by the Town Manager, in
accordance with Section 5-1 (b) of the Town Charter, regarding the
impending creation of the position of Facilities Director.
A copy of the plan will be available for review in the Town Managen
Office on Tuesday, April 5, 2022. The hearing will be held in the
second floor meeting room,
Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462.
Ms. Lemieux reported the notice was also provided to the Town Clerk and posted on the Town
website. The posting is a requirement according to Town Charter. The purpose of this
reorganization plan is to create a Director of Facilities and Grounds position that would oversee,
supervise and facilitate the comprehensive management of all town facilities and grounds. The
reason this is being recommended to town meeting is that it will improve the long and short term
management of our facilities and grounds with an individual whose background and skills relate
to property management, capital planning, building construction and grounds maintenance. This
position will help the Town strategize, prioritize and coordinate maintenance, repairs, safety and
efficiencies of municipal properties, as well as play a key role in future use and reuse of
properties. As there are no bylaws that would be affected by this reorganization plan, there are
no proposed bylaws with any amendments, revisions, repeals or otherwise as may be necessary
to accomplish this desired reorganization. Town meeting vote would approve or disapprove the
plan and cannot make any amendments.
The key benefits of creating a Director of Facilities and Grounds Position:
1. Hiring a professional level position with a background in facilities management.
Facilities management experience is not typical for Department of Public Works Directors.
An individual with this skill set will enhance and improve the town's current and future
facilities management plan.
2. A management level position whose sole focus is long term and short term planning and
maintenance of town facilities and grounds. Since the DPW Director is responsible for
===PAGE 5===
multiple different divisions, town facilities receive only a portion of that position's focus.
3. More preventative maintenance and less reactionary maintenance of our facilities and grounds.
4. Collaborate with the School's counterpart position on the overall maintenance plan for
facilities and grounds and work together with the Town Manager and Finance Director on capital
planning and financing alternatives.
S. Directed effort towards the health and safety of all staff and users of town facilities.
6. Create and maintain a property condition assessment of all town facilities and grounds
utilizing Facilities Management software.
This position will be appointed by the Town Manager, in accordance with Sections 4-2 (d) of the
Town Charter, with ratification of the appointment to be made by the Select Board.
The Director of Facilities and Grounds will have direct supervision for the following existing
positions: Facilities Superintendent, Facilities Custodian, and Recreation Director. Those
positions that are currently in the Laborers International Union of North America, Public
Employees, Local 39 will continue to assist with snow and ice removal operations, mostly
related to town facilities and grounds.
Essential functions of this position:
• Responsible for the planning, organizing, directing and control of all aspects of Town
facilities and grounds. This will include facility planning, renovation, construction,
energy conservation measures and efficiencies, preventative and regular maintenance,
and repair of all town-owned buildings and grounds.
• Responsible for a comprehensive approach to building maintenance and repair
coordination, oversight, inspection, oversight of maintenance logs, resolving any
warranty issues, establishing facility management schedules, and building security.
• Formulates procedures related to Facilities and Grounds operations, develops and
oversees employee schedules, and reviews and advises on daily maintenance issues.
• Ensures all facilities staff attend routine training development for essential functions and
the proper handling and application of all department equipment and tools; ensures staff
obtain required licenses and safety trainings.
• Focuses on the optimal facility use by staff, residents, and those who seek to conduct
business with or in the town to ensure an effective user-experience.
• Works with relevant town departments and elected Park Commission to advise and
recommend long term plan for all town facilities and grounds. Updates the ten-year
capital plan for all facilities and grounds projects that meet the Town's definition of a
capital project and are not funded in the operating budget. Presents and answers all related
questions for said plan and updates the Town Manager on the status of approved capital
projects as they progress.
===PAGE 6===
• Collaborates with the School Facilities Director to ensure a town-wide approach to
facilities management and sustainability for all properties. Work with the Town Manager
and Finance Director to examine how large building projects fit into the town's overall
debt schedule.
• Acts as contract administrator for any town building or grounds project including the
town facilities cleaning contract and landscaping contracts.
• Serves as the representative for any building or grounds project that requires permitting
approval at a board/committee/commission meeting (i.e. APDC, Historical, Planning
Board, etc.).
• Establishes and manages effective preventive maintenance schedules, building control
system optimization and analytics, and energy efficiency measures including warranty
management of new and existing equipment and appliances.
• Ensures that all town building systems are serviceable, including ventilation, air
conditioning,
heating, mechanical, electrical, refrigeration, monitoring and alarm
systems.
• Oversees the performance of various construction ot repair work with contractors,
vendors, suppliers and Town employees; evaluates construction documents and plans
associated with the maintenance and repair of Town-owned buildings to ensure that
projects are completed in accordance with specifications and within established budgets.
•
Ensures that the procurement of price quotations and supplies related to the Facilities
and Grounds Department operations are in accordance with the State Procurement
Law.
Responsible for coordinating with DPW director to ensure snow removal and
winter safety procedures during and after storms provide timely access to
town facilities.
• Provides information and/or advice related to any building construction, repair, reuse,
or disposal of town property.
• Prepares and presents the operating budgets under this department; actively monitors
utility and maintenance expenses to identify needed efficiencies and to advise the Town
Manager of any changes in spending trends.
• Engages in regular trainings and participates in trade shows and industry-events to
remain current on technological advancements and best practices.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he fully supported this plan and noted that it was well thought out. He
thanked the Town Manager for how she has put this together. Mr. Alonzo agreed it was a long
time coming and it covers all the important bases while noting this excludes school facilities but
===PAGE 7===
leaves room for coordination with school facilities. He supported the construction and
implementation of it but also the monetary value assigned to it. It seem appropriate for the job.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, inquired about the chain of command. Ms. Lemieux stated the
chain of command would shift from the current facility staff reporting to the DPW Director to
reporting to this new position. Mr. Passios wondered if the part-time recreation director reporting
to this new position was appropriate. He did agree this was a move in the right direction. He
noted this would be reviewed again at the Finance Committee meeting on Thursday night.
As there were no other comments or questions, Mr. Alonzo closed the public hearing.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy; one representative from
Historical Commission)
•
Economic Development Committee (1 personrecommended by the Open Space Committee)
•
Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can
contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Conservation Administrator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Seasonal Lifeguards (Non Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Earth Day Cleanup Events
• The DP W is once again providing trash bags for residents to pick up and fill with roadside
trash. Residents can drop off the filled up bags at the DPW for the Town to dispose of.
• A Lunenburg HS student is looking to create an event to provide trash claws and gloves to
people to clean up particular areas in town that need cleanup and to provide pamphlets
to people on what is and what is not recyclable, what is pollution and how everyone can
help lessen the problem.
•
Townsend is holding an Earth Day event on April 23rd 10 am-3 pm at the North
Middlesex Regional HS Parking Lot where they are offering free document disposal,
textile and eyeglass collection, returnable bottle/can drive, donation of used bicycles,
baby items, K-cups and chip bag collecting and a plant swap.
===PAGE 8===
Community Funding Project Requests to US Representative Lori Trahan
Last week the Assistant Town Manager, Land Use Director and I met virtually with a staffer of
US Representative Lori Trahan's Office regarding community needs and any possible Community
Funding project requests, which needed to be submitted by April 11th. These Community
Project Funding (CPF) requests are similar to earmarks however, they are subject to more strict
transparency and accountability rules to ensure a fairer funding process. Each Member of
Congress has the opportunity to present 15 CPF requests to the Appropriations Committee. Even
for the 15 requests which their office will select to submit, there is no guarantee they will
receiving funding. Also, these community project funding requests needed to no more than $3M
and show that the Town has matched a portion of the project. Since we only have a couple of
projects that match that description, I submitted the Flat Hill Culvert project as one (the Town has
already appropriated $428,500 for this project) and the 30 School Street project (pending Town
meeting the Town will appropriate funding for hazardous materials abatement, demolition of
building, and engineering costs).
Grants
The Pire Chief submitted and was awarded a grant in the amount of $2,116.91 for an Automated
External Defibrillator that will replace an obsolete unit in one of the fire trucks.
The Police Chief submitted and was awarded a grant in the amount of $7,900 towards the cost of
new exercise equipment for the Public Safety Building exercise room under our insurance carrier's
Wellness Grant.
Streetlight Update
Now that we have settled on a purchase price for the streetlights with Unitil, our counsel has been
told to move forward with finalizing the Purchase and Sale Agreement. We will need to solicit
proposals for maintenance ofthe lights, since once we purchase the lights from Unitil they will no
longerbe responsible for maintaining the lights.
Proposals for Streetlight Design Services and Project Oversight are due this Thursday. The
Green Communities Committee has a meeting scheduled Thursday at 5:30 pm to review the
proposals and discuss the grant application that is due on April 22nd. Green Communities
funding only covers the cost of the LED conversion that proves that it will be an energy savings
so we must bundle the design and cost of conversion together in a way that proves we will be
achieving an energy savings. Besides the LED Streetlight Conversion project, the only other
project that will be submitted will be 5,000 towards the Police Cruiser that is in the FY23
Capital Plan.
COVID-19 Update
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of April
2nd was 6 and the positivity rate was 1.03%.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Yard Waste Collection Days at Youngs Road will begin Saturdays starting April 16th until
May 21st. The collection is open from 8 am until 4 pm.
• The Lunenburg Lions Club will host an Easter Egg Hunt on Saturday April 16th from 11
am until 1 pm in the field between the TCP building and Kids Kingdom. There will be face
painting and light refreshments provided. This event is for Lunenburg residents only.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th until Sunday, September
25th.
===PAGE 9===
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion on Fiscal Year 2023 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast, and Annual
Town Meeting Warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux reported there was a slight change in some of the indirect costs of public access
and Sewer Enterprise but it was only around $100.
Mr. Jeffreys following up on a previous question about using cemetery funds and noted a
resident had brought to his attention that a memorial of headstones was created on private
land. He stated that the Cemetery Commission did not use any of their funds for this but the
Historical Commission had provided some funding in addition to funding coming from other
sources. The board had deferred recommending Alticle 17 at the last meeting due to needing
some questions answered about how the Cemetery Commission can use their funding. Mr.
Jeffreys stated he would now support that article and recommend approval at town meeting.
Discussion ensued about making comments and asking questions that could be misconstrued
by the public during a meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Consent Calendar for Annual Town Meeting warrant articles
Ms. Lemieux had created a list of warrant articles that could be placed on the consent
calendar without causing debate.
Article 1. That the Town vote to pass over Article 1 having already accepted the regular
written reports of the Town Officers and Committees.
Article 2. That the Town vote to re-authorize the revolving funds for certain town
departments, boards, committees, agencies or officers for the spending limits as printed in the
Annual Town Meeting warrant.
Article 3. That the Town vote to transfer the sum of $500 from Free Cash for payment of prior
year expenses.
Article 9. That the Town vote to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $100,000 to the
Stabilization Fund.
Article 10. That the Town vote to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $450,000 to the Special
Purpose Stabilization Fund.
Article 11. That the Town vote to transfer from Free Cash the sum of $266,696, and transfer
from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of $656.00 to the OPEB Trust Fund
established at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting.
Article 12. That the Town vote to appropriate from Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of
$853,112.53; transfer from the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund the sum of $20,000.00;
transfer from the Sewer Reserve Capacity Fund the sum of $20,962.00; and appropriate from
Sewer Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $319,107.47; for a total appropriation of
$1,213,182.00 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY23; and further that $793,968.47 be
included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and be allocated to the Sewer
===PAGE 10===
Enterprise Fund.
Article 13. That the Town vote to transfer from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings the sum of
$35,548.86 into the Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund.
Article 14. That the Town vote to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Revenues
the sum of $302,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program.
Article 15. That the Town vote to appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of
$25,000 to operate the Water Department.
Article 16. That the Town vote to appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related revenues
the sum of $152,477.00; and appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise
retained earnings the sum of $11,090.00; for a total appropriation of $163,567.00 to fund the
operating and capital budgets of the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund for FY23;
and further that $47,808.00 be included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect
costs and be allocated to the PEG Access and Cable Related Enterprise Fund.
Article 20. That the Town vote to amend Chapter 70 of the Town's General Bylaws,
entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, as follows: the position of Council on
Aging Assistant Meal Site Manager to be added and assigned to Grade 3; the position of
Council on Aging Meal Site Manager to be changed from a Grade 3 to a Grade 6; the
position of Firefighter/AEMT-Call to be added and assigned to Grade 10; and the position
of Firefighter/Paramedic -Call to be added and assigned to Grade 11.
Suggestion was made to add Article 17 for appropriating $10,000 from the Sale of Cemetery
Lots account for care, improvement and embellishment of the Town Cemeteries. Ms. Lemieux
will add Article 17 to the list and forward it to the Finance Committee.
2. Foreclosed Properties Requested by Conservation Commission: Braeburn Circle,
867 Rear Leominster Road, 408 Lancaster Avenue
Ms. Lemieux reported that all three properties were foreclosed on and the one year redemption
period has passed. Mr. Alonzo noted the Conservation Commission has voted and reaffirmed
their request to have these properties assigned to their care and control. Mr. Dwyer inquired
whether they were landlocked.
Conservation Commission Chair Bob Pease joined the meeting via ZOOM. He affirmed that all
the properties were landlocked. One abuts the Woodruff property and the other two parcels are
swampy areas near Massapoac Pond.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he would like the Select Board to do their own research on properties before
assigning them to any other town body to see if there could be some future use other than for
open space or conservation purposes.
Mr. Pease noted the Select Board does not have any rules
of guidelines for three major properties; Pleasant Street, Woodruff land and West St. There are
no rules against possession of firearms, use of all-terrain vehicles, or any other things the
Conservation Commission is promulgating for on their properties. You should be thinking about
===PAGE 11===
what is allowed on them. Mr. Dwyer stated he had reviewed the aerial maps of these three
properties during this discussion and two are swampy areas by the pond and for the Lancaster
Ave. property, he did not believe it was developable based on its proximity to water bodies.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2'd: L. Franco
To transfer the Braeburn Circle, 867 Rear Leominster Road, 408 Lancaster Avenue
properties to the Conservation Commission care and control
Discussion: Question was asked about the acreages of the properties. It was unclear at this time.
Mir. Jeffreys stated it was important to keep properties on the tax roll if possible. If a neighbor
wants to purchase it maybe we should pursue that option first. This is why there needs to be a
methodical approach to determine what the future disposition is of these and other properties.
Mr. Dwyer pointed out if someone buys this property they could tend to do things that are
against the Wetlands Protection Act, such as build structures or place things out where they
shouldn't be. By placing them in conservation we prevent that from happening at little or no
cost to the town.
Mr. Alonzo requesting rescinding the motion and second and returning to the issue at the next
meeting. Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Franco withdrew them.
Ms. Lemieux reminded everyone that the transfer of properties to the Conservation Commission
requires a town meeting vote.
3. Discussion on Draft Commemorative Policy
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
COMMEMORATIVE POLICY
I. General:
The Commemorative Policy provides a set of procedures to guide the location of commemorative items
and to assist with their management.
Commemorative items include requested signage within the town right of way by private parties,
plantings, plaques, benches or other types of donations to commemorate individuals, groups, or special
events.
This policy applies to any property under the care, custody, and control of the Select Board.
Il. Objectives:
The reasons for having a formalized procedure are to:
1. Provide a clear and consistent method for reviewing requests to place signs,
plantings, plaques, benches or other commemorative items on Town property;
2. Ensure that decisions involving such requests are well-considered and address the concerns
and needs of the Town relative to maintenance costs, durability of materials, aesthetics,
appropriateness of bench or tree location and type, and merit of the request; and
3. Allow for the placement of high-quality benches and plantings at an economical cost
to the donor and in the most efficient and cost-effective manner for the Town.
===PAGE 12===
Ill. Standards:
When considering a request for the placement of a commemorative item on Town-owned land, the
Select Board shall apply the following standards:
1. Acceptance and placement of a memorial bench, plaque, or planting on Town-owned
property shall be done sparingly, for good cause shown. At minimum, persons being
memorialized shall have, at some point in their lives, held residency or participated in the
community for over ten years.
2. Except as otherwise allowed by the Town Manager, all memorial benches shall
be deemed of acceptable material that fits the character of the landscape that it will
be placed.
3. All proposed memorial trees shall require review by the Tree Warden to ensure the
appropriateness of the species and its proposed location, as well as the sufficiency of the
selected tree's size and condition. The tree shall be planted by an experienced landscaper
under the supervision of the Tree Warden. The final location of the tree requires approval of
the Select Board
4. Donors will be required to pay for all costs associated with the donated item,
including materials and labor costs if installation requires hiring a contractor for
installation.
IV. Installation:
Donated commemorative items will become the property of the Town once the item is
accepted and installed. The Town will install the donation with town staff unless it requires
an outside contractor or equipment to perform the work.
V. Expected Life Cycle of Commemorative Item:
Donated commemorative items will be accepted by the Town with an expected life cycle.
• Benches and plaques will be considered at the end of their life cycle when the item
needs to be replaced. The donor on file will be contacted to notify them the item will
be removed due to the condition.
• Trees or other plantings that were commemorative in nature will be considered at the
end of their life cycle if the tree or planting has outgrown the original location due to
size and interfering with public safety or _years, whichever occurs first. The donor
on file will be contacted to notify them the tree/planting will be removed.
• Signage within the Right of Way will be assessed annually and the Select Board may
vote to remove commemorative signs upon recommendation by the DPW Director.
The donor on file will be contacted to notify them the signage will be removed.
• Other criteria for removal include if the item is vandalized in a manner that makes it
visually unacceptable, if the donated item needs to be removed to accommodate
changing landscapes, or infrastructure. The Town does not guarantee against the
effects of weather, vandalism, or theft.
VI. Notification:
It shall be the responsibility of the donor to provide the Select Board's Office with a current
address, phone number, and email address for purposes of notification regarding installation
or removal of their donation.
===PAGE 13===
VII. Procedures:
The procedure for requesting the placement of a memorial bench or tree on public property
shall be as follows:
1. Requests for permission to install new or replacement memorial
benches or plant memorial trees (or to place a memorial plaque on an
existing bench) on Town-owned real property shall be directed to the
Select Board's Office.
2. Requestors shall be provided with a copy of this policy.
3. Before submitting a formal request for commemorative item such as a
bench, plaque, or planting, the requestor is encouraged to discuss the
matter with the Director of the Department of Public Works.
4. All requests shall be made by completing a Commemorative
Request Form and submitting it the Select Board's Office.
Submitted request forms shall be forwarded by the Select Board's
Office to the Director of Public Works that is responsible for
maintaining the Town-owned land in question.
5. All comments and/or recommendations from the Department of
Public Works should be returned to the Select Board's Office
within 21 days of receipt.
6. The Select Board will then place on the next available meeting
agenda to take action on the request, including acceptance of the
gift per MGL ch. 44 § 53A ½ and subject to its recommended
conditions, ifany.
7. Once the request has been approved by the Select Board, it shall be
effectuated as follows:
• Donor shall submit payment to the Select Board's Office.
• The Town will coordinate with the donor on installation of
commemorative item, when conditions and circumstances permit.
VIll. Adoption by the Select Board:
This policy was adopted by a vote of the Select Board on
_, 2022,
Discussion ensued about the wording of Expected Life Cycle of Commemorative Item.
It was noted that the idea was to put a cap on the number of years on the longevity of protection.
Mi. Alonzo requested the board members submit any amendments in writing to Ms. Lemieux.
4. Discussion and Vote on Public Employee Committee Agreement
Ms. Lemieux reported the Town accepted a provision of MGL establishing a Public Employee
Committee (PEC), which is composed of a representative within the town and school from each
===PAGE 14===
of the bargaining units and from the retiree group. We enter into agreements with the PEC every
'so many years and the current one ends June 30th
. The Assistant Town Manager, Payroll Benefits
Director, a health insurance broker and myself met with the committee regarding the changes we
are looking to make. The new agreement starts July 1 and provides another health insurance
plan option (Blue Cross Select). It provides a smaller network of providers and a lower cost.
The agreement modifies Medicare Part B reimbursement from a percentage to a flat dollar
amount. The last change is a request from the PEC for an opt-out plan for health insurance. This
will require some research and establishing a policy. Typically you have to be on the health
insurance plan for at least two years. The financial impact of these changes to the Town for
Medicare B reimbursement is 60% so we pay about $102 per individual; it will be a savings for
the Town.
With the Blue Select health insurance plan a savings for both the Town and the employee will be
attained.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d:T. Dwyer
To approve the Public Employee Agreement as presented by Town Manager and effective
July 1, 2022
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated he has read through the material and it was out of his element so
he cannot be informed and is fully deferring to Town Manager's recommendation
Vote: All in Favor
5. Warrants
The Board signed a school utility warrant in the amount of $24,731.71; an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $587,303.04; a final school employee payroll payment in the amount of
$2909.96; a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $610,246.39 and a payroll warrant in
the amount of $900,872.36.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo announced there would be no meeting April 19"h. Their next meetings will be April
, May 3d,
", and May 7" (Annual Town Meeting)
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios noted the Finance Committee will be meeting Thursday to review the Town
Manager's Administrative Organization Plan and the Parks Commission will be meeting
tomorrow on ZOOM at 7:00 pm to review the final design plan for Marshall Park.
Mi. Franco announced the Pancake Breakfast tomorrow morning from 8-10 am at Eagle House.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked people who are watching their meetings at home and staying informed. He
encouraged them if they are not on a board or committee to find an opportunity to get involved in
the community. The Library, Senior Center and the schools always need volunteers.
Mr. Franco asked people watching meetings and sending an email about a particular subject, if
they could please put a time mark of when in the meeting that happened, such as at one hour and
forty-four minutes.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2": M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:09 PM
===PAGE 15===
Respectfully submitted,
Claim Peterona :
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
