===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
October 15, 2022
Town Property Site Visits
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffieys, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer
Member not present: Heather Sroka
Also Present: Connor Fisher
The Select Board scheduled a meeting for Saturday, October 15, 2022 at 10:00 a.m. for the express
and limited purpose of conducting site walks on certain Town-owned properties currently under
the jurisdiction of the Select Board. The properties in connection with which these site walks were
posted were:
104 Fairview Road
247 Highland Street
1249 Massachusetts Avenue
Also present was Connor Fisher, a senior at Lunenburg Public High School who joined the walk-
throughs as part of a school project on which he is working.
The meeting was called to order at 104 Fairview Road at 10:04 a.m.
104 Fairview
The walk started at 10:09 a.m. The frontage along Fairview Road through which the Town has
access is approximately 108 feet long. Lou Franco noted that much of the land appears to be
maintained and hayed. Michael-Ray Jeffreys noted that various people are doing this and that we
like other towns might want to have some formal agreements in place acknowledging and allowing
this.
As the walk-through proceeded the question was raised, with reference to maps provided to each
member of the Board, whether the Town has an easement in the vicinity of parcels 1 and 45, which
are mutually adjacent.
It was noted that more than half the parcel is heavily vegetated, perhaps 1/3 is open fields of
presently-shortened grass that were recently hayed/mowed. Also noted and remarked upon by
several present was the presence of substantial milkweed and goldenrod.
In addition to open fields, the Board and Mr. Fisher walked through some wooded trails back to
the starting point at the frontage on Fairview Road.
This site visit ended at 10:44 a.m. and members along with Connor Fisher proceeded to 1249
Massachusetts Avenue.
===PAGE 2===
1249 Massachusetts Avenue
This site walk began at 10:49 a.m. This parcel is landlocked and lacks frontage along Mass.
Avenue. It was noted however, that the parcel could be appealing for development because of its
proximity to Massachusetts Avenue. Limited dumping was noted, although there appeared to be
no hazardous materials present.
This site visit ended at 11:03 a.m. The Board decided not to visit 247 Highland Street and the
meeting was therefore adjourned at 11:03 a.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Lou Franco
Clerk
