===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
August 16, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou
Franco, Clerk; Todd Dwyer, Heather Sroka
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Karen Brochu, Finance Director; Dave
Passios, Brian Lehtinen, Peter Beardmore
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He provided
information to the public on how to participate remotely via ZOOM.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo thanked all involved with the final summer band concert last night. Mr.
Jetfreys asked the public to keep Wayne Comeau in their prayers while he is in recovery.
He thanked those who contributed to the donation for the family. Mr. Jeffreys announced
"Devens Day" at Devens, (formerly Ft. Devens) will be held Saturday from 10 am to 4 pm
and the public is invited. The military base will be open to the public and many activities
are planned. There will be fireworks in the evening.
FY 2022 4 Quarter Financial Report from Finance Director
Ms. Brochu began with Revenues:
Revenues
Total collections for FY22 are $46,695, 138.62. Actuals exceeded estimates by
3.54%, or $1,596,086.69. Below is a summary of the individual categories:
• Local Receipts: We exceeded our FY22 Local Receipt estimate by
33.68%, or $1,049,137.83. The only category of local receipts below
estimates was investment income - 2.24%, or $559.99 below the estimate
of $25,000.00. All other categories exceeded estimates by large
percentages.
Other excise (meals tax) exceeded estimates by $32,048.26, or 32%;
Departmental revenue - school exceeded estimates by $138,443.10 - this is
primarily due to an increase in the municipal Medicaid reimbursement for
eligible students; Licenses & permits exceeded estimates by $126,106.75, due to
the building permit issued to Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster-Shirley Road;
Departmental revenue other (ambulance revenue) exceeded estimates by
$24,467.50, or 10%; Motor vehicle excise exceeded estimates by $118,280.15, or
7%; Penalties & interest exceeded estimates by $306,518.44, or 153.25%, due to
increases in penalties & interest on tax liens due to the payoff of the tax lien for
===PAGE 2===
Meadow Woods trailer park and other payments received prior to the tax lien
sale; and finally Miscellaneous non-recurring revenue exceeded estimates by
$232,945.39, or 110%, due to payments received for emergency paid sick leave
in the amount of $71,453.56, payments for prior year Meadow Woods water
betterment revenue in the amount of $121,249.13, and also unclaimed tailings
revenue in the amount of $21,848.81.
• Taxes; The total tax levy for FY22, net of the overlay, is $29,833,387.33.
We received 99.6% or $116,992.51 less than the levy estimate. We also
received $585,466.77 in tax lien revenue.
• State Aid: We received 1.31%, oi $120,946.87 more in state aid than the
FY22 estimate, This was primarily due to receiving $83,961 more than
estimated for reimbursements on tax abatements for veterans and surviving
spouse - for FY20 and FY21, as well as two fiscal years of homeless
transportation reimbursements in the amount of $41,228.29.
Expenditures
The total budgeted expenditures for FY22 are $45,099,051.93. We have
expended/encumbered $44,384,375.85, or 98.4% of budgeted expenditures. The
balance of unexpended/unencumbered funds is $714,676.08.
Ms. Brochu reported on several subcategories of the FY22 appropriations. The total
omnibus budget closeout was $ 686,665.20, currently she estimated Free Cash to be
$2,820,603 which is an increase over last year's certification of $2,666,962. We had a
very good year and the reason for that on the revenue side is related to tax liens and
the building permit for the new Leominster-Shirley Road facility.
On the expenditure side I think budgets over the years especially since Ms. Lemieux
has been in charge, have been increased slightly so that they have sufficient funds to get them
through the year. Hopefully we'll close out at least a small amount to go towards Free Cash
for the following year. I talked to Ms. Lemieux; there were staff positions that were not
funded but not filled. The board thanked her for her report and her financial team's work.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Lemieux reported Lisa Melnicki had resigned from the Police Department for personal
reasons. She thanked her for her years of service. Ms. Lemieux also noted that Sewer
Business Manager Barb LeFebvre is retiring in January 2023. She thanked her for all her
WORKSHOP:
1. Joint Meeting with Capital Planning Committee to discuss available ARPA
funding and potential projects
The Capital Planning Committee called their meeting to order at 7:22 p.m. The Select Board
moved off the stage to the lower meeting room table. Mr. Jeffreys noted the Town has 3.5
million dollars of available ARPA funding and the goal tonight is to come up with projects
that could use the funding. Mr. Alonzo directed the group to the Capital Plan list from last
year as no new projects have been submitted yet for FY23. Mr. Passios stated two things that
stuck in his mind were infrastructure and recreational projects.
Many of the larger dollar amounts in the Capital Plan are from the various Vertex building
reports and decisions on some of those buildings have not yet been made. Mr. Lehtinen added
hazardous abatement was a big dollar project and has to be done if any building is
===PAGE 3===
demolished or renovated. Mr. Passios stated we currently occupy buildings where we need
remediation, such as the TC Passios Building, and when you remove hazardous materials you
need to bring those floors, ceilings and walls back to usable condition. Although Turkey Hill
Elementary School has done remediation on the first floor, they still have the second floor to
Mr. Jeffreys noted the following items listed on last year's Capital Plan project requests:
Police Department-records storage room at the Public Safety Building; $230,000
Fire Department- developing unused space on the second floor; $132,000
Senior Center- new parking lot estimated at $150,000
Ritter Building repairs year 1; $182,000
TCP building asbestos abatement; $943,000.
Brooks House abatement; $111,000 and building envelope $132,000.
Ms. Lemieux read from her memo the eligible categories that ARPA funding can be used on:
1. Supporting the Public Health Response: This includes COVID-19 mitigation efforts,
medical expenses, behavioral health, and certain public health and safety staff.
2. Addressing the negative economic impacts caused by the public health emergency:
Respond to the far-reaching public health and negative economic impacts of the pandemic,
by supporting the health of communities, and helping households, small businesses, impacted
industries, nonprofits, and the public sector recover from economic impacts
3. Premium Pay for Essential Workers: Provide premium pay for essential workers, offering
additional support to those who have and will bear the greatest health risks because of their
service in critical sectors
Water, Sewer, and Broadband Infrastructure: Invest in water, sewer, and broadband
infrastructure, making necessary investments to improve access to clean drinking water, to
support vital wastewater and stormwater infrastructure, and to expand affordable access to
broadband internet
5. Replacement of Lost Revenue: Replace lost public sector revenue, using this funding to
provide government services up to the amount of revenue lost due to the pandemic. The Final
Rule by the US Treasury allows recipients to elect a standard allowance of up to $10 million
to spend on government services through the period of performance. Electing the standard
allowance does not increase or decrease a recipient's total allocation. Therefore, Lunenburg,
since our allotment is less than $10 million, could choose to use all our funds under this
category.
After some discussion Mr. Jeffreys summarized the ideas:
Roof stabilization of TCP building
• Town beach building repair
•
30 School Street demolition
• Flat Hill drainage
• Public Safety building- develop unused space
• Brooks House building envelope and other repairs
Mr. Jeffreys noted that requests for ideas would also be requested from committees, boards
and the public. Mr. Alonzo emphasized the old Primary School demolition should be done as
soon as possible due to continual vandalism. All the others are up for discussion at our CPC
meeting. He also wanted to hear what departments and the public feel should be done.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Sewer Commission has requested $200,000 for manhole repairs
and $300,000 for pump station upgrades. The Fire Chief has proposed replacement of Rescue
===PAGE 4===
1 ($442,000) which is on the Capital Plan. The Police Chief requested a Mental Health
clinician to be shared with Townsend due to the increase in mental health calls; and could
also be used as a resource for officers. She added there should be a number allocated towards
the Board of Health for mitigation related to the pandemic. Also proposed were the Marshal
Park engineering and adding public restrooms there in conjunction with funding available for
a new septic system from the Board of Health. Mr. Passios noted the Parks Commission is
looking to install a septic for one side of Marshall Park and tying into sewer on the other side.
Ms. Lemieux reported another suggestion came from the IT consultant to expand broadband
by installing a cell tower on town property in an area where we need coverage. Mr. Dwyer
suggested expanding the sidewalk system within 1.5 miles of the schools to help facilitate the
students who have to walk to school or even a feasibility study to look at that. Mr. Jeffreys
suggested adopting a policy to require pollinator gardens on town property due to the
decrease in insect populations. He also asked if this should be an opportunity for the Town to
start testing Lake Shirley's water; estimated at $15,000 annually. He noted he has previously
mentioned adding solar panels to the old Town dump land.
Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee member, stated we need shovel ready projects and
would like to see something the community can immediately see the benefit from. Mr.
Lehtinen noted recently people's wells have been going dry and perhaps adding more access
to water for people would be another idea. Ms. Lemieux stated another issue is food
insecurity; perhaps designating some funding to the local food pantry.
The Capital Planning Committee adjourned their meeting at 8:33 p.m.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following isa list of current vacancies on the following committees:
Finance Committee (1 vacancy) and 1 additional vacancy at the end of September
Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
HistoricalCommission (1 vacancy)
Planning Board (1 vacancy jointly appointed by the Planning Board and Select Board until
the next ATE)
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to
the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select
Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 × 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
Facilities Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
(3) Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non Benefitted)
• Meal Site Manager (Part Time Non Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted Position)
• Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the
town website.
Lufa Farms
Lufa Farms has submitted their preliminary application to Mass Office of Business
Development and their internal review team has moved them forward for consideration for
state credits in addition to a TIF. Lufa Farms is working on the required supplemental
application, which is due tomorrow, and MOBD will need a valuation spreadsheet from the
===PAGE 5===
Town as part of that review process. I am working with our Principal Assessor on the estimated
valuation for this project that would be inputted on this valuation spreadsheet.
I would expect that once we have the preliminary estimated valuation, we would begin
negotiations on a TIF agreement with Lufa Farms.
FY23 State Earmarks
We received notification from Senator Cronin's Office that we received a $100,000 earmark for
the Senior Center ADA Patio project. Wewere notified earlier in the state budget process that
there was also a $100,000 earmark for the Hazardous Materials Abatement and Demolition of
the old Primary School project, but I am awaiting verification from our legislators on that
earmark.
30 School Street Hazardous Materials Abatement and Demolition
Ray Dunetz has begun the initial work for the 30 School Street project. His survey crew was at
the building last week to survey the existing building, including doors, walls, stairs, roof,
windows, basement equipment and building elevations. The deliverable for this portion of
work will be an existing conditions survey.
The next step will entail an Asbestos Containing Materials inspection, collection, and testing
and soil samples. The final report is expected to be complete no later than December.
The remaining tasks include preparation of 100% bid documents, advertising around January
2023, and construction (demolition) occurring in the spring of 2023.
DPW Updates
Sidewalk repairs on Lancaster Avenue between Massachusetts Avenue and Whiting Street
are being undertaken this week through August 23rd. Please use caution when driving in this
area.
The replacement of the Upper Common memorial tree that was removed during the Complete
Streets project was planted this week on the Lower Common. One ofthe small trees on the
Lower Common was moved to the Ritter Building property to replace a damaged tree and a new
tree on the other side of the parking lot entrance was also replaced.
The FY22 Capital Plan 3/4 Ton Pickup with Plow and the FY23 Capital Plan One Ton Dump
Truck with Plow have been ordered and are expected to arrive in September and November
respectively.
The DPW Director is working on quotes for the FY22 Capital Plan 6 Wheel Dump Truck and the
FY23 Capital Plan 10 Wheel Truck currently.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th
and the Historical Society Building is open during the Farmers Market.
The Special Town Meeting warrant is open from August 23rd until 5 pm on September
20th and the STM will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the MS/HS Auditorium.
Review Select Board Policies and Procedures, Article II! Financial Policies
Mr. Jeffreys noted that the board was reviewing all their policies as a goal. His expectation
was that they would review them tonight and have a follow-up meeting on them at another
meeting. The board reviewed Financial Policies by section. The only comment for the first
section, 3.01 Borrowing, was a request for the use of the word "percent," or the symbol for
percent "%," to be used consistently with either one or the other through the document.
Section 3.2 Capital Budget, A. 1. and 2. require updating of the monetary amounts. It was
also suggested anywhere "Board of Selectmen," is written, it should be replaced with "Select
Board."
Under Capital Planning Process (E.) the second line should be reworded to be more accurate.
E. The Town Manager may modify and/or add to this list of capital projects
as part of the proposed budget for the next fiscal year. This budget will
===PAGE 6===
be presented at the Annual Town Meeting, amended as necessary to
reflect the will of Town Meeting, and voted on.
There were no proposed changes to 3.03 Free Cash, 3.04 Stabilization and General Reserve
Fund, and 3.05 Warrants. Section 3.06, Investment Policy Statement follows M.G.L, c. 44
§55B so no changes are needed. Under II. The Investment of Trust Funds and Bond
Proceeds; policy applies to funds that could be invested long term (i.e.: bond proceeds,
trust funds, and stabilization funds.) and follows to M.G.L. c. 203C. Section 3.07 OPEB
Funding Policy, establishes guidelines for management of the impact of the Town's
Other Post-Employment Benefits liability on the overall budget and credit rating within
the context of town's long term obligations to its retirees. There were no suggested
changes to this or Section 3.08 Tax Title Policy and Procedures. A new section "3.09
Tailings Policy," dealing with uncashed checks after a certain period of time, will be
added to the end of this section. It was noted the formatting of the entire Article needed
to be corrected.
OLD BUSINESS
Vote to Sign Purchase & Sale Agreement and License Agreement with Unitil for
Streetlights Purchase
Ms. Lemieux received the two documents today; there are two revisions from the last draft of
the license agreement that removed "City of Fitchburg" wording, Town Counsel has
reviewed as well. We are planning for the closing to be on September 15.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2''i: T. Alonzo
To proceed to sign the purchase and sale agreement and the license agreement as
presented with a closing date of September 15, 2022 and to authorize the Town
Manager to execute the Bill of Sale for the street lighting
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys returned to the ARPA funding and asked if the board members were in
agreement with sending out Ms. Lemieux's memo to all departments regarding the American
Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Funding Requests. They were.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Minutes of June 21, 2022 and July 12,2022
Motion: T. Alonzo
2''I: M. Jeffreys
To approve the Minutes of June 21, 2022 as written
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-abstain, Mr.
Dwyer-abstain
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the Minutes of July 12, 2022 as presented
2id: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
2. Sign September 6, 2022 State Primary Warrant
Mr. Jeffreys read aloud the slate of positions for the upcoming state primary.
Motion: T. Alonz
2"d: L. Franco
o sign the state primary warrant as rea
Vote: All in Favor
3. Warrants
The board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $722,978.16; a payroll deduction
warrant in the amount of $170,586.17 and an accounts payable warrant in the amount of
$456,366.53.
4. Action Items- there were none this evening
===PAGE 7===
5. Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo did not have a committee report but a comment about the recent school
policy regarding children walking to school. They're going to provide buses for kindergarten
through second grade students no matter where you live. From third grade upward you don't
get buses, but third and fourth graders aren't allowed to walk to school. So parents have to
come up with some method to get their third and fourth graders to school. There's probably
people who may be one-car families and the other parent doesn't drive. This is just a disaster
waiting to happen as many roads are not suitable for walking especially in winter. Further
discussion ensued over the reasoning behind the policy and the safety and liability involved.
Mr. Jeffreys suggested that he and Town Manager attend the next School committee meeting
to express concern on behalf of the board about this policy.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mi. Jeffreys noted the board's next meeting is August 23rd. The board will meet again on
September 6", September 13h and September 20th.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, via ZOOM, suggested putting a tarp on the roof of the TC
Building thus sending a message to taxpayers that something needs to be done. He asked if the
Brooks House is renovated to the amount of $225,000 what it would be used for. He believed
the ARPA funds should be spent on something that benefits the vast majority of the taxpayers
like roads, 30 School Street, or an ambulance. He respectfully requested to update technology
so presentations being made at meetings could be viewed by people at home.
Lastly, he stated when the Park Commissioners came forth with the design for Marshall Park,
they indicated they would seek funding in grants and now the whole thing has changed.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2': L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:33 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Pelessn
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
