===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
January 4, 2022
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall and via Zoom
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chair; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk, Todd Dwyer
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Sue Doherty, COA Director; Wayne Caron,
Rob Oliva, DP W Director via ZOOM
Housing Authority Members: Deb Christen, Lina MacDonald, Cathy Clark
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube page within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for public
comment only and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT- There was none.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
There will be a COVID-19 booster clinic at St. Anthony's Church Hall, 33 Chapel Street,
Shirley, tomorrow from 1- S P.M.
The Parks Commission has a meeting on Thursday, January 6th for their 2nd community meeting
on Marshall Park to be facilitated by WOLA landscape architects. This will be held at the Town
Hall from 7-9 pm but also can be accessed through the Zoom link on their agenda.
APPOINTMENTS
Joint Meeting with Housing Authority to conduct interview and vote to fill vacant Housing
Authority Tenant Board Member Seat: Wayne Caron (131 White Street) - term to expire
2023
Mr. Caron introduced himself and stated he has lived here a little over a year and a half. He
thought it would be good for someone at the White Street apartments to be involved with what
goes on and to keep people informed. He has not attended any Housing Authority meetings but
the previous tenant member had kept him informed. Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Franco thanked him for
coming forward. Mr. Jeffreys asked if conditions have improved there in the last few months as
there were some issues related by residents last year. Mr. Caron believed there had been some
miscommunication between management and the residents regarding policy changes. He thought
management needed to post the notices better and involve residents in discussions.
Housing Authority member Linda MacDonald stated she always thought it would be good to
have a resident member because they live there, we do not. Mr. Caron sounds like a man who is
willing to go the distance to work with us. I am in favor of appointing him.
===PAGE 2===
Deb Christen stated sometimes we get a bad rap because people aren't happy and they say we
don't care, but we do. We set policy and we make sure the bills are paid. There have been some
nice changes made in the community building. There are improvements being made. Mr. Caron
seems like a good addition.
Cathy Clark stated she is the newest board member and added there is a shortage in housing. She
acknowledged there has been a lack of communication between tenants and management but
going forward the policy making is going to be a better process. We are all in agreement Mr.
Caron is going to be a welcome addition. We do have one other opening on the board (state
appointed member). Mr. Jeffreys stated he hasn't heard anything from residents over there and
he hoped they are reaching out the housing authority to express their needs. Further discussion
ensued about the current smoking policy at the complex.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To appoint Wayne Caron to the Lunenburg Housing Authority with a term to expire 2023
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mis. Christen-
aye, Ms. Clark-aye, Mis. MacDonald-aye
Mi. Alonzo congratulated Mr. Caron and thanked the Housing Authority members for coming in.
Application for Amendment to License 89223-PK-0636; Change of Officers or Global
Montello Group Corp. d/b/a Honey Farms #3829 (134 Leominster-Shirley Road)
Attorney John Aieta representing Global Montello Group stated this is an application for a
change of officers only. There are no changes to ownership or day to day operations. This was
brought on due to retirement, a resignation and an untimely death. There are three new officer
positions. Margaret Niekrash as Treasurer, Sean Geary as Secretary and Gregory Hanson as
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d; L. Franco
To approve the change of officers for Global Montello Group Corp, as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Update from Skate Park Group- this will be rescheduled due to absences and illnesses.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Revote the Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Full Time Officer Joel
Ortega (effective July 25, 2022)
Ms. Lemieux reported the appointment is being revoted due to Officer Ortega's mother
becoming ill and his need to care for his siblings, delaying Ortega's attendance at Police
Academy. This was recommended by Chief Gammel.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To revote the ratification of Town Manager' appointment of Joel Ortega to be effective
July 25, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Van Driver Benjamin MeGinnis
Ms. Lemieux stated this is for an eight hour/1 day per week MART van driver shift. Council on
Aging Director Sue Doherty reported the Monday driver has semi-retired but he has agreed to
stay on per diem, so if we get stuck we can call him as he is local. Mi. McGinnis will cover
Mondays and fill in when needed for other drivers. He had the best qualifications out of two
applicants.
===PAGE 3===
Motion: L. Franco
To ratify the appointment of Benjamin McGinnis as van driver
2nd; M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large and one
representative from Historical Commission)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee
and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
• Housing Authority (1 vacant position that is a resident of Pearl Brook)
• Stormwater Task Force (2 vacant positions forcitizens at large)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part Time Benefitted)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part Time)
• Principal Assessor (Full Time Benefitted)
•
Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers 2) (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
30 School Street Landscape Design Project Update
A total of 36 responses were received from the survey. The architect is putting together a second
survey based on the results from the first survey that will be shared once finalized.
The "workinggroup" (PoliceChief, Fire Chief, DPWDirector, Land UseDirector, the Assistant Town
Manager, and myself) met on December 23rd. We previewed two conceptual plans and provided
feedback on public safety aspects, maintenance aspects, and access/parking. The notes from this
meeting were forwarded to the Board today.
The next Community Meeting will be held on January 18th at 7 p.m. Ray will present two
conceptual designs and their cost estimates at this meeting and the goal will be to select the
preferred design at that meeting. Ray has created a flyer for this meeting and this will be shared on
the website, to the Ledger, the town-wide listserv, and on the Town Facebook page.
COVID-19 Update
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as of
December 25th was 71 and the positivity rate was 7.39%.
I attended today's Department of Public Health's webinar and it was reported that they are finding
the disease is generally milder with the Omicron variant, they are seeing reinfection of those who
had the Delta variant even within the 90 days, and that the incubation period is slightly shorter
than the Delta and other previous variants.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Encroachment on Town Property at Rear of 993 Massachusetts Avenue
===PAGE 4===
Ms. Lemieux reported this is a property where there are encroachments of boulders on town
property within the right of way. A trespass/encroachment letter was mailed to the property
owner in June 2021 with a survey showing the right of way and no response was received back.
The DPW Director and I met with the property owner to see if the boulders could be moved
voluntarily and there was resistance to that request. She followed up again by phone with the
owner who said she would move them, but they have not been moved. We then requested an
opinion from Town Counsel which he gave at our last meeting and has provided in writing.
The owner was notified of tonight's meeting.
Mr. Alonzo read aloud part of the legal opinion:
Encroachments onto,
into or upon
property owned by the Town e.g. the aforementioned right-of
way, constitute continuing trespasses; and are actionable in a court of law. These actions are commonly
brought in the Superior Courts.
It is our right to petition the court to issue a preliminary injunction to get this expedited.
Mr. Oliva stated snow plowing is an issue if the boulders are in the right of way. It can damage
our equipment or our drivers could possibly get hurt if they strike one hard enough. If we have to
work in the right of way, we'd have to move them. Town manager and I have both been
informed that has been damage to vehicles who are parking along Memorial Drive.
Mr. Alonzo noted this has been brought to the property owner's attention and we have tried to
work with them. They have to date refused to move them and you have seen Town Counsel's
opinion and his recommendations. We can go to court to get a preliminary injunction to force the
property owner to move them or we can move them ourselves, but that has issues that he would
not recommend. But we can't have boulders that interfere with the right of way. Discussion
ensued about how to proceed and the different scenarios if what could happen if one of the two
options was taken.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"': L. Franco
To follow Town counsel's recommendation to go to court to get an injunction to remove the
boulders
Mr. Jeffreys stated he would support this motion but still preferred the town moving them
because going to court could be a lengthy process and it is now January and snow-plowing
season. In addition, the owner is fully aware of the survey and has done nothing even though
they are encroaching on the right of way and people parking near the senior center have hit the
boulders.
Vote: All in Favor
2. Vote to open the Annual Town Meeting warrant on January 12, 2022 and close the
warrant on March 21, 2022 at 4 PM
Motion: L. Franco
2": M. Jeffreys
To open the Annual Town Meeting on January 12, 2022 and close it on March 21, 2022 at
4:00 PM
Vote: All in Favor
3. ARPA Funding for COVID-19 Rapid Tests for Seniors
Ms. Lemieux reported last Wednesday afternoon the State administration announced
that municipalities would be able to purchase COVID-19 Rapid Test Kits using the state
contract bid. Since then I was put in contact with a representative from Operational
Services Division, who procures and oversees all the state bids/contracts, who provided
me additional contact information for different manufacturers and distributors under
two different state contracts. It was relayed to me that the supply for Rapid Test Kits is
very limited right now, especially through these state contracts, since all towns/cities are
===PAGE 5===
trying to purchase them simultaneously, statewide school systems were provided kits,
and 2.1M kits were issued to 102 cities and towns in MA with the highest percentage of
families below the poverty level. I contacted seven different companies and heard back
from two. One said there was a 4-8 week lead time and the other was able to send me a
case immediately. We will be distributing 100 kits to the Senior Center to distribute and
some will be reserved to distribute to employees. Weknow there has been requests by
seniors for at home test kits so this will assist with that need.
We have seen an uptick in employees testing positive or close contacts and in order to keep
our other employees safe and those that test positive back to work, these test kits will be
needed.
4. Request from legislators for fiscal priorities for FY 2023
Ms. Lemieux read from her memorandum to the board:
Each fiscal year, as the state begins their budget process for the next fiscal year, our legislators ask for a
prioritized list of our budget priorities. These priorities would be any projects that we would like
them to advocate for funding as earmarks to be included in the state budget. Last year the
following projects were submitted as priorities (listed according to priority level):
1. $127,000 for fire alarm upgrade at the Lunenburg Primary School.
2. $355,000 for hazardous materials abatement and demolition of the old Primary School
building and feasibility and design for future use of the space.
3. $180,000 for Firefighting Turnout Gear that would provide each firefighter two sets of
gear so that after each fire, gear is cleaned of hazardous materials.
4. $40,000 for the installation of new LED lighting fixtures at the Library.
As you are aware, the fire alarm upgrade at the Lunenburg Primary School (Item #1) was funded
through a $25,000 earmark from the State and the balance was funded through the school budget. The
Town also received a $40,000 earmark from the State for the installation of new LED lighting at the
Library (Item #4) as part of the FY 2022 state budget. The FY 2022 Capital Plan funded $100,000 for
Firefighting Turnout Gear and the annual funding in the Fire Department's operational budget alleviates
this project request (Item #3). I would like to submit the following list of projects for consideration for
FY 2023:
1. Projects part of Chapter 228 of the Acts of 2018: $300,000 for the redevelopment of the
property at 925 Mass Avenue, $250,000 for upstart costs of a community commercial kitchen
for small business owners that need commercial kitchen space, and $450,000 for façade and
streetscape improvements in the downtown area of Main Street, Leominster Avenue, and
Lancaster Avenue.
2. $371,000 for hazardous materials abatement and demolition of the old Primary School
2021 was $750,000.
4. $100,000 for Senior Center building improvements (Combines different FY 2023 capital plan
requests)
Ms. Lemieux advised the board that only four requests can be submitted. The delegation is being
invited to the first February meeting and that is when they would need the final requests.
===PAGE 6===
Discussion ensued about the options. The Parks Commission will be asked about their
properties' needs. The commercial kitchen will be removed as currently there is no place for it to
go. Suggestions given were the Flat Hill culvert project, hazardous waste removal for the old
Primary School building, redevelopment of 925 Mass. Ave property, and the Senior Center
improvements.
5. Review Select Board Policies on Liquor Regulations, Boot Drive Policy, Emergency
Paid Sick Leave Policy, and Commemorative Policy (New)
Mr. Alonzo noted these are policies that need amending, such as the amount of time a manager
spends at an alcohol licensed establishment (currently 50%) and the appeal process for violation
hearings. The boot drive policy waiver form is another issue as large organizations come into
town and many times it is unknown who is going to participate, so getting the form in before the
event is unlikely. Suggestion was made to have the organization provide one blanket waiver for
participants under their liability insurance.
Mr. Alonzo noted there is no policy or guidelines in place if someone wants to commemorate
something. Ms. Lemieux presented a draft of a policy. The board will look it over and discuss at
a later time.
Ms. Lemieux asked the board to act on the Emergency Paid Sick Leave Policy this evening.
It is changing the return to work section of the policy to coincide with the CDC guidance on
isolation and quarantine. The only difference is there is no distinguishing between vaccinated
and unvaccinated people; they are going to be treated the same.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the changes to our emergency paid sick leave policy as presented
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
6. Sign Easement Agreement for Lunenburg Central (Leominster-Shirley Road)
Ms. Lemieux asked this be tabled as there are some amendments being made to it.
7. Approve Minutes of November 9, 2021
Motion: L. Franco
2'': T. Dwyer
To approve the minutes of November 9, 2021 as presented
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 abstention (Jeffreys)
8. Warrants
The board signed a Payroll warrant in the amount of $896,818.53, a Payroll Deductions warrant
in the amount of $51,634.36 and an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $107,666.86.
Action Items
Mr. Jeffreys, following the liquor violations hearing last week, and after reading through all the
incident reports, requested the board be apprised of police incidents at alcohol serving
establishments. Ms. Lemieux has already spoken with Police Chief Gammel about reporting
incidents as they occur. Any future violations will be reported to the board as they occur.
Mr. Jeffreys also requested to be notified when alcohol complaints are reported to the Town
Manager office.
9. Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees are going to meet remotely on the 20". He thanked
Ms. Lemieux and Ms. Belliveau for finalizing the Library Director's contract.
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Alonzo reported Capital Planning met and prioritized all the submitted projects and they will
be submitted to the Town Manager.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on TCP Building Design Committee Charge
Mi. Alonzo read aloud a draft based on the last discussion about the charge.
The Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee (formerly the TC Passios Building Design Committee)
will continue to work with any contracted architectural and engineering firms, as they become available, to review
space needs for town offices, school uses and community space at the building and/or land known as the TC
Passios. Additionally, the committee will work to prioritize and/or rank the existing space usage requests and
explore a variety of design permutations at different estimated budget tiers that would meet the needs of the Town
according to those priorities. The committee is free to analyze, discuss and investigate other Town-owned
buildings and properties in their recommendations as they deem necessary to fulfill this charge. This Committee
will prepare viable, cost-effective solutions to the Select Board that conform to all the Town's existing financial
and fiscal policies and take into consideration any/all large-scale capital expenditures projected for next 10 years.
Suggestion was made to change "is free" to "may" in the second to last sentence and to add the
word "the" before "next" in the last sentence.
Motion: L. Franco
Second: M. Jeffreys
To adopt the revise charge for the former TCP Building Design Committee now known
as the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee and to incorporate the changes
noted above
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported she was invited to the PACC meeting last night to discuss their space
needs. They are frustrated with waiting so long to find a space that works for them,
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo noted the board's next meeting is January 18". Since there is nothing on the agenda
for the 11" the board will probably not meet.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, reminded everyone the Parks Commission is meeting this
Thursday regarding Marshall Park with the architectural firm. The public is encouraged to
attend.
Mr. Jeffreys asked everyone who believes in the power of prayer to pray for him and his family.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2"'): L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:43 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Naium Pilerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
