===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Ana Lockwood
Finance Committee Members present: Peter Beardmore, Evan Watters, Tom Balish, Tom
Gray, Jay Simeone
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mark Bursch, 20 Buttonwood Place, Chair of the Lunenburg Water Commission, reported
their special meeting concerning voting to spend $360,000 to study water treatment and
reopening of the Hickory Hills Lake well, will be on October 19th at 6:00 PM at 496 Mass.
Bill Tyler, 5 Graham Street, speaking on behalf of the Historical Society, announced this
Sunday is the last chance to buy a raffle ticket for the Whalom Park bench. This will help
offset some of their expenses. The drawing will be this Sunday at Noon. He also thanked the
Town Manager for including them in her event reports every week.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux announced former chief administrative and financial officer for the Town, Bill
Gustus, died on September 19t". No funeral arrangements have been announced yet.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, Park Commission Chair, read aloud a letter on behalf
of the commissioners:
At our September 14th meeting we discussed the Luffa Farms project that is happening on 361
Mass Ave. This property abuts a Lunenburg park property that is located on 961 Northfield Road
that was acquired in 2020 from the Saliba family. It is our goal as a commission to develop this
property in the near future. As we look to develop this property we would like to minimize the
trafficking pact of a new park on the residents of Northfield Road. We also would like to provide
the safest way to access this park. Currently the only access point would be through the Northfield
Road and Chase Road intersection, a busy intersection which raised concern of safety. As the town
proceeds to work with Luffa Farms to launch this project we ask that Select Board and Planning
Board to negotiate to request access through an easement from 361 Mass Ave. property to the
Northfield Road park. This easement would give us another access point to explore when the time
comes to develop this property. This may seem early since our plans should
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Jeffreys asked if the board members was comfortable sending a communication to the
Planning Board members about endorsing the concept. They concurred.
Joint Meeting with Finance Committee to discuss Debt Capacity, Select Board Policies
and Procedures, Article Ill Financial, and Special Town Meeting Proposed Bylaw on
Capital Planning from Finance Committee
Chair Watters called the Finance Committee meeting to order at 7:10 p.m. The discussion
began with the following proposed warrant article:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 81 by adding a new section
11 titled "Amending Capital Appropriations" by inserting the following:
"§ 81-11 Amending capital appropriations.
Warrant articles and floor motions shall not restrict Town Meeting voters' ability to propose and
approve amendments in totality, description, and/or scope to individual items or projects in capital
appropriation articles and motions. Notwithstanding the above, amendments shall not limit the Town
Manager's authority to reapply capital funds among the individual items and projects in the capital
plan, nor shall Town Meeting be authorized to increase the total capital plan appropriation printed in
the warrant, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Finance Committee)
Mr. Watters stated the members voted unanimously to accept or adopt the language that was
proposed by Mr. Beardmore who worked with Town counsel to develop. The genesis of this
bylaw was actually due to what happened at Annual Town Meeting where we were
discussing the possibility of amending some of the items or one of the items specifically in
the Capital Plan. It went through a couple of different attempts to go through Town
Moderator and Town counsel to see if it was allowed but there wasn't a definitive answer.
There was sort of an interpretation made but it wasn't concrete enough for us in our opinion.
Mr. Beardmore took the lead on this and worked with Town counsel to draft what we believe
is the best way to allow Town to act as the appropriating committee as they should on a
potentially large chunk of our budget. Mr. Beardmore stated what the Charter basically
outlines is the process that we follow and will continue to follow. Department Heads bring
their requests to the Capital Planning Committee through the Town Manager: The committee
goes through the process of prioritizing and vetting those requests and provides to Town
Manager a priorities list, which she brings to the Finance Committee and Select Board for
discussions and recommendations. The Town Manager without any direct influence from
either of those committees, decides the funding amount and that is to a certain extent formula
driven. There are funds that come from Free Cash, raise and appropriate, unexpended capital
and other sources to come up with whatever that amount is for the Capital Plan. She also has
the authority to reprioritize and put forth a Capital Plan as she sees fit based on the
recommendations that come from the department heads. The Capital Planning Committee,
Finance Committee, Select Board and she bring that Capital Plan to Town Meeting. There
have been criticisms that this warrant article totally changes the process, that it makes the
Capital Planning Committee irrelevant and that we're instituting some sort of veto authority.
What this does is restore legislative authority to Town Meeting which is where I believe it
===PAGE 3===
continued to have reservations, asked for information that I did not get and it came down to
department heads saying you have my recommendation knowing that it was going to be part
of the Capital Plan. There should have been an opportunity for Town Meeting to have their
opportunity to have that oversight and to say is this something that that we truly need and to
make that determination knowing that it had gone through a good vetting process.
The Finance Committee is the only board that represents Town Meeting. During the past year
we were limited in terms of the advice that we could bring to Town Meeting and Town
Meeting was limited in terms of what they could potentially do because of the way the
Capital Planning article was written. Currently the Capital Plan is brought forth in a way that
can't be amended by Town Meeting because of the way the article was written. The best way
to deal with this is to bring the issue to the voters of Town Meeting and give them the
opportunity to weigh in on whether or not they should have the ability to amend the Capital
Plan or Capital appropriation and so that's what we have here today. It also preserves in
writing certain authorities that the Town Manager has such as moving funds amongst items;
it gives her flexibility to move capital appropriations within those approved items and this
would preserve her right to do so. It also limits Town Meeting's ability to inflate numbers.
This is just affording ability to make amendments on Town Meeting floor.
Concern was expressed by Mr. Dwyer that every Capital item listed would become a debate
on Town Meeting floor, adding the Capital Planning Committee and the process was formed
to streamline Town Meeting. If there are controversial articles coming up before the town, it
may behoove the committee and Town Manager to separate those items out ahead of time for
debate rather than trying to pull out every listed item on the plan.
Mr. Franco was undecided on this article, he did see the potential for debate on every item as
well. But he believed the article should be provided for the voters to decide.
Ms. Lemieux noted the Capital Planning Committee spends a lot of time and effort reviewing
proposed projects, as well as department heads answering questions and follow up questions
throughout the process. We have spent additional funds annually on the Capital Plan due to
available funding, so the number of projects has increased, although in FY 22 we had fifteen
projects, the previous year we had 23. In anticipation of increased available funds this year,
she expected that number to be the same or more. To go through each item separately would
significantly lengthen Town Meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys was not in favor of the article but believed it would advance to the warrant. He
was not in favor of Town Meeting being the place for detailed Capital Planning review. One
way to disinterest a huge group of people is by discussing for hours how we're going to spend
somewhere between $750,000 and $2.8 million.
Discussion ensued further on the pros and cons of the article and different scenarios that
could occur as a result of being approved by Town Meeting.
Discussion then turned to Debt Capacity. Mr. Watters stated we have these committees; TCP
Building Design and now Municipal Building Design doing fantastic work for the Town
coming up with projects that they would like to work on. Then we get to Town Meeting and
===PAGE 4===
Meeting.
Mr. Dwyer noted when these projects are undertaken we have a budget number already and it
goes through the design process based on input from various boards and committees. It
ultimately comes out higher than we anticipated. So he was not sure that approach would
change the design process much. Mr. Jeffreys noted the majority of our debt capacity are
school renovations or new schools and after that there isn't much left. Given the cost of
schools we are never going to get out of the cycle. The year 2045 is when we are finished
paying for the Middle/High School.
Discussion continued on about bringing in outside financial planning for the Town. Ms.
Lemieux stated the annual financial forecasts are where we look at debt capacity. Mr.
Beardmore noted the financial forecasts only address the debt we have, not what we need to
do. It was noted you could do financial planning but that does not address unexpected events
like a pandemic or inflation or a recession.
Mr. Jeffreys asked the Finance Committee what the Select Board needs to do to be more
supportive of their function. Mr. Beardmore stated he did not feel unsupported. He believed
they get excellent support from the Town Manager and Finance Director. He suggested the
Select Board have these type of conversations annually and watch the Finance Committee
meetings during budget season to stay informed. The Select Board agreed these conversations
should be more often.
Mr. Jeffreys suggested that perhaps Town Manager's attendance at the Finance Committee
meetings should be scheduled for the first 90 minutes of their meetings. Everyone should be
mindful that the Town Manager is an employee who does have normal work hours. He also
suggested if the Finance Committee has a request that is above and beyond what an employee
normally does, to send it through the Select Board.
Mr. Jeffreys believed the Finance Committee has been walking a fine line between guiding
and advising Town Meeting and advised maintaining some balance between the guiding
versus the ability just to advise because just like our voice, your voice is equally important.
He appreciated their work on behalf of the residents of Lunenburg and thanked them.
Ms. Sroka thanked Mr. Beardmore for serving on the Finance Committee. (Note: he will be
resigning at the end of September to serve on the School Committee
The Finance Committee adjourned their meeting at 8:39 p.m.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Lemieux reported Sarah Cammer has resigned from the ad hoc Open Space Committee.
Now there is a vacancy for a Member at Large position.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
===PAGE 5===
to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the
Select Board's Officeat (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• IT Administrative Assistant (Part-time Non-benefitted)
• Public Safety Front Desk Clerk (Full-time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
Police Officer (Full-time Benefitted)
• Tax Collector Principal Clerk (Full-time benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-time Benefitted)
Van Driver (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
Traffic Line Painting and Sidewalks
• Trafficlinepainting that thetown'scontractorinformed the DP W Director
wouldoccur last week did not happen and the contractor is now saying this will
occur the week of October 2nd.
• PJKeatingistentativelyscheduledto makerepairsto thesidewalkon
Lancaster Avenuefrom Whiting Street to Rolling Acres on September
TheDPW Directorattended an informational meeting on Safe Routes to Schools
in August and hopesto apply for this grant funding next year in a joint effort
between the DPW, Schools, and other departments. The DP W Director will
participate in a planned walk on someoftheroadsto the schools to highlight
sidewalk viability in those areas at a later date.
Streetlights Purchase from Unitil
The closing for the purchase of the streetlights from Unitil was last Thursday and the Town is now the
official owner of those fixtures. The DPW has posted on their website and on Facebook that any
requests to repair streetlights to contact the DPW at 978-582-4160 or to use the online "Public Works-
Request for Service" form found on the Town's public works web page.
The Green Communities Committeeiscurrently workingon a Request for Proposals for Designand
Installation of LED Streetlights and hopeto have a draft for the Assistant Town Manager and meto
review shortly.
Ritter Breakroom Project
The students from Monty Tech began the Ritter Breakroom project last week but there has been a
pause in the project after observing a water leak that stems from possible water infiltration through
foundation cracks.
The Facilities Director will work with the DP W to excavate the area required in order to inspect the
foundation and the Monty Tech instructors have volunteered to investigate and attempt the repair
using their masonry department.Until this issue is resolved, this project will be on hold.
===PAGE 6===
Departments were sent the information necessary to complete tor any capital requests tor riscal years
2024 until 2033. Submissions are due back on October 13th.
The Capital Planning Committee will meet on Monday, September 26th at 5 PM to reorganize due to a
change in membership and to review the capital planning schedule.
Fraud Risk Assessment
The Finance Director and I had our kickoff meeting last week with the firm that will conduct the
Fraud Risk Assessment. All relevant staff and administration from the School will be asked to
complete questionnaire forms on process and ultimately we will receivea report summarizing the
results ofthe town'soperational procedures, identify any areasof risk, and developadministrativeand
departmental action items to minimize risks. This should be complete in the next couple of months.
Legislative Update
The legislature is revisiting the Economic Development Bill now that the 1986 tax relief law known as
Chapter 62F, which will return more than $2.9 billion back to taxpayers via checks and direct deposits.
I reached out to Representative Kushmerek's Office regarding House Bill 3727 on the Library Trust
Funds and this bill was signed by the Governor on August 24th and is titled Chapter 189 of the Acts
I sent an email to all three of our legislators regarding the status of the funding for Lunenburg in the
Economic Development Billand asking if weshould berequesting projects forconsideration of the
supplemental budget bill.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
Fall Yard Waste Days will be at the old Landfill, off Young's Road, from 8 am until 4 pm on
the following Saturdays: October 8th, 15th, 22nd, 29th and November 5th, 12th and 19th.
This is open to Lunenburg residents only.
• The Zoning Board of Appeals will be having the next hearing on the Pond View Commons
40B comprehensive permit application on October 12th at 7 PM in the Town Hall meeting
room. This will held in person and via Zoom.
•
The Nashoba Associated Boards of Health will be holding a Flu Clinic at the Lunenburg
Library on October 3rd from 3-5 PM for all ages. Pre-registration is required. More
information can be found on the Lunenburg Board of Health web page.
• The Lunenburg Business Association isplanning on doing the Trunk or Treat event again this
year. They havebeen intouch with theschool and atentativedate is Sunday, October 30th 12-3
PM at the LHS Upper Parking Lot.
The last Farmers Market will be this Sunday, September 25th.
The Special Town Meeting will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the MS/HS
Auditorium.
WORKSHOP
1. Review Select Board Policies & Procedures, Article IV Regulatory
Mr. Jeffreys read aloud each section/title and asked for comments or suggestions. Discussion
occurred about Section 4.04 Earth Removal Permits, but no action was taken other than a
suggestion to add a period to the end of the sentence in section 4.04.
===PAGE 7===
applications be given a sense and copy of the appointment process.
As Board-appointed vacancies occur, the Town Manager will ensure that local newspapers are advised of
the vacancies, and that vacancy notices are posted on the Town bulletin boards and advertised on the Town's
website and local cable television channel. Vacancies shall be so advertised on the Town's bulletin board for
no less than (104) days per Section 7-10 of the Town Charter. As practice, the Board shall appoint on or after
the twenty-first day following the posting of a vacancy. The chairman of the Board on which a vacancy
occurs will seek talent bank forms, and nomination recommendations from a majority of the relevant
committee.
Il. Appointments
Subject to applicable State Law and the Town Charter, the Board shall make its annual appointments at the
first and second regular meetings in June. Appointments made at thatose meetings shall have terms
beginning on July 1 and expiring on June 30. In addition, as the need arises, the Board may make
appointments throughout the year for terms to take immediate effect with expiration dates of June 30.
Terms shall not exceed three years, unless specifically allowed by Massachusetts General Law.
Appointments shall be based on merit and qualifications that relate to the duties of the subject board,
committee, or position. Where possible, the Board will seek variety in backgrounds, interest, ages, genders,
and geographic areas of Town residents, so that multi-member bodies Town boards and committees will
reflect a true cross-section of the community. In order to attract qualified and interested persons, the
Town Manager will provide a list of vacancies and reappointments to the Board by March 15 and employ
a multimedia strategy by April 1, as far in advance of the appointment as practicable to advertise all
vacancies.
The Town Manager will ensure that the Select Board receive with its Board material for the first and
second meetings in June, a list of appointments and reappointments to be filled by the Board that
includes all applicants, with notations for those seeking reappointment.
The Board shall conduct interviews when there are multiple applicants for a vacancy. Members may also
request, before May 25, for all applicants to an identified board or committee to have scheduledinterviews.
Reappointment shall not be considered automatic, but the Select Board will consider shall be based on an
evaluation of the appointee's past contributions in the role into which they are seeking reappointment. te
the body beard, committee, or position. As part of the annual appointment process, the Town Manager will
ask incumbents whose terms will expire on June 30 to fill out complete and return a Reappointment
Application modified talent bank by April 30 regarding their desire for reappointment and description of
their past contributiens. By May 10, The Town Manager's office will forward the Reappointment
Application forms to the other members of the multi-member body of which a resident is seeking
reappointment, board or committee and request asking for their review and response relating to the
reappointment of the person as well as the written comments in the application, prior to June 1. date of the
meeting at which the reappointment will take place. The board will review and consider such comments.
===PAGE 8===
charge, which shall include the work to be undertaken, the time in which it is to be accomplished, and
the procedures for reporting to the Select Board. The Board will discharge committees upon completion
of their work. The charges and membership of advisory committees shall be reviewed at least annually to
assess the necessity and desirability of continuing the committee.
This policy does not apply to appointments made to an elected Board vacancy that is done jointly between
the Select Board and the Board that has the vacancy.
VI. Guidance forAppointed Officials
Swear In: Appointees must contact the Town Clerk to be sworn in and be provided with information on the
Open Meeting and Conflict of Interest Laws.
Learn: All appointees should familiarize themselves with the Policies and Procedures of the Select Board,
with attention to the procedural and operational policies identified in Articles I and II. Appointees
should also familiarize themselves with the Town Charter and all applicable by laws and regulations
related to the body of which they are a member. Robert's Rule of Order helps inform general
parliamentary procedure, though multi-member bodies may employ a myriad of modifications.
Collaborate: Service to the Town in an appointed position of trust requires collaborative and honest
work in an environment that encourages diversity of viewpoint and perspective. All who serve have a duty
to exhibit the highest standards of interpersonal decency and demonstrate respect and consideration for
others while in the performance of theirduties.
Agendas and Minutes: All multi-member bodies committees appointed by the Board shall ensure that
all agendas and minutes are submitted to the Town Clerk for posting on the Town's website and comply
with all other in addition to the open meeting posting requirements. Bodies that require assistance with
minute-taking should contact the Town Manager's office for staff assignment, if available.
Organization: Each multi-member board should establish written operating procedures and have an
elected chair and other officers to facilitate meetings and the operations of the body. All written operating
procedures and policies should be submitted to the Select Board at least 14 days prior to being in effect.
Reporting: Each multi-member body committee must provide an annual report in writing each
November or in person each fall that includes a summary of the body's work throughout the calendar year
and recommendations to enhance or advance the operations of the body. at least annually to the Select
Board and meet with the Beard at least once a year. Each committee shall be provided with information
on parliamentary procedures.
Town Employees: While Town employees do not report to appointed officials or boards, many work
with them. Appointees who work with staff are encouraged to develop a positive rapport with them
to help ensure a positive feedback loop between policy and best-practices. Ineffective professional
relationships with staff should be addressed with the Town Manager.
Removal: A decision to terminate an appointment may be made by a majority of the Select Board subject
===PAGE 9===
April 30: Reappointment applications from incumbents are due to the Town Manager's office
May 10: Town Manager's office forwards reappointment applications to multi-member bodies
with vacancies and requests review and a response.
June 1: Responses by multi-member bodies on reappointment requests are due to the Town Manager's
office.
First and Second Tuesday in June: Annual Select Board Appointments
September-November: In-person or written annual updates to the Select Board by appointed multi-
member bodies or their representative
Discussion ensued about the phrase "Ineffective professional relationships with staff
should be addressed with the Town Manager." It was suggested to insert
"employee's supervisor or Town Manager" rather than Town Manager.
Discussion ensued about the reappointment section. Suggestion was made to
eliminate the reappointment process and just make it an appointment process if
everyone is going to be treated equally.
Mr. Jeffreys directed the members to the draft Volunteer Application and the
Reappointment Application forms. Committee descriptions were eliminated and
applicants are referred to the website. Precinct was eliminated and more room was
added for listing related skills. Discussion ensued about the forms. Mr. Jeffreys
will make some revisions and send them to the Town Manager and she will send
them back out to the board members for future discussion.
Due to the lateness of the evening, Environmental Policies was tabled as well as
Old Business.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Approval of Minutes of August 23, 2022
Motion: H. Sroka
To approve the minutes of August 23, 2022 as written
2': T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Executive Session Minutes approval was passed over until the next meeting to allow
everyone to read them.
Committee Reports
Ms. Sroka reported the School Committee meets tomorrow. Mr. Dwyer reported the Storm
Water Task Force met and reorganized after welcoming three new members. He was elected
Chairman. They meet again on the 3r° Thursday in October.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Zoning Board of Appeals met last week and it was a packed room.
It was a preliminary introduction to the project over on Howard Street in which the project
===PAGE 10===
those boards have the authority to expand the districts; that is a legislative function of Town
Meeting.
Municipal Building Design Committee met last night and discussed three scenarios that we
came up with and the pros and cons of each, the monetary implications etc. We are looking to
have a joint meeting with the Select Board on October 11" to discuss them. We will be
seeking feedback from this board on how to proceed. We will meet prior to that to finalize
the presentation.
Upcoming Meetings: this board meets again on October 4, 11' and the 18th.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys noted for those watching at home and following along, that the board has been
going over their policies in a meeting workshop format, usually the second or third meeting
of the month. It is healthy for us to build these dynamics amongst each other to work through
these meteor topics.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:39 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
