===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ZOOM, John McCormick,
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel,
on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24
hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the
sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which maybe discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who attended the Annual Town Meeting this past Saturday and
everyone who made it possible.
Anthony Sculimbrene, 5 Valley Road, noted he has attended three town meetings since moving here
from Ohio and finds them of great value. There is no such thing as a town meeting other than here in
New England. He expressed concern about the meeting stretching through the better part of the day
and the time commitment and management involved, and concerns about amendments to articles
being made at town meeting. He felt this could negate all the citizen input that has come before. He
was also concerned about the Capital plan list and had said so at the town meeting. He did appreciate
the electronic voting method. He looked forward to continuing in that process. Mr. Alonzo stated it
was nice to hear Mr. Sculimbrene's experience with town meeting and that he had participated.
Mr. Alonzo announced Per the Select Board Policies & Procedures, Article IV. Regulatory. § 4.01
Liquor Licenses, § 1: General Licensing Rules For Licensees; Subsection 1.21: Applications and Fees
of the Select Board; Notice is being provided of an available Wine & Malt Off Premises License
(Section 15) in the Town of Lunenburg to the public. Please note the Licensing Authority will not accept
any new applications for this license until 30 days after such a notification has been made, published and
posted, which will be June 6, 2022.
Ms. Lemieux noted the Town Annual Election is Saturday, May 21 at the TCP Building. Absentee
ballots are available at the Town Clerk office.
APPOINTMENIS
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for May 21, 9 am to 1 pm Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club (rain date
June 11")
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Lemieux reported Mr. Bernard has a Bachelor of Science degree in civil engineering from UMass
Lowell and 30 years of engineering experience with MassDOT District 4. Mr. Bernard started his career
there as the assistant resident engineer working on all highway maintenance responsibilities and worked
his way yup to the civil ugen or vidge repaib. Mr. Bernardhas yeance experience of mana 10
employees, writing bid specifications, cost estimating and project management and his references
described him as conscientious, intelligent, easy going and great with developing and managing
contracts. Mr. Bernard came forward and stated he was looking forward to working in Lunenburg.
Motion: L. Franco
2": T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of DPW Director William Bernard
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of the Conservation Administrator-
Nadia Madden
Ms. Lemieux introduced Ms. Madden via ZOOM. She has a Bachelor Degree of science, earth and
planetary sciences from MIT and a Master's Degree in water resource management from UNH. She has
three years' experience with the Town of Shirley as their conservation agent and four years serving on
the Groton Conservation Commission. She has customer service experience including supervisory and
working in an independent setting and her references described her as pleasant, reliable, being
knowledgeable and a good communicator. Ms. Madden stated she looked forward to working in
Lunenburg and this job is doing something she enjoys.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"d: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Nadia Madden as Conservation Administrator
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2
Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
(978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
===PAGE 3===
town website.
Flat Hill Road Culvert Project
We received notification today that our Community Project Funding request for the supplemental
funding for the Flat Hill Road Culvert project did not make it to the Appropriations Committee, so
does not have any potential of being funded this year by the federal government. We also have a
Small Bridge Program grant application pending before MassDOT for this project that we expect to
hear something by June.
Department Head Updates
•
Police: The Civilian Traffic Unitemployeesare busy with many detailsbeingscheduledaroundtown. The
department has their accreditation site visit scheduled in July.
• PACC: The project with the ACE student is going well. Still searching for a Production Assistant and
videographers.
• Treasurer/Collector: The Treasurer/Collector is working on updating tailings. Quarterly taxes were due
May 2nd.
• IT: A portion of the network equipment is in and they will beworking with the Network Administrator on
scheduling installation. The email migration for employees iscurrently occurring in phases. Areview of all
the licenses available against what is needed for each ofthe employees is underway and after the
employees are migrated we will focus on boards/committees.
• Assessors: The data collection being conducted by Vision is finishing this week. Currently the Principal
Assessor is working on supplemental assessments.
• COA: The participation ratesatthe COA are way up. Currently waiting on MARTtocompleteprocess
before new van driver can begin. Currently there is no transportation on Mondays due to lack of having a
driver on that day.
• Land Use: Uma Flowers has filed their Special Permit and are scheduled for Monday, May 23rd. The
Planning Board has reached out to various boards, including the Select Board, on having a workshop to
discuss the potential impacts and possible mitigation measures related to the expansion of water and
sewer that is proposed by the Pond View Commons project.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Absentee Ballots are now available at the Town Clerk's Office for the Annual Town
Election on May 21st. The last day and hour to vote absentee is Friday, May 20, 2022 at
noon.
• Yard Waste Collection Days at Youngs Road are Saturdays now until May 21st. The
collection is open from 8 am until 4 pm.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th and be every Sunday until
Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will on the following dates: July 11th, July 18th, July 25th, August 1st,
August 8th and a rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once
===PAGE 4===
project, the sewer Commission bylaw waiver wording, redistricting of the water district map and the
professionalism of the slide presentation preparation for the Town Meeting. Overall it was a successful
meeting.
Senior Project Request - John McCormack-49 Williams Drive
John McCormack, a senior at Lunenburg High School, presented his project request to the Select Board.
He would like to publish an array of geocaches within the town center and surrounding historical
areas to help promote tourism within our town, while also utilizing geocaching as a way for people
to learn more about the historical sites within our lovely town as there is so much interesting
history. Geocaching is an outdoor recreational activity/online scavenger hunt game that is played
globally. You use an app on your phone which displays a list of caches (containers with a paper log
that you sign once you find it on a map. He presented the locations in town that he would like to
place them. He requested placing one on the back of the Stop sign over by the Ritter Memorial
Building. The next one would be on the back of the solar panel at Veterans Memorial Park and the
third one would be on the back of the stop sign near the gazebo on Lancaster Ave. The last one
would be down by the old pond at Marshall Park as it is an interesting site in town.
Mr. Alonzo stated we have to check to see if there are any regulations about putting anything on a
stop sign. Mr. McCormack will contact the Police chief about the stop signs. Mr. Jeffreys suggested
he hingested
contacting the Town Managers office for contact information of all the pertinent departments.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To approve the request from John McCormack to install four geocaches in the town center on
town property contingent upon approval from the DPW and Police Chief Vote: All in Favor
The board informed Mr. McCormack that he gave a well prepared presentation and wished him good
luck at geocaching and college. He was advised to contact the Select Board office in the morning to get
contact emails he will need for his request.
Report on FY 2022 Town Manager Goals
Ms. Lemieux noted she had been updating the board and continued on with her goals to date.
1. Goal #1: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave:
a. Objective: To address a blighted property that has been in tax title for over a decade.
i. Action: The Town Manager will continue to work with the consultant that performed the
Environmental Site Assessments, MassDEP, and MassDevelopment to seek all available outside
funding resources that will result in remediation of the site and limit the risk exposure of clean-up
costs that would be borne by the Town.
Status: I continued to work with our Environmental Consultant (Joe McLaughlin of BETA Group, MassDEP,
and MassDevelopment about possible cleanup funding. Ultimately Joe McLaughlin and I were meeting with
someone from the EPA and federal funding became available through the stimulus bill. The EPA contact put our
===PAGE 5===
Status: After reassurance from both the environmental consultant and the EPA contact that the Town would not
be liable per MA DEP standards since there was no known imminent hazard based on the series of
environmental site assessments conducted, the Town agreed to move forward with foreclosing on this property.
I notified the Treasurer/Collector the day after this decision was made at a Select Board's meeting to notify our
Tax Title Attorney to proceed with foreclosure.
2. Goal #2: Enhance Facilities Management and Maintenance:
a. Objective: To look at the feasibility of creating an independent facilities departmentand improve
the long term maintenance and repair plan for town facilities.
i. Action: Review the current organizational structure and determine if a reorganization that
separates Facilities from the Department of Public Works would create greater
efficiencies. Follow the process in the Town Charter as required for any reorganization.
Status: After multiple conversations with the past two DPW Directors, everyone was in agreement that Facilities
would be better served as an independent department and that the two current Facilities personnel could remain
in the DPW Union, as the new position would not be taking away from any bargaining unit work. Since the
Facilities staff already is responsible for snow removal for the facilities, this would remain the same. The
Assistant Town Manager assisted with soliciting position descriptions from other communities and salary
ranges. I used these as a basis, as well as conversations with board members and general comments received
during Finance Committee discussions and a Parks Commission meeting to formulate the Administrative
Organization Plan, that is required per the Town Charter. A hearing notice was placed in the newspaper, a
public hearing held at a Select Board's meeting, and an article to vote on the Administrative Organization Plan
will be voted on at the May 7" Annual Town Meeting.
3. Goal #3: Establish Means Tested Senior Citizen Property Tax Exemption:
a. Objective: To establish a Senior Citizen Real Estate Tax Credit Program to seniors that meet
certain eligibility requirements.
i. Action: Research different models of Senior Citizen Property Tax Exemption programs in
the Commonwealth and work with the Finance Director and Principal Assessor on the
financial impact of implementing a reduced residential tax rate for seniors.
Status: I had previously provided Wakefield's Home Rule Petition for a Senior Discount Program and after
engaging the Finance Director and Principal Assessor in the conversation, each reached out to two different
communities on their models. Select Board Chairman Tom Alonzo, Select Board Clerk Lou Franco, Finance
Director Karen Brochu, Principal Assessor CJ Carroll, and I had a meeting the last month and the Principal
Assessor has provided this group with additional information. We will likely set up a meeting in the next couple
of weeks.
===PAGE 6===
neview Composite town Manager pertormance Evaluation
This was tabled until the next meeting.
Discussion on ARPA Spending
Ms. Lemieux reported last week Jon Hogue, who runs a Leominster non-profit shelter for homeless
families, had contacted her about seeking ARPA funding for additional housing from the surrounding
communities, including Lunenburg. However she did not receive his proposal for this evening. But this
will be a discussion going forward until the town has a spending plan in place for the funding.
4th Quarter FY22 Water Commitment $11,630.73
Motion: T. Dwyer
2'd: L. Franco
To approve the FY22 4t' Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $11,630.73
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
There were no minutes for approval this evening. The board signed a Payroll warrant in the amount of
$951,234.74, a Payroll Deductions warrant in the amount of $607,055.89 and an Accounts Payable
warrant in the amount of $2,115,570.04.
Action Item: Mr. Alonzo noted it was brought to their attention that the pavement management plan on
the town website is out of date and we will be working with the new DPW Director to update it.
He also noted we have gotten emails about finding another location for the tree that was planted in
memorial at the crossing area in from of 1 Main Street. We have not forgotten and will be seeking
another location for another tree to be planted.
Mr. Jeffreys, following up on the draft sign policy amendment from last meeting, asked if the School
Committee had provided any feedback on the wording. Ms. Lemieux will have to check on that.
Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer reported MJTC meets tomorrow at 2:30 pm; he will be unable to attend. Mr. Jeffreys
reported the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee will be meeting next Monday at 6:00 pm
via ZOOM. There is a Library Trustees meeting next Thursday at 6:45 pm at the Library. The Memorial
on the 30' at 10:00 AM at Veterans Memorial Park.
Mr. Alonzo stated this board's next meetings are May 17 and May 24 at 7:00 PM. The APDC public
hearing for the Ritter Building alterations is on May 19 at 7:30 p.m. at the Ritter Building and the
Annual Town Election is Saturday, May 21.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none this evening.
Mr. Franco announced the Lion's Club Pancake Breakfast tomorrow at Eagle House Senior/Community
Center from 8- 11 a.m.
===PAGE 7===
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
