===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Police Lt. Thibodeau, Deven O'Brien, John Kimball,
Unitil Representative, Michael Molino, David Leet, Scott Perry, Jacqueline Mayo
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel,
on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24
hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the
sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo noted the first town band concert was last night. They are located in front of the TC
Passios Building and will be playing for the next four Mondays with an additional rain date of August
15" if needed. Mr. Jeffreys stated he had visited the Lions club food pantry and he was impressed
with the quantity and quality of the food.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
There were none this evening.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Police Officer Deven O'Brien
Lt. Thibodeau read a letter from Police Chief Gammel:
"As you are aware we have an immediate opening for a full time Police Officer within the department. As we were
preparing to address the vacancy a former full time Lunenburg Police Officer, Deven O'Brien, reached out to us to
inquire if we had any vacancies. Lt. Thibodeau and I met with Deven to discuss the position with him. We discussed
the importance of commitment to the Town and the department, which he fully understood, and assured us that
Lunenburg is where he wants to be. Lt. Thibodeau and I felt that with Deven's experience, training, and knowledge of
the Town, he would be good fit for the department. I am pleased to recommend Deven O'Brien to the position of Full
Time Police Officer.
Deven has met all of the requirements set forth by the Peace Officer Standards and Training Commission, and has been
certified until June 22, 2025. A full background investigation was completed, and no issues were found in his
background.
Deven was a lifelong resident of Lunenburg, and is again temporarily residing in Lunenburg until his home his
competed in Holden. Deven is a graduate of Montachusett Regional Vocational High School and holds an Associate
Degree in Applied Science of Criminal Justice from Eastern Gateway Community College, graduating in 2020.
Deven is currently pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree in Criminal Justice from Central State University, with an
222222
anticipated completion date of December of 2023.
===PAGE 2===
Deven is a certified Accident Reconstructionist and was assigned to the CEMLEC Accident Reconstruction Team.
In 2022, Deven accepted a position with the Massachusetts State Police (MSP), and began the academy in May of
2022. During this time Deven felt that the MSP and attending another academy was not the right decision for his
family. Deven decided that he would resign from the MSP, and return to municipal policing. During his background
investigation I was not surprised to find such statements as "good kid, squared away, and would recommend hiring
him." These statements were in fact evident while Deven was previously employed with the department. While with
the department Deven was well thought of and got along well with his fellow officers. His work ethic was excellent,
and was a very active patrol officer. To say the least I was sad to see him leave, but at the time of his departure I fully
understood his reasoning, knowing that Marlborough PD could offer him more opportunities than we could. Now, as
the department continues to grow we can offer similar opportunities, as well opportunities afforded to us by being a
member of the CEMLEC regional team. I am extremely pleased that Deven has decided to return to the department, as
he was a valuable member when he was here. He recognizes the importance of Community Policing, and the
importance of collaboration with our community members. I believe that Deven will be an outstanding asset not only
to the department but to the community we serve. I request that Deven O'Brien be appointed to the position of Full
Time Police Officer effective July 13, 2022. "
Deven O'Brien repeated his employment history as stated in Chief Gammel's letter and added, "I'm
excited to be back here working in the town under some great leadership and alongside some great
police officers and really excited to get back to get back to work." The board welcomed him back and
thanked him for coming forward.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Deven O'Brien as full-time police officer effective
July 13, 2022
2"i: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys congratulated Officer O'Brien and applause resounded through the meeting room.
Pole Petition Hearing for new pole on W. Townsend Road, Plan 975-L dated 6/6/2022
LOCATION
(1) W. Townsend Road: Proposed New Pole, #22A, approximately 993 feet south of Howard Street
and approximately 1245 feet north of Chase Road, as shown on map. Plan 975-L dated June 6,
2022.
John Kimball, Unitil Representative, stated this is for a single-family home similar to the previous
Watt Street pole petition, it's a matter of property lines, that's why we need to put the pole where we
need to put it and we're not going to be crossing anyone else's property with the lines. The board had no
questions.
Abutter Michael Molino, 203 W. Townsend Road, did not have a problem with the pole but stated the
property behind him is being cleared and he anticipated more poles going in along his property line.
Could Unitil put in underground service? Mr. Alonzo stated the only option would be to have the service
go underground from the pole to the new home, but that is the homeowner's choice and expense. Mi:
Molino stated he was not informed about the surrounding properties when he bought the property so felt
===PAGE 3===
taxpayers and one of those was to purchase street light poles from Unitil and we've been in a very
prolonged process to try to purchase this. I'm not directly involved in the process, so I'm commenting
that it would be helpful if you can just relay that it would be incredibly helpful if we can actually bring
this to a close. It seems as if we're at the finish line as reported by the Town Manager but if you can
report back to Unitil that we've been very courteous in making sure that we schedule these petitions as
soon as you guys request them; we've been very clear about what our expectations are and we've
hopefully been very professional to work with. What we're asking is that Unitil close out this project so
we can purchase these lights and save our town and residents some money. Mr. Kimball stated he would
speak to his manager in the morning.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the pole petition for W. Townsend Road: Proposed New Pole, #22A, approximately
993 feet south of Howard Street and approximately 1245 feet north of Chase Road, as shown
on map. Plan 975-L dated June 6, 2022
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Kimball thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Public Hearing for One Day Alcohol License and Entertainment License for Conrad's Drive-In
for July 16
David Leet, 149 Rolling Acres Road, Manager for Conrad's, located at 835 Massachusetts Avenue, was
applying for a one day beer and wine license for Saturday, July 16 from 2-6 p.m. He was having
trouble obtaining liquor liability insurance for the event. He anticipated having it by the weekend. He
has talked to the Police Dept. about having two detail officers present for those hours. This event is a
fundraiser for a resident who needs a kidney transplant. They are also holding raffles and other things to
raise money. We are also going to ask for food donations for the food pantry. We have a bartender who
has server training.
Scott Perry, 429 Arbor Street, helping to coordinate the event, added the funds raised will also go to the
Polycystic Kidney Disease Foundation. They also want to have live music. There have been donations
from local businesses for the raffle. Parking will not be affected so there is no loss of space.
Ms. Lemieux reported the application materials were due last week and we are still not in receipt of the
liability insurance. The Police were not in favor of the parking plan/site plan. Lt. Thibodeau noted the
original plan did not have a sectioned area for the serving of alcohol; there needs to be a roped off area
for consumption. You cannot walk around everywhere with alcohol. There needs to be two detail
officers when alcohol is being served. Our original recommendation to deny was based on the lack of
liability insurance. Mr. Leet repeated his difficulty in getting liability insurance.
Mr. Alonzo asked if those two issues were the only reason they were not in favor of the event. Lt.
Thibideau stated as long as the alcohol is contained in the roped off area and insurance is provided, he
===PAGE 4===
parking signs to put up.
Mr. Alonzo noted Mr. Leet was not helping his application by doing everything at the last minute and
bringing in a site plan scratched on note paper. We are asking you questions that could easily have been
answered. He suggested in the future getting these items in on time so we have a chance to review them.
He was only in favor of approval if proof of liquor liability is provided to the office by tomorrow. Mr.
Franco echoed Mr. Alonzo. Ms. Sroka thought it was for a good cause but suggested next time to
delineate the roped off area in feet for clarity. She asked if the beer and wine would be in the roped area.
Mr. Leet stated it would be. Discussion about providing a provisional license ensued.
Mi. Jeffreys stated part of our job is to be neutral and detached so we can be fair and impartial as we
look at things. The nature of Conrad's is that we certainly promote and support your business and so we
are not neutral. We have tried as you probably are aware, to be as supportive as we can in this regard.
I hold the same opinion as my colleagues that the contingent approval should be number one. Stepping
back from that the guidance that the Town Manager and Ms. Peterson have is that if we don't have the
documents by Thursday at 5:00 pm, it gets taken off the agenda. That's the general guidance that we
operate under and we made an exception understanding that you are trying to do a good cause.
I would support conditions of certificate of insurance be provided and also a revised site plan that's to
the satisfaction of Lt. Thibodeau while the Chief is away. Could you communicate back to us what parts
of this process were so costly that it really dipped into your profit for the cause you're trying to do so if
there is a process that we need to revise or modify we can look into that?
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To approve the one day alcohol and entertainment licenses for Conrad's Drive-in for July 16th
from 2 to 6 p.m. conditional on the presentation by end of day tomorrow of the liability liquor
insurance coverage to the Town Manager office and that a site and parking plan has been
approved by Lt. Thibodeau
Vote: All in Favor
No WoCo Gay Pride Week Flag Raising Request for July 13; 3:00 PM
Jacqueline Mayo, 38 Otis Street, presented on behalf of the request. They would be arriving around 2:30
pm on the 13'" with a sound system so the public can hear the speeches. Two local teenagers will be
raising the flag and have been instructed on flag etiquette. We ask for an electricity source for the sound
system on the upper common. Ms. Sroka asked how long the flag would be raised. Ms. Mayo stated
through Sunday. Discussion ensued on the logistics of taking the flag down. Ms. Lemieux stated the
DPW could take it down Monday morning and someone could retrieve it from the DPW. Mr. Jeffreys
asked if DP W could provide support during the raising of the flag. Ms. Lemieux will follow up on that.
None of the board members will be available due to work obligations although Mr. Franco stated if he
could he would attend but would not be speaking.
Mr. Jeffreys noted this request was scheduled about a month and a half ago but no one showed up
initially. If for the future you could plan at least a couple of weeks in advance to avoid conflicts with
other events, it would be helpful.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
===PAGE 5===
Gammel for annual appointment as Special Officers:
Townsend Police Department
James Sartell
Mark Giancotti
Christopher Peach
George Reidy
Mark Francis
David Phillips
Jeffrey Giles
Michael Marchand
Christopher Low
Eric Modica
Christopher Tucker
Dylan Silvestri
Matthew Faria
Austin Cote
Chief of Police
Lieutenant
Lieutenant
Sergeant
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Officer
Reserve Officer
ore fies noted fer the pullicus information that hese appointments are made in case of the need for
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager appointments of the Townsend Special Officers as read
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
(978) 582-4130 x 144.
===PAGE 6===
•
Paramedic (Full-time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
•
Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full-time Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Lufa Farms Proposal at 361 Mass Ave
In June the Land Use Director and I met with representatives from a company called Lufa Farms to discuss a possible
agricultural business they were interested in constructing in Lunenburg. At that time they had a potential site, 361
Mass Ave for hydroponic growing of vegetables, lettuces, and herbs. This is the same site that Bright Farms was
going to purchase to do a large scale indoor greenhouse for lettuces. Lufa Farms specializes in having an online
farmers market, reducing food waste, and greater sustainability. They were very receptive to working with our
local agricultural community, farmers' market vendors, and the schools if this project were to move forward.
Yesterday they submitted a Letter of Intent that they would be applying for tax incentives under the Massachusetts
Economic Development Program. It is their intent that they would be applying for state and local tax incentives.
There are multiple steps in the process, the Letter of Intent being the first step. I have provided the Board a
memorandum from when Bright Farms initiated this same process for a Tax Increment Financing Agreement and
related documents. Overall this would be a low impact project that would increase commercial tax revenues for the
town, increase local jobs by an estimated 300 jobs, and support our local agricultural community and schools.
I will bring any further updates on this to the Board as I receive them.
2022 Fall Special Town Meeting
The Board will not vote on a date for holding a fall special town meeting until the end of August but
thereare a number of itemsthat we are already aware of for potential warrant articles, including:
• Adding Salary Administration Plan positionsto the compensation/classification grid that have
been approved by the Personnel Committee;
• Funding foran outside consultantto perform a compensation study related to SAP positions
Additional funding in Assessors budget needed for our cyclical data inspections (estimated
$35,000);
• Funding for the Architectural Preservation District Commission administrative expenses
• Prior year invoice from FY21
Mr. Jeffreys asked Ms. Lemieux to invite the Personnel Committee to a board
meeting if they choose.
925 Mass Ave (old Gas Station)
I have a site visit scheduled with the Brownfields Coordinator from the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency regarding our proposed assessment work. The goal would be to review the scope of work in order
to be ready to move forward in September when the contract is awarded.
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Alonzo suggested submitting a CTA without the window replacement to get the other
work done at the Ritter Building. Mr. Jeffreys stated the town is not obligated to maintain
inefficient windows. There has to be a common ground here where we can improve the efficiency of our
buildings, decrease the HVAC cost to our taxpayers and still maintain a historic look and feel to our
building. Mr. Alonzo agreed.
Pavement Management Plan
We have engaged the BETA Group to update our Pavement Management Plan that would use LiDAR
(Light Detection and Ranging) technology. Assuming a kickoff date of August 1st, we can expect this
project would be wrapped up by late October/early November.
Streetlights Update
An attorney from Mead, Talerman and Costa and I met with Unitil representatives and their counsel on
June 29th and discussed certain terms in both the license agreement and Purchase & Sale Agreement that
will be a part of the purchase of the streetlights from Unitil. We have another meeting scheduled this
Thursday that I am hopeful we can have everything ready to present to the Board at either the July
19th or August 2nd meeting. Our counsel would be present at that meeting to review the terms and any
questions the Board may have.
Discussion ensued about Unitil providing (or not) any community outreach or other
community services to Lunenburg compared to other large businesses.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals
Bids for Road Materials for FY23 were received and contracts recently awarded. Prices increased
anywhere from 20-40% for different materials from our last contract in FY20.
An Invitation for Bids was advertised for the reconstruction of the front wall and replacement of a portion
of the interior suspended ceiling for the Town Beach Building and we received only one bid in the amount
of $54,000. Due to the bid being very high for the amount of work need to be done, we have rejected this
bid. The DP W Director, Assistant Town Manager, Facilities staff member and I will be getting together to
discuss next steps and rebidding this project.
Conference Committee on Bills H-4800 and S-2823, An Act relative to equity in the cannabis
industry
It came to my attention last week that the House and Senate versions of the bills related to equity in the
Cannabis industry were being discussed by the formed Conference Committee. Due to time sensitivity,
I submitted a letter to the Conference Committee on certain provisions of the bills, including:
• Opposition to retroactive regulation by the Cannabis Control Commission on a Host Community
Agreement that the Town negotiated in good faith and was a contractual agreement between the
Town and the cannabis business;
===PAGE 8===
The House bill would extend the option to hold remote meetings to March 31, 2023. However, on the House
floor, an amendment was adopted via voice vote to mandate remote access and remote participation at all
public meetings, including all local boards and commissions, beginning on April 1, 2023. This floor
amendment would create a permanent mandate for remote access to all public meetings aside from those in
executive session, with a provision requiring remote participation by the public if any public participation is
allowed or required at the meeting. Under H. 4991, beginning on April 1, 2023, all local boards,
commissions, and committees would be required to meet in person, with at least 1/3 of the members present,
in a meeting place that allows public access. In addition, all meetings would require virtual access by the
public, with the ability for the public to participate virtually if any part of the meeting contains comments
by the public. All video sessions would be required to be live captioned using automated speech recognition
or other technology. The bill also includes a new civil penalty of up to $200 on individual board members,
including volunteers, for 3 or more violations of these provisions or other aspects of the Open Meeting Law.
No funding or local discretion is included in the measure.
Last Tuesday, the Senate passed S. 2985, which is a simple extension of the remote meeting allowances
that began two years ago as a response to challenges from COVID-19. The Senate bill would extend these
authorizations through Dec. 15, 2023.
The two bills will need to be reconciled in a Conference Committee but with the current deadline of July 15th
that allows for fully remote meetings without a quorum of the board/committee present, we are left again
scrambling at the end to provide guidance to our board/committee members that are required to post
meetings at least 48 hours in advance, excluding weekends and holidays.
Discussion ensued about the financial burden H. 4991 would put on towns to fulfill this
requirement. It was suggested to voice opposition as a board. Mr. Jeffreys will reach out to the
legislative representatives about this and Bills H-4800 and S-2823.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
The Finance Committee has moved their regularly scheduled meeting from this Thursday to
Thursday July 21$t
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will be on the following dates: July 18th, July 25th, August 1st, August 8th and a
rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once again be held on the lawn in
front of the TC Passios Building.
It was noted the Historical Society is open during the same hours as the farmers market.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review and Vote on Town Manager and Select Board (SB) Goals for FY 2023
Mr. Jeffreys presented the SB goals according to the last board discussion:
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building at 30
School Street a continuation of F121 and F122 Select Board Goal - Objective 1, with modified actions).
1. Action: Oversee hazardous material abatement and demolition of Old Primary School
===PAGE 9===
property tax exemption or abatement.
I. Action: Discuss the authority allowing us to pursue this program. Evaluate examples of how
other towns have already adopted similar programs.
II. Action: Discuss and determine the eligibility criteria for seniors to be able to qualify and
participate in the program.
Ill. Action: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to create financial models and
illustrations to allow the Select Board to weigh options and to fine tune any proposal. At a
minimum, these illustrations should include what the exemption and/or abatement would be to
the eligible seniorsand what the impact would be on all other taxpayers.
IV. Action: Hold public hearings when necessary (but at least one) to present the proposal and get
feedback from the public.
V. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final proposal for
Town consideration
Mr. Alonzo noted I. is completed and can be removed and Il is almost completed. Mr. Franco
concurred. Ms. Lemieux recommended adding the Principal Assessor to Objective 2 and III as
he is a key part of the discussion.
Objective 3: Review Select Board bylaws and propose updates for 2023 Annual Town Meeting
I. Action: Review Select Board Policies and Procedures
Il. Action: Review all Select Board bylaws and prepare modifications/updates to improve clarity
and consistency with the Town Charter.
Ill. Action: Hold public hearings to present the proposal and get feedback from the public.
IV. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final proposal for
Town consideration.
Under Objective 3. (III.), suggestion was made to change wording to "Hold public hearings for
proposed changes to bylaws to receive and incorporate feedback from the public."
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the FY23 Select Board goals as read and modified
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys will make the changes and forward it to all concerned. Ms. Lemieux stated she had
presented these at a previous meeting and asked the board to approve them.
TOWN MANAGER GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
Fiscal Year 2023
===PAGE 10===
pr we done or put togeer rB/ker i property will be disposed
through
2. Goal #2: Long Term Planning:
a. Objective: To enhance the Town's long term planning in the areas of capital assets,
staffing, and infrastructure plans.
i. Action: Capital Planning: Include asset inventory list and expected date of
replacement of all vehicles, equipment, infrastructure (roads, culverts, bridges,
sidewalks), buildings, and grounds in capital planning documents. Utilize a platform
that will create greater transparency during the capital planning process.
ii. Action: Long Term Staffing: Create a comprehensive long term staffing plan that
will be updated annually and identifies additional space needs and funding sources.
ill. Action: Roads and Bridges: Work with the DPW Director to update the current
Pavement Management Plan and create similar plan for large culverts and bridges.
3. Goal #3: Employee Recruitment, Recognition, and Retention
a. Objective: To establish new employee recruitment methods, create formal recognition plan,
and strategies for retention.
i. Action: Recruitment: Assess current recruitment methods and establish new
employee recruitment strategies:
a. Work with area towns/cities on regional approach to recruitment.
b. Design job postings that market the town and the position to attract greater pool
of applicants.
c. Attend college job fairs and explore internship program with local colleges.
ii. Action: Create formal recognition plan:
a. Create recognition program that highlights town employees at public meetings.
b. Formalize annual employee appreciation event including "awards" for years of
service of employees.
ili. Action: Retention:
a. Survey department heads and staff on topics for trainings and conduct
quarterly professional development training schedule.
b. Conduct employee survey to assess job satisfaction. Based on results, create an
action plan.
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the Town Manager goals and objectives for fiscal year 2023
2'': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 11===
everywhere in the document. He pointed out the second paragraph should begin at (a.) not (g.). But as
far as content he had no issues with the actual duties.
Discussion ensued about what to call themselves as individuals; Select Board member, Selectman or
Selectwoman? General consensus was to call themselves Select Board members for gender neutrality.
It was noted the liaison assignments are chosen by the individual members rather than being assigned as
indicated under Section 1.07, but no action was taken.
Mr. Alonzo noted Section 1.12, Town Meetings, is redundant because it is dictated by bylaw and Town
Charter anyway.
No action was taken on Sections 1.13, Designer Selection Procedures; 1.14 First Right of Refusal
Procedures; Section 1.15 Placement of Questions on a Local Election Ballot and Section 1.16 Senior
Workoff Program Policy.
Article Il, Operational Policies, was next. Regarding Section 2.02 Remote Participation, Mr.
Jeffreys noted this was amended due to the COVID-19 pandemic and remains up in the air due to
MA legislative actions extending remote participation and with new legislation possibly coming
forth. They moved on to Section 2.03 Use of Information Technology Resources Policy for
Elected and Appointed Board/Committee Members. He encouraged all newly appointed and
elected committee members to read this section if they haven't already.
Next was Section 2.04 Email by Boards/Committees and Compliance with Open Meeting Law and
Section 2.05 Social Media Policy for Appointed and Board/Committee Members. Mr. Franco read
aloud the policy. Mr. Jeffreys advised all appointed and elected officials to read these as well to be
mindful when interacting with the public on social media.
Regarding Section 2.07 Appointments, Mr. Jeffreys noted the board had taken quite a bit of time talking
about this policy and considering revising it in the past. We were working on it and were kind of split on
the consensus. We need to have overwhelming consensus for policy changes. This year we did try to
activate this policy as presented. After asking the other members if they would like to review again, it
was determined to address it later.
Next was the Talent Bank Form, Section 2.07, which is a request for appointment and it will also be
reviewed.
Section, 2.08 was the Flag Policy. Mr. Franco read it aloud. Section 2.09 Recycled Product Procurement
Policy, Section 2.10 Contractors, Section 2.11 Town Communications and Section 2.12 Conflict of
Interest/Financial Disclosure were reviewed without comment or action taken.
The board members returned to Section 2.07 Appointments. Mr. Jeffreys and Mr. Franco both read
portions of aloud
Discussion ensued about the reappointment process. Regarding the following: The Town Manager's
office will forward the reappointment form to the board or committee asking for their review and response
relating to the reappointment of the person as well as the written comments in the application, prior to date
of the meeting at which the reappointment will take place. When asked if the boards are requested to
===PAGE 12===
terms. After much discussion, four members agreed that no one should be appointed for more than four
consecutive terms, then would have to take time off for one term's length. It was pointed out this board
has the discretion already not to reappoint someone in the process. This proposed change will be sent out
to the other boards and committees for feedback.
Mr. Jeffreys when asked about the Board of Registrars' reappointments, stated the board should not do
anything that would negatively impact voting. Some typographical errors were pointed out by Mr.
Franco.
Mr. Alonzo stated the reappointment process is not well defined. Discussion ensued over whether
incumbents should be interviewed along with new applicants or separately and advertising whether an
incumbent is applying for reappointment to any new applicants. Discussion turned to the time period of
10 days for posting a vacancy.
The board moved on to the Talent Bank Form. Suggestions were made to change it to Volunteer
Application Form or Request for Appointment. Recommendations to eliminate precinct #, add more
space for background (change Background to Related skills), remove board descriptions and refer to the
website for that. Mi. Jeffreys will bring back the suggested changes at a later meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Minutes of May 3, May 10, May 17, 2022
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: T. Dwyer
To approve the minutes of May 3 and May 10, 2022 as written
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Sroka)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of May 17, 2022 as written
Vote: 3 in favor, 2 abstentions (Dwyer and Sroka)
Warrants: The board signed a FY22 accounts payable warrant in the amount of $673,335.79; a FY23
accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,693,305.25; another FY23 accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $171,616.80 and an assessment warrant in the amount of $118,251.
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo stated when the town repaves Townsend Harbor Road, we need to paint the center or the
side lines as it is a poorly lit road and winding and a very dangerous road at night. Ms. Lemieux will
check with the DPW Director about the dates for line painting.
Ms. Lemieux stated the Conservation Commission would like to add alternate positions as they are not
statutorily defined. We may want to bring in Town Counsel for that. She added the board also needs to
create a charge for the 300" Anniversary Committee.
Mr. Jeffreys stated there are three areas that he would like to talk about at future meetings; the first is
about littering in town, creating a policy or bylaw. He stated some businesses in town are charging
===PAGE 13===
on August 2"d and 9".
PUBLIC COMMENT-
Mr. Franco reminded about the pancake breakfast tomorrow at the Eagle House Senior Center from 8-
11 am.
Mr. Jeffreys stated it is really important to continue to have workshops so we can continue to build
better relationships with one another as have open discussions about a lot of things.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2': T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 10:06 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
