===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Burney, Land Use Director
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel,
on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24
hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the
sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Lemieux reminded about the annual town election on Saturday.
Mr. Alonzo noted the two pole petitions scheduled for this evening will be rescheduled due to failure
to notify the proper abutters.
Town Manager Annual Appointments
Ms. Lemieux presented her list of appointments with terms to expire June 30, 2023.
Animal Control Officer-Kathleen Comeau, 806 West Street
Building Commissioner-Casey Burlingame
Alternate Building Commissioner-Eric Chartrand
Dam Keeper-Ronald Wilson- 701 Reservoir Road
Assistant Dam Keeper-Rich Patry- 655 Reservoir Road
DPW Director- William Bernard
Emergency Management Director/Fire Chief-Patrick Sullivan
RACES* Control Officer-*Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service (under direction of EMD)
Ralph Swick-133 Townsend Harbor Road
Jeanine Swick- Member- 133 Townsend Harbor Road
Asst. RACES Officer- Brian LeBlanc-67 Mulpus Road
Field Driver- Kathy Comeau-806 West Street
Forest Warden- Patrick Sullivan
Hazardous Waste Coordinator-Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer-Heather Lemieux
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)-Gary Williams-34 Round Road
===PAGE 2===
Inspector of Weights and Measures-Steve Cullinane-46 Goodrich Street
Inspector of Wires (recommended by Building Commissioner)-John Biery-15 Crescent Road
Assistant Wiring Inspector (recommended by Building Commissioner) - David Stone-83 Arbor Street
Town Clock Winders-term expires June 30, 2023
Mike Kidney-86 Lancaster Ave.
Chuck Venezia-1402 Mass. Ave.
William Tyler-5 Graham Street
Tom Alonzo- 284 Lancaster Ave.
Louis Franco- 250 Arbor Street
Tree Warden-William Bernard
Interim Veterans' Service Officer-David Lauzon Jr.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager appointments as presented
2id: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux moved on to the police department appointments with terms to expire June 30, 2023:
Full-time Police Officers:
1. Chief Thomas L. Gammel
2. Lieutenant Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
3. Sergeant Sean J. Connery
4. Sergeant Joshua B. Tocci
5. Sergeant Sean W. Zrate
6. Sergeant John F. Morreale
7. Off. Joshua M. Mathieu
8. Off. Jonathan J. Broe
9. Off. Bradley J. McNamara
10. Off. Jacob A. Lachance
11. Off. John M. Wagner
12. Off. Gage R. Russell
13. Off. Kamerin P. Munroe
14. Off. Anthony P. Cappucci
15. Off. Jeffrey T. Hill
16. Off. Nicholas J. Marino
17. Off. Matthew R. Pingitore
18. Off. Jesse C. Reed
===PAGE 3===
Civilian Traffic Members
1. Paul Bozicas
2. Tony Brennan
3. John Hazelrigg
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manger appointments as presented
2': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2
Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
(978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Library Page (Part-Time Non Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
Seasonal Lifeguards(Non Benefitted)
Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
30 School Street (Old Primary School):
The asbestos abatement project that was undertaken with the $50,000 we received from the state is now
complete. I will be working on the next steps for the remaining hazardous materials abatement that will
need to be done before demolition. I notified Ray Dunetz about the town meeting vote and he is going to
put together an estimate for the demolition plans.
One aspect of demolition that will need to be addressed is whether we are putting aside bricks from the
existing structure for reuse or resale. This will inevitably increase the overall cost of demolition in the
attempt to preserve a certain quantity of bricks.
===PAGE 4===
from the MA Historical Commission as the Town Hall building has a Preservation Restriction
Agreement in place thatrestricts maintenanceinorderto protect the architectural, archaeological, and
historical integrity of the structure.
Update on Public Records Retention Project
I received new information last week that we would be able to digitize records that would replace paper
copies, if we can document that we will continue to keep them in a format that is accessible (i.e. at one
point floppy disks were widely used for storage, perhaps in the future cloud storage would not be the right
storage method). Preparing for this, a formalized digital storage plan will need to be established and this
will incorporate input from all of our departments and IT department. The public records retention storage
project will first look at destroying all the records that we no longer have to retain, then look at all the
records that we can destroy the paper copies if we have them digitally stored, put in place proper storage
of any paper records, and catalogue all our records for retention and location. Digitization of what
records we can eliminate paper copies of will reduce our overall square foot needs for storage. There will
be more to come once I look more into what is involved the digital plan we would need to put in place.
On a related note, the Municipal Building Design Committee asked if off site storage was an option. I
responded that that would not be optimal for the Town. Records that are not digital need to be easily
accessible in order to respond to public records request within the required timeframe and there are times
that departments need to look back into records for information. It doesn't need to be in the same
building as the town offices, but in my opinion, it should be within another town owned property that is
easily accessible (first floor or space that is handicapped accessible).
Email Migration Project
Today ImetwithourITconsultantstoreview the projecttimeline for theemailmigrationprojectandto
review the process. About 40% of the staff has been migrated to the new email platform and the
remaining staff will all be migrated by June 3rd
We are in the process of reviewing all the licenses assigned to staff and any possible changes in license
type and what additional email only licenses will be needed for board/committee members. After June
3rd we will begin the process of communicating to all board/committee members about the email
migration process and provide dates that a pre-migration training will take place and a post- migration
training will take place. We will also be including communication to all board/committee members the
importance of using a town email account for any town related communication.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Absentee Ballots are now available at the Town Clerk's Office for the Annual Town
Election on May 21st. The last day and hour to vote absentee is Friday, May 20, 2022 at
noon.
• Yard Waste Collection Days at Youngs Road are Saturdays now until May 21st. The
collection is open from 8 am until 4 pm.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th and be every Sunday until
Sunday, September 25th.
===PAGE 5===
Town Pound a part of Marshall Park) were actually under the Parks Commission care. Mr. McCormack
reached out to the Parks Commission Chair and she approved those requests in advance of their meeting
tomorrow night. He also reached out to the Police Chief and he did not want anything put on the stop
signs. Mr. McCormack has received a time extension from his senior advisor so he can continue to find
alternate locations.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Review Composite Town Manager Performance Evaluation
Mr. Alonzo presented the draft composite of the Town Manager performance evaluation. He requested
the members review and make sure it reflects their consensus. He will read it at the next board meeting
for finalization. In the meantime the Select Board members may read the other members' written
reviews in the Town Manager office. If you have any changes, please email them only to Mr. Alonzo.
Approval of Minutes of April 5, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of April 5, 2022 as presented
2": M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
Warrant
The Board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $334,176.53.
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo noted that as he went around the Whalom rotary recently there still remains nowhere for a
person to cross. We really need crosswalks there for people to use as it is a safety issue. He
recommended one going from the corner of the Emerald Place development towards the Town beach.
Ms. Lemieux suggested revisiting the Complete Streets plan and reprioritizing.
Committee Reports
Mir. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building Design Committee met yesterday and spent the first hour
meeting jointly with the School Committee. We have been looking to decrease our square footage,
especially the amount of storage space. I have asked the Town Manager to look into digitizing records
and a similar request went to the School Committee as well. Anything we can do to reduce storage
works. The other thing we discussed with them was about the after school programs at the TC Passios
Building and having them trying to envision not having them at the TCP. The initial response and he
paraphrased, was they would be looking at program elimination in some areas and placing a cap on the
extended day program due to some complications, one of which it would have to be held in the
cafeterias within the schools, as well as some staffing issues. Discussion ensued about the school using
the TCP after it was turned over to the Town and how Turkey Hill Elementary School factors into all of
this. There was also discussion about using the Ritter Building in the future for office space for the
school. We are meeting again on June 6' and our focus is discussing prioritization criteria for all the
===PAGE 6===
building. Mr. Alonzo suggested letting the Town Manager approve the last one so Mr. McCormack
doesn't have to come back to this board. He reported he did present his project at school and possibly
inspired others to take up geocaching. He thanked the Board for all their assistance with the request. Ms.
Menard via ZOOM reported the Parks Commission is meeting tomorrow night and she was comfortable
saying she expected approval for this from the other members.
Mr. Franco reported he had asked the School Committee a couple of weeks ago about their policy for
naming buildings and structures. They had said they were going to send it over. Ms. Lemieux stated she
had received it. She will forward it to the board members.
Letter of Support to Montachusett Regional Planning Commission for Planning Assistance Grant
Mr. Burney reported that a few months ago he came before the board about the new MBTA
communities zoning requirement, c. 48 §3A, which requires the Town to comply with the guidelines
outlined by the Dept. of Housing & Community Development. We filled out the community survey and
submitted it to them. Now the state is offering planning assistance grants to start looking at locations and
densities, and developing a road map for compliance with the MBTA communities zoning. MRPC is
putting together applications for its member communities. While talking with the Planning Board and
Town Manager recently, general consensus was to get technical assistance in order to see what this
would look like and how it would affect the town. While working with Karen Chapman of MRPC we
have developed a framework of scope of services which would be looking at the geographic area; using
their GIS capabilities to identify areas that would compile the 50 acre zoning district, what it would look
like and how we would comply with density requirements. We would also be developing an action plan
if we are non-compliant. The grant is due this Friday and would go through the end of fiscal year 2024.
• The Town would be obligated to the terms of the contract but it doesn't obligate us to adopt a zoning by-
law. Discussion ensued about the letter of support, the impending deadline and the process.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: L. Franco
For the Chair of the Select Board and the Town Manager to have the authority to review and
approve the letter of support for the MRPC grant for the planning assistance grant for the MBTA
community compliance
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo reported that last Wednesday, Ms. Lemieux, Mr. Burney and myself participated in the
Lunenburg Central groundbreaking ceremony. It was a really nice event.
Mr. Jeffreys noted he was emailed by some residents about funding available from Mass Development.
He wanted to clarify their purpose is twofold; one is a land bank and the other is the Commonwealth
promoting economic opportunities through investing in businesses by providing them with low cost and
financing options. They also provide grant money and opportunities to rehabilitate buildings etc.,
basically in targeted districts. These targeted districts are in urban areas such as Springtield, Worcester,
Lawrence, and Fall River to boost economic development. By their standards, Lunenburg is considered
===PAGE 7===
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none this evening.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:05 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiie m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2'd: M. Jeffreys
Vote: All in Favor
