===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
March 8, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Tom Alonzo, Chairman; Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco,
Clerk; Todd Dwyer
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Patrick Hakey, John Kimball, Unitil
Representative, Keith Caribou, Unitil Representative; Aiden Moore, Chris Roy, Griffin Caiozzo,
Mason Whitcomb, Paul Bertram via ZOOM,
Parks Commissioners present via ZOOM: Chris Sullivan, Ana Lockwood, Dave Passios
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote
participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Jeffreys stated on March 10th there is a public hearing with the Architectural Preservation
District Commission (APDC) at the Ritter Building at 7:30 p.m. regarding the Select Board's
application to demolish the old Primary School at 30 School Street. He will not participate in
that meeting and had comments about what he perceives to be unethical and unacceptable
behaviors by certain appointed members of the committee. He asked his colleagues to
consider the following concerns and act on them.
Our government structure provides the Select Board with the responsibility of appointing
members to some boards such as the Zoning Board of Appeals, Conservation Commission
and the APDC. It is expected for the Select Board to at times submit applications on behalf of
the Town and appear before those boards. Every member of every municipal board or
committee should vigorously perform their duties and provide the same level of inquiry to all
applicants regardless of who they are. A public hearing should be just that but here is what
happened and it is outrageous.
Several years ago the Town made the decision to create an Architectural Preservation District
in the center of our Town and created a new process requiring those with property in the
district to get the guidance and consent of a new committee, the APDC, to ensure that the
exterior modifications remain as visually similar to their condition as in the past as possible in
a bylaw. It required the APDC to conduct a public hearing within 45 days of receiving an
application and issue a determination within 70 days.
On October 27" the Select Board submitted an application to the APDC to demolish the old
Primary School. One week later on November 4"h
', a Facebook page titled the Lunenburg
Architectural Preservation District was created. In November and December there were two
===PAGE 2===
posts concerning the Methodist Church. On December 15", 49 days after receiving the
application, the APDC advised the Select Board that the wrong form was submitted. On
December the 30" we submitted the correct form. On January 9'" the APDC posted a copy of
that application on Facebook and noted the application had not been accepted. On the same
day they also posted to facebook a photo of the old Primary School with the statement, "The
old Primary School has been badly neglected since it was vacated in 2005. It is the APDC's
opinion that the Town should preserve and restore the building. "On January 11" their
Facebook page posted a photo of a classroom of the old Primary School with a caption that
noted that the APDC would rather see the building sold or leased to a private developer that
could restore it.
On January 13 the APDC posted a photo of the old Primary School with the caption, "Don't
let this building be demolished." On January 31", 32 days after receiving the application and
weeks after publicly advocating against the application, the APDC informed the Select Board
that our application was incomplete. On February 8" at a Select Board meeting we extended
an invitation to the APDC to meet with us and this was communicated to them on February
gth. On February 10' they declined our invitation in an email that essentially said there is
nothing to discuss. On February 11"
", 43 days after submitting the application, the APDC
changed their mind and determined that the application was accepted. They scheduled a public
hearing for March 10'" which is 71 days after submitting the correct application and 136 days
alter submitting the first application. We can all disagree on solutions and results and as I say
often, reasonable people will disagree. Differing opinions and individual talents offered for
the public good, make us better. But we all have to agree on the ground rules. Our bylaws are
our ground rules and the rules say by a public hearing by the APDC must be held within 45
days, not 71 days, and certainly not 136 days later. So what happens when boards don't follow
certain timelines? They constructively grant approvals. The APDC effectively approved the
town's application to demolish the old Primary School when they failed to meet the
requirements of the bylaw and hold a public hearing within 45 days. No one has to deduce or
assume what the APDC's opinions and reflections are about the application we submitted.
They have already told us and everyone else, which is antithetical to the purpose of a fair and
impartial public hearing. This is overreach and obstruction, plain and simple. I have a hard
time accepting that if we are proposing to do something that the APDC supported it would
take 71 or 136 days to even get to a public hearing. If this series of events happened to a
private citizen and if that private citizen sued the town, I would not expect this board to waste
taxpayers' dollars defending what is overtly wrong. Right is right and wrong is wrong and the
appearance of wrong doing which is hard to deny here is the same as actually doing something
wrong. We all have to hold ourselves to the highest standards, so in my view certain members
of the APDC egregiously disqualified themselves from fairly and impartially executing the
duties of their office and should be excluded from being appointed to positions of trust in the
future. It would have been okay for the APDC to hold a public hearing and then deny the
application; that is completely fine but weaponizing process through delays in action and then
publicly advocating as a town agent against an application submitted to them is a serious
dereliction of duty and none of this should be ignored.
Mr. Alonzo wanted to acknowledge the global situation and noted he was wearing the colors
of Ukraine (blue and yellow) and that he supported the people there who are undergoing
unbelievable conditions and unspeakable horrific acts against them in their fight for their own
sovereignty and their freedom. We all see it from all different kinds of media. I can't imagine
===PAGE 3===
the situation that they are in and I do support what the United States and NATO and the rest of
the world has done so far. I don't know how it will play out but I do stand with them in
support of their fight for their own self-rule, sovereignty and democracy. I hope they can
prevail in this and that we would under similar circumstances do the same thing and act with
such incredible bravery in light of the war crimes being done to them. If anyone has ideas on
how we can show our support even if it is just lighting Town Hall in blue and yellow; if
somebody has that capability please let us know. We did have someone inquire if we could fly
their flag, but it is against flag protocol to fly two flags on the same pole.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux noted the Marshall Park conceptual design presentation will be on March 16".
The Citizen's Party caucus is on Monday, March 14 at 6:30 p.m. at the Lunenburg
Middle/High School. Warrant articles for the Annual Town Meeting are due by March 21 at
4:00 p.m. to the Select Board office.
APPOINTMENTS
Joint Appointment with Parks Commission to Parks Commission of Patrick Hakey, 136
Highland Street, until next Annual Election
Patrick Hakey has lived in town for 31 years. He was a member of the Fire Department until
last year. He works for the Town of Maynard as a firefighter. He is married with three
children. His kids want to play hockey and last year they began skating at Marshall Park.
His neighbor Chris Sullivan informed him of the vacancy and he would like to keep the parks the
way they should be. He has met the other Parks Commissioners as well.
Vice Chair Sullivan called the Parks Commission meeting to order. The board members thanked
Mr. Hakey for volunteering for the Parks Commission. Questions asked of Mr. Hakey was if he
had any agenda getting on the commission (no) and do you intend to run for election in May?
(yes).
Mr. Passios asked Mr. Hakey if he knew what the charge of the Park Commissioners is
according to the Charter and Massachusetts general law. Mr. Hakey stated he did not know a lot
about it but that they were in charge of all the ball fields and parks in town.
Ms. Lockwood stated she was looking forward to working with him and his enthusiasm.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint Patrick Hakey to the Parks Commission until the third Saturday in May 202
Vote: Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Sullivan-aye, Mr. Passios-
aye, Ms. Longwood-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
The Parks Commission adjourned their meeting at 7:23 p.m.
Pole Petition Hearing-Lancaster Ave.-Plan 972-L dated 2/2/2022
John Kimball of Unitil stated the pole is going to be a support pole for pole #97 directly across
the street. Mr. Jeffreys asked why Unitil can't just replace pole #97. Mi. Kimball stated it is
going to have strain on it from pole #97 to #17 as we are upgrading wires and it will be heavier
than what is there now. Mr. Dwyer asked if there would be guide wires on the ground as well.
Mr. Kimball confirmed. Mr. Dwyer suggested adding guide wires to future plans.
Mr. Caribou explained that all three pole petitions this evening are tied to one reliability project
to cut the exposure of our circuit in half. Right now everything is fed one way and a motor
vehicle accident would take out the one feed into town. We want to build another feed down
===PAGE 4===
Leominster Road left onto Kilburn over to Goodrich and out to the Town of Lancaster. Then we
are going to have an open spot on that line coming into town. This project brings four other feeds
into town.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the pole petition for Lancaster Ave., Plan 972-L dated 2/2/22
Vote: All in Favor
Pole Petition Hearing-Kilburn Street @ Goodrich St.-Plan 970-L dated 2/2/2022
Mr. Kimball stated this similar to the last pole petition. Currently there is a tree guide wire and
this would replace that with pole #4-1-1 to support the corner pole #4. Guide wires will be on
the right of way.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2N: T. Dwyer
To approve the pole petition for Kilburn St. at Goodrich St., Plan 970-L dated 2/2/22
Vote: All in Favor
Pole Petition Hearing-Kilburn Street - Plan 971-L dated 2/2/2022
Mi. Caribou stated this is part of the project and connects Leominster Road to Goodrich Street
via Kilburn Ave. with four new poles. We need to fill in 1000 feet and we are placing the four
poles every 200 feet. This is the best way to have less impact on trees on that road and cut our
customer load in half. Mr. Alonzo asked why the poles aren't all on one side of the road.
Mr. Caribou noted this makes less impact on the existing trees on the road. Mr. Jeffreys
suggested deferring until the next meeting in order to go look at the road to have a better idea of
what the vegetation looks like there. Mr. Caribou noted the locations are marked. The hearing
was continued to the March 15 meeting.
Skate Park Update
Aiden Moore, 59 Wildwood Road, stated since the last update they have been talking to different
groups; the first is the Parks Commission, and we have been discussing where we could fit the
skate park in Marshall Park. We have also been talking with WOLA, the design consultant for
Marshall Park, about fitting it in the overall master plan. We are down to mere feet about where
it is going to go. We are also in the process of getting the final design.
Chris Roy, 105 Chestnut Street, reported his father, a co-owner at Dillis and Roy, has generously
donated his time for the engineering aspect of the design. We have been able to get quotes on the
geological survey and soil analysis. Next week we have a meeting with the National Youth
Leadership Council and an interview with their CEO. We are also meeting with local area
service learning groups where we aim to inspire fellow high school students to help out with our
project and also build something in their community.
Griffin Caiozzo, 1091 Mass. Ave., informed about the upcoming fundraisers in the next couple
of months, including the request for another tollbooth fundraiser following this presentation.
We will holding a "learn to skate" day. He thanked all those who have helped them to where
they are so far.
Mason Whitcomb, 110 Houghton's Mill Road, noted they have held almost 50 fundraisers to
date, the most recent was a 100 kilometer run. Through them they have raised over $175,000. He
indicated James Reynolds sitting in the back of the room, had run the entire course in 15 hours.
He is joining our board. He also acknowledged resident Ben Howard, who was one of the
original Marshall Park skate park creators. We also want to thank the Miles for Myles
Foundation for donating their final funds to us.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo commended the group on their organization, work and presentation skills. He
thanked them and all the people behind the scenes for all the work involved. Mr. Jeffreys noted
the skate group is demonstrating that if you just get involved and speak up, it can actually
happen. So good job!
Mr. Franco echoed the previous comments on their dedication and effort. Mr. Dwyer stated their
volunteerism on this project is very impressive and that combined with persistence it has been a
long time coming. If you keep that up you will continue to be successful.
A group representing Miles for Myles Foundation presented a check for $11,400 to the Skate
Park group making the total donated to them $20,400. They congratulated the Skate Park group
for all their amazing efforts. Applause resounded through the meeting room.
Skate Park Request for Tollbooth Fundraiser on May 140 from 10 am to 2 pm in Town
Center
Motion: L. Franco
2''': T. Dwyer
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser on May 14 from 10 am to 2 pm in town center
Vote: All in Favor
INTERVIEWS APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Interview and Appointment of members to the Storm Water Task Force-John Beale-
116 Island Road and Matt Proctor-180 Hemlock Drive
Matt Proctor expressed his interest in being appointed to the Storm Water Task Force as there are
a lot of storm water runoff issues in town. He thought he could offer some knowledge from a
contractor's point of view. He deals with smaller storm water issues at private residences.
Mr. Dwyer thanked him for stepping forward. While enforcing the MS4 permit we don't want to
create regulations that would cause undue burdens on contractors if avoidable. The board
concurred.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To appoint Matt Proctor Il to the Storm Water Task Force
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Assistant to the Sewer Business
Manager-Paula Bertram
Motion: L. Franco
2'': M. Jeffreys
To ratify the appointment of Paula Bertram to Asst. to Sewer Business Manager
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large
and one representative from Historical Commission)
• Council on Aging (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate
vacancies)
• Housing Authority (1 vacancy that will be jointly appointed by the Select Board
and the Housing Authority until the next annual election)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
===PAGE 6===
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed
forms can be sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on
volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part-Time Benefitted)
• DPW Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Minutes Clerk positions (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on
the town website.
Meadow Woods Update:
The Treasurer/Collector informed me this week that Meadow Woods has paid the
remaining balance of their outstanding back taxes. Per the recent agreement signed by the
Board, a down payment of $400,000 was paid to the Town and they agreed to pay
$100,000 each year thereafter until the back taxes were paid off. They decided to pay
off the full amount of the remainder of the back taxes, totaling$338,341, to forego
theadditional interest/finesthat wouldaccrue. Theagreement willstillbe in placeto
require that they continue paying their current taxes and sewer usage charges on time.
Principal AssessorUpdate:
Last week the Assistant Town Manager and I met with both the Personnel Committee and
the Board of Assessors regarding the hiring of a new Principal Assessor. The new
Principal Assessor will be Christopher "CJ" Carroll. CJ previously worked for one of our
assessing consultants, Harring Assessment Consultants, and Lunenburg was one of his
communities, so he is familiar with the town. He is coming from the Town of Winthrop
as their Assistant Assessor and also has four years' experience as a realtor. The Assessors
ratified my appointment last week and CJ will begin this coming Monday, March 14th.
Woodruff Property (104 Fairview Road):
I attended the Conservation Commission's continued public hearing for the Notice of
Intent on the WoodruffProperty on February 16, 2022 and the Commission accepted the
NOI at this meeting. The next step is to work with the environmental consultant on putting
together bid specifications for the project that address the Order of Conditions issued by
the Conservation Commission. Funding for this will be requested through an article at
the Annual Town Meeting, unless another state/federal grant becomes available.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1, i):
Over the last couple of weeks I worked with our environmental consultant from the BETA
Group to fill out the EPA's Brownfields Targeted Assessment Application form to request
funding to remove the tanks and a limited amount of soil at 925 Mass Avenue. I have a
===PAGE 7===
phone conference with our environmental consultant and the EPA Representative this
Thursday to review the application and next steps.
Lunenburg Central Project
The Town received the building permit and associated payment from Lunenburg Central
last week in the amount of $187,000. The site work has commenced and the owners hope
to be moving tenants into the building in 2023.
FY 2023 Budget Updates:
• The week of February 14th we received our active health insurance renewal rates,
which will be a 5.56% increase (Preliminary budget was 6%).
• We received the FY 23 Preliminary Budget Assessment Amount from Monty
Tech and it was $1,054,376 (20.3% increase)
• MassDOT informed us our Chapter 90 local transportation aid funding for FY23
will be $419,940. This is $4,974 more than FY22.
• The FY23 assessment for Nashoba Dispatch will be $204,606 (2.56% increase).
FY 2023 CapitalPlan:
After evaluating the current ATM articles that will require funding, additional resources
from unexpended capital articles from previous years, and the current surplus in the
budget, I have revised the FY23 Capital Plan funding recommendation. The Ritter
Hazardous Materials Abatement project will be pushed to FY24 in order to perform an
evaluation as the preliminary step that will determine the extent and cost of the work to
be done. I am recommending an additional $422,800 be allocated towards the FY23
Capital Plan with an additional $155,075 from unexpended capital articles and an
additional $267,725 from the unappropriated balance from the available tax levy. Based
on my current prioritized list of capital projects, this will fund installing a generator at the
Senior Center, creating an ADA compliant outdoor patio at the Senior Center, and the AC
at the Primary School. The new total recommendation for the FY23 Capital Plan is
$2,162,849.
COVID-19 Update
The weekly update from the Board of Health on the total number of new cases reported as
of February 26th was 0 and the positivity rate was.89%.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• There will be a Tax Lien Auction on March 17th at 10 a.m.
• The Town Caucus will be March 14th at 6:30 pm at the MS/HS Auditorium. The
elected positions that will be up for nomination at the Town Caucus and on the
AlE Ballot are up on the town website under News and Announcements.
• The warrant to submit articles for the Annual Town Meeting is open for submission
of articles until Monday, March 21, 2022 at 4 p.m.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Trash and Town Services on Private Roads
Discussion ensued around ongoing problems with trash pickup in general as well as
discontinuance of service on some private roads that had previously been serviced and now are
not being serviced by E L Harvey and Sons. Service has been interrupted by lack of truck drivers
===PAGE 8===
due to COVID-19, inability to find new truck drivers, extreme weather, a driver involved in a
serious vehicle accident and ELH refusing to go down some roads due to the size of their trucks
or the inability to turn around on them. It was suggested to draft a policy that is clear and does
not appear arbitrary so there's no guessing whether someone should or shouldn't get those
services. DPW should also weigh in on the policy. It was also suggested to communicate to those
residents that will not be getting service on their roads and why.
The list provided when the Town went out to bid was from the previous trash company so when
the Town goes out to bid in the future private roads should be reviewed by the vendor.
Ms. Lemieux stated there are private roads on the list in the contract that ELH is not picking up
on due to the road conditions and their ability to get to those locations.
Discussion ensued about ELH saying they were going to pick up on these roads and then after
the fact decided not to. Ms. Lemieux noted that there were roads not included on the list that they
are now servicing. She added this issue is taking up an exorbitant amount of time in our office
and DPW on a daily basis. Ms. Lemieux will forward the contract to the board. She added ELH
has been responsive to the town and gone out to look at roads to see what can be done but it is
not an easy solution.
John Beale, 116 Island Road, presented for the Storm Water Task Force appointment. Mr.
Beace Mated he waste a Beal a Babir and he engineroich an tie ent and a the
Hickory Hills Dam Committee. He thanked him for stepping forward. The rest of the board
concurred.
Motion: L. Franco
2"d; T. Dwyer
To approving John Beale to the Storm Water Task Force
Vote: All in Favor
Conrad's Drive-In 835 Massachusetts Ave. - Request to send Cease & Desist
Letter due to operating without a Common Victualler License since January 1,
Mi. Lemieux reported Conrad's manager came in today and paid $20,000, but there is still a
balance due. The manager stated he would be paying more next early next week. Discussion
ensued about the lack of communication with the town and operating without a license. It was
decided to send the letter but the cease and desist will apply if they haven't paid by March 15thh
or set up a payment agreement.
Motion: L. Franco
2"d: T. Dwyer
To draft and send a cease and desist letter to Conrad's Drive In, effective March 15" unless
paid in full or acceptable payment arrangements have been made with the Tax Collector
Vote: All in Favor
3. Review of Town Bylaws relative to the Select Board for Bylaw Review Committee
Ms. Lemieux reported she had emailed Mary Foyle, Chair of the Bylaw Review Committee and
Ms. Foyle had indicated in a previous communication that the committee might delay submitting
articles until fall Special Town Meeting. It was decided to try to get an update from the
committee before taking any action on the bylaws.
4. Approve Minutes of February 1, February 8, February 15, 2022
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of February 8 and 15, 2022
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 9===
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of February 8, 2022
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 abstention (Alonzo)
5. Action Items
Mr. Jeffreys requested in light of the Town Manager's report if a message to the School
Committee about the AC at the Primary School could be sent.
6. Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported the Economic Development Committee met and had a presentation from
Kevin Kuros, Director of the MA Office of Business Development, Central Region. It centered
on various programs to support local businesses.
Mi. Jeffreys reported he and Mr. Franco had visited the three civics classes at the high school.
We presented information on why we were engaged in politics, what were our motivations and
we answered questions. Then we went to the 8' grade classes another time and that was a
focused discussion on town government structure and the role of the Select Board.
The Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee met yesterday and held a two hour
brainstorming session. We took the new committee charge and discussed milestones and a
timeline to get to the finish line. There was consensus to look at Town Hall and the Ritter
Building and review in detail the Vertex reports and Tappe Study to identify what is needed,
what has already happened and what remains. Once completed we can understand better what
programing can go into either of those buildings. Before we get back to the TCP building we
need to figure out costs and requirements of these buildings so we can maximize their usage. We
meet again on March 21st
. We have also invited former members of the building reuse committee
to share some of their insights.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee is meeting weekly to review budgets. There was a
long discussion on Mr. Dunetz's presentation on the 30 School street park project. They meet
again on Thursday to review the DPW budget.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review of Tax Lien Sale list
It was noted the list has been reduced since the last meeting. Discussion turned to the Open
Space letter sent to the Select Board. Paula Bertram, Open Space Committee member, noted the
letter sent to the SB listed the properties they were interested in and why. The properties were
250 Hollis Road, 356 Hollis Road, 56 Carr Avenue and 101 Pleasant Street. We are asking if we
can remove them from the tax lien list and if they are, we would move forward to try to acquire
funding for purchasing them.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"'d: L. Franco
To remove 250 Hollis Road, 356 Hollis Road, 56 Carr Avenue and 101 Pleasant Street from
the tax lien sale list
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo requested Ms. Lemieux thank the Tax Collector for putting all this together. She has
made great progress in getting some properties being taken off the list by getting payment
agreements.
2. Discussion on Fiscal year 2023 Budget, Capital Plan, Financial Forecast, and
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles
===PAGE 10===
Mr. Alonzo recalled that last year some people wanted to start organizing for the Town's 300th
Anniversary celebration in 2028. It is my intent to put something on the warrant to form that
committee. I asked Town Manager to research the warrant article from 25 years ago and give
them a modest budget to start working. Ms. Lemieux presented a draft warrant article for the
board to vote on.
To see if the Town will vote to create a special committee of not more than 11 members to act as a
steering committee to plan for the observance of the 300# anniversary of the Town of Lunenburg,
Which was incorporated August 1, 1728, said committee to be appointed by the Select Board, and to
raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money to cover initial expenses of
said committee; or take any other action relative thereto
Ms. Lemieux suggested $1000 as startup funding, as 25 years ago $300 was approved.
Another draft article added to the warrant reads: To see if the Town will vote to raise and
appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money for the demolition of the building at
property known as the old Primary School, 30 School Street, shown on Assessors Map 071, Lot 076,
and for final engineering and design services to create a passive recreation/open space area at this
property; or take any other action relative thereto
Suggestion was made to draft two individual funding articles for the demolition and the design,
as the Select Board is waiting for approval for demolition from the APDC. Discussion ensued on
the reasons to do so or not. It was decided to keep the article as is.
Ms. Lemieux reviewed the list of standard articles such as hearing and/or accepting the regular
written reports of the Town Officers and Committees, approving spending limits for revolving
funds for different departments, paying any outstanding bills from the previous fiscal year (1 so
far), amending the current fiscal year's budget, the first year cost for the clerical bargaining
agreement, the fiscal year 23 Capital plan funding, the fiscal year 23 omnibus budget, the
stabilization fund, the special purpose stabilization fund, the OPEB trust fund, the budget for the
solid waste disposal and water enterprise funds, and the Public Education Government (PEG)
enterprise fund. Some of these will be incorporated into the Consent Calendar to be voted on all
at once.
Other articles are an article submitted by the Cemetery Commission to appropriate $10K from
the sale of cemetery lots; a reorganization article that separates Facilities from DPW, and a
funding article related to the project on the Woodruff Property as reported on earlier this
evening. She is still expecting three articles from the Personnel Committee following their
review of the bylaw as well as the three year review of the compensation plan under the Salary
Administration Plan (SAP), and a third for addition of some approved positions to the SAP grid.
Also expected are some Sewer articles.
3. Select Board MRC Representative and School Committee liaison
Mr. Franco offered to be the School Committee liaison until the election and there is a full board
again. Due to the MRPC meetings being held during the day no one was available.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Alonzo reported the APDC hearing for the Certificate to Alter (demolition of the old
Primary School) will be this Thursday night at 7:30 p.m. at the Ritter
===PAGE 11===
Building. Mr. Jeffreys believed the APDC has constructively approved the CTA due to their
inability to react in a timely manner to the application. Even by their own rules they are
supposed to respond within five days of an application submission on whether it is complete or
not and they did not. He was willing to claim constructive approval for the building demolition.
Discussion among the SB members ensued about the statement and what action to take. Mr.
Alonzo noted this is not on tonight's agenda so should not be acted upon. Further discussion will
occur another time as procedure and policies need to be reviewed
Mi. Alonzo stated he intended to attend the hearing and see it through. Ms. Lemieux asked if the
board wanted to address the APDC bylaw as a result of this discussion in a warrant article. It will
put in as a placeholder. She noted she has received several emails from individuals including
APDC members about the location of the hearing and wanted to point out it is not up to the
Select Board to determine the location of the hearing. APDC met last week and decided to keep
the location.
Mr. Alonzo stated this board's next meetings are March 15 and March 22.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was none at this time.
The meeting adjourned at 9:30 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Pelevor:
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
