===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised
that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook
Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He noted Zoom is available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated
by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be
discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the
Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Matthew Allison, 188 Flat Hill Road, via ZOOM, asked if the board would be taking public comment during
their meeting with the Sewer Commission. Mr. Alonzo stated yes.
Mr. Alonzo reminded all the Annual Town Meeting is this Saturday at 9:00 AM.
3rd Quarter Financial Report from Finance Director
Ms. Brochu began her report with Revenues:
Revenues
Total collections to date are $36,549,685.90, or 81.0% of FY22 estimates through 3/31/22.
Below is a summary of the individual categories:
Local Receipts: The local receipt estimate for FY22 is $3,114,990.50. We have collected $3,369,784.81
or 108% of that estimate through 3/31/2022.
Taxes: The total tax levy for FY22, net of the overlay, is $29,833,387.33. At this time we have collected
$22,677,389.69 (78%) of the levy. We have also received $560,411.43 in tax lien revenue.
State Aid: The total state aid estimate per the FY2022 Cherry Sheet is $9,242,812.00, net of school
choice and library state aid. We have received $7,034,737.87 (76%) of our state aid estimate.
Ms. Brochu moved on to expenditures.
Expenditures
The total budgeted expenditures for FY22 are $45,098,551.93. We have expended/encumbered
$33,490,078.23 (74%) of budgeted expenditures as of 3/31/22. Of note on the expenditure side is the
following:
Reserve Fund - To date there has been no draw on the Reserve Fund. The budgeted amount is $75,000.
Snow Removal - The deficit in snow removal based on actual expenditures as of 3/31/22 is
$127,930.97. This deficit will be eliminated with appropriation transfers at the upcoming annual town
meeting
Health Insurance/Life Insurance/Medicare Expense - We anticipate a surplus in our health insurance
line due to unfilled positions, as well as decreases during the year in our retiree enrollment. A portion of
the surplus will be used to cover an anticipated overage in our Medicare Expense line, as well as covering
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Alonzo read the public hearing notice aloud:
"The Licensing Authority will hold a public hearing on Tuesday, May 3, 2022 at 7:15 p.m. at Town Hall, 17 Main Street,
Second Floor, Lunenburg, MA, on the application submitted by Jose Iris De Oliveira Jr., 69 Plain Street, Lowell &
AM to 5:00 PM; Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.; or by appointment only.
Tom Alonzo, Chairman, Select Board/Licensing Authority"
Mr. De Oliviera Jr. stated he also owned Lunenburg Auto Center located at 36 Summer Street.
Mr. Dwyer asked when paving on the property would occur. Mr. de Oliviera stated he was waiting for the
license to be approved. Discussion occurred about the 50 vehicle limit on the site.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the Class II auto dealer license for Jose Iris de Oliviera Jr. and Sidney Fernandes De Souza,
d/b/a Maxi Auto Inc. at 40 Summer Street
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Alonzo closed the public hearing. The applicants thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
•
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Reserve Officer- Paul Theodoulou
Chief Gammel read aloud his letter to the Town Manager:
"As you are aware our Reserve Officer program as it was known in the past has drastically changed due to Police
Reform, and the creation of the Peace Officer Standards and Training Commission (POSTC). The training
requirements for a reserve officer has to be equal to a full time officer, or that standard has to be met through the
Bridge Academy program. As a result of these requirements our reserve ranks have significantly been reduced.
With that being said, we are constantly attempting to recruit qualified candidates for our Reserve Officer ranks. I
am pleased to announce that we have found a Reserve Officer candidate who meets the criteria set forth by
POSTC, and would be a good fit for our Community and Department. I am pleased to recommend Paul C.
Theodoulou to an appointment as Reserve Police Officer. Paul grew up in the City of Fitchburg, graduating from
Fitchburg High School in 2007, and was a lifelong resident until moving to Townsend. Shortly after graduation
Paul enlisted in the Army National Guard, serving until being honorably discharged in 2018. During his tenure
Paul obtained the rank of Sergeant, and had received several commendations and medals during his service. Also
during his service his unit was activated and he served in Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom. In
2015, Paul was hired by the Fitchburg Police Department as a full time police officer. Paul attended the
Municipal Police Training Committee (MPTC) Basic Recruit Officer Course (ROC) Academy at Reading,
graduating with the 23d ROC in 2015. Paul worked for Fitchburg PD from 2015-2020, when he resigned to take
a position with the Townsend Police Department. Paul decided to leave Fitchburg PD as result of living in
Townsend and working in a small town policing environment was appealing. Paul worked for Townsend PD until
November of 2021 when resigned to accept a job in the private sector. The job provided substantially more
money, and the schedule was better suited for his family. Lt. Thibodeau and myself were aware of his status, and
sought him out. Upon speaking with
Paul it was found that he has not lost the desire to be a police officer, but
could not be in the profession full time at this point in his life. Paul recognized that he could still provide a
service to the community as a reserve officer, and was excited about the opportunity that was presented to him by
===PAGE 3===
Vote: All in Favor
Chief Gammel moved on to the next appointment.
In our continuing effort to staff the Civilian Traffic unit, I have received an application to fill a position on
the unit. The candidate is John Hazelrigg, who is a retired MA State Trooper. Trooper Hazelrigg (Ret.) served
the MSP with 35 years of distinction, retiring in 2021. Trooper Hazelrigg served in the Division of Field Services,
Division of Investigative Services, and prior to retirement as an Aircraft Commander for the MSP Ail wing.
Trooper Hazelrigg has retired in good standing with the MSP. He is certified to be a member of the Civilian
Traffic unit, and has provided the required paperwork according to the policy, which has been submitted to
HR Director/Assistant Town Manager Julie Belliveau.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of John Hazelrigg as Civilian Traffic Unit member
Vote: All in Favor
Both appointments are effective May 4, 2022.
Meeting with Sewer Commission Representative on Article 25 Sewer Bylaw Amendment
Commissioner Dave Macdonald and Business Mgr. Lefevbre presented the proposed changes to the bylaw:
Article 25 is to revise the current sewer bylaw including:
• the clarification that inclusion of a property in the Sewer Service Area (SSA) does not constitute
entitlement to a sewer connection and must still be subject to available capacity, capacity
limitations and Sewer Commission approval
• creating an exception to prohibiting sewer connections via easement provided that, and only if, the
following criteria are satisfied:
• the property must still be in the Sewer Service Area (which can only be expanded by Town
Meeting vote)
• connections through an easement must be across adjoining properties
• the process requires the issuance of a waiver (to be added as Section
10.0 of the Bylaw in Article 25) upon findings by the Commission:
• of emergency circumstances justifying the easement;
• that the inability to connect to public sewer is causing undue hardship; or
• that allowing the easement is deemed to be in the best interest of Town and consistent
with the purpose and objectives of the sewer bylaw
• a further clarification of the Commission's authorization to adopt rules and regulations under the
bylaw and to amend them following a public hearing with notice published at least 5 business days
in advance, with subsequent posting on the Commission's website
Discussion about some of the wording ensued. Suggestion was made to that in the event of an emergency
waiver rather than having a majority vote to have a super majority vote; that it should require a public
hearing. Other wording allows the commission to waive the rules when in the best interest of the town; it
should only be in the event of an emergency. Discussion continued on the waiver wording in its current form
===PAGE 4===
community. He went to college for architecture but became a CAD operator and surveyor. He is still interested
in architecture and keeping that home town feel. He is looking forward to getting involved
Question was asked if he saw himself as a person who can weigh all the factors as there may be occasions when
a historic building has to be demolished or modified. Mr. Lloyd stated definitely, there has to be a balance and
some thought put into it.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Dwyer
To appoint William Lloyd to the APDC with a term to expire June 30, 2025 Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Lloyd thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Resignation of Reserve Officer Brian Watson and Heavy Equipment Operator Jarrett Ober
Ms. Lemieux stated this is notification to the Select Board of these resignations. We wish them both the best.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space Committee)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select Board's
Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130
x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Conservation Administrator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Digital Services StaffLibrarian (Part TimeBenefitted) Heavy
Equipment Operators (Full Time Benefitted) Seasonal Lifeguards
(Non Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town website.
Green Communities Competitive Grant Submission:
===PAGE 5===
that businesses and towns could submit reimbursement requests up to $850/employee. The Assistant Town Manager Julie
Belliveau submitted all the reimbursement requests for town employee expenses and the School Business Office
Administrative Secretary Penney Borneman submitted the reimbursement requests for school employee expenses. This is
received as a general fund receipt and will close out at the end of the fiscal year to be certified as free cash.
MBTA Housing Choice Act
Asdiscussed at the Board's March 22, 2022 meeting, the Town was required to submit the MBTA Communities
Information form by May 2nd. The Land Use Director submitted this on behalf ofthe Town on April28th.
Grant Updates:
• The Schoolreceived an $18,000 grant from the State for one time assistance for districts with pandemic related
enrollment disruptions that impacted Chapter 70 Aid.
• Wewerenotified yesterday that the State has announced new statewide funding called the Winter Recovery
Assistance Program. Lunenburg'sshareofthisfunding apportionmentis
$272,678.78, which is based on our local miles.
This funding is not retroactive and must be expended by June 30, 2023.
The eligible expenses include:
• Rehabilitation, reconstruction, resurfacing or preservation of roadways and appurtenances (including
sidewalks and bike lanes/paths)
• Repair or replacement of traffic control devices, signage, guardrails, and storm grates Road
striping or painting
Updates on FY22 Capital Plan Projects:
• PSB Chiller Replacement: Chiller was ordered but due to supply issues it won't be delivered until August. Working
with engineer and contractor to figure out solution if current chiller fails.
• Flat HillCulvert Construction: On hold foradditional funding; applied for Small Bridge Grant and for federal
"earmark" through Community Project Funding.
• 2 Marked Police Cruisers: Both cruisers werereceived in the last week of April. Waiting on parts for them to be
up-fitted.
• Ritter ADA Rampand Envelope Construction: Ourarchitectwentbeforethe APDConApril21st and the
APDC voted to send the CTA to binding review. This was continued until May 19th.
• TownHall Repairs: Certificateto Alterapplication was submitted to APDC and this willbe discussed at the
APDC's meeting on May 19th.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• Yard Waste Collection Days at Youngs Road are on Saturdays now until May 21st. The collection is open
from 8 am until 4 pm.
===PAGE 6===
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the tailings policy as presented
2": T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
2. Discussion on One Day Liquor License Policy to include Insurance Requirement
The board had been presented with what other towns require for liability insurance for their one day licenses. A
history of past applications revealed that both non-profit and for profit entities had applied. It was suggested the
town be added as an additional insured on the policy. Discussion ensued on how to ensure coverage for alcohol
is included.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To add a requirement for liability coverage for one day liquor licenses and to add the Town as an
additional insured in the amount of $250,000 per event and $500,000 aggregate
Vote: All in Favor
3. Review Sign Policy re: Signs at Polling Places during Elections
Mr. Jeffreys read aloud the following proposed amendment to the Sign Policy:
Discussion ensued about the wording. The following is what was decided upon:
Election Day Exception
On any day that the Town conducts an election, administered by the Town Clerk, the following policy shall apply:
1) Campaign signs and/or ballot question signs may be placed on Town property along Massachusetts Avenue and Oak
Avenue, as follows:
i.
On Massachusetts Avenue, signage must be located between the driveway to the Lunenburg Public Library and
the eastern entrance to the middle/high school parking lot
il. On Oak Avenue, signage must be located within 50 feet of the entrance to the middle/high school parking lot
2) All signs and rockers must be less than 24 inches tall and 24 inches wide. Metal brackets shall be used to stake signs
into the ground, and when staked, the top of the sign shall be less than 40 inches above the ground.
Signs may be placed on a first-come, first serve basis, within 10 hours of polls opening, and must be removed within 2
hours of polls closing.
4)
Signs shall be placed within 10 feet of the public right of way and cannot obscure the point of view of vehicles exiting
each parking lot
5)
Each campaign or ballot question is limited to a maximum of 50 signs on Town property.
Candidates and their supporters may personally hold an unlimited amount of signs, provided that they remain at least
150 feet from the polling place.
7) Prior approval from any Town agent is not required.
8) Any sign in violation of this policy, will be removed by the Town Clerk or his/her designee.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2'd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the Election Day Exception wording for the Sign Policy as amended this evening
Vote: All in Favor
Suggestion was made to forward this to the School Committee for any comments.
===PAGE 7===
Lemieux stated this was approved by the Personnel Committee and they are going to do a more comprehensive
review of all the positions and classifications for the next two years. The total impact of this for FY23 is
$33,018.
ARTICLE 21, To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg,
Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A, entitled "Salary Administration Plan," Schedule A, if and as amended by the preceding
individual contract; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 21
2"': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
ARTICLE 22. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled "Salary
Administration Plan" as shown on a document entitled "Amendments to the Salary Administration Plan Bylaw", with
additions to the Bylaw underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the
offices of the Town Clerk and Select Board and posted on the town website; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Personnel Committee)
Mir. Alonzo had questions about this article so requested to defer until Town Meeting.
ARTICLE 24. To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By-laws of the Town of Lunenburg as follows:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the General By-laws of the Town of Lunenburg as follows:
(i)
by deleting all references throughout to "Selectman," "Selectmen" and "Board of
Selectmen," and substituting therefor the terms "Select Board member," "Select Board" and
"Select Board," respectively;
(ii)
by adding to Chapter 12, entitled "Boards, Commissions and Committees," to Article II,
entitled "Building Committee," to Section 12-3, entitled "Membership,
appointment," second sentence, the phrase "one member of the Select Board appointed by the
Select Board" between the phrases "comprised of" and "one member from the Planning
Board";
(iii)
by deleting Article IV, entitled "Computer Advisory Committee," from said Chapter 12, in
its entirety, including Sections 12-7, entitled "Establishment and membership; vacancies,"
and 12-8, entitled "Powers and duties";
(iv)
by deleting from Chapter 12, entitled "Boards, Commissions and Committees," from Article
V, entitled "Public Access Cable Committee," from Section 12-9, entitled
===PAGE 8===
(vii)
(vili)
(ix)
(x)
entitled "Membership," within Subsection C, the phrase "or any Lunenburg
High School student";
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from said Article V, from Section 12-11,
entitled "Membership," Subsection G in its entirety, and substituting the
following therefor:
G. Vacancies. Vacancies shall be appointed by the Select Board to serve the
balance of the unexpired term.
by deleting from said Chapter 12, from Article VII, entitled "Americans with
Disabilities Committee," from Section 12-20.1, entitled "Meetings," within
Subsection E, the word "Robett's" and substituting the word "Robert's" therefor;
by deleting from Chapter 81, entitled "Town Meetings," from Article I, entitled
"Town Meetings," from Section 81-1, entitled "Warrants," within Subsection A,
Item G, the phrase "Centre Pizza & Variety" and substituting "JAXX Country
Variety" therefor; and
by deleting from Chapter 168, entitled "Licensing," from Article II, entitled
"Denial or Revocation of Licenses for Failure to Pay Taxes," Section 168-6,
entitled "Exceptions," in its entirety, substituting the following therefor:
§ 168-6 Exceptions.
This article shall not apply to the following licenses and permits:
Statute
MGL c. 48, § 13
MGL c, 101, § 33
Contact
Fire Department
Select Board
MGL c. 149, $ 69
MGL c. 140, § 21E
School Department
Select Board
MGL c. 140, § 137
MGL c. 207, § 28
MGL c. 140, § 181
Animal Control
Town Clerk
Select Board
Subject Matter
Open burning
Sale of article for charitable
purposes
Children work permits
Clubs, associations
dispensing food or
beverage licenses
Dog licenses
Marriage licenses
Theatrical events, public
exhibition permits
(Submitted by the Bylaw Review Committee
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article 24
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 9===
Protective Bylaw, Section 4.15, entitled "Non-medical marijuana establishments," Subsection K,
entitled "Special permit procedure," by deleting Item (1) therefrom in its entirety, which
presently reads:
(1) Applicant shall submit proof of approval from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for
the proposed Marijuana Establishment by submitting copies of all required
registrations, licenses and permits issued to the applicant by the state and any of its
agencies for the facility as well as Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town
and approval hereunder shall be conditioned on final approval from the
Commonwealth.
and by substituting therefor the following:
(I) An applicant shall submit a copy of its Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the
Town, authorizing its development of a Marijuana Establishment on the site subject to
receipt of applicable permits; as well as copies of all registrations and licenses, if any,
issued to the applicant by the Commonwealth or any of its agencies for operation of a
Marijuana Establishment on the site. Licensure by the Commonwealth is not a
prerequisite to application submittal; provided, however, that commencement of use of
or construction under a special permit is and shall be conditioned upon issuance of all
requisite provisional licenses and approvals under applicable law. Final licensure of the
Marijuana Establishment shall be required before commencement of operations.
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
The board took no action on this article until the presentation is made at town meeting.
ARTIC D21. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, which is
a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District," as shown on a document
entitled "Section 250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District Updates 2022", with additions to the Bylaw
underlined and deletions stricken-through therein, the entire text of which is on file at the offices of the
Town Clerk and Land Use Director and posted on the town website; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
ARTICLE 28. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-3.2, which is
a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled "Location of Districts," by deleting "May 3, 2008" as the date
of the map referenced therein and substituting "May 7, 2022" therefor, and by adopting said revised map,
a copy of which is on file with the Town Clerk, as the Town's official zoning map; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
Discussion ensued on the impact of the changing of zones and how the residents of those areas
feel about it. No recommendation was made.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approve Minutes of March 22, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the Minutes of March 22, 2022 as presented Vote: 3 in favor, 1 abstain (Alonzo)
There were no warrants this evening.
===PAGE 10===
come on that later.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building Design Committee failed to post their meeting on time
so had to cancel. A response back from the Superintendent and School Committee when asked about
their current after school programs in the TCP building being moved to the schools (the top 20
school districts in the state hold their extended day care programs in their schools), indicated this was
not viable for them. While the Municipal Design Committee is looking at the Town Hall and Ritter
Building needs, we need to reduce the square footage of any rehabilitation at the TCP building.
There is going to be some engagement with the School Committee and Superintendent following
Town meeting. We are going to invite them to our next meeting to get to an answer that we know the
schools don't want to provide. We need to look at the best practices in the Commonwealth and figure
out why they won't work in Lunenburg. Mr. Jeffreys will be chairing the Memorial Day Ceremony
this year. It will occur at 10:00 AM on Memorial Day. An active General of the Army will be
attending and speaking at the ceremony as well as Mr. Alonzo.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee met and reviewed some of the warrant articles they
have not addressed yet. Much discussion about the Capital Plan occurred and if it could be
amended on town meeting floor. We saw the opinion from Town Counsel and the Chair of the
Finance Committee was not in agreement with it. Chair Peter Beardmore, Finance Committee
member Dave Passios and myself met with Attorney Costa during office hours last week to
discuss further. We agreed to disagree. Tomorrow we are meeting with the Town Moderator at
Town Hall for the pre-Town Meeting meeting.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Alonzo noted May 7' is the Annual Town Meeting. Our next meetings are May 10, May 17, and
May 24.
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was none this evening other than Mr. Alonzo encouraging residents to attend the town meeting.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:19 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
