===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Carol Archambault, Fran McNamara, Tom
Mahanna, Louis Soracco, Derek Belanger via ZOOM; Paula Bertram, John Fortune, Dave
Rodgers, via Zoom; Marc Terry, Town Labor Counsel
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Sroka had received a photo of the donation bins area at the Walmart Plaza and they
looked horrific. She called the phone number on the donation box and they referred her to
Standard Recycling and after speaking to someone, they will be putting cameras on the bins
to deter dumping. This will be discussed later under Current Business.
Mr. Franco announced the pancake breakfast at the Eagle House Senior Center tomorrow
morning from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m.
Mr. Alonzo announced tomorrow at 7 p.m. the Zoning Board of Appeals will be holding a
public hearing on the 40B proposal for Pond View Commons Development (200+ units) on
Howard Street here at Town Hall.
Ms. Lemieux noted the comprehensive permit for this development is on the Town website.
She also reminded everyone that Special Town Meeting is on November 15th at 7:00 PM at
the Middle/High School Auditorium. Warrant articles are due by September 20th at 5:00 p.m.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
School Committee Chair Carol Archambault, 662 Page Street, read aloud a letter sent to the
Select Board from the School Committee.
"Dear Lunenburg Select Board,
The Lunenburg School Committee respectfully requests the town of Lunenburg use
appropriate funding, including ARPA funds, to increase the safety and walkability of
Lunenburg with additional sidewalks.
Many students live near the Turkey Hill Elementary School and Lunenburg Middle High
School. Walking to school for many of these students is dangerous due to the lack of
sidewalks near these buildings.
We do understand that Massachusetts Avenue is under state control, therefore the town has no
jurisdiction over sidewalks there. We are also writing to our state legislators to ask for
assistance increasing sidewalk availability on Mass. Ave., particularly east of school property.
===PAGE 2===
do the sidewalks made sense.
Ms. Archambault stated we have a 3 prong approach to transportation that we thought we
had communicated to families and apparently families did not hear it for whatever reason.
The first was a short-term solution and that was to get kids on the bus. We had three families
that were concerned about the bus and then after it was brought up at the Select Board
meeting we had 241 families. Somebody requested busing last week and they were the last
ones to be placed, but this is obviously not sustainable because it's stressful on parents, on us
and on the kids. The long term is to look at this policy and see if we can in fact say that we
can bus all children. Busing all children; making that decision is multifaceted because we
know that at the moment we can bus all the kids. We have about 100 high school kids that
drive to school but if we say we can bus everybody, we have to have room to bus everybody.
If that doesn't work then we have to make a decision, do we once again set a mileage barrier
and say if you're beyond whatever mileage you cannot ride the bus. We added a bus this year
which enabled the extra kids to go on; another bus costs an additional $143,000 (per bus).
Obviously we don't have an extra $143,000, so that would be the decision that has to be made
by the school committee and is being talked about through this fall. If something like the 40b
development should go through the policy may have to be looked at again because that is
way far out and we would have to bus those kids. Any of those decisions as far as increasing
housing in town certainly affects this decision. We're working on a long-term solution and
we're working on why this message did not come out the way we thought it had.
Discussion about the policy ensued.
Presentation from the Lunenburg Water District and Tighe & Bond on re-activation of
Hickory Hills well
Background: The Lunenburg Water District was established in 1939 through a legislative act.
The district is a separate and distinct municipal entity within the boundaries of Lunenburg.
The current district supplies water to about 70% of the town and operates on the same laws
and requirements that are required of towns. The Water District Commission requested to
come before the Select Board to present information about the Hickory Hills well reactivation
to the public.
Mr. McNamara, Superintendent, noted that Lunenburg is in the Nashua River Watershed.
Currently all the water that comes into Lunenburg comes from the Catacunemaug Brook
basin, via Lake Shirley which gets discharged into the Mulpus Brook and Baker Brook.
If we get the Hickory Hill well back on line we will have another basin to draw water from
and we will need that if we want to have water treatment plants. We are going after funding
as more systems are finding PFAs (polyfluoroalkyl substances) in the water.
We're going to set a date for a special meeting and I want to get the support of the Select
Board and residents to show up at that meeting and vote to appropriate the money needed to
do a pilot study. The pilot study means we're going to investigate if that well can be treated to
go back online and we're not going to know until we do this testing.
Mr. Mahanna and Mr. Sorraco of Tighe & Bond, an engineering consulting firm, gave a
presentation on why they need the pilot study and ways they can do the study.
===PAGE 3===
ypical avage daily water consumption is less than 500,000 gallons per day
" 1.2 million gallons pumped per day during peak demand periods
WATER MANAGEMENT ACT PERMIT
• Water District must operate their water supply under the conditions of their Water
Management Act Permit which is issued by MassDEP.
• Water District can only withdraw on an annual average 0.54 million gallons per day
(MGD) from all of its wells
• Permit balances a variety of factors including:
• Reasonable protection of existing water uses, land values, investments and
enterprises
• Reasonable conservation consistent with efficient water use
• Reasonable protection of public drinking water supplies, water-based
recreation, wetland habitat, fish and wildlife
• Reasonable economic development and job creation
Approved maximum withdrawal rates for all sources as listed in the Water District's
Permit:
Name
Table 3: Maximum Daily Withdrawal Rate
PWS Source ID Code
Maximum Daily Rate
(MGD)
Well I
2162000-01G
0.18
Well 2
2162000-02G
0.11
Well 4
2162000-04G
0.29
Wellfield 5
2162000-05G
0.4
Hickory Hills Well
2162000-06G
0.72
Keating Well Site
2162000-0AG*
1.44 *
The final Source Code ID will be assigned when your source is approved to activate.
The rate will be finalized with Zone I! approval and may vary from this draft permit.
• Hickory Hills Well has been off-line since 2012 due to high manganese levels.
• If Keating Well fails or becomes inactive, Water District will have to rely on
Lancaster Ave. wells only to meet demands.
• Water District's ability to meet demands will be significantly compromised if Keating
Well (1.44 MGD) becomes inactive
• Lancaster Ave. wells have limited capacity and cannot meet peak demands alone
• Well No.1 and No.4 (0.47 MGD) cannot operate continuously and will shut down
after 2-3 days from over pumping
• Restoring Hickory Hills Well (0.72 MGD) is critical for Water District to provide
resiliency in their water supply
===PAGE 4===
Potential Health Effects for Manganese
Current Massachusetts Regulatory Limit
Office of Research and Standards Guideline (ORSG):
Target Population
General population
General population
Infants/children less
than 1 year of age
Exposure Period
Lifetime
10-day
< 10 days
(Address within 10.
days or sooner if
possible)
ORSG,
mg/L (ppm)
0.3
1.0
0.3
*parts per million (ppm)
Hickory Hills Well exceeds ORSG Limit of 0.3 mg/
IRON AND MANGANESE TREATMENT PROCESSES
• Sequestration
• Use of chemicals to prevent iron and manganese from precipitating out in
distribution system and household fixtures
• Only effective at low concentration levels
Softening/lon Exchange
• Use of resins to filter minerals and reduce "hard" water impacts
• Chemical Oxidation
• Addition of chemicals to oxidize iron and manganese
Conventional treatment (oxidation and settlin
Oxide coated media filtration: GreensandPlus™!, LayneOx™M, and
===PAGE 5===
JASOC
Per and Polyfluoroalkyl Substances (PFAS) are considered an emerging contaminant
• Long term PFAS exposure can cause harmful health effects to humans
Pesticides
Stain Resistance
Products
Fast Food
Packaging/
Wrappers
Firelighting
Foams
Candy
Wrappers
Microwave
Popcom Bags
oodwoys
Water Resistant
Clothing
PRODUCTS
THAT CONTAIN
PFAS
Eye
Makeup
Non-Slick
Cookware
Paints, Sealants,
and Varnishes
Dental
Floss
Nail
Polish
Cleaning
Products
EPA
PFOA and PFOS
MCL
EPA Interim
Health Advisories
MassDEP
PFAS6
MCL
MassDEP
Action Level
===PAGE 6===
Hickory Hills Well PFAS Samples
Initial Well Sample
Repeat Well Sample
(low flow)
Lake Surface Water
37 ppt
30 ppt
19.4 ppt
WHAT IS A TREATMENT PILOT STUDY?
1. Uses treatment equipment to conduct either small or full-scale test of effectiveness of
treatment processes being evaluated
2. Required by MassDEP before constructing permanent treatment facility
3. Source water from wells) is used for testing treatment effectiveness
4. Multiple filter columns can be utilized to test various scenarios
5. Pilot Study benefits:
/ Proves effectiveness of treatment
• Pilot/Demonstration studies provide useful data needed for design of full
scale/permanent treatment facility
PFAS BENCH TESTING
• Rapid Small Scale Column Testing (RSSCT)
• Alternative approach for pilot testing of different filter media
• Useful for PFAS media comparisons
• Provides limited performance data for use in full-scale facility design
• Approach is not feasible for evaluating manganese treatment
ON-SITE PILOT SCALE STUDY
• Can be used for pilot testing treatment for iron, manganese and PFAS
• Provides practical data for full-scale sizing of permanent treatment facility
• Pilot study duration can last 1 week - 1 year
• Equipment is housed in small trailer or available space at well facility
• Typical pilot study requires:
• 6-inch diameter filters
===PAGE 7===
• Either pilot or full-scale PFAS treatment would be provided depending on PFAS
concentrations
• Full-scale treatment effectiveness can be evaluated before Water District invests in a
permanent treatment solution
• Estimated cost $2M-$4M
PILOT STUDY - OPTION 1
• Biological Filtration Pilot Study Only
• This option includes conducting a pilot study that utilizes biological filtration to
remove iron and manganese. It appears that the iron and manganese levels present in
the well are at sufficient concentrations at low flow rates of approximately 100 to 200
gpm to be able to conduct the pilot study without having to pump the well at a higher
rate. A PFAS pilot study would not be included under this option if the Water District
decides to use granular activated carbon (GAC) media for treatment.The media would
need to be included on MassDEP's approved technology. list. MassDEP will require
full scale sampling to confirm that adequate PFAS6 treatment is being provided once
the permanent facility is constructed. This approach will not provide the Water
District with any specific operation and maintenance (i.e. media replacement) costs
for the PFAS treatment system, and it commits the Water District to using GAC
media.
• Duration of this Pilot Study is approximately 2 to 3 months
• Total budget for this option is approximately $160,000
PILOT STUDY - OPTION 2
• Biological Filtration Pilot and PFAS Bench Scale Testing
• This option includes conducting a biological filtration pilot study as described in
Option 1 along with a Rapid Small Scale Column Test (RSSCT) for PFAS removal.
The RSSCT is used to test and compare multiple filter medias for PFAS removal and
obtain theoretical breakthrough curves. The well would also be pumped at the lower
flow rates (100 to 200 gpm). As PFAS concentrations appear to be directly
proportional to the flow rate of the well, the RSSCI would allow the sample water to
be spiked to the desired level of the various PFAS compounds without operating the
well at full capacity for an extended period. This option will be more expensive than
Option 1, however it will provide the Water District with specific information on the
cost difference between the multiple filter media tested. Option 2 will not predict
actual breakthrough times, so conservative estimates will be used to calculate the
required media replacement frequency.
• Duration of this pilot study option is approximately 2 to 4 months
• Total estimated budget for this option is approximately $210,000
===PAGE 8===
can then be used to determine actual media replacement frequency. This will provide
more accurate data to estimate the long-term operation and maintenance costs for the
future treatment facility.
Duration of this Pilot Study option is approximately 16 months
• Total estimated budget for this option is approximately $360,000
PILOT STUDY - OPTION 4
• Biological Filtration and PFAS Demonstration Study
This option utilizes full scale treatment equipment (6-feet and 12-feet diameter filters) to
conduct a long-term demonstration pilot study for the removal of iron, manganese, and
PFAS6. After completion of the demonstration study, this treatment equipment could then be
installed in the permanent treatment plant.Under this option, the well will need to be pumped
at the projected annual average flow rate. Since the demonstration study will be capable of'
producing water that meets drinking water standards, the well could be pumped directly into
the distribution system during the entire duration of the pilot study. If the Water District
decides to proceed with this option, Tighe & Bond will seek MassDEP's approval to conduct
the pilot study while pumping directly into the distribution system. This is the most
expensive pilot study option as it requires full-scale treatment equipment and a facility to
house the equipment. However, it will provide the most accurate data and information on
the effectiveness of this equipment to meet the desired treatment goals.
• Duration of this study is approximately 16 - 18 months from the time the
filter equipment arrives at the site. Procurement of the treatment equipment
can take up to one year based on our experience with similar projects.
" Preliminary estimated budget range for this option is $2M - $4M.
FULL SCALE WATER TREATMENT PLANT
• What to expect in new facility
• 6 ft.-12 ft. diameter filter pressure vessels installed within a building or
building addition
• Filter size will require building height of approximately 30 feet.
• Chemicals required will be same as currently used at well
• Biological filter residuals are captured in settling tanks. Backwash water is
recycled to concentrate solids before being hauled away
• PFAS media is replaced approximately every year or less frequent pending
pilot results
• Spent PFAS media is hauled away for disposal
===PAGE 9===
Mr. Sorraco stated though the well is in close proximity to the lake, it has been tested and
permitted as a groundwater source not under the influence of surface water. DEP requires
you run through tests to confirm where the water is actually coming from. There's concern
that the level of the lake might be negatively impacted if the well was turned back on.
Surface area of the lake is roughly 319 acres; roughly 2 inches of rain during the summer
months would replenish any water that would have been taken from the source had it a direct
connection to the lake from the well. We surmise that the impact is quite minimal but during
a pilot test those levels will be monitored.
Question was asked how long was the Hickory Hills well operational before it's the use was
terminated? Mr. McNamara answered the original well was found in 1985. The permanent
well was put online in 1995 and we took it offline in 2012 due to the manganese levels.
Question was asked about the PFAs numbers in the wells. Mr. McNamara answered we've
tested every site numerous times; the Lancaster Ave. wells range from nine to none detected.
We have some that there's no PFAs at all detected. The average is a reading of like four or
five. The Keating well, the highest producing was in the same range, five or six for the
reading. But with the new regulations we hear they're going to break it out into certain
segments. That's why we're trying to prepare for the future so that if it does affect us, then
we're ready to go.
Mr. McNamara stated the actual treatment plant might have to be placed on adjacent land
because the well site is very small but we need the pilot study to determine the needed size.
Paula Bertram, Townsend Harbor Road, and John Fortune, Hemlock Drive, board members
of the HHL Association, expressed concerns about the impact to the lake. Representatives of
the lake have been meeting with the Water Commissioners. Ms. Bertram stated their concerns
stem from the 1994 pumping report. We've discussed our apprehension that continual
pumping of the well may result in lowering of the lake level. This is a very shallow well and
in very close proximity to the lake, less than 50 feet. We're concerned about the continuation
of existing recreational uses. Marielle Stone, DEP Water Division Deputy Regional Director
has said that while the approvals issued in 1994 and 1995 remain in effect, a 48-hour
pumping test at the full withdrawal rate may be necessary to re-evaluate water quality and in
some cases monitoring of the surrounding groundwater and surface water. The
review the scope before it goes out for bid. Our biggest issue is modifications to the well to
provide treatment and returning the well to service can't negatively impact the Hickory Hills
about other well options.
Ms. Bertram stated there is a dispute between the HHL Association and the Water
Commission about the size of the restrictive casement around the well and what it includes.
Mr. McNamara stated we are looking at Option 3 for the pilot study. When we finalize the
proposal we will also send it to the DEP for approval.
===PAGE 10===
Option 3 for testing Hickory Hills lake water
Discussion ensued about a future treatment plant site. Mr. Alonzo clarified at this point he
was only in support of the pilot study.
Vote: All in Favor
Dave Rodgers, Highland Street, via Zoom, recommended reexamining the intermunicipal
agreement with the City of Fitchburg for supply of water as a fallback measure. Mr.
McNamara stated they had discussions with Fitchburg but looking at the financial costs,
decided it was cheaper to look for our own source. Also we do have the ability to do that but
it would need to be pumped (additional cost) from some other location in Lunenburg due to
water pressure differences. Mr. Jeffreys thanked the water commission and Tighe & Bond
staff for coming in this evening.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Heavy Equipment
Operator- Max Anderson
Ms. Lemieux stated Mr. Anderson has worked for Sterling Concrete since 2017 as their
concrete mixer trucks and other heavy equipment and has worked at a landscaping company,
a construction company and tire service company. He has his CDL-B license as well as his
2A hydraulics license and his IB crane operator's license.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Max Anderson as heavy equipment
operator
2"': H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (2 associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Planning Board (1 vacancy jointly appointed by the Planning Board and Select Board
until the next ATE)
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent
to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the
Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
Heavy Equipment Operator (Full Time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
===PAGE 11===
delivery date is 9 months out. All three purchases combined are $1,140 over the capital
appropriations. The DPW has been busy with catch basin repairs and tree removals. Our line
painting contractor told the DPW Director that the line striping was scheduled for this week.
Police: One of the new cruisers is now on the road and the other cruiser will be on the road in the
next few weeks. The department has their acreditation meeting in October.
Council on Aging: Thecollaborationplatform Elder Connect between the Police, Fire, and Senior
Center is ready to go live once one remaining component regarding a Privacy Statement is
addressed by our Town Counsel. There will be a legislative break fast on 10/31/22 at 9 am at the
EagleHouse. Pre-pandemictherewasa moveto become an AgeFriendly Community(wealready
achieved thestate'sdesignationas Dementia Friendly community) and therewillbeare-kickoffof
this Thursday. The Meal Site Manager has already started to "beefup" the nutrition program at the
Eagle House with a menu of home cooked meals and this should attract a lot more peopleto these
meals. Theamount the Town willrecei ve in Formula Grant funds has been finalized by the State; the
population figures will bebased on the UMass Donahue Institutepopulations sincethe federalcensus
numbers will not beavailable until spring. This population statistichas Lunenburg at 3,155 persons
over 60 and based on $12/elder the Town willreceive$37,860 in formula grant funds, an increaseof
$12,588 overFY22. The Facilities Directorand COA Director will bemeeting with McCarty
Engineering this week regarding the ADA Patio, but the original estimate of $100,000 for this
project appears it will not be sufficient. Once a more firm estimate of costs is known, I will update
Land Use: The Planning Board approved the Site Plan and two special permits for Uma Flowers at 43
Summer Street on August 22, 2022. The Lunenburg Central project has been progressing according
to their schedule, with the walls being constructed, and the line striping in place at the intersection of
Leominster Shirley Road and Fort Pond Road. The owners of Lunenburg Central are interested in
purchasing 300 acres of the property across the street at 400 Leominster Shirley Road, owned by PJ
Keating.
Assessors: ThePrincipal Assessor is currently working with the Assistant Town Managerin
putting out an RFP for Data Collection to meet the required 5 year valuation schedule.
Public Access: Reviewing the Production Technician position description to attract more qualified
candidates. Public access has finished filming the band concerts and will move onto filming the LHS
Football games.
IT: Our IT consultant plans on transitioning the remainder of town email accounts for board,
committee, and commission members in October. Correspondence will go out in advance to notify
everyone involved. The remote meeting equipment for the Ritter building and DPW Conference
Room has been received and is awaiting installation by our Network Administrator:
Facilities and Grounds: The new Facilities Director started on August 31 st. Paul has toured all the
facilities, had meetings with various contractors including the landscaping, cleaning, current building
project contractors, is looking at fire safety, pest control, alarm systems, and other building related
items at all our facilities. He and the DPW Director have been in constant to this new department.
Paul has reported that the PSB Chiller project will begin in 2 weeks, Monty Tech has begun the
Ritter Breakroom project this week, and he will be working with the Assistant Town Manager on
putting various projects out to bid. Paul is now the point of contact for the 30 School Street project
for removal of the remaining hazardous materials and demolition of the building and will be meeting
with the architect and team this week. The Facilities Director, DPW Director, Assistant TM and I
had a very productive meeting with the Superintendent, new School Facilities Director and new
===PAGE 12===
expiring, I worked with the Assistant Town Manager in putting out a Request for Proposals
for a new lease. Proposals are due October 18th.
A Request for Proposals will be issued next week for the cleanup of solid waste materials at
the Woodruff Property (104 Fairview Road). Bids will be due by October 24th.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• The Zoning Board of Appeals will be having the first hearing on the Pond View Commons
40B comprehensive permit application tomorrow, September 14th at 7 PM in the Town
Hall meeting room. This is an in person meeting and there is no virtual component.
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health will be holding a Flu Clinic at the Lunenburg Library
on October 3rd 3-5 PM for all ages. Pre-registration is required. More information can be
found on the Lunenburg Board of Health web page.
• TheLunenburg Business Association isplanning on doing the Trunk or Treat event again this
year. They have been intouch with theschool and a tentativedate is Sunday, October 30th 12-
3 PM at the LHS Upper Parking Lot.
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market is every Sunday until Sunday, September 25th and the
Historical Society Building is open during the Farmers Market.
• The Special Town Meeting warrant is open for submission of articles until 5 pm on
September 20th and the STM will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the MS/HS
Auditorium.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion of 300th Anniversary Committee Charge
Mr. Franco presented the second draft of the committee charge with tracked changes.
It addresses the composition of the board; not to exceed 11 members; clarifies that the Select
Board appoints the members and it we want continuity their term lasts through completion or
discharging of all the functions and the dissolution of the committee.
Discussion ensued about some other changes. Mr. Franco will send the amendments to the
Town Manager to distribute before the next meeting.
Review Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
Two more articles have been added to the warrant totaling five.
To see if the Town will vote to transfer a sum of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization
Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
To see if the Town will accept the provision contained within M.G.L. c. 32 § 4(2)(b) written as
"For a reserve or permanent-intermittent police officer or a reserve, permanent-intermittent or call firefighter
retiring from a governmental unit accepting the provisions of this sentence, the board shall credit, in addition
to the five years of credit allowed pursuant to the preceding sentence, as one day of full-time service each day
in any year which is subsequent to the fifth year following said appointment and on which a reserve or
permanent-intermittent police officer or a reserve, permanent-intermittent or call fire fighter was assigned to
and actually performed duty as a reserve or permanent-intermittent police officer or reserve, permanent-
intermittent or call fire fighter; provided, however, that such service as a permanent-intermittent or call fire
===PAGE 13===
employees so what you're ultimately doing there is accepting a provision that allows a person
to get additional credit of years of service. I'm happy to look at it more closely for you and
get back to you.
Status Update on Town Manager and Select Board Goals
Mr. Jeffreys stated our first goal or objective is:
Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building
at 30 School Street a continuation of FY21 and FY22 Select Board Goal - Objective 1,
with modified actions). The first action is overseeing hazards material abatement and
demolition of the old Primary School; this is in process with Ray Dunetz Landscaping
and then the rest of the actions here; seeking public engagement to review and evaluate
landscape architect plans. We're waiting for Municipal Building Design Committee on
some of this. The third action is create working title that provides a clear unique purpose.
There's more work that has to be done there and then also action for communicating a
funding source so there's still more work to be done in the course of the year on that
objective.
Objective 2: Discuss and determine the eligibility criteria for seniors to be able to
qualify and participate in the program. Mr. Alonzo reported he is halfway through the
framework he needed to call the next meeting of the subcommittee.
Mr. Jeffreys moved on to Objective 3: Review Select Board bylaws and propose updates
for 2023 Annual Town Meeting. Action ii: Review Select Board Policies and Procedures.
We should be done after next week's meeting.
Action iii: Review all Select Board bylaws and prepare modifications/updates to improve
clarity and consistency with the Town Charter. This should be coming up on an October
agenda. Mr. Jeffreys believed they were making good progress.
Town Manager Goals:
Ms. Lemieux reported not much change from the last update; for the 925 Mass Ave goal, I
contacted the abutter who had private property on that property. That has been removed and
that was a necessary step for the EPA for when their contractor comes in to do the
remediation because it's a very tight site.
For long-term planning/Capital Planning, I'm working on right now and that includes all of
assets of the Town. I previously updated the board on the pavement management plan so that
company was out within the last month to do that work for the Lidar.
The last goal for employee recruitment recognition and retention, I don't have any updates
tonight for them.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Donation Bins at Walmart
As stated earlier in public comment, Ms. Sroka reported she spoke with Standard Recycling
(owners of the bins) and they rent the space from Brixmor. They will be putting up cameras
to deter dumping. I will reach out to him after they are installed to see if they made a
difference.
===PAGE 14===
electricity costs and what we re being quoted for rates that would take over in November. The
municipal aggregation program can take on our accounts, but there would be a one-time cost
increase to the program because of our annual consumption. We use about 1.7 million
kilowatt hours annually between the town and school accounts, so this would increase that
rate from 11.21 cents per kilowatt to 11.732 cents per kilowatt, which is about a half penny
increase. They would send out a single notice to all the program users; it's always an opt-in
opt-out program with the municipal aggregation program and just for point of reference the
current basic service rate with Unitil is 13.436 cents/kilowatt and that's their current rate.
There should be a significant rise in their winter rate, so the municipal aggregation by far is a
much better option for electricity supply. Our municipal aggregation program contract is
through November 2024.
Authorization for Town Manager to file Asset Management Grant Application and
Execute Related Agreement with MassDEP
Ms. Lemieux stated she is requesting authorization as required by the grant at a public
meeting; she has filed the grant paperwork and this is the last component of the documents.
This is related to stormwater.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To authorize the Town Manager to file the Asset Management Grant application and
execute related agreement with Mass/DEP
Vote: All in Favor
Discuss Site Visit to Town Properties
Mr. Jeffreys referred the board to the list of properties under the care and custody of the
Select Board and the map of them. One of the things that I'm looking for us to do over the
next couple of months is to conduct site visits to some of these properties. We've had two
town meetings where residents showed up and identified that we had not walked town
property and that there was debris and household trash there for a significant period of time.
This is for us to be proactive in trying to monitor some of this property and next week when
we hear about pollinator habitats and community gardens, we may want to have some sites in
mind. I'd like to coordinate a couple of site visits; I'd like to target our three largest parcels
first: the Woodruff parcel on 104 Fairview Road; 225 Pleasant Street and 671 West Street.
Some of these properties are being maintained, some have hay fields on parts of them. He
asked the board members about their availability on Saturdays. This would be to inspect the
properties in order to formulate some rules on how we provide access to using the properties
and to identify potential future uses of them. Discussion ensued about visiting them.
Approve Minutes of August 16, 2022
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the Minutes of August 16, 2022 as written
2": H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $1,245.08; an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $457, 483.39; a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of
$23,509.31 and another payroll warrant in the amount of $922,583.86.
===PAGE 15===
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Jeffreys noted the board will meet again on September 20t and have a joint meeting with
the Finance Committee. They will also meet the first three Tuesdays in October.
PUBLIC COMMENT-
Ms. Sroka suggested showing the goals of the Town Manager and Select Board to the public
when they are updating them on a monthly check-in.
Mr. Franco had discussed a proposal for a bylaw change with the Sewer Commission and
although it was well received, they did not want to see this on the Special Town Meeting
Warrant. They will revisit it for the 2023 annual town meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys announced the board would be entering Executive Session.
Motion: L. Franco
2': T. Alonzo
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session
pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to
collective bargaining if any open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the
bargaining position of the public body and the Chair so declares. (Police Union)
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
****
*****EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE**************
The meeting adjourned at 9:39 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
