===PAGE 1===
                                               SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
July 19 , 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present:  Michael-Ray Jeffreys , Chairman; Tom Alonzo , Vice Chairman;  Lou Franco, 
Clerk;  Todd Dwyer
Member not present:  Heather Sroka
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager via ZOOM ; Peter Beardmore , Dr. Kate 
Burnham, School Superintendent ; Elizabeth Lydon of Mead, Talerman & Costa  via ZOOM
School Committee Members present:  Carol Archambault, Chair; Brian L ehtinen, Vice Chair; 
Anthony Sculimbrene
Chairman Jeffreys  cal led the meeting to order at 7:00  p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the 
Pledge of Allegiance.  He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting 
Law, please be advised  that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access 
YouTube channel within 2 4 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topi cs which may be discussed at this  meeting and are those 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not 
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.  He announced Town Manager 
Lemieux was participating remotely this evening. 
PUBLIC COMMENT - there was none at this time.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux reported  Council on Aging Director Sue Doherty  has stated Eagle House Senior 
Center will be open as a cooling center  on Wednesday from 8 am to 7 pm: T hursday 8  am to 5 
pm and F riday 8 am to 4 pm .
Mr. Alonzo announced last night's band  concert was canceled because of the rain so they will use
their rain date so they will be  going to that extra M onday . T hey'll be back hopefully w eather 
permitting next Monday at 7 pm in front of the TC Passios Building.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER  BOARDS -none this evening
Joint  Appointment  with  School  Committee  to  Fill  Vacancy  with  a  term  to  expire  at  the  next
election
Chair Carol Archambault called the School Committee meeting to order.  Mr. Jeffreys noted there
was one applicant for the School Committee vacancy, Peter Beardmore of 282 Pleasant Street. 
Mr. Beardmore stated he  was bo rn, raised and has  lived here f or most of his  adult life . Following
college he  was an A rmy officer  for four years and since the last 24 years worked in high tech , 
primarily in product marketin g and marketing functions in IT  security , fraud compliance and risk
management . He has  a son who is an 8th grader at  Lunenburg Middle School and a daughter who
is a 2020 graduate of  Lunenburg H igh . He ’s  always taken an int erest in town government since 
he was 11 years old and his  mother  ran for S ch ool Committee and served for six years. He 
served as a member of the  ZBA for almost a full term several years ago . He has  served on the 
===PAGE 2===
Finance C ommitt ee for the past three years as C lerk  and V ice Chair and Chair for the past year . 
For most of his  first  term on the Finance Committee he  served as a liaison to the S chool  
C ommittee , so has sat in just about all of the school committee meetings for the last three years . 
He also currently serves  on the Municipal B uilding  Design C ommittee . He is  familiar with the 
duties and responsibilities of the school committee . He has  watched M rs . A rchambault's  series 
on p ublic access channel and read a number of documents that she's furnished  to him on the 
duties of the school committee ; the operating principles in a document for  new members . If 
appointed tonight he  look s  forward to the opportunity to work  m ore closely with the School 
C ommittee  members  and the ad ministration in pursuit of the S chool department's  mission.
T he school administration has done remarkable work in improving the overall professionalism of
our faculty ; the professional development program has really grown . Very early in her term the 
S uperintendent identified some of the  g aps associated with socioeconomic  changes that have 
occurred in L unenburg and put forth plans to  begin to address some of the behavioral and 
emotional challenges that some of our students  have. T hose plans were able to be put into force  
as resourc es became available during COVID . T he investments we've made in curriculum have 
begun already  to pay and show results . He was  excited about  the civics curriculum as he knew 
the board was. T here are four a reas that the S chool  C ommittee has an opport unity to set 
measurable and tangible goals, garner resources and support from  the comm unity and ensure that  
there's accountability and some of these will overlap a little bit .
T he first is safety and ce rtainly the most important one. This is an area that the School 
department, you and our public safety officials pay close attention to . I t's an area that we can't 
discuss enough  and as a parent I can tell you that I don't feel that I'm fully informed and I think 
that there's work to do there .
The second is achievement , I  think we would all like to know that we're getting good return  on 
our investment . U.S. News and World R eports published a national survey a few months ago that
ranked LHS  as 119 in the state out of 378 public high schools . This puts us just inside of the top 
third and my question is  can we be in the top fourth ? W e should decide  what our goals a re and 
what we want and what we should expect  as measurements to ensure taxpayers that  our students 
are getting the best possible return on investment .
T he third area very tied to return on  investment is budget; that's an area that I ’ve paid close 
attention to over the last few years for obvious reasons . I  think we're in for tough times ahead 
and it might not be this f iscal year or the next but by FY 25  whe n the COVID funds start to dry 
up and our contracts and line items st art to c atch up with inflation. I think we need to start 
strategizing and planning for  that eventuality . If appointed one of the first things that I 'll do  is 
suggest that  we form a subcommittee of the 
S chool  C ommittee to scrutinize the entire budget , not just the lines that are addit ions and 
subtractions that the School C ommittee tends to pay attention to  during budget season , because 
there may be opportunities for greater efficiencies and or  reductions if things are not running 
efficiently .
His  final area of focus and the biggest and hardest one is to better address communication and  
community engagement . B oth are lacking in his  opinion despite the fact that they've  been  
identified and there's been some effort over the last few years . He wonder ed  if we're just opening
our wallets and paying for  things that that we used to do ourselves . He  work s  in marketing and a  
common metric that they  use is calle d net promoter score to measure how  they ’re doing in the 
eyes of their  customers and it's a simple calculation that you see on every survey that you've 
probably  ever taken from a vendor . He  suspect ed  that if we were to get a measurement that we'd 
===PAGE 3===
all want it to be better than  it is and the way to achieve this  is through policy and through 
performance . I t com es to administration by looking at means of communication but not just the 
platforms that we're using for communication but the engagement of  those platforms and looking
for ways to bring community members to bear . W e just don't have that magnitu de of 
participation anymore in L unenburg  partially because we have n't tried and partially because 
some people have been turned away . T hey've been made to feel that their opinion doesn't matter, 
that their problems aren't cared for  and they begin to feel disenfranchised and how do you build 
ownership when there's a sense of disenfranchise ment. Those are the areas that he  hope d  t o focus
on should you appoint him to the School C ommittee.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked him for his comments and deferred to the School Committee members to 
ask questions. 
Vice Chair Brian Lehtinen asked Mr . Beardmore if he had attended School C ommittee meetings 
before he was appointed to the Finance Committee. Mr. Beardmore stated he had attended them 
sporadically over the last 20 years when there was an issue that gathe red his  attention. The 
earliest in the last five years was Dr. Burnham ’s first or second school committee meeting and 
there was issue about the turf field agreement made between the Bengals and the school 
department and the fairness of paying fees for use of the fi eld. There ’s a lot that can be done to 
conv ey a sense of partnership with the community when it comes to working through and 
resolving tho se issues. Not long after that he  applied for Finan ce Committee t here was a proposal
to cut the French langu age program at the school and his  daughter wa s i n that program at the 
time and he  spoke out against it.  He  also attended a Finance Committee hearing on a topic 
where he thought there wasn ’t a lot of engagement from the Fi nance Committee that  led him  to 
volun teer for the Finance Committee.
Ms. Archambault asked how you feel about potential conflicts of interest as you have been 
liaison for the School Committee as I have been for Finance Committe e. She saw places where 
there could be conflicts.  She had  called the Ethics C ommission to ask if it was possi ble for  
somebody to serve on both boards and they said yes , as long  as neither position was paid . 
S uppose the School C ommittee made a decision to submit a capital plan  item to build a 
swimming pool at each school ; the School C ommittee had discussed it and despite the fact that 
you disagreed  they had voted for i t and this came to you at Finance Committee.  W hat do you do 
with that because by our protocols when you are in the public if  something is passed , you can't 
say that was not a good idea b ecause it's all part of the team?  W hat would you do with that ?
Mr. Beardmore replied I too called the Ethics Commission but for a different reason today .
T he Finance Committee discussion did come up and I've also had a number of conversations 
since my last c onversation with you and my  opinion has evolved . To answer yo ur question , I 
think that while I don't see a pragmatic conflict in the majori ty of the duties of either the School 
Committee or the Finance C ommittee, and I do think that there are efficiencies potentially to be 
gained in the same way that Mr. Passios served on the Finance Committee and the Parks 
Commis sion at the same time;  I recognize that there are more than a few eyebrows that have 
been raised about this proposal. That perception is reality. I would propose to the members of 
this joint committ ee is that if appointed to the School C ommittee, I'm not looking to resign 
immediately  from the Finance C ommittee . T here' s work that I need to help the Finance 
C ommittee do and some goals that we'd like to accomplish together. But I can't see serving on 
the Finance Committee and the School C ommittee through budget season and I would need to 
make an e xit before the end of the year . I think that it  would have to be dealt with very carefully. 
Y ou raised another question in your  question, which I don't know if you intended to do so or not .
===PAGE 4===
I suspect you did about your protocols because I 've spoken to your protocols and your operat ing 
procedures and I don't agree with them entirely and when the time comes I ’m looking forward to 
those discussions . I 've read them over the last couple of weeks and I don't think they serve us 
well particularly when it comes to exactly that circumstance that you brought forth . The “ there 
will be no surprises ,”  clause  and a couple of other cla uses that effectively turn the  S chool  
C ommittee into an omerta or cabal of unity . I recognize that as an appointed member of this 
elected board  I  will abide by  those rules until such time as I  can convince you othe rwise that we 
should change them.
Ms. Archambault stated you  brought up another point that I  need to make sure that that we are 
very clear on ; tha t the real constituents of the School C ommittee by law are the children . We  
don't want the parents upset , but we speak for the children for they have no voice a nd that's very 
important . I  know that 's really not something you 100% agree with either .
Mr. Beardmore stated, yes , because I don't see how you can solely represent the children  when 
you are budgeting with taxpayer money and you are elected by registered voters .
I see an inherent conflict there but I also see that a strict view of that ha s put us in the position 
when it comes to this net promoter deficit and engagement deficit . T he re are some people who 
believe that the School C ommittee i s more in support of the admin istration than of the peopl e 
and the students and the need to resolve issues . I 'm not sayi ng that I  agree with that position . I 
think it comes with  a lack of context sometimes. That perception issue  is something that needs to
be addressed . I ’m no t one of these I  alone can fix it types , but I  will probably push, prod, ask and
apologize and do all  the things to try to move the committee in the direction  of doing both a great
job for our children  to accomplishing our m ission exactly as it's written. I  have no problem with 
the mission but to do so in a way I  think that that supports community engagement and  support 
more holistically .
Ms. Archambault responded, our job as the School C ommittee does not touch day-to-day 
operations  and how things work that way . T he S uperintendent is charged with  carrying out our 
policies . N ow if there is a big problem in the  day to day, then we have two choices . W e ta lk with 
the S uperintendent in her evaluation , we say this needs to be addressed  or we change the policy . 
T hose are the only two options , we don't have any other options by law .
Mr. Beardmore stated I  agree d with you entirely and I read the law . I 'm familiar with  educati on 
reform in the 90s and the changes that came with the  Student Opportunity Act and the  local 
policie s as well. W e will probably  have some disagreements on some of the rough edge s but the 
points you just made are valid points . T here are oppor tunities through policy, supervision and 
hiring/firing of the administration of the superintendent , and through budgeting .
Many of these things can be pushed along and that progress can be made  through benchmarking , 
measuring, goal setting and holding people accountable . Al l of those  things that are n ot day-to-
day activities but are  direction setting in policy setting . W hen it comes to so me of the issues 
where controversy has ensued , it's hard to come up with  hyp erbole and examples and you just 
don't kno w what's going to happen and to really pressure test those policies in adva nce but 
sometimes that just has to be done . The School C ommittee has in its toolkit plenty of levers and 
knobs to do a great job and I don't subscribe  that we can't address this because we're not allowed.
I think yo u know give me a rule book and I 'll find a way to win the game  and I  guess that's the 
approach that I  think we need to take .
Mr. Sculimbrene asked if Mr. Beardmore had any preferences for any of the ir  subcommittees.
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Beardmore stated he was not up to speed on the subcommittees but thought he could do his 
fair share .  He  mentioned a budget subcommittee which he did not think existed  righ t now. It 
probably ought and would certainly love to participate in that.
Mr. Dwyer asked if Mr. Beardmore could speak about a time he came to a meeting with one 
opinion and been persuaded by others and had your opinion changed. Mr. Beardmore could not 
think of any time at the moment, but in his  capacity as Chairman of the Finance C ommittee and 
tenure I have been enthusiastic about discussion and shaking out issues . Also when I 'm wrong , 
saying I 'm wrong . I t came after the fact and it didn't really matter in the grand scheme of things  
but in the  June 2020  town mee ting if you re call I  made a motion , Mr. P assios seconded it , to 
basically reduce  the capit al plan in half and at the time we just did not know where the  state was 
at for funding . It was the beginning of COVID;  it looked like there was massive economic 
impact happening , the federal government ha dn't stepped in yet and we didn't really know what 
was going to happen . M y strategy was  just spend what we absolute ly need to spend on capital in 
June and then come back in N ovember and figure it out when  we had a better view . T hat opinion  
was vigorously opposed by the Town M anager  and by most of the members of this board . T he 
motion failed  an d the capital plan passed proposed . I  was wrong  and I  admitted such as many 
times over in Finance C ommittee meetings  in  the couple of years that ensued. S o I when I'm 
wrong I don't have a problem saying I 'm wrong . But I have no problem with be ing a lone 
dissenting vote either .
Mr. Franco stated  w hat am I  about to s ay my position is not a Peter B eardmore thing ; it's an 
appearanc e of conflict and while I have no doubt that you  personally would be able to navigate 
this situation , my concern is over appearance and the  precedential effect of having the same 
person , not you , the same person  serving both roles simultaneously . My concern is that in the  
future , four or five years from now , if something like this comes up and it's  a much long er period
of overlap, people will dig back into the annals of what happened and said is  there any precedent 
for this ? T hey're only going to know that one person occupied both of these positions  
simultaneously so my  questio n is, is  there a way that we can  make this not overlap ? H ow long 
are we talking  about this overlap  and is there a way that this appointment could be done in a way 
so that your term does not overlap ?
Mr. Beardmore noted t he power of the F inance  C ommittee is purely of influence. We  participate 
in making recommendations  on the warrant and a town meetin g , but we have literally t wo 
powers ; we appoint members to a couple of other committees, the capital planning committee 
and  bu ilding design committee, both of which are advisory  committees . In very rare 
circumstances we approve an interdepartmental transfer . T hat's the extent of our power on the 
Finance C ommittee . S chool C ommittee is obviously very different in  its scope of responsibility 
and authority . But  I'm also sensitiv e to the perception  of  conflict . T here is no prohibition of this 
anywhere in our bylaws or charter . A ny member of the public can serv e in an elected position 
and appointed positions simultaneously . U ntil a few weeks ago we had a member that served on 
multiple  bodies in town , including the Finance C ommittee . T o answer your question I t hink the 
School C ommittee is not scheduled to meet until  A ugust 19 th . Ms. Archambault noted they will 
have a meeting mi d-august to talk about setting pro tocols. T he Finance Committee will meet  
twice in A ugust so there's a potential course of action where  I could be appointed tonight , work 
with the Finance C ommittee to  reorganize and set the c alendar, path and plan to facil itate some 
continuity and resign and be sworn  in just prior to the next School C ommittee meeting . Mr. 
Franco understood that the Finance C ommittee ha s no binding authority but the persuasive 
authority is very substantial. P eople rely on that information that comes o ut of there, that ’s a 
===PAGE 6===
testament to how useful that committee is. I f there's a way it can be engineer ed so that there is no
overlap. If that circumstance can be engineered I am totally in. Mr. Beardmore stated given the 
way the calendar is right now I think that could be accomplished. 
Mr. Alonzo stated in in your engagements in public se rvice there is not a time when I  have not 
felt  that you didn't elevate the con versation and brought critical thinking and clear  vision to your 
opinions about how things should be and I  appreciate that  entirely. That's an incredible quality so
I definitely want to echo what M r. F ranco said . You are an excellent candidate for this kind of 
public service  so thank you for all of that. I  also would like it to be unanimous , I  think it's very 
interesting that as a  candidate before us that's looking to have a vote that you take  strong 
positions on things that may not be particularly popular  with people who are going to be voting 
in one way or another and yet you still take them and that's exactly why you should be on these 
places . My only concern is the conflict and  the precedent that M r. Franco said and what I 'd like 
to propose  s o we can say yes this has been done but only for a set  time window. I nee d to hear 
how long it's going to be , but it's not going to be past this date . We're so close to this I  would like
you to commit to say  for ever ybody's sake that you ’re only going to be here for this amount of 
time whether it's another  three meetings of the Finance Committee or until middle of September 
whatever that is I  want it to be certain because  ot herwise I  have absolutely no trepidations about
voting for you . I  think you'd be an excellent member of the School C ommittee as you are an 
excellent member of the Finance C ommittee .
Mr. Beardmore stated since I 've been on the Finance C ommittee we've taken the summer season 
to look at special projects ; we've go t half a dozen on the list of which we haven't mad e a lot of 
progress yet this summer and I don't think we'll accom plish all of them before I leave . B ut  
typically the summer is the  first f iscal quarter of the year so J uly , August and September and 
then  things start happening in October. A drop dead date of the end of September would be
more than reasonable and more than generous ; p robably no interaction with the sc hool 
department du ring that period of time.  T he one issue bearing down on all of us is debt financing 
of new buildings and the discussion around do we build a new elementary school and those kinds
of things . B ut the mechanics of setting up a financial plan have very little to do with sc hool 
committee policy so I don't see any potential issues there . N o later than  end of S eptember .
Mr. Jeffreys had no questions but did have a comment . He stated t his is really our only 
opportuni ty other than voting to offer influence. We ’re  an executive board but in many fashions 
the School C ommittee is as  well, but I  think that there's no doubt that the School C ommittee is  
on par ; I  would consider them to be our sister bo ard in town to the Select B oard  because more 
than half the budget goes to schools . S o there's a lot of money from the  taxpayers that goes 
through the School C ommittee . A s a citizen  I  appreciate all the achievemen ts and all the areas of 
needed  focus that you identified and I  agree with them . I  think that in t he dialogue between you 
and Ms. Archambault who I have a ton of respect for , I think that I  probably side a little more 
with you. The C harter  gives the School C ommittee a little bit more authority than it gives us in 
certain areas . S pecifically it does give a little  more authority to school community, I wouldn't say
over  day to day by the Charter rules and regulations for the manager of  the public school system 
and for conducting the business of the School Committee that's a pretty substantial charge .
The Charter reads that the School C ommittee shall have the general charge and are 
superintendents of all school  buildings and grounds. I  would just ask current members 
rhetorically here how many times a year  do you go into the buildings ? H ow many times are you 
are yo u looking through them and exercising  that general superintendence or is that being 
outsourced or being delegated down ? I think that there's more work to do and  it's one of those 
===PAGE 7===
things that we all h ave a capacity concern, but the School C ommittee unlike any other board in 
town  has a very specific charter- driven charge of actual responsibility over  property and grounds .
D irect general superintendents that's  not being exercised in  my view . It also has the adoption of 
the  budget and my  observation has been that the S uperintendent provides to the  School 
C ommittee a qualified budget that she thoroughly exp lains and thoroughly details to the School 
C ommittee but  that i t's not a collaborative process. It  is a r eport and an explanation and often 
what seems to me to be an agreement . T here are some questions but it comes out that it's not a  
collaborative product and as a citizen I  have an expectation  that it is a collaborative product .  I 
think that your viewpoint here is certainly aligned with mine . T here 's a value that you add to the 
School C ommittee . I appreciate  the value that you add to the School C ommittee , you absolutely 
have my support . I agree with my colleagues that there  is a conflict of interest . Y ou've heard 
tonight  from the SC Chair that she reached out to the Ethics C ommissions ; we did the same 
thing.  T here was a question from us of is this an ethical issue ? W e went back to  the C harter ; we 
looked, the Town M anager looke d into this b ecause it does strike us as this is  a committee that 
has a huge part of a budget and then there's a Finance C ommitt ee which has a big voice over this 
budget . As a C hair of a board you have to be shown a little bit of  def erence here because a 
transition may not occur in only three meetings and you've been workin g on a product to get the 
Finance C ommittee to a point where you guys are trying to set new policies  and new process.
Y ou need to be given to afford a little bit more time to be able to complete that and so I am 
completely in agreement  that you know end of the summer , end of September no difference.
I would support you remaining and serving in both capacities with a commitment that you will 
resign. There's minimal opportunity for conflict; it is not budget season in September. I think it ’s 
important as Ms. Archambault mentioned that the school community represents the students and 
so when t he school committee gets going I  think it's important to have a full board and to make 
sure that that you're a seated  member . So I  will support your nomination tonight with a 
commitment by the end of September.  
Mr. Beardmore thanked Mr.  Jeffreys for all his comments . He stated he did have a disclosure to 
mak e and this was the reason for his call to the Ethics C ommittee today just as I made a call 
when I  was appo inted to the Finance Committee and if appointed make a public disclosure in 
accordance with the law . B ut it's important that the members of this joint committee hear it
prior to voting . M y former spouse  is an employee of the school district . The state of 
Massachusetts does not recognize former spouses as immediate family members and therefore
the nature of that relationship for all intents an d purposes there is no conflict where a potential 
conflict exists . I  had a lengthy conversation with the attorney of the day at the E thics
C ommission today on this . W e have a financial arran gement to take care of our kids which is a 
formula driven arrangement that involves both of our incom es. As a result of that if appointed I 
will r ecuse myself from participating in co ntract negotiations with the L unenburg E ducation 
A ssociation (LEA)  and on voting on  salary related items pert aining to contracts with the LEA. 
S o that is the course of action that  I'll take and I 'll put all of that in writing when the time comes .
Mr. Sculimbrene to Mr. Jeffreys stated when you asked me in Dec ember about what I  would do, 
one of the things you pointed out was superintendence of the building and the grounds . I  don't 
know a lot about the inner  workings of education as it is done tod ay and so in A pril we did a tour
of the buildings . Unfortunately I  was unable to attend but  last week we went into the 
S uperintendent's office ; the building there , they walked us through the  curriculum revamp . T hey 
walked us through data regarding testing and metrics they  used to measure chi ldren so I want to 
report to you that we are doing that and  as somebody that was really a novice it was an amazing
===PAGE 8===
thing t o watch all of this data that I only dreamed about on the back of baseball cards now being 
generated for  kids and helping them . So I think that's somethin g that you'd asked us/me to do and
and I 'm grateful  that you did that because it's helped me educate myself about what it is to be 
running a school district and  being the administration .
Ms. Archambault stated say some of the things that you don't realize happen actually do happen . 
Y our feeling is they need to be communicated bette r but here's the dichotomy . A s Mr. 
Sculimbrene is talking about this very detailed data that's being done to drive  an increase in 
achievement in the kids that has been worked on by our curriculum team . We were there for two 
hour s going over this very honed down data  and I  believe the comment was we don't need these 
long curriculum presentations ; the meetings are too long . So you see there's some of  this and 
some of that so it can't all happen in the public eye because the meetings are too long . I 'm not 
anticipating you're joining the group to make our meeting shorter  (the meeting broke out in 
laughter), so at the end of the evening  I look forward to resp ectful discourse which is what I  have
always experienced from  you in the meet ing setting but knowing on the School C ommittee it has
to be in  social media ; it has to be everywhere . I  know you  always have a good idea and we will 
listen as we always do  but it's not a marketing thing , the kids . It's their education so you and I  
will  go around on this quite a bit I  have no doubt .
Motion: T. Alonzo                                                                                                    2 nd : T. Dwyer
To appoint Mr. Beardmore to the School Committee until the next election with the express
commitment of Mr. Beardmore to resign from finance Committee no later than September 
30 th
Vote: Mr. Sculimbrene-aye, Mr. Lehtinen-aye, Ms. Archambault-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. 
Franco stated he could support Mr. Beardmore, but could not support the concept or be 
party to setting a precedent, but wanted him to have a mandate and would not stand in the 
way of unanimity so abstained; Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Mr. Beardmore thanked the boards. The School Committee adjourned at 8:02 p .m.
Meeting with Town Counsel re: Purchase & Sale Agreement and License Agreement to 
purchase Streetlights
Ms. Lemieux intro duced Attorney Elizabeth Lydon from Mead, Talerman & Costa who was 
participating in the negotiations with Unitil. Attorney Lydon reported  she  took over somewhat in
the midd le of the process for purchasing the street  lighting . The process is laid out in the statute 
and  the first step was an informal request  for pricing . T he company reached out with an informal  
quote and then the T own proceeded to  issue a letter of intent to purchase the street lights and 
that's to satisfy the notice requirements laid  out in the  statute . T here was some confusion about 
the price because of the  in formal quote that the T own received and the quote that was given after
the  Notice of Intent to move forward . She  went back and forth with the company  and discussed 
the tariffs which is how the  price  is laid out  as approved by the D epart ment of Public U tilities  
(DPU)  and  they  went over some details in the price as it was laid out  which  took some time . 
A fter that began reviewing the  agreements that she has  before you tonight and had three 
meetings with the company to discuss the terms and  conditions of the agreement .
O ne is the p urchase and sales agreement that lays out all the  terms and conditions of the 
purchase . T he second agreeme nt is the license agreement that lays out the terms  and conditions 
for having the street lights attached to the poles that will still belong to  the company .
===PAGE 9===
T he first step  is to execute the purchase and sale ; there's one outstanding issue  remaining in there
and it just dea ls with the insurance that the T own has . W e still have to have one more meeting  
with U nitil to discuss the insurance and whether or not there's an issue with that . T hen we'll have 
to  lay out the details for the closing date and the final price  should be what you see in front of 
you . H owever there is a period after it's  signed and when the streetlights are actually purchased 
by  the T own and that's because of the formula laid out in the statute . Unitil has to account for 
any replacements that are done , any  street lights that break, or are replaced or any installation of 
new fixtures  which there  shouldn't be any between now and then . T here's also a depreciation 
factor and that could make the price go up or  down depending on the n et unamortized investment
and that's a way to say this price that you see before you could change after  the agreement is 
signed . B ut that could be in the form of a check or a small amount  of difference that will have to 
be paid and the license agreement remains in effect  throughout our entire ownership of the street 
lighting . So the agreement  in front of you is th e terms of having those fixtures  on the poles . 
A nytime we do a replacement or upgrade  we wil l have to notify the company , if there are any 
insp ections or if the  fixtures have to be mov ed we have to get permission, and finally once we 
sign  these two agreements the next step would be to  do a closing which we sign  the bill of sale 
that's included as an attachment to the purc hasing sales agreement. The cost listed in the 
agreement is $89,834.96. 
Also in looking at that price and going through the exhibi ts that they sent me that break down of 
costs, I  did reach out to the general counsel  of the DPU  to confirm that all of the costs laid out 
there are as stated in  the tariffs . S o this is a formulaic price , it's not something that really is 
negotiable ; it's appr oved by the DPU in a formula .
Mr. Dwyer asked how this price compares to the ori ginal quote. Ms. Lydon stated  the original 
estimate was $87,646.84 and that was  the informal proposal that we receiv ed before the notice to
proceed .
Mr. Alonzo asked are we paying for the licensing fees year after  year or just an acceptance of an 
ongoing license that we have permission to ha v e this equipment on their poles. Ms. Lydon stated 
the license is our permission to attach the streetligh ts to the pole s . T he only costs associated with 
that would be for moving the facilities upon request or  if it's our own doing which I  was assured 
that would happen  very infre quently because everything else that's attached to the poles is in a 
different  location on the pole .
Mr. Jeffreys thanked her for coming in this evening and asked when she thought t he Town would
be closing .  Ms. Lydon stated we're hoping to have an agreement for you to sign in the next 
couple weeks and in that agreement it will state the closing date.
Interview for Appointment to Agricultural Commissio n-term to expire June 30, 2020. 
Jennifer Duffy, 684 Flat Hill Road , presented for the request to be appointed. Mr. Jeffreys was 
contacted by the Chair of the Agri cultural Commission who endorsed the  appointment. Ms. 
Duffy stated I 'm here to s upport the agricultural and keeping up of gardening and livestock  and 
all those good things in the town which is why I  moved here almost two years ago. I am 
interested in mainta ining that culture in this town.
Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Franco thanked her for coming forward . Mr. Franco asked her what type  of 
engineering degree she held. She replied chemical engineering and she works in the biotech 
field.  She  has  tw o horses and chickens which she sell s  their eggs to a small  number of people .
The term date was incorrect on the agenda so it will need to be clarified at a later time.
Motion: T. Dwyer                                                                                                 2 nd : T. Alonzo
===PAGE 10===
To appoint Jennifer Duffy to the Agricultural Commission with a term to expire June 30, 
2023                                                                                                                 Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
 Green C ommunities Committee ( 2 Associate vacancies)
 Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
 Historical C o m m issio n  (1  vacancy)
 Zoning Board of Appeals ( 1 associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on t h  e    T o w n  W e b site  a  n  d    c o m p le te d  forms can be sent t o   t h  e  
S elect Board's  Offi ce. Anyone  t h  a  t  h  a  s   a  n  y   questions  on  volunteer  opportunities  can  contact  t h  e    S elect 
Board's  Offi c e  a  t  (978)  582-4130  x  144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
 Conservation Administration Assistant (Part-time Non-Benefitted)
 Library Assistant  (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
 3  Heavy  Equipment  Operators  (Full -T im e Benefitted)
 Facilities Director (Full-Time Benefitted)
 Meal Site Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted )
 Paramedic (Full-time Benefitted)
 Production T ech n ician  ( P  a  r t - T im e Benefitted Position)
 Van  Driver  ( P  a  r t -T im e Non-Benefitted)
 Videographers (Part- Time Non-Benefitted)
 Police Officer (Full-time Benefitted)
More  information  on  each  position  can  be  found  on  t h  e   job  postings,  which  a  r  e   located  on  
t h  e   t o  w  n    website.
925 Mass Ave (old Gas Station) TM Goal #1
I met with the Brownfields Coordinator from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regarding our 
proposed assessment work yesterday. Due to some questions that came up at this meeting about access 
and site control, I contacted our Tax Title Attorney and he relayed that the Final Foreclosure Judgement 
that was issued by the Court on July 6th was recorded at the Registry yesterday, this is the deed to the 
property and officially transfers the ownership of the property to the Town, so we can go ahead and do the
work through the EPA without any further communication with the previous owner. Personal property 
items such as the pop-up shelter and contents inside the building do not transfer to the Town, only the 
land and building, so I will work with the owner of the personal property items to clear those out in the 
near future. I  h  a  v  e   also  contacted  our  insurance  company  a  b  o  u  t  this  parcel,  a  s   w  e   will  now  n e e d  t o   carry  a  
s p e c ia l p o lic y  on  this  property  until  it is  d is p o s e d  of.
Extension of Remote Meeting Participation for Public Meetings
The  legislature  voted  on  Thursday,  July  1  4  t h   t o   pass  a  b ill t h  a  t  w  a  s   a  s im p le  extension  of  allowing remote  
m e e tin g  participation  for  public  meetings  until  March  31,  2023.  As  t h  e   Governor  w  a  s   out  of s  t a  t e   this  past
weekend,  t h  e   Lieutenant  Governor  (  a  s   Acting  Governor)  signed  t h  e   b ill a  n  d   it went  into e ffe c t 
===PAGE 11===
im m e d ia te ly . The  provisions  of  this  b ill follow  t h  e   same  g u id e lin e s  t h  a  t  h  a  v  e   b e e n  in  place  s in c e  t h  e   
COVID  public  health  e m e rg e n c y  w  a  s   first  declared.  Boards,  C o m m is s io n s , a  n  d   Committees  can continue 
t o    hold fully remote or hybrid meetings w  i t h  o  u  t   t h  e    in-person quorum requirement until March 31,  
2023.
Flat Hill Road Culvert Project
As t h  e    B  o  a  r d    is a  w  a  r e  ,   w  e    h  a  d    submitted a S m a ll Bridge P  r o  g  r a  m    application t o    MassDOT in  March 
2022  t o   supplement  t h  e   funding  for  t h  e   Flat  H ill R  o  a  d   Culvert  project.  This  past  Thursday  w  e   receiv ed  
notification  t h  a  t  w  e   were  awarded  t h  e   maximum  g  r a  n  t  amount  of  $500,000.
MassDOT h  a  s    indicated t h  e    Notice t o    Proceed on this a  w  a  r d    would be issu e d  by S e p te m b e r 1st so in  t h  e   
meantime  w  e   h  a  v  e   notified  our  e n g in e e r of  t h  e   a  w  a  r d   a  n  d   t h  e   DPW  Director . T  h  e   e n g in e e r h  a  s    already  
begun  a sse m b lin g  t h  e   documents  w  e   n e e d  t o   submit  t o   M assD O T . Due  t o   timing  of  t h  e   a  w  a  r d  ,   w  e    will 
make sure all t h  e    easements a  r e    in  place, coordinate with t h  e    utility, a  n  d    t h  e    e n g in e e r will p  u  t   together 
t h  e    bid package for advertisement. The bid is sc h e d u le d  t o    be advertised in  J  a  n  u  a  r y    2023, awarded  in  
March  2023  a  n  d   t h  e   project  c o m p le te d  by  D ecem b er 2023.
FY23 State Budget
The FY 2023 s  t a  t e    budget from t h  e    Conference Committee w  a  s    re le a se d  this past Sunday a  n  d    w  a  s    
approved  by  t h  e   House  a  n  d   Senate  yesterday.  DLS  h  a  s   issu e d  t h  e   updated  cherry  sh e e t estimates  a  n  d    t h  e    
f i n  a  l   cherry sh e e t figures a  r e    a  n    overall increase of $54,417 from w  h  a  t   w  a  s    included a  s    estimates a  t  t h  e   
A  n  n  u  a  l  T o w n  Meeting.
Financial Management Letter Comment on Fraud Risk Assessment
T o  follow-up on t h  e    m e e tin g  with our auditors regarding t h  e    one remaining c o m m e n t in  our 
management  le tte r, I  re c e iv e d  a  n   updated  quote  t o   perform  a  F  r  a  u  d   Risk  A s s e s s m e n t. Based  on  t h  e    
amount,  w  e   will  be  able  t o   do  this  w  o  r  k   this  fiscal  year.  Due  t o   t h  e   amount  of  reward  credits  w  e   re c e iv e  
t h  r  o  u  g  h   participation  in  various  risk  management  programs  t h  r  o  u  g  h   MIIA,  w  e   h  a  v  e   suffi c ie n t f  u  n  d  s    t h  a  t  
can  be  used  t o   p  a  y   for  this  assessment.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
 The Lunenburg Farmers Market will be every Sund ay until Sunday, September 25 th  and the
Historical Society is open during the Farmers Market hours.
 The Band Concerts will be on the following dates: July 25th , A ugust 1st, August 8th and 
August 15th. Band concerts will once again be held on the lawn in front of the TC Passios 
Building.
Mr. Alonzo thanked Town Manage r and her team for all the work on the Flat Hill Road culvert 
project ; applying for the grant and getting awarded the full amount. He also thanked the
State  delegation for putting in a good word at the s tate house . He also wanted to comment on the 
fraud risk assessment recommendation on the  financial  management letter . The  fraud risk 
asses sment addresses  the one  remaining item  in the financial management letter which is a kudos
to the fiscal manageme nt of the T own , led by the Town M a nager and the Finance Director Karen
Brochu. I  want to publ icly thank both of them , these are excellent reports .
Mr. Jeffreys  concur red. He asked for clarification on what the grant goes towards because there's
two p rojects going on at Flat Hill Road, one  is the bridge and then one closer to the orchard . Ms. 
Lemieux stated it is for the bridge. 
===PAGE 12===
CURRENT  BUSINESS
1. Discussion on 300 th  Anniversary Committee  Charge
It was suggested to review the sample charges provided from other towns provided by the 
Executive Assistant and come back with suggestions for a charge when a full board is present.
2. Approve M inutes of May 24 and June 7, 2022
Motion: T. Dwyer                                                                                              2 nd : L. Franco
To approve the minutes of May 27 and June 7, 2022 as written            Vote: All in Favor
3. Warrants :
T he board signed an accounts payable warran t in the amount of $1,571,852.57; a payroll warrant 
in the amount of $728,704.54 and a payroll deduct ions warrant in the amount of $ 753,932.17.
4. Action Items -there were none
Mr. Jeffreys reported we've been operating fo r the last couple of years with do the pandemic with
suspension of open meeting law  that was set to expire on the 15th and then  over the weekend the 
Lt. G overnor was abl e to sign an extension until next year so boards and committees are able to 
continue meet remotely. I  also contacted our state delegation I spoke with Senator Cronin and 
Rep. Kushmerek about our overwhelming opposition to the H ouse version of the  bill that would 
have allowed this . There was support for the Senate version and that H ouse  leadership was i n 
favor of the Senate version. It's good to hear that something was able to get through  we can  
continue to meet remotely and I know many boards and committees  have depended on this . It did
affect the  Municipal Building Design C ommittee . W e had to cancel a meeting  last night due to a 
lack of quorum because we had an in-person meeting which was our first one in quite some time .
We posted before they passed all this .
Mr. Alonzo stated I  do want to add a recomm endation for this board, I think I speak for the entire
board ; when we heard what the H ouse version was and all the unfunded mandates  and potential 
fines and we were all  kind of aghast that people voted for that horrible legislation. I  think it 
would be good if we could come up with what we think  a revised remote meeting legislation 
would look like that would  best suit what we've found. T he hybrid meetings  are something that 
we started a little bit  but now through th e pandemic we've done. We should as a board try to 
relay not what we don't like but maybe what we  do like and take some positive action in relaying
to our state delegation what we'd like to see in that  proposal ; not necessarily that every meeting 
mandates that it has  to have remote participation , but that it allows for  it. O bviously different 
towns have different bud gets for their remote access whether it's through  public access television
or whether it's through zoom or whatever . These all cost money  but we should be allowed to do 
them if we can  do it, but not be mandated that each meeting has to have them. W e should put that
as an agenda item before the next year deadline and get it in early so that our state delegation 
knows what we're looking for . Mr. Jeffreys will schedule it for a later agenda.
Committee  Reports :
Mr. Franco reported Council on A ging had  a meeting this morning  but Ms. Sroka attended it and 
we can hear from her when she returns. It was noted that Finance Committee and Stormwater 
Task Force are holding meetings this Thursday. 
===PAGE 13===
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS  SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys stated their next meeting s are  August 2, 9 , 16  and the 2 3.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Lemieux, adding on to Mr. Alonzo ’s statement about drafting a proposed language for 
regarding remote meetings  stated we do annually have in our double delegation and they like to 
come in right before  the session starts in order to get any budget priorities or anything like
that you give them leeway  to be prepared for the start of  the session. So I  think that would be 
good timing then as well , usually the end of January.
Motion:  L. Franco                                                                                                2 nd : T. Alonzo
T o enter into Executive Session and to adjourn after exiting Executive Session: Pursuant to
MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining if any open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of 
the public body and the Chair so declares.  (Police Union)
Vote: Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
***************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE****************
Th e meeting adjourned at  8:41 P .M.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager