===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Jack Rabbitt, Storm Water Task Force
member; Adam Burney, Land Use Director; Rob Oliva, DPW Director; Patrick Sullivan, Fire
Chief
Vice Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and stated the meeting is being
conducted remotely. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the Lunenburg
public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube page within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is available for participation in
the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT-there was none.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux announced that the Citizen's Party caucus is on Monday, March 14" at 6:30
p.m. at the Lunenburg Middle/High School.
APPOINTMENTS
Update from the Stormwater Task Force
Jack Rabbitt had a Power point presentation outlining the task force's work. Mr. Dwyer
commented as a SWTF member as well.
Agenda:
Share Team Structure and identify two individuals to fill the newly approved positions on
the Storm Water Task Force.
II. Quick Update on Teams Actions Past Months
Current State: Why the need for Storm Water Remediation
1. Seek Appointment of two individuals to fill the newly approve positions on the Storm Water
Task Force. —the task force has two people interested in being appointed to the SWTF but they
did not submit their talent bank forms in time for this meeting.
===PAGE 2===
open: lown member
Open: Town Member
Rob Oliver: DPW
Adam Burney: Land Use
Dawn Pavone: Administration
Heather Lemieux: Town Manager
Executive Sponsor
Proposed New Membership
John Beale : Town Citizen: Engineer
Matt Proctor Ill: Town Citizen: Contractor
Seeking Adjunct Support
Nick Cristtifori: Storm Water Consultant
Comprehensive Environmental Inc.
Mission Statement
Stormwater Task Force is charged with the development of a comprehensive stormwater
management plan that complies with state and federal regulations, provides a storm and surface
water system that controls damage from storms, protects surface water quality and the
environment. The plan shall determine which local agency or agencies will be responsible for
implementation, establish the estimated cost of the program, as well as provide for the creation
of an ongoing funding source to enable its success.
A. Lunenburg is currently compliant with the MS4's timed sequence of capability improvement
events. We also note we are just starting the uphill compliance climb, and we have a long
distance to travel. We don't want a minimalist approach, but rather one that meets the citizens'
needs.
B. The Task Force is just beginning to understand our total current costs. We are starting to
define what "Stormwater" activity is from an operational and accounting perspective.
C. Lunenburg's required improvement will cause change within our town operating budget
definitions and financial sources. We are also very sensitive to the total potential cost of the
Stormwater program.
===PAGE 3===
Ongoing Tasks
Define & Understand Stormwater Tasks & Associated Costs
Community Outreach & Education
Identification of Grant Opportunities
Ascertain Potential Revenue Streams
Develop Relationships with Various Stakeholders & Organizations
Current State: Why the need for Storm Water Remediation
A Lookat Precipitation Trends
http://wwwncdc.noaa.gov/cau
lampshire
Trends in Flood Frequency:
From the Practitioner's perspective
Small watersheds feeling the
effects
• Changes in frequency/magnitude
Part land use/urbanization
Compounded by encroachment
in the floodplain
• Part changing climate
Larger basins with flood control
haven't seen as noticeable a shift
Most USACE reservoirs are built for
6-8 inch runoff events
Greater capacity to handle more rain
Urban "flash floods" increasing
• Storm water systems cannot handle
the volume of intense rainfall
ThisJuly was the wettest on record
for Massachusetts
Northeast Precipitation
July
800 in
- 177.90 mm
15200cm
1901-2000 Mean: 3.93 in
3009
200 in
1950
1990
- 10130cml
7620 mm
2010
T1 3050mm
2021
===PAGE 4===
Storm Drains need maintenance. Detention & retention Ponds need expansion and maintenance.
He showed a photo of a system that was never turned on noting the covering around the grate
was never commissioned and the storm water runs down the base of Riley Road versus through
the drain. He urged people to call the SWTF members with questions and any issues.
Another problem is dumping in the woods near waterways. We need to be thinking how we are
going to handle that.
He noted the SWTF meets the third Thursday of the month. Mr. Dwyer added their storm water
system and management is not perfect, they have a lot of challenges to deal with but their
consultant CEl noted that Lunenburg is doing a better job than most municipalities adhering to
the requirements of the MS4 permit. We want to work to maximize what we can as a town
manage storm water and keep our surface waterbodies clean.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked them for the presentation. Mr. Franco asked about how they planned to
engage the population to address the problem, what kind of activities would you ask? Mr.
Rabbitt stated they are reaching out to engage different groups and give them credit and
hopefully this will catch on with the rest of the population. We are continuing to collect data of
all the different areas. Mr. Dwyer stated we are going to engage people to report outfalls in their
areas as the SWTF cannot always find them. It was noted the Town Manager has placed outreach
messages previously inside the Town Meeting warrants and in The Lunenburg Ledger.
Mr. Jeffreys noted his basement floods in the spring and storm water runs by his house since the
new school was built and asked about cleaning storm drains on Massachusetts Ave. He had been
informed that Route 2A is a state road, how do we ensure the state is cleaning the storm drains
out so that driveways aren't washed away? Mr. Dwyer reported that after talking to DPW
Director Rob Oliva that the town only cleans out 80-120 catch basins annually which is less than
15% of what we have. Generally they are doing reactive cleaning of the full ones or ones that
have a lot of water but they don't have a system of understanding how full the other ones are. So
they need to establish a method to track what kind of capacity these basins have and how
frequently they need to be cleaned out. Further discussion ensued about catch basin cleaning and
developing a schedule, as well as manpower and funding.
MRC FY23 Unified Planning Work Program Project Requests for Leominster-Shirley
Road Corridor Analysis and Chase Road/Northfield Road Intersection Study
Mr. Oliva reported MRPC is looking for some projects to include in the Unified Planning Work
Program for FY23 so they have solicited towns in the region for projects. He had met with Ms.
Lemieux about the following:
1.
An intersection study of Chase Road (Route 13) and Northfield Road. This intersection
was identified in the 2015-2017 Highway Safety Improvement Program (HSIP) for
vehicular accidents. The intersection is challenging to motorists exiting and entering
===PAGE 5===
a recently approved 372,000 SF warehouse and distribution facility. Additional
property nearby is also being marketed for commercial development. The Town would
like to have a comprehensive study of this corridor for traffic and impacts to the
roadway, safety at the intersections along it, and other impacts as a result of
commercial growth.
We would also request that this task be considered jointly with the Town of Shirley's
forthcoming request to study truck traffic impacts in their Town and surrounding communities,
as the commercial development and traffic on Leominster-Shirley Road has a direct impact on
traffic into Shirley.
Discussion ensued about adding one more project; the intersection of West Street and Electric
Avenue, to the list. It will be added as #3.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd. L. Franco
To submit our list of priorities to MRC in the following order; #1 Leominster-Shirley
Road, #2 Chase Road and Northfield Road and #3 Electric Ave and West St.
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Mr. Jeffreys noted how Mr. Oliva has made a positive impact at the DPW and for the community
since coming to Lunenburg. Mr. Oliva thanked him.
Meeting with Fire Chief about Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
Chief Sullivan stated this is an update to the Town's existing plan that has been in progress over
the past year. The plan is a guidebook to address major disasters or emergencies on a level of the
2008 ice storm, something major. It can also be used for a major planned event going on in town.
It spells out the roles and responsibilities for the different town departments; also how the town
would function with non-governmental entities like the Red Cross, Salvation Army, and other
state agencies. It addresses other emergency plans like continuity of operation, hazard mitigation
plans, safety plans for the two major dams in town, the national incident management system,
etc. It talks about messaging and communications.
His intent is to have the Select Board look through it and vote to ratify it. The board will review
it and send any questions to the Town Manager.
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment for Public Access Videographer, Patrick
Ms. Lemieux is seeking the SB ratify her appointment. Mr. McGuane is graduating in May from
Anna Maria with a Bachelor's degree in Business and Videography. He records their hockey
games and interned at Worcester Cable Access TV for three months. He also is working as a
===PAGE 6===
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 vacancies, one citizen at large
and one representative from Historical Commission)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open Space
Committee and 1 ex-officio member that is business owner)
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2 Associate
vacancies)
• Parks Commission (1 vacancy that would be jointly appointed by the Select
Board and Parks Commission until the ATE)
• Stormwater Task Force (2 vacant positions for citizensat large)
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed
forms can be sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on
volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (Part-Time Benefitted)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (Part-Time Benefitted) Minutes Clerk
(Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Minutes Clerks positions (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Principal Assessor (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Trash and Recycling Coordinator (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Van Driver (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on
the town website.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. 3rª Quarter Water Commitment $14,896.15
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the 3'd Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $14,896.15
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
2. Approval of Minutes of January 18, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of January 18, 2022 as presented
2nd: T. Dwyer
===PAGE 7===
to invite the Alde to their next meeting.
Committee Reports
There were none this evening.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Jeffreys reported a letter was received from the School Committee asking the Air
Conditioning for the Primary School be reconsidered in the Capital Plan. It was suggested to
respond to the School Committee that the SB would be getting back to them regarding their
request.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys noted their next meeting will be on February 15'.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Franco announced there is a pancake breakfast tomorrow morning at the Eagle House Senior
Center from 8-10 a.m.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:27 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Petervon
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
