===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Paul Visconti, Sue Doherty, COA Director;
Jane Rabbitt, COA member, Corrine Scouten, Ginny Albertson
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access You Tube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT- there was none at this time
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Jeffreys reported the board members have been invited to the North Central
Massachusetts Chamber of Commerce's Annual Legislative and Candidates Reception
scheduled for Thursday, September 22, 2022 from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm at the Chocksett
Inn, 59 Laurelwood Road in Sterling. It is a great opportunity to meet with the different
candidates who are running statewide and meet with other local government officials.
He had attended the School Committee meeting last week and expressed their concerns
about the transportation policy. The school committee will be holding a meeting tomorrow at
6:30 p.m. to address their busing policy. He encouraged anyone with concerns to attend this
meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys announced the MSPCA has taken possession of about 100 goats and an emu.
Anyone interested in homing some goats can contact the MSPCA at www.mspca.org/goats
Ms. Lemieux announced the Special Town Meeting warrant is open from August 23rd until
5 pm on September 20th and the STM will be on November 15, 2022 at 7 PM at the
MS/HS Auditorium.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Mr. Jeffreys has been in contact with the Finance Committee Chairman and we are looking to
have a joint meeting on September 20t; they would like to discuss debt policy.
I have encouraged them to opine on our Financial Policies which we reviewed recently as
well. There will be additional discussion on the ARPA funding at a later date.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/ RE-APPOINTMENTS/ RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Facilities Director Paul Visconti
Ms. Lemieux stated she was excited about tonight's appointment of the Facilities Director.
This is a brand new position that was created as part of a reorganization plan through the
Town Charter process approved at Town Meeting. We received 55 applications; out of those
===PAGE 2===
town facilities as well as the school buildings and facilities. Previous to that I worked for
Department of Corrections, Executive Office of Public Safety. I worked in conjunction with
DRM; Division of Capital Asset Management and Maintenance (DCAMM) on several large
projects. I sat on the CommBuys board for the prime grocery contract from 2014 to 2017.
One thing I've always taken from every position is that I treat what I'm doing as if it's my
own, so when I'm spending money or looking for resources, it's not always the quickest
resource or the least expensive, but it's going to be best for the town, for the building and
sustainability of it going forward.
Mr. Dwyer and Mr. Franco had no questions but welcomed him and looked forward to
working with him. Mr. Alonzo asked what challenges he faced while working in Medway.
Mr. Visconti stated some of the most challenging things are pulling other assets or getting a
group colaboration between the town entities. So the state entities and working with private
sector vendors and pulling everything all together; DPW responsibilities, Parks and Rec's
responsibilities, buildings responsibilities; how all that gets allocated. I found that usually to
tackle these problems that come up they're usually not very complex problems but what I
found is the lack of reporting and having sort of a key person to be the reporting structure.
Then the facilitation of the work, how to follow up and make sure it gets allocated to the
proper vendor and then getting them in there in a timely fashion. I want to be the point person
and have the ownership. I'll make sure that it gets to the proper person; we'll come up with a
plan and then working the financing and the allocations of funds and whose budget it comes
out of. Then getting the proper vendor in to do it in a timely fashion. That was one of the
biggest challenges anytime you start a new job, getting to know who the key people are.
Mr. Alonzo thanked him and stated he looked forward working with him as well. Mr.
Jeffieys stated he was happy to have this position created after identifying the need, noting
Mr. Visconti was clearly qualified to take on this responsibility. He looked forward to the
work he will do for Lunenburg as a community.
Motion: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Paul Visconti as Facilities Manager
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
FY22 Council on Aging Report- COA Director Sue Doherty and COA Representative
Ms. Doherty and Ms. Rabbitt presented an update on the prior fiscal year for the Council on
Aging. Ms. Doherty was happy to report they were back to being fully open after the
COVID-19 pandemic. She noted that in fiscal year 2021 they had served 601 people and in
fiscal year they had served 758 people.
For Fiscal Year 22:
===PAGE 3===
Other Health
Services
Professional
Services
Recreation
Wellness
33
113
2937
8
17
49
267
8.
Total Event Signins
7203
532
Ms. Doherty reported the Eagle House Senior Community Center has started cooking their
own meals; we hold a Tuesday lunch, a Wednesday brunch and on Thursdays a soup and
salad lunch bar. We are in the process of hiring a meal site manager who will be cooking
home style meals on site. People really enjoy coming down for lunch and having a home
cooked meal.
TRANSPORTATION & NUTRITION:
FY2022 Transportation Stats:
Category Duplicated Unduplicated
Medical
443
36
Other
433
32
Rec/Social
741
Shopping
Totals
211
1828
15
55
Category
FY22 CONGREGATE MEAL STATS
Duplicated Unduplicated
Congregate Meals
1731
172
EY22 MEALS ON WHEELS STATS
Meal Name Duplicated Unduplicated
MOW
6370
Totals
6370
57
57
===PAGE 4===
biscovery celer Navigator
Friendly Phone Call
Friendly Visitor
Handy Man
Kitchen Help
Library
Meals on Wheels Driver
Memory Cafe
Other
•Program Leader
Tea Party
50.75
2.00
88.00
19.00
18.00
680.00
24.00
3.00
90.00
22.00
Totals 1183.25
Ms. Doherty reported the changes since last year reflect the difference due to COVID-19. She
noted the volunteer hours, if paid, would have amounted to $16,861.32.
FY22 SERVICE STATS
Category
Case Management
Client Finding
Support Services
Totals
Duplicated Unduplicated
28
107
878
1013
18
107
322
387
Case Management - Ongoing Client Cases/Outreach
Client Finding - New Clients to the Senior Center
Support Services - see list below
WHAT WE DO
Ageless Grace
Arts/Crafts
Caregiver Toolkit
A-Z
Billiards
Application Assistance
Coffee with the Chief
Bingo
Bocce
Computer Help
===PAGE 5===
MOVIeS
Notary Services
Puzzle Swap
Senior Tax Work-Off
Tai Chi
Wellness Checks
Music Programs
Pickle Ball
Sand for Seniors/Smoke Detector Checks
Shuffle Board
Tap Dancing
Volunteer Opportunities
Yoga
Newsletter
Pitch
Stitch & Chat
Transportation
Zumba
Ms. Doherty noted there is movement among communities now to remove the word "Senior"
from Senior Center. At the last COA meeting, members were tasked with coming up with
alternative names and logos for the center. She presented some of the examples.
Lunenburg Adult
Activity Center
LIVE ACTIVE - LIVE WELL
LUNENBURG ADULT
ACTIVITY CENTER
LIVE ACTIVE - LIVE WELL
LunenBuRG ADuLt
Activity Center
LIVE ACTIVE - LIVE WELL
Lunenburg Adult
Activity Center
LIVE ACTIVE - LIVE WELL
Ms. Doherty noted that the center is open to people ages 50 +. Ms. Rabbitt added there is
something there for everyone and we want people to know that. Mr. Dwyer thanked them for
all they do for the seniors in town. You all put in a lot of effort and it is appreciated. Ms.
Doherty thanked Town Manager Lemieux for all her support and Mr. Jeffreys for advocating
for the seniors. She has dedicated this year's report to COA member Sarah Grant who passed
away last winter. Every year Sarah ran a very detailed tea party. Ms. Rabbitt stated the
===PAGE 6===
Lisa,
and Dave; they are all great. The people love them and the staff is what makes the place
great.
Tollbooth fundraiser and Use of Ritter parking lot for food donations collection) for
September 24 request by Turkey Hill Lions Club
Corrine Scouten, 830 Massachusetts Avenue, introduced herself as President of the Turkey
Hill Lions Club and was here to request to hold a tollbooth fundraiser on September 24t from
8:00 am to Noon at the intersection of Lancaster Ave. and Massachusetts Ave. They also
would like to hold a food collection at the Ritter Building parking adjacent to School Street,
to collect non-perishable food for the food bank. She noted DPW and Police have no issues
as long as the rules are followed.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: T. Dwyer
To approve the request for the tollbooth fundraiser and the use of the Ritter parking lot
on Saturday, September 24t from 8:00 am to Noon
Vote: All in Favor
Ginny Albertson Presentation on Pollinator Habitats
Ms. Albertson, 50 Upland Ave. appreciated coming in to talk about pollinators. She has been
researching this for about 10 years. She started the Lunenburg Community Pollinator Habitat
which others have since taken over. She is a member of the Xerces Society for Invertebrates
Conservation, a member of the MA Pollinator Network, Native Plant Trust, Wild Seed
Project (ME.), Grow Native Massachusetts and the National Butterfly Association.
We are in the greatest global species die off in recorded history and time is critical as we can
still change it around. She explained briefly about ecosystems, biodiversity and the need for
plants to sustain a healthy planet. She referred to Bringing Nature Home written by
entomologist Douglas Tallemy and how his book talks about how we can sustain wildlife
with native plantings. We have already started in Lunenburg but we can do a lot more and
we need to get more people involved.
Ms. Albertson spoke about plant/pollinator relationships; how plants and pollinators depend
upon each other. Native plants are ones that were here before European settlers arrived.
Author Tallemy recommends 70% of your garden be planted with native plants. The town
can plant native plants, trees and shrubs on public lands with appropriate guidance.
Herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers should not be used on native plantings. Once established
you do not have to water them. She recommended homeowners start out small by leaving a
part of their lawn unmowed. We have to teach our children about this. She recommended
going to www.xerces.org for more information and encouraged everyone to try to do
something, even planting in a pot if you don't have a yard. Monarch butterflies have been
added to the red list of endangered species of the International Union for Conservation of
Nature due to the fact that the eastern population has decreased by 90% over the last 40
years. They only lay their eggs on milkweed (botanical name Asclepias spp.). Lunenburg has
eight species of milkweed present. Monarchs overwinter in Mexico. Since each generation
typically lives only a month, they lay eggs in different states along their migration route in
===PAGE 7===
as establish pollinator gardens and limit pesticide use and encourage organic practices. Ms.
Albertson thanked Mr. Jeffreys and noted the town pollinator habitat is located at 123 Hollis
TOWN MANAGER REPORT- there was no report this evening but Ms. Lemieux reviewed
the following:
Announcement on ExistingVacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
Finance Committee (1 vacancy) and 1 additional vacancy at the end of September
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
• Planning Board (1 vacancy jointly appointed by the Planning Board and Select Board
until the next ATE)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
• Conservation Commission ( 1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can
contact the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
(3) Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non Benefitted)
• Meal Site Manager (Part Time Non Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted Position)
Van Driver (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the
town website.
Ms. Lemieux reported the funding for 30 School Street for the hazardous materials abatement and
demolition that was included in the economic development bill but was not passed. As it came up
there was fiscal uncertainty related to the 1986 tax law so they delayed passing that bill. It's not to say
that it may not be passed, but right now it's on hold. Our legislators will keep us updated if it does
Pond View Acres (Howard Street) submitted their application but their filing fee was deficient thus
making the application incomplete. The Planning Board approved UMA Flowers' application at their
meeting last night.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he attended the farmers market last Sunday and manned a town
volunteer information table with Matt Allison. They did get one volunteer and he sent their
talent bank form to the office.
===PAGE 8===
Coordinate with other entities within the Town government including the Police, Fire Department, DPW,
Historical Commission, and schools in order facilitate safety and maximize resident participation
Solicit, evaluate, and generate recommendations as to how the Town should manage the commemoration of its
Tricentennial, and the celebration of its rich history
Oversee subcommittees established for specified purposes, and supervise and assist these subcommittees in their
functions
Recruit, organize, task, and oversee volunteers from among the townspeople in furtherance of the overall
celebration and the execution of specific functions of the Committee and/or its subcommittees
Plan, coordinate, manage, sponsor, and implement commemorative events including, but not limited to,
recreational and educational activities and social/cultural gatherings intended to enhance among the townspeople
awareness and appreciation for the history of the Town and the contributions that its residents have made locally
and nationally to various fields of human endeavor including, for example: architecture, arts, civil rights,
government, engineering, environmental protection, industry, invention, law, literature, medicine, the military,
politics, public policy, public safety, and science.
Encourage through effective communication and outreach maximum inclusion, attendance, and participation by
the townspeople in events and celebrations
Partner with local businesses and community organizations to develop events that appeal to all ages and encourage
maximum participation by town residents
Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Franco as it captured everything we want to include as a charge.
Mr. Dwyer agreed. Mr. Jeffreys stated it was excellent and suggested adding "facilities,"
under the following statement:
"Coordinate with other entities within the Town government including the Police, Fire Department, DPW,
Historical Commission, and schools in order facilitate safety and maximize resident participation"
Mr. Jeffreys suggested committee member terms expiring upon completion of the
celebration. He suggested adding two Cultural Council members and Mr. Franco suggested
adding two members of the Historical Commission. Mr. Alonzo stated we want people to
bring lots of enthusiasm, organizational and planning skills. After looking up the town
meeting article, Ms. Lemieux noted 11 members made up the committee.
Mr. Jeffreys requested Mr. Franco amend the draft with the minor revisions for the next
discussion with a full board present.
CURRENT BUSINESS
265 Pleasant Street Solar NG, LLC Payment In Lieu of Taxes for Personal Property
Agreement (PILOT)
Ms. Lemieux reported this solar field was constructed around 2014 and went online in 2015.
Nugen had approached our previous assessing office, but through the private consultant we
had Regional Resource Group. Due to change of turnover in that office over the years they
were seeking a PILOT and all involved came to what are fair terms of the PILOT. The
===PAGE 9===
ATB cases. Mr. Jeffreys explained to those viewing that the past assessments did not allow
for depreciation of the personal property so this PILOT is to address that.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To approve the Nugen PILOT agreement as presented and the settlement agreement
with the ATB litigation as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Review 30 School Street project and discuss path ahead
Mr. Jeffreys reported at town meeting we put forward a proposal to demolish 30 School
Street and begin design for a park but it did not pass. An amendment was on town meeting
floor that only authorized the demolition and plans necessary for the demolition. The
discussion tonight is what we need to do to move ahead. Mr. Alonzo stated the board has put
a lot of time and effort into the design of what would happen after the demolition. The design
was well received by the town surveys and it would be appropriate to bring it up as a separate
article for the design. Maybe it would be helpful to know what the Municipal Building
Design Committee is looking at and where they are. The next step in the design plan from
Archiast is tosee th
Ray Dunetz Landscape Architect is to see what the final building design and building cost
would be on that location.
Mr. Dwyer believed town meeting did not have interest in a several million dollar park
project. He suggested using the land minimally until another use comes along. Mr. Franco
stated he had not given up on the park project yet, it might be easier for people to imagine
What can be done there once the building is gone.
Mr. Alonzo asked those watching the meeting if they had any ideas for the property to send
them to the Select Board
Mr. Jeffreys agreed with Mr. Dwyer, especially after seeing the Marshall Park plan. That's
going to attract a multi-generational section of the community, especially parents, because it
will involve their children's activities and include walking areas. We came up with a really
good plan on how to use the property but in context with all the other proposed projects,
people aren't going to want to vote for multi-million dollar parks. He suggested minimal site
development there and planting a pollinator habitat and community garden until we have a
better plan.
Further discussion ensued about the pros and cons of both sides. Mr. Jeffreys suggested
rediscussing after they hear from the Municipal Building Design Committee and with a full
board, sometime in October.
Approve Minutes of July 19, 2022 and August 2, 2022
Motion: L. Franco
2": T. Alonzo
To approve the Minutes of July 19, 2022 and August 2, 2022 as written
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants/Action Items - there were none this evening
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee meets this Thursday. Mr. Jeffreys reminded
again that the School Committee will be holding a meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. to address
===PAGE 10===
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 9:21 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
