===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, own Manager; John Kimball, Unitil Kepresentative, Betsy Daigneault
Via ZOOM, Chris Holden, Dave MacDonald, Timothy Murphy, Paul Sarapsas, Ana Lockwood
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel, on Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to
the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. He noted Zoom is
available for remote participation in the meeting and gave the sign-in instructions.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may
in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent
permitted by the Open Meeting Law. He asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo announced that a Lunenburg artist Bridie Wolejko is exhibiting her work in an exhibition
titled Mixed Media Fantasies at the Fitchburg Art Museum, opening June 25' and running through
September 4, 2022.
Mr. Jeffreys announced the Memorial Day program went well and thanked everyone who participated
and attended. He thanked Pentagon General Nori, guest speaker and Mr. Alonzo as the closing
speaker. He also thanked Mr. Alonzo for attending an awards ceremony for Lunenburg students. Mr.
Jeffreys noted graduation was an exciting event this past weekend. He congratulated all who had
students graduating this year, including three of this board's members. Mr. Jeffreys reported he was
invited to participate on The Kushmerek Connection, a monthly local public access program hosted
by Rep. Mike Kushmerek. It will be broadcast on Lunenburg and Fitchburg Public Access.
Mr. Jeffreys reminded all about the Volunteer Appreciation Reception on June 16 from 5:30 - 7:00
PM at the Senior Center, hosted by the Select Board. Please RSVP to Executive Asst. Peterson in the
Select Board office by 4PM/June 9th.
Paul Luria, 63 Pratt Street, related a problem he was having with his septic system records,
specifically trying to find out if an electrical permit was taken out for his septic system installation
sixteen years ago. Mr. Jeffreys asked for his contact information so the Town Clerk could get back to
him.
Matt Nazarenko, 79 Robbs Hill Road, via ZOOM, regarding the Conservation Commission
appointments coming up later this evening, asked that Jack Rabbitt not be reappointed.
Bill Tyler, 5 Graham Street, speaking as Curator of the Historical Society, reported they are
expanding their open hours to include Sundays from 10 am to Noon from June 12' to September 25'h
in conjunction with the Farmers Market.
Mr. Jeffreys noted a new agenda item at the beginning of Select Board meetings (Communications
From Other Boards) that allows boards and committees to come forward with announcements and/or
===PAGE 2===
Fitchburg Gas and Electric for permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of wires, poles and such
other fixtures as may be necessary to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the transmission of electricity,
upon, along, across, or under the following public ways of said Town:
LOCATION
65 Watt Street, (1) proposed new pole #2A, approximately 1213 feet east of Page Street and 368 feet west of
Flat Hill Road as shown on Plan 973-L, dated 4/14/2022
Wherefore it prays that after due notice and hearing as provided by law, it be granted a location for and
permission to erect and maintain poles and wires, together with such sustaining and protecting fixtures as it may
find necessary, said poles to be erected substantially in accordance with the plan filed herewith marked.
Also for permission to lay and maintain underground laterals, cables, and wires in the above or intersecting public
ways for the purpose of making connections with such poles and buildings as each of the petitioners many desire
for distributing purposes. "
There were no abutters present regarding the petition and the Board had no comments.
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the pole petition for 65 Watt Street, Plan 973-L, dated April 14, 2022
2'd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Kimball thanked the board and exited the meeting.
NOWOCO Request for flag raising on Wednesday, July 13 at 3:00 PM
There was no one present for the request. Mr. Jeffreys noted Anthony Bovenzi was recovering from
a medical issue. This will be rescheduled to another agenda.
Request for 5K Road Race from Betsy Daigneault on June 18" 10:30 AM
Betsy Daigneault thanked the Town Manager for expediting their request. She stated the road race is a
fundraiser for a Lunenburg resident who has lymphoma and this is to support the family. The road
race/walk will run 10 am to 5 pm and is an informal non-timed race. It starts at On the Rocks, Lakefront
Ave. and proceeds to Prospect Street to Cross Street, Pine Grove Ave. and circles back. There is a
registration fee for the race, a non-disclosure form or one can provide a monetary donation. There will
be a raffle as well. Suggestions were on made on how to circulate the event details and to reach out to
the Police Chief as they get closer to the date for possible closing the roads) for safety measures.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
===PAGE 3===
builder, contractor, and remodeler for decades and has always been conscious of efficient energy
consumption of any structures he has worked on. Since 2014 he's been involved in energy efficiencies
working with the Mass Save program. He has residential energy auditor credentials and has been
through a lot of training related to energy. When he was speaking with Dave Blatt, he informed me
they're working on a lighting project. Mr. Holden used to install commercial lighting as a sales person
that would go out and audit the properties. He would specify the lighting and hire the contractors to
come in there and do the work.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint Chris Holden to the Green Communities Committee with a term to expire June 30,
2024
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Holden thanked the board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Annual Appointments
Mi. Jeffreys began with the Conservation Commission; those asking for appointment/reappointment
are.
He thanked everyone for coming forward and volunteering. He noted the board members have read their
requests and will be interviewing everyone. He asked responses to be brief.
First up was Richard Trembley, 386 Sunset Lane, "I'm very interested in the Conservation Commission.
I live outdoors; camping, hiking, backpacking, kayaking and swimming. I've been in town for 36 years. I
am an associate member of the Conservation Commission. I have attended all the meetings for the past
five months, I go on a site walks when available. I have been reviewing the bylaws and associated Code
of MA Regulations to try to increase my knowledge. If given an opportunity, I think that I can be helpful.
When asked if he could attend meetings in person hé responded yes, but in the winter he goes to Florida
with his wife so would have to participate remotely. When asked if he would remain an associate if not
appointed tonight, he stated he would be leaning towards staying. When asked if he could support a vote
if he did not agree with it, he responded it was hard to say without knowing what it concerned. If it could
be justified he would go with it.
Mary Wilson, 138 Whiting Street, stated I'm really interested in the Conservation Commission. I'm an
avid outdoors woman; I am out on the trails all the time. I've done a lot of trail work, last year putting in
maybe 65 plus hours. I worked with Bob Pease and the local snowmobile club to apply for a Mass Trails
grant that would benefit five small projects. I organized the Earth Day event for the Conservation
Commission this year that brought 146 volunteer hours back to benefit our properties. I have a
Bachelor's in electrical engineering and have been in the industry 23+ years. I hold the title of Director
of hardware development for a Fortune 500 company. I am looking forward to partnering more closely
with the Conservation Commission and learning and being able to apply my skills set. I currently am an
associate member. When asked if she would be able to attend meetings in person and would stay an
associate even if not appointed tonight, she stated she would. She thought visibility, communication and
===PAGE 4===
gives to maintaining, improving and promoting our conservation lands. Two and a half years ago I applied
for a grant to improve our conservation lands. I've worked for the last year and a half with the MRPS'S
GIS Department to produce trail maps for all of our conservation lands. We got multi-colored trail markers
to mark the trails with different colors. The trail maps are color coded so that the lines on the trail map
correspond with the lines on the ground. We put up six kiosks, the Lunenburg Snow Riders built the six
kiosks and installed them and then we put up all the stuff on them. We also purchased four or five access
gates that will allow public satety and maintenance vehicles in but hopefully keep out ATVs. The other
focus is to try to make the experience for applicants better, to make the commission more user-friendly
for applicants; to work with them before they apply to make sure that everything's in their application
before they come to a meeting.
When asked he stated he would attend meetings in person and his commitment to the commission is
unwavering. When asked if he would continue as an associate if not reappointed, he stated probably not
but would run for another board. He believed the commission has to do more, they have a new
administrator and he looks forward to working with her. He did not have a problem with supporting the
majority of the commission's decisions. Mr. Alonzo thanked him for all his work. Mr. Jeffreys echoed
that.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what resources are currently unavailable that would help you accomplish the goals
and mission of the commission. Mr. Pease's answer was administrative support in the office for the
administrator. Timber harvesting brings in funding for maintaining their conservation areas and applying
for grants.
John (Jack) Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road, stated he has been on the commission for eight years
now and serves on the Stormwater Task Force (SWTF) as their representative. The SWTF has been six
years in the works and it's been evolving and nicely supported by Town Manager and Mr. Burney. We do
our site walks every other Saturday. The meetings and the site walks have probably been about 85 percent
of them; you do a lot of prep work before you walk into the meeting. We're trying to figure out how this
meets the laws that we've taken a vow to support and protect. I've even built a model that allows me to do
a search for the wetland protection laws, all the 310s, everything we've got. I've got a Doctorate in quality
systems management; I've taught college at the graduate level for 15 years as well as working for a living.
Mr. Rabbitt confirmed he would attend meetings in person and continue the time commitment. When
asked if he was not reappointed if he would remain on as an associate, he stated yes and would like to
continue the SWTF work. He believed education to the public was important and to get more people
involved. He confirmed he would not go with the majority vote if pushed to that point.
Regarding the public comment, he responded there were discrepancies with the specifications submitted
by that applicant and the issue is ongoing.
Jeffrey Viviano, 338 Sunset Lane, was unable to attend this evening but submitted a letter;
"I sincerely apologize I am not able to attend this week's meeting but please accept this letter in my absence. To
start, a bit of my history in Lunenburg. In my early years my family would rent a camp on Lake Shirley during the
summers. As we grew older my parents enjoyed life on the lake so much they decided to become full-time
residents and in 1988 they relocated from Acton to Lunenburg....My wife and I always wanted to own a home on
a lake and after raising our family in Lunenburg for 12 years we rolled the dice on a vacant lot on Lake Shirley
===PAGE 5===
These positions requires a member to be fluent in reading and deciphering engineered drawings from small
projects, which may be just a retaining wall, to large projects like commercial distribution facilities. I have seven
years' experience as a heating ventilation and air-conditioning contractor on large commercial job-sites with
advanced knowledge in reading blueprints. This may seem like an easy task but requires the ability to reproduce
two-dimensional drawings into a three-dimensional picture in your mind which is a requirement, in my opinion,
to serve our residents as well as tentative or current investors in our community. My work history also includes
over 30 years as a commercial airline pilot. This profession requires a great amount of reading and deciphering
rules and regulations. Being on the Conservation Commission there are many rules and regulations in the
Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act and also in the town bylaws.
I believe my niche on this commission is working with the residents of our beautiful town that may have
difficulty with our process. On many occasions I developed designs and drawings with applicants in order to
help them through the application process which can be challenging and stressful.
The Town of Lunenburg has many wetland areas with a substantial residential presence and expanding
commercial footprint. I feel that in my time on this commission I have provided the applicants within our ability
to live in parallel with that fragile ecosystem which is our job to protect."
Mr. Dwyer spoke positively of Mr. Viviano having served with him on the commission.
Mr. Alonzo noted the town is blessed to have so many applicants. He wanted the commission to
represent a diversity of townspeople, as well as on other boards. He is looking for people who provide
the teamwork and leadership that he thinks is important. Any single member has only the authority they
have as a voting member of the body and it's the commission that has the authority. Whether you come
out on the majority or the minority, it's the commission that has the authority to do that and to try to
fight against that in any substantial way against your own; either you don't trust people on your own
commission to make good decisions and to take issue with that and take it to "higher powers," it is
something I have problems with. So those are the three things that I'll be looking at for these three
positions.
Mr. Jeffreys stated being a Selectman for three years, there was only one time in which we had residents
here for multiple meetings and it was because of the commission's dealings with residents from Lake
Shirley. It was an inappropriate situation that occurred and I know that when you're in the heat of the
moment sometimes you don't respond the best way to situations. But it highlights what my concern has
been over the last couple of years and that our ability to affect the commission is through this process.
We try to show professional deference to the commission and not meddle with the affairs, but it's who
we appoint in this process. Tonight we get to push out our viewpoints on what we would like to see and
what we hope for. It's very important to the residents who come before the commission that you are
respectful of their time. There may need to be some thought put into how the meetings are going and to
how much time members individually are speaking for, because the meetings are too long.
===PAGE 6===
you 18 months...I heard some things Mi: Pease said tonight and encourage continuing that focus on the
user experience.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2"': T. Alonzo
To reappoint Bob Pease to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: H. Sroka
2'd: T. Dwyer
To appoint Mary Wilson to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
To reappoint Jeffrey Viviano to the Conservation Commission with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: 3 in favor; 2 opposed
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Trembley for stepping up tonight and Mr. Rabbitt for his eight years of
service.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Agricultural Commission (1 vacancy)
• Economic Development Committee (1 person recommended by the Open
Space Committee
• Green Communities Committee (1 regular member vacancy and 2
Associate vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Historical Commission (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at
(978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• 2 Library Assistants (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
2 Heavy Equipment Operators (Full-Time Benefitted)
•
Meal Site Manager (Part-Time Non-Benefitted)
Production Technician (Part-Time Benefitted Position)
===PAGE 7===
Unrestricted General Government Aid for a 5.4% increase and includes $60/student for
minimum aid. It also includes accelerated funding for Charter and Special Education
reimbursements.
• Remote Meetings: There is currently pending legislation to extend the allowance forremote
meetings until December 15, 2023. Currently this provision is set to expire on July 15th.
• Retirement Board legislation: Currently there is a bill that would allow retirement boards to
add a COLA increase of up to 5% annually without other approvals. This would unilaterally
increase our retirement assessment for our unfunded liability.
• Cannabis Bill: The Senate has passed a bill that would affect Host Community
Agreements and create a Social Equity Fund that grants access to capital funds to start
up recreational cannabis businesses. Another provision of this bill is to require that the fees
charged by communities would need to be directly linked to costs. The Senate bill is
prospective only on the HCA's but it is unclear on whether the House bill would affect both
past and future Host Community Agreements. The argument against is that the
communities that have signed HA's have binding, legal agreements.
MBTA Housing Choice Act: This Act has attracted a lot ofattention from affected
communities. There is nothing in this statute that requires that this be affordable housing
and there is the threat of possible litigation if communities require 20% of the housing to
beaffordable, as this is a by right statute.
Information Technology Updates
• The Network Equipment project switches, firewalls, This project improves the WiFi
coverage across all town buildings, improves the security through advanced malware
protection, improves the reporting and alerting and adds a Guest WiFi access that is separate
Frances a separate
WiF coverage with proper placement of ances points to be done bethat ellent affect the
network and will not mean any downtime.
All the town email accounts have been migrated over to Office 365, with the exception of the
library email accounts. This week it was brought to our attention that the Library
accounts through CWMARS do not archive their emails so we will need to create town
accounts for all those users. A timeline for transitioning all the board/committee members
will be forthcoming.
FY 21 and FY 22 Capital Plan Updates
Ritter Building Breakroom: I am meeting with Monty Tech staff next week to go over the Ritter Building
breakroom project. This project was initially scheduled for them to do it this school year but due to staffing
changes and vacancies it had to be postponed. They are looking now to start in the fall.
6 WheelDump Truck: Theprevious DPW Directorcontacted dealershipsunderCOMMBUYSbutthe
dealership did not acknowledge an order. Town Mechanic has been actively searching for this truck and
has not found one.
===PAGE 8===
Town Hall Building Envelope Repairs: Since there is a Preservation Restriction Agreement on this
buildingwithMAHistorical Commission, anapplication wasrecently filed with the proposed workand
they have until July 1st to respond. The APDC had a scheduled hearing on June 6th for this project as
well and therefore this will be postponed until the re-advertised date of June 27th.
925 Mass Ave (old Gas Station)
The Tax Title Attorney wasnotified in Apriltomoveforward with the foreclosureof925 Mass Avenue
and a notice had to bereissuedto three additional parties as there were three mortgagees that needed to be
notified. These parties were notified successfully and they have until June 20th to respond. If they do
not respond, our Tax Title attorney will file a Motion to Issue a Foreclosure Judgement and there will bea
one year redemption period before the foreclosure becomes finalized based on when this motion is
filed.
Town Beach Building Update
The asbestos abatement work was just completed and we now have to put out the construction portion
of this project out to bid. I would not anticipate that the building will be usable this season so all beach
operations will be conducted outside of the building and construction zone.
Nashoba Regional Dispatch District Update
The Nashoba Regional Dispatch District Administration Board, which I currently chair, has been
reviewing our original Intermunicipal Agreement that we signed upon regionalizing. Some of the
subsequent communities that joined the District signed a slightly different agreement as the law
changed that allowed us to become a District. The Administration Board has tacked looking at the two
different versions and coming up with agreed upon language and the finalized version will eventually
need to be voted on by each participating community.
Meetings, Events and Other Announcements
• The Lunenburg Farmers Market will start on Sunday, June 12th and be every Sunday until
Sunday, September 25th.
• The Band Concerts will on the following dates: July 11th, July 18th, July 25th, August 1st,
August 8th and a rain date for any of those dates on August 15th. Band concerts will once
again be held on the lawn in front of the TC Passios Building.
CURRENT BUSINESS (cont.)
Discuss Request for Candlelight Vigil and Community Resolution
Mr. Jeffreys reported that a resident, Dave MacDonald had requested to hold a vigil on June 10t at 6:30
PM on the TCP Building campus to address violence against children. This comes following a mass
shooting at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, Texas on May 24"i
Mr. Alonzo noted the group requesting to hold it did not want it to be hosted or endorsed by the Select
Board or it to be a political or religious call to action. It would be for individuals and a personal call to
action as a confirmation or commitment such as keeping an eye out for potential violence, seeing signs
of erratic behavior, threatening or violence promoting social media postings, etc. What is being asked
tonight is to have permission to hold the vigil on town property.
===PAGE 9===
VED DUSINEDS
Select Board Designees to Certain Committees and Liaison Assignments
After some discussion the following assignments were determined:
Select Board Representatives/Liaisons 2022-2023
American with Disabilities Act Commission
Capital Planning Committee
Council on Aging
Economic Development
Finance Committee
Finance Committee Appointing Committee
Library Trustees
MART Advisory
MMPO
MJTC
MRPC
Open Space
Planning Board
School Committee
Lunenburg Bldg Design Committee
Senior Tax Relief Subcommittee
Middle/High School Civics Classes
Todd Dwyer
Tom Alonzo (2023)
L. Franco/H.Sroka Alt.
Lou Franco
Tom Alonzo
Tom Alonzo
Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Heather Sroka
Heather Sroka
Vacant
Vacant
Lou Franco
Todd Dwyer
Heather Sroka
Michael-Ray Jeffreys
Lou Franco/Tom Alonzo
M.Jeffreys/L. Franco
Member
Member
Liaison
ex-officio
Liaison
Member
Liaison
Representative
Representative
Representative
Representative
Liaison
Liaison
Liaison
Member
Liaisons
Annual Appointments (cont.)
The board reviewed the following requests for appointments and reappointments.
Agricultural Commission
3 members-3 Year Term- term expires June 30, 2025
Matthew Allison
• Greg Burns
Maryrae Holman
1 Associate -2 year term -term expires June 30, 2024
• Kira McClellan (Associate)
Motion: H. Sroka
2'': T. Dwyer
To reappoint Matthew Allison, Greg Burns, Maryrae Holman to the Agricultural Commission with a term
===PAGE 10===
Judith arbell
• 1 vacancy-term expires June 30, 2024
Motion: H. Sroka
2™: T. Dwyer
To reappoint Pete Lincoln, Susan O'Sullivan, Jane Rabbitt, Judith Tarbell to a term to expire June 30,
2025 and appoint James McGuigan to a term to expire June 30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
Green Communities Committee- 3 year term
2 members
• • Matt Synder-term expires June 30, 2025
I vacancy- term expires June 30, 2024
2 Associates-terms expire June 30, 2024
Motion: T. Alonzo
To reappoint Matt Synder to Green Communities Committee with a term to expire June 30, 2025
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Personnel Committee-3 Year Tern- term expires June 30, 2025
2 members
•
Wendy Bertrand
•
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone- NOTE: term needs to be amended to June 30, 2025 (appointed
8/4/20 to remaining term of M. Fiorentino's term which would have expired 2022)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
To reappoint Wendy Bertrand and Joanna Bilotta-Simeone to the Personnel Committee with a term
to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
Zoning Board of Appeals - 5 Year Term- term expires June 30, 2027
2 members
Patrick Callahan
• David Blatt
Motion: L. Franco
2nd. T. Alonzo
To reappoint Patrick Callahan and Dave Blatt to the ZBA with terms to expire June 30, 2027
Vote: All in Favor
ZBA Associate Member- 3 Year Term- term expires June 30, 2025
2 associate members
Anthony Nicastro
• I associate vacancy
Motion: T. Alonzo
2™: T. Dwyer
===PAGE 11===
Approval of April 26" Minutes
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of April 26, 2022 as presented
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstain (Sroka)
Warrants
The board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $879,438.71; another Accounts Payable
Warrant in the amount of $2000.00; a Payroll Deductions warrant in the amount of $38,231.91 and a
Payroll warrant in the amount of $1,062,698.72.
Action Items:
Mr. Alonzo reported a resident on Lancaster Ave. has reported street lights are out in various sections of
the road. Ms. Lemieux requested the person's contact information to follow up.
Mr. Jeffreys requested sending a letter of thanks to Brigadier General Nori from the Select Board
thanking him for his participation in the Memorial Day ceremony.
Mr. Jeffreys requested an Executive Session at the end of their next meeting.
Discussion ensued about Mr. Jeffreys' next action item which was to send a town wide email asking
other boards/committees what they would like to see the Select Board have as a goal.
He also advised that he would adding an ongoing item to the agenda that would schedule time for
communications from other boards.
Committee Reports
Mi: Alonzo reported the Town Manager sent around an invitation from the Personnel Committee to
come to their meeting and explain the position of two amendments made on Town Meeting. As I was
the one who proposed them, I felt they deserved a response and so I was here last night where I
explained my position as a member, not a representative of the board and why I made the motions. I
thought it was a productive discussion, there was opinions that were expressed and feelings from a lot of
the members and also some of the SAP employees who were in attendance. Overall I thought it was a
good dialogue so that there's not any harboring of ill feelings.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building Design Committee met and focused on space requests.
Members participated in an exercise of what the ideal layout would be and how we would use the
buildings if they were 'king for the day." There was a variety of opinions on that. One suggestion was to
use the Ritter Building for school administrative offices. Another was to keep Town Hall's second floor
as is and to use the first floor for community and meeting spaces. Others felt the 30 School Street site
should be a new location for Town Hall. Another was to tear down T C Passios Building and build a
new school there and move Town Offices to Turkey Hill Elementary. The next meeting will go back to
those ideas to look at the pros and cons.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the board's upcoming meetings and events:
===PAGE 12===
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 10:20 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
