===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
December 20, 2022
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffieys, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco, Clerk;
Todd Dwyer, Heather Stoka
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Muir Haman, Library Director; Kim Duffy, Ray Dunetz,
Rep. Margaret Scarsdale via ZOOM,
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised
that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours
after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT-
Newly elected Middlesex 1st District Representative Margaret Scarsdale introduced herself via ZOOM. She
stated she was looking forward to working with the Town and planned on meeting with Town Manager
Lemieux at the beginning of the year to ascertain Lunenburg's priorities. She wished everyone Happy
Holidays. The board members welcomed her and stated they looked forward to working with her.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Ms. Lemieux reminded all that Town offices will be closed on Friday, December 23d and Monday,
December 26" and Monday, January 2nd
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Library Director Muir Haman presented some of the programs that are available at the Library and remotely.
• Creative Bug; database of activities and lessons on how to do arts and crafts projects
• Canopy; an online video database that has expanded into mainstream popular movie titles
• Libyan Overdrive; an electronic books and audiobooks platform,
• Mango Languages; basically foreign languages; the focus is more conversational rather than an
academic study. I'll mention is called
• Beanstack; reading challenges for different age groups
The library is holding a jigsaw puzzle sale and you can help out the Friends of the Library and take home
some puzzles. On January 7th we will start a Common Grounds Open Mic, the goal being an acoustic
music set. One of the new groups is The Not So Young Book group; the target audience is adults who are
interested in reading young adult titles. This group will meet January 8th and this month we have a virtual
author talk with the author being interviewed by another local author about the book that's being discussed.
The book group meeting is January 8''; that virtual author talk is January 4th at 7 pm.
Another book group, the first Bites book group targets grades five to seven and one of the challenges that
we have is getting them to actually read through the whole book and get started. The first meeting of the
First Bites book group is January 18th at 4 pm in the afternoon.
We also have a monthly video game night starting up with Virtual Reality equipment and are working with a
company that brings all of the equipment in, sets it up and so it's like a free play session that'll be happening
monthly on Friday nights. That will begin January 20th
I'm most excited about Mass Audubon coming and talking about all about bears next Wednesday morning.
All the details are available on the Library Events Calendar online. He thanked the board for the opportunity
to come in tonight and talk about what's going on at the library. Mr. Jeffreys thanked him for coming in.
===PAGE 2===
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Green Communities Committee Associate- Kim Duffy, 1479 Massachusetts Ave. -term to expire June
30, 2024
Kim Duffy stated she has always been trying to maintain a really sustainable lifestyle and looking for new
ways to make my house more energy efficient and would like to be a part of helping that on a larger scale
for Lunenburg. She attended one meeting last week and met the team. They introduced her to one of their
projects that they're doing in town; the street lighting project. The board thanked her for stepping forward
and volunteering. When asked she noted reducing waste is one of her interests. It was noted the GCC Chair,
Dave Blatt, had stated in an email that he was very happy Kim wanted to join the team and endorsed her
appointment.
Motion: L. Franco
2nå: T. Alonzo
To appoint Kim Duffy to the Green Communities Committee as Associate with a term to expire June
30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Duffy thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Meeting with Ray Dunetz to review Invitation for Bids for 30 School Street Hazardous Materials
Abatement and Demolition
Ms. Lemieux noted Mr. Dunetz has been working with her and the previous facilities director to get this bid
package ready. It is expected to go out on January 6th. The board received the draft bid package last week.
for review and any questions.
Mi. Dunetz stated we are excited to be advertising this project, we're using an online bidding platform new
to the town called Biddocs Online. This will provide more exposure for the project and hopefully get some
more goods. We had our environmental consultant review the building one more time and we discovered
some more hazardous material in the building which was not anticipated in our initial cost estimate. The
project right now is estimated to be about $350,000, but that includes a $60,000 contingency fund for the
hazardous material removal. We are requesting the contractors interested in this job to meet at the site; we're
going to do a pre-bid meeting on January 31** to walk through the building, have them review everything
and they.!! be required to put together a bid with unit prices for the abatement work. Bids will be due by
February 16"h. Hopefully we will have a contract ready by March and start the work in April. We've
anticipated the project to take 60 to 75 days and the end result will be a loamed and seeded lawn that sort of
matches the grades there right now. Ms. Lemieux pointed out that it salvages about 1000 square feet of brick
for potential future use. Mr. Jeffreys thanked him for the report.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2n°: T. Dwyer
To approve the documents as presented for the invitations for bid on the 30 School Street hazardous
materials abatement and demolition
Vote: All in Favor
The board thanked Mr. Dunetz for all his work on the project.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• 300# Anniversary Committee (8 vacancies)
• Council on Aging (2 vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Historical Commission (2 vacancies)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find application forms on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select
Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 × 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Administrative Assistant IT (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (Full Time Benefitted)
===PAGE 3===
• Facilities Director (Full Time Benefitted)
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted)
• Public Safety Front Desk Clerk (Full Time Benefitted)
• Recreation Director (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
F'acilities and Grounds Projects/kepairs:
Last week our Interim Facilities Superintendent discovered damage to the Little League field at Marshall
Park due to someone driving on the field and spinning out. This caused significant damage to the field.
Unfortunately damage to fields unless it was artificial turf, is not covered by insurance. Any restoration of
the field will need to be addressed through the budget. In the meantime, a locked chain link has been installed
to deter further access by vehicles to the field.
OLD BUSINESS
Review Remote Work Policy
Ms. Lemieux noted a couple of minor changes to the document. Typographical errors were corrected. She
had contacted labor counsel and it is not legal to request employees to waive their rights of workers
compensation for remote work. Mi. Jeffreys noted the Town does have some history in which we had most
employees working remotely for a period of time and we didn't receive any workers compensation claims.
We were trying to word this to help minimize or prevent abuse but I think it speaks highly to the staff that
work for the town that they're pretty dedicated public servants. If we start encountering claims in people's
homes related to the privilege of being able to work remotely, then I think I'd be interested in reevaluating
the privilege.
Motion: I. Alonzo
2"': L. Franco
To approve the remote work policy as presented by the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
Review Select Board Policies & Procedures, Article Il, Section 2.07 Appointments
Mr. Jeffreys summarized the appointment policy changes to date. One document is the policy, the other orie
contains the volunteer/reappointment applications. We discussed those at a previous meeting and finalized
that and there was a minor change. He changed Green Communities from a task force to a committee. He
changed "Board of Selectmen" to "Select Board." There weren't significant changes in section one; he just
removed the enumeration of 10 and spelled it out as "ten," in the second paragraph when it speaks to
vacancies shall be so advertised on the Town's bulletin board for no less than 10 days per section 7-10 of the
Town Charter: The Select Board will appoint after the 21st day following the posting of a vacancy which we
had discussed to provide maximum opportunity. For the appointment policy as we get into the Appointment
section II, changes were incorporated and the bulk of the changes occurred in section III under
Reappointments in which we did remove verbiage and the way this is worded now is clearer. Appointments
and reappointments both have the same due dates. Discussion ensued over some wording changes, additions
and the timelines throughout the document.
Motion: I. Alonzo
To approve the appointment policy as amended and presented this evening
211: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To approve the volunteer and volunteer reappointment application forms as presented with one
modification
Vote: All in Favor
Review American Rescue Plan Act Funding Requests, Evaluation Criteria and Process
Mr. Jeffreys presented a draft Lunenburg Select Board Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (CLFRF)
Approval and Distribution Policy. The board had not seen it prior to this meeting and his expectation is to
. edit it over a couple of meetings. There's a couple of different resources that he used to develop this policy;
the state website which links to the federal website where all the resources are. The Treasury Department
came up with the Final Rule Overview. It takes the law and summarizes and simplifies it. There is a
compliance and reporting pamphlet available to those staff members or consultants who would be inputting
===PAGE 4===
this information into the system. He used that guide to place in some of the program eligibility; most of the
language in the beginning several sections is almost verbatim, especially the purpose section. The selection
criteria which starts on the second page starts getting into things that are actually modified. He read through
the policy. This policy outlines the process by which the Select Board would award and distribute funds for
the coronavirus local fiscal recovery funds; a part of the American Rescue Plan Act or ARPA. All costs
must occur on of after March 3, 2021, funds must be obligated by December 31, 2024 and expended by
December 31, 2026 or shall be returned to the Treasury. Funds may be used to replace lost public sector
revenue, support the Covid-19 public health economic response, provide premium pay for eligible
workers performing essential work and invest in water, sewer, and broadband infrastructure.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the proposed Selection Criteria and Funding Allocations:
• Burials and Cremations Initial allocated budget: $60,000 / 1.7%
• Pandemic Mitigation Budget: $100,000 / 2.9%
Premium Pay for Eligible Workers Budget: $350,000 /10%
• Investments in Water, Sewer, and Broadband Infrastructure Budget: $750,000 21.4%
• Support for Non-Profits_Budget: $150,000 / 4.2%
• General Administration Budget: $184,000 / 5.2%
• General Government Services and Supporting the Covid-19 Economic Response: Budget:
$1,913,971 / 54.6%
Following this section criteria used by the Capital Planning Committee for approval of projects was
listed. Mi. Jeffreys presented the Project/Support Award Process which includes detail about request
submissions, determination of project eligibility and funding awards as well as a three timelines for funding
awards.
Discussion ensued on the extent and detail of the policy, including proposed budgeting and budget
amounts. The board thanked Mr. Jeffreys for all the time and thought that went into the policy. They will
review it and send comments directly to Mr. Jeffreys by January 4" for revisions and modifications for the
next round of discussion on January 10th.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Discussion on Open Meeting Law-permanent changes
Mr. Jeffreys stated this is a request from our state delegation. The Open Meeting law is going to revert back.
to its original wording on March 31, 2023. We've had this suspension of the law that has allowed remote
meetings under the Governor's order. Our delegation has asked us to provide feedback on what current
changes we'd like to see as permanent. Several town committees have been meeting fully remote this whole
time including the Municipal Building Design Committee. The committee would like to see a permanent
enactment that allows for fully remote meetings to continue. He encouraged the board to also think about
this. We will discuss this at our next meeting. The board members had mixed opinions about the changes.
This will be discussed further at the January 3rd meeting.
Approval of November 8 and December 6, 2022 Minutes
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: T. Dwyer
To approve the December 6 and November 8, 2022 minutes as written and presented
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The board signed a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $855,407.13; an accounts payable warrant
in the amount of $470,445.91 and a payroll warrant in the amount of $1,074,115.18.
Action Items
Ms. Lemieux had no update on the town roads line painting.
Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer attended the Lunenburg Water District meeting last week. The Hickory Hills Landowners
===PAGE 5===
Mi. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met and had encountered some lack of clarity on some
scoring and ranking and will meet again on the 28th. Discussion ensued about some projects suggested by
the Green Communities Committee. Ms. Lemieux reported some reasons they were not considered was an
immediate need for a DPW truck versus purchasing a more expensive electric vehicle, any project should
require energy savings for the return on the investment as well as an audit and completing the current Green
Communities competitive grant process.
We have until September 30th to expend the LED street light project, the hybrid Police Cruiser, and the
administrative expenses, then have to submit an annual report and be completely finalized before we can
apply for the next round. The funding rounds are twice a year now which is fall and spring, so we may be
ready in the fall. Mr. Alonzo noted most of their projects often don't fit into the Capital Planning Committee
schedule.
Ms. Lemieux announced Finance Director/Accountant Karen Brochu will be retiring July 7, 2023. She read
part of her retirement letter,
"I've enjoyed working for the town for the last 38 years, but given the fact that I
started with the town at the age of 22, it has always been my dream to retire in my early 60s and that time
has come. I consider it both an honor and a privilege to have served the town's leadership past and present
and its residents over years. I have thoroughly enjoyed my time here, but I'm looking forward to starting the
next chapter of my life. I can't wait to spend more time with my family and friends as well as spending
summers at the Cape."
Ms. Lemieux thanked Ms. Brochu and stated she's been an asset to the town. Mr. Alonzo noted she's been
incredible for the town for all the years he's been involved. The level of work, the level of commitment and
her ability to work across all different departments with different Town Managers from the start of the
Charter until now and keeping the same level of excellence, and through it all be such a wonderful person on
top of that, she will be sorely missed. Mr. Jeffieys echoed those sentiments.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Library Trustees met last week, they voted on approving the funding process for
the investment of library funds. The Municipal Building Design Committee met yesterday and it was a
productive meeting. We are meeting twice in January. The committee is embracing the hybrid concept and
will vote at the next meeting on it. The next task is to incorporate the feedback into the next iteration of the
concept. The strongest feedback came from the School Committee; they would like to use the Brooks House
as an Early Learning Center and for the Community Link. One of their major concerns is they are at
maximum capacity for their gymnasiums and the expectation of the Building Design Committee to return
the before/after and early learning center school programs back to the school buildings. We also went over
the community feedback. The primary concern is the lack of capacity at the TC Passions Building. The
committee will focus on incorporating the school's concerns in the hybrid concept and also the APDC
feedback. The APDC likes the idea of an annex on the Ritter Building. Some additional questions need to be
answered as a result of that meeting. We plan to meet with the Building Commissioner on January 12t as
we have code questions about some of these iterations we are considering.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys reported their next meetings are on January 3, 10, 17, and 24.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Dwyer stated he received a communication from a Lancaster Ave. resident about a clogged storm drain.
I passed this on to the Town Manager and DPW Director. If other residents see something clogged, please
reach out to the DPW.
Mr. Alonzo wished everyone a Happy Hanukah, Christmas, or whatever it is you are celebrating. It is a
season of good fellowship and he hoped everyone has a safe and happy one. Mr. Jeffreys adding to that
statement noted this is a season of love and asked if you have individuals in your life who have experienced
loss to take the time to reach out to them during the holiday. It really does go a long way. He wished
everyone a happy holiday season.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2'': T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 6===
The meeting adjourned at 8:57 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Slaiem Heteroon
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
