===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Johnson,
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT-
Mr. Franco reminded all of the pancake breakfast at the Senior Center tomorrow morning
from 8:00-10:00 a.m. The Eagle House Supporters are running a clothing drive until April
2023 and they are collecting Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10:00 am to Noon at the TC
Passios Building. Mr. Alonzo announced the toll booth fundraiser by the Salvation Army last
Saturday was a big success and thanked everyone who participated and donated.
Ms. Lemieux announced the Giving Tree at Town Hall with the Salvation Army Angels had
the last two tags taken today. She thanked everyone for their generosity.
Mr. Jeffreys encouraged everyone to reach out to people who have experienced loss during
the holidays as it can be a difficult time.
Karin Menard, 672 Page St., Parks Commissioner acknowledged the passing of residents
Cheryl Shaw and Genevieve Nass and expressed condolences to their families. The Parks
Commission and the Town beach community will be forever grateful for their dedication.
Mr. Jeffreys attended the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club Cookie Fest last night and it was
really nice. It was good to see so many members of the community come together to
recognize all the good work that the kids are doing and nice to see the kids. The kids spoke
for about 30 minutes about what the community and the teen center means to them.
Interviews for the 300th Anniversary Committee- William Tyler, 5 Graham Street and
Pete Lincoln, 45 Hemlock Drive, Dawn Johnson, 357 Lancaster Ave.
Bill Tyler stated I've been a lifelong resident of Lunenburg, born and raised here. I'd like to
think that my involvement in town has provided me with some experience that would help
this committee. My association with the Historical Society provides me with access to
historical records not everybody's privy to that describe previous celebrations; the 200th,
250", 275th. The parades, banquets or sporting events; I'd like to think that by that time we'll
certainly have a venue to do these things, but that being said I just want to make this the best
celebration we can make it. The board thought he was a great candidate as well as the other
two applicants and thanked him for stepping forward.
===PAGE 2===
To appoint the three interviewees, Mr. Tyler, Mr. Lincoln and Ms. Johnson to be the
first three 300" Anniversary Committee members
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Public Access Videographer -
Matthew Munroe
Ms. Lemieux asked the board to ratify Matt Monroe as a new Public Access
Videographer. Mr. Munroe has his Bachelor of Science in film and television from
Drexel University where he assisted production for extracurricular student projects including
writing, producing, equipment rentals, directing, camera operation, audio recording, editing
and sound design. Prior to his undergraduate studies he worked for Groton Public Access and
he was a director and editor for a show called Around Town Groton Gaming and Movie Jam.
His references spoke highly of his work and stated he was hard-working, engaged, is able to
work independently and has a positive attitude.
Motion: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Matthew Munroe to Public Access
Videographer
2'd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Chapter 61 Notice of Intent to Sell 255 Sunny Hill Road, parcel 3
Ms. Lemieux reported when requests for taking parcels of land out of Chapter 61
classification are received, we have a procedure that follows Mass General Law. That
procedure was followed and Executive Assistant Peterson worked with Town Counsel and
Attorney Bowen to make sure everything was in order. The Planning Board met last night
and they approved the AN to separate out parcel 3. The notice was prepared by Town
Counsel and is ready for the board for signatures. Mr. Jeffreys noted the Conservation
Commission voted that they do not have an interest in acquiring the property. The Planning
Board is also recommending the Select Board to not take any action.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
That the Town of Lunenburg under the Select Board waive the right of first refusal for
the property presented to us as 255 Sunny Hill Road, parcel 3 and identified by the
provided map
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• 300** Anniversary Committee (8 vacancies)
• Council on Aging (2 vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (2 Associate vacancies)
• Historical Commission (2 vacancies)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
===PAGE 3===
botary rage part-lime on-benented)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted)
• Public Safety Front Desk Clerk (Full Time Benefitted)
• Recreation Director (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
Lufa Farms
Yesterday a technical review meeting was held with Lufa Farms as an opportunity for them to review
the scope of the project and for relevant town officials to ask any questions or note any concerns
about the project prior to the permitting phase. The Land Use Director, Police Chief, Fire Chief, Fire
Lieutenant, Conservation Administrator, Principal Assessor, Board of Health Agent, Water District
Superintendent, DPW Director, Assistant Sewer Business Manager, and I were all there representing
the Town and Lufa Farms had representatives from their company, their engineering company
representatives, and Mr. Powell, the current landowner.
The total project cost is estimated at $75-$85M ($50M for construction) and add an estimated 350
jobsoncethey are fully underway. Theirunique business model of being an online farmers marketthat
partners with all different businesses in the region would be evolutionary for this area. They expect to
filepermitting applications in thespringand hopeto begin construction Q3 of next year. The Principal
Assessor is currently working on the real estate valuation, as that would be our starting point for
discussions with Lufa Farms fora Tax Increment Financing Agreement and this wouldultimately need
to be voted upon at the Annual Town Meeting.
Grants
The Fire Chief received the Emergency Management Performance Grant in the amount of $3,500 to be
used on technical rescue and dive rescue equipment including tech rescue helmets, single gas CO
meters, and tactical/trauma medical supplies and also received notification that the Fire Department
was awarded the Firefighter Safety Equipment Grant in the amount of $14,869 for hoses, nozzles,
hose fittings, andadapters.
Facilities and Grounds Projects/Repairs:
• Facilities: The Public Safety Building chiller projecthas been completed and wewill issue
the final payments for the project shortly.
• The TC Passios Building requires some repairs to the sprinkler system which will cost around
$6,000. This work has been requested to be scheduled.
• The Ritter Building break room is getting closerto completion with the drop ceiling, flooring,
and already-made cabinets to be installed. I expect this will be complete in January/early
February.
• Monty Tech'snext project with the Town will bemaking/installing new kitchen cabinets at the
Eagle House
• The DPW recently lined up repaving the circle driveway atthe Eagle House and restriping
the parking spots.
• Fall cleanup has been completed at all the town and park properties as of last Friday.
===PAGE 4===
•
Land Use: The Land Use Director reported on the RFP for the Master Plan and that once
the project begins, it will take approximately 2 years to complete. The Land Use Director,
Police Chief and DPW Director met with PJ Keating about the Leominster Shirley Road
intersection with the rock cropping and agreed that signage notifying travelers about the
intersection would be the best solution at this time. Due to the blasting that would be
required, complete removal of the rocks would be extremely difficult. PJ Keating supported
keeping the brush low and working with the Town going forward. Construction at
Lunenburg Central is moving along well. Their goal is to process all approvals for
certificates of completion and certificates of occupancy by end of first quarter 2023. Their
marketing efforts have been launched into high gear, with an expected 3-5 tenants. The
Planning Board is looking at rezoning of Chase Road from residential to commercial to
address future development of that area. The Economic Development Committee is looking
at revitalizing the Town Fair this summer.
• COA: The Council on Aging held a ceremony for presenting the Boston Post Cane to Emma
Mellow yesterday. For programming, pickle ball is being held Mondays and Fridays 11-1 PM
at the TC Passios, floral classes are being held, and the COA is finalizing their rebranding.
Fire: The Fire Department received their final inspection from the State today and will be
beginning running at the Paramedic license level starting January 1st. They will operate on a
part time basis for a few months until the new paramedics achieve their 50 supervised ALS
calls. The Chief expects to be operating 24/7 at the paramedic level by March.
DPW: The DPW Director reported that the crosswalks and parking spots in the center of
Town were complete. The line striping company continues to be non-responsive.
Ms. Lemieux reported on the Eagle House ADA parking lot project as this is something that
the Capital Planning Committee has been talking about. There were questions from the
committee about different factors about cost; what's included in that cost as well as any kind
of impact on the adjacent Kids Kingdom playground. The Council on Aging Director and I
met with the engineer from McCarty Engineering and he was supposed to go back and look
at the costs because that was a ballpark number based on the square footage of that project. It
was supposed to be inclusive of everything, drainage, pavement, and guardrail, all-
encompassing. The other alternative we discussed with him was if we could phase this
project and put additional parking along Memorial Drive to get additional parking at that
building because it's such a need. We're waiting on final numbers for that as well.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• The Zoning Board of Appeals will be having the next hearing on the Pond View Commons 40B
comprehensive permit application on December 14th at 7 PM in the Town Hall meeting room.
All town offices are closed on Friday, December 23rd in observance of Christmas Eve, Monday,
December 26th in observance of Christmas, and Monday, January 2nd in observance of New
Year's Day.
WORKSHOP:
Review Remote Work Policy
===PAGE 5===
flexibility for a certain period of time. Discussion ensued about different scenarios the policy
to which the policy could be applied. The policy addresses hours of work, the remote work
location, dependent care, termination of the remote work arrangement, compliance with town
policies, security of information and records, equipment and materials, other costs, liability,
violation of the policy and guidelines.
Discussion ensued about workers compensation and liability. Question was asked if the Town
can ask employees to waive any workers compensation claims while working from home.
Ms. Lemieux stated she did not believe so, but would check with labor counsel. Ms. Lemieux
will return next week with answers and some amendments to the draft policy.
Review Select Board Policies & Procedures, Article II Section 2.07 Appointments
The board reviewed a copy of the amended draft and discussed some changes and dates.
Mr. Jeffreys will amend and work with Town Manager on some wording and return with an
updated draft for the December 20 meeting.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Annual License Renewals (cont.)
Mr. Jeffreys noted last meeting there was discussion about a limousine company that only has
a post office box in Lunenburg but is based in Fitchburg. Is it our intent that a business that's
not based in Lunenburg that we are issuing a limousine license to a business to operate in
Lunenburg or are we issuing the licenses to businesses that are only based in Lunenburg? Our
policy does not have anywhere that says you have to be based in Lunenburg. My concern is
the business that we are licensing to operate out of Fitchburg is because they otherwise can't
get the license in Fitchburg. If we are doing that I don't think that's appropriate or are we
taking a business that's already licensed in Fitchburg and saying you're also licensed to
operate here. Discussion ensued about rules of operation for limousines in the policy.
Mr. Jetfreys requested checking with the City of Fitchburg to see if the licensee is also
licensed there.
2023 Alcohol Licenses Renewals
LICENSEE NAME
Carol A. Baker &
Henry A. Baker
DBA
Baker's Whalom
Variety
JK Waterfront Inc.
On The Rocks
ADDRESS
423 Electric
Ave.
96 Lakefront
Drive
324 Electric
Ave. #4
License Type
Package Store- Wine
& Malt
FEE
$700.
Restaurant All Alcohol $1450.
A.A.G. LLC
Kindred Spirits
Restaurant All Alcohol $1,450
The board discussed Bakers Whalom Variety first and the inability to provide a required
Certificate of Good Standing certificate (COGS) from the Dept. of Revenue. Mr. Franco
noted he had contacted the Town Manager to see if a licensee had ever been denied a license
===PAGE 6===
second concern was having a 19 year old on the licensed premises. Ms. Lemieux reported
Executive Assistant Peterson has informed her OTR holds a common victualler license for
serving food, so they are a restaurant too. It was noted that there was no indication that the 19
year old was served alcohol or food.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": T. Dwyer
To approve the package store wine and malt license of Carol A. Baker and Henry A.
Baker doing business as Baker's Whalom Variety, 423 Electric Avenue
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Jeffreys)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'°: L. Franco
To approve the restaurant all alcohol license for J K Waterfront, Inc. doing business as
On the Rocks, 96 Lakefront Drive. for a restaurant all alcohol license
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 opposed (Jeffreys)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the restaurant all alcohol license for A.A.G. LLC doing business as Kindred
Spirits, 324 Electric Ave, Unit #4
Vote: All in Favor
2023 Common Victualler License Renewals
LICENSEE NAME
DBA
BBK Group, LLC
Bangkok Hill
AJD'S Café LLC
Lunenburg Diner
A.A.G. LLC
Kindred Spirits
Genghis Inc.
Jaxx Country Variety
Konrad Café Inc.
Dippin Donuts
Whalom Gas
Whalom Gas Service
Conrad's Drive-In Inc.
Conrad's Drive-In
ADDRESS
Fee
177 Massachusetts Ave.
$25.00
324 Electric Ave. #3
$25.00
324 Electric Ave. #3
$25.00
1353 Massachusetts
Ave.
$25.00
455 Massachusetts Ave.
$25.00
1 Whalom Road
$25.00
835 Massachusetts Ave.
• $25.00
Motion: T. Alonzo
To renew the common victualler licenses as read by the Chair
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
2023 Miscellaneous License Renewals
LICENSEE
NAME
DBA
ADDRESS
Fee paid
A.A.G. LLC
324 Electric Ave.
#3
Whalom Gas
Kindred Spirits
Whalom Gas
Service
1 Whalom Road
License Type
Automatic Amusement
Devices (1)
Automatic Amusement
Devices (2)
$35.00
$70.00
===PAGE 7===
Review American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Funding Requests, Evaluation Criteria &
Process- tabled until the December 20" meeting
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items- there were none this meeting
Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer will be attending a Water District meeting this week. Mr. Franco reported he
attended a Council on Aging meeting but Ms. Lemieux had summarized everything in her
report earlier this evening.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee Appointing Committee met earlier today and we
have an appointee to the Finance Committee. Tomorrow is the last meeting of the Capital
Improvement Committee before we finalize and prioritize our rankings of the 2023 requests.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he will attend the Library Trustees meeting on Thursday. He expressed
their thanks on behalf of working with the town on creating a policy on using their funds. He
thanked all involved in that process.
Upcoming Meetings
Mr. Jeffreys noted their last meeting of the year will be December 20t. They will meet again
on January 3rd
PUBLIC COMMENT: Ms. Sroka wanted to make sure the Town recognizes Genevieve
Nass posthumously, perhaps working with the Parks Commission on some kind of
dedication.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:39 P.M.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
