===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Clerk; Tom Alonzo, Renee Emkey
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Kathy Comeau, Animal Control Officer; Police
Sergeant John Morreale Jr., Police Officer Michael McCormick, David Watt, Ludmila Watt
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to rise for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel, Facebook Live and the Public Access Facebook page and will be uploaded to the Public
Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
There was no Public Comment, Announcements or Communications from Other Boards.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Videographer, Robert Berberian
Ms. Lemieux stated the first ratification is for Robert Berberian and this is for Public Access. Mr
Berberian is currently a freelance media specialist and owner of A to D Media and Design, LLC in
Templeton and has operated professionally for over five years. He is an FAA part 107 certified drone
pilot which will be a great addition to Public Access. In addition to owning his own business, he had
worked at Fitchburg Access TV as an audio technician on a show called Chess Chat. He has a certificate
in graphic design and digital imaging from UMass Lowell and his references indicated that he's an all-
around great guy dedicated, committed, is very good at what he does, and takes his work very seriously.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2"d: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Robert Berberian as Videographer
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Electrical Inspector, Baron Bowser, and
Alternate Electrical Inspector John Biery
Ms. Lemieux stated both individuals currently work for the Town. John Biery is stepping down as
Electrical Inspector and is seeking the Alternate position. Baron Bowser seeks appointment as the
Electrical Inspector.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2"d: L. Franco
To ratify the appointment of Baron Bowser as Electrical Inspector and John Biery as Alternate
Electrical Inspector
Vote: All in Favor
Letter to DOR Bureau of Local Assessment to Request Authority to Issue Third Quarter
Preliminary Tax Bills for FY24
===PAGE 2===
Discussion ensuea about alerting taxpayers to the potential increase in the 4 quarter bill by including
something with the preliminary bill. Ms. Lemieux will look into this.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": M. Jeffreys
To authorize the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the Select Board to the Dept. of Revenue
that indicated the vote was taken at this meeting
Vote: All in Favor
Master Plan Steering Committee Representative
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Planning Board had discussed the SB request to designate a representative
but had really wanted a Select Board member rather than a representative to serve. This would be a
multi-year commitment. Discussion ensued about who should serve on the committee. No action was
taken at this time.
Public Hearing for Nuisance Dog(s): Jenna Lynne Kunze, 543 Reservoir Road
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the hearing procedure to all present. Dog owner Jenn Kunze was not present
although she had been notified of the dog hearing. Mr. Jeffreys announced he would be swearing in
those who wish to testify in the hearing.
Officer McCormick was the first to testify. He read his incident report aloud:
"On August 9, 2023 at approximately 7:09 a.m., I responded to 96 Autumn Road for a report oftwo coyotes
attacking a goat in its pen. Sergeant Morreale was riding with me during a training period. I arrived and met with
the residents, David and Ludmila Watt, who directed myself, Sergeant Morreale and Sergeant Zrate to the back
yard where the goat pen was located. Inside the goat pen I observed two reddish/brown and white dogs, appearing to
be a type of husky breed. Asi got closer to the goat pen, the dogs came to the fence to excitedly greet us. Sergeant
Morreale and I were able to fashion leashes from available twine to lead the dogs to my vehicle. I observed one of the
two dogs had a reddish substance covering a paw, which appeared to be blood. Upon inspection, neither dog had
any tag which identified the owner contact information.
While on scene another resident ofthe neighborhood approached Sergeant Morreale and I and advised the two dogs we
had taken custody of from the goat pen entered his house through his dog's door. This resident was able to chase the
two dogs out of his house. I returned to the goat pen to find the goat was deceased and cold to the touch. I observed
reddish substance covering the neck and chest area of the goat, which appeared to be blood. I observed several areas
on the goat where there was torn skin, appearing to be punctures to the skin. The areas I observed were behind the
head and on each side of the neck. Based on the close proximity and recent events, Sergeant Morreale advised the
owner of the dogs may be a Jenna Kunze. Kunze resides at543 Reservoir Koad in Lunenburg, which isinclose
proximity. Iunderstand thatKunze had previous involvements with Lunenburg Police Department, concerning
issues with her dogs.
The two dogs were transported to the Animal Control Officer {ACO) Kathy Com eau, where they were transferred to
her custody. Further inspection of the two dogs at ACO Comeau's facility showed both dogs had a reddish substance
around their mouth/face area. This reddish substance appearing to be blood
I returned to the LPD and attempted to contact Kunze by phone, which was unsuccessful. A voice message was left for
Kunze to return my call at the LPD. On the date at approximately 10:30 am, Kunze returned my call at LPD, I
spoke with her by phone. I asked Kunze if she knew whyI had called her, herresponse was because her dogs got out.
===PAGE 3===
to get her two dogs. I then went to Town Hall, where I verified that Zeus was registered with the Town. The Town had
record of Potato, however he was not registered for lack of rabies verification.
I met with Lunenburg ACO Comeau, who provided me with two Town Civil Disposition Violation Tickets (2352 &
2353) for Kunzeto be issued. Two counts ofTown By-Law, Chapter 110-1: Public Nuisance and one count ofM.G.L.,
Chapter 140, 8137:No License. While speaking with ACO Comeau sheadvised she contacted Leominster Animal
Hospital, who advised that Potato was born late December 2022, making him 7 plus months old. ACO Comeau also
explained to me that the Watts explained the goat had been in the family for seven years and had grown up with their
grandchildren.
Onthis date at approximately 1:00 pm, larrived at Kunze's residence at543 Reservoir Road. I explained and issued
Kunzethetwocivil disposition violation tickets. Iadvised Kunzecould contact ACO Comeau and arrange to pick up
Zeus, but she would have to arrange for Potato's rabies vaccine and registration."
ACO Kathy Comeau, 806 West Street, reported after the dogs were brought to her, she observed they
had blood all over them. Ms. Comeau and her assistant went to the Watts residence to observe the goat
as Mr. Watts did not want to bury it until she observed it. The goat was beaten up all around the throat
and all over its body. They told me that they had the goat for eleven years. Ms. Comeau reported her
interactions with Ms. Kunze in October 2022 when Police went to the residence as the neighbors had
complained that her dogs were loose and killing her chickens in the yard. The police officer put the dogs
in the house because no one was answering the door and the door was ajar.
Ms. Comeau spoke with Ms. Kunze and she stated they were her chickens and what did Ms. Comeau
care? I issued her a letter telling her she needed to restrain her dogs.
In May of 2023 Mr. Fournier of Lancaster Ave. called me and informed me he had two really nice
huskies that he had kept overnight. They were at his door crying and he let them in and kept them
overnight. He found out Ms. Kunze was looking for her dogs and he called her and she came down
and he was upset because she was not nice to the dogs and he wanted me to know that. I talked to her
about that and she said she was disciplining them.
Un August 2nd of 2023 the dogs got loose again and Kunze picked them up before Ms. Comeau got
there. They had gone after someone else's chickens but did not kill them. I went to her house and said
the dogs were loose again and Ms. Kunze stated they had gotten out but she had gotten them back.
On August 9th they got loose and went to the Pinard's house, and went after one of their dogs, a Maltese
in the front yard. Mrs. Pinard got her dog in the dog door and had to fight off the two huskies that were
trying to get in the door as well. The huskies proceeded from there to the Watt's house and that is when
they killed the goat.
Ms. Comeau stated when Ms. Kunze came to get her dogs, I could not release one of the dogs without a
rabies vaccination. I took the dog to the veterinarian to get the rabies shot and charged Kunze for it and
then Ms. Kunze had to go get the license for the dog, because I can't release an unlicensed dog. When
Ms. Kunze came to get the dogs she told Ms. Comeau that she had been in Hawaii for three weeks. She
wasn't here when the incident occurred, she had just returned home.
===PAGE 4===
and put them in the garage, but I declined to enter her home. She called me back moments later and
informed me that neighbors would be taking care of the dogs and they would not get out. There is a pen
there and it is adequate but it should be enlarged because there are three dogs in the residence. Ms.
Comeau made suggestions for tightening up the outside pen so they could not get out. The owner is not
even using the pen, it's all overgrown. Ms. Comeau recommended the owner acquire an insurance
policy to cover any future incidents and that the dogs be muzzled when outside of the home. They are
friendly with people but are prey animals and they will attack again.
Mr. and Mrs. Watt, 96 Autumn Road, stated the goat was fenced in but the dogs must have jumped the
fence. When Rosie gets scared she runs into her little shelter and the dogs must have gone in and
dragged her out because all the water was dumped out and the grass was all trampled over there.
We had our air conditioner on and did not hear any noise until we shut it off and heard the goat bleating.
We thought it was coyotes at first so we did not get too close. We called 911 and the Police showed up
shortly afterwards but unfortunately it was too late, she was very injured by that point. There was no
way for her to defend herself, she had been trying to get away from them. The dogs were friendly but
had blood all over their faces. She was a quiet peaceful animal that we had for 11 years. We miss her.
Mr. Jeffreys asked for Jenna Kunze to come forward but she was not present. Ms. Lemieux stated Ms.
Kunze was notified of the hearing with a certified letter that she had signed receiving.
Ms. Comeau reported she had called the MSPCA, the Humane Society and the Farmers Exchange to get
a value for the goat and we came up with $720.00 which includes the cost of the animal and feeding it
for one year. Ms. Kunze should pay restitution for the goat to the Watts.
Discussion ensued about the history of problems with the dogs' owner. It was determined it was at least
a quarter of a mile to go from Ms. Kunze's house to the Watts' house. Ms. Kunze was fined $50 twice;
one for no license and the other for the attack. Ms. Comeau reported each dog weighs around 45-50
pounds and the goat weighed between 60-70 pounds. Ms. Comeau stated it appeared that Kunze was
not using the outdoor pen as it was all overgrown. When asked if the dog owner was concerned or
cooperative, Ms. Comeau stated Ms. Kunze felt badly and wanted to pay for the goat but has been
uncooperative in the past; she always has some excuse. When asked if there was any indication how the
dogs got out, Ms. Comeau stated the pool fence is a 4 foot chain link but not secured to the ground, so
they are most likely getting out by digging under it or jumping it. The unused kennel fence is six foot
tall. The Watts reported the owner has not reached out to them since the attack.
Discussion ensued about whether the incident was a nuisance or dangerous and prey animals.
The board moved on to deliberation. Mr. Alonzo noted a discrepancy between town bylaw and state law
regarding nuisance or dangerous dog hearings. He stated this board could determine either category on
this attack although it was listed on the agenda as a nuisance dog hearing.
Mr. Alonzo stated it is clear the dogs have a long history of getting out of their enclosure and property,
trespassed on other people's property, attempted to attack other animals on their own property; so
clearly this is not a one-time occurrence. Due to the recent attack he was inclined to state this was
clearly in the dangerous range adding you shouldn't have to fear that other people's dogs are going to
===PAGE 5===
dogs attacked her own chickens and not taking responsibility for the attack; how to prevent this without
punishing the dogs who are friendly to people.
Mr. Franco worried about the problem escalating to a human and human life is always more valuable
than animal life. He was willing to entertain the most restrictive measures to ensure the dogs don't get
out again.
Mr. Jeffreys wasn't sure which determination he would make although he was leaning towards
dangerous. Mr. and Mrs. Watt had kept their pet goat for 11 years in a fenced in-area, protected from
wildlife. The real danger was these two dogs that their owner failed to keep control of.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To deem the Zeus and Potato as described in the incident of the police report of August 9" as
dangerous
2'°: C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys read aloud the board's options having ruled the dogs dangerous:
1. If the hearing authority deems the dog a dangerous dog, the hearing authority shall order one
or more of the following:
a) that the dog be humanely restrained; provided, however that no order shall provide a dog
deemed dangerous be chained, tethered or otherwise tied to an inanimate object including,
but not limited to a tree, post or building;
that the dog be confined to the premises of the keeper of the dog; provided however, that
"confined" shall mean securely confined indoors or confined outdoors in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or dog run area upon the premises of the owner or keeper;
provided further, that such pen or dog run shall have a secure roof and, if such enclosure
has no floor secured to the sides thereof, the sides shall be embedded into the ground for
no less than 2 feet; and provided further, that within the confines of such pen or dog run,
a dog house or proper shelter from the elements shall be provided to protect the dog;
c) that when removed from the premises of the owner or the keeper, the dog shall be
securely and humanely muzzled and restrained with a chain or other tethering device
having a minimum tensile strength of 300 pounds and not exceeding 3 feet in length;
that the owner or keeper of the dog provide proof of insurance in an amount not less than
$100,000 insuring the owner or keeper against any claim, loss, damage, or injury to
persons, domestic animals or property resulting from such acts, whether intentional or
unintentional, of the dog or proof that reasonable efforts were made to obtain such
insurance if a policy has not been issued; provided however, that if a policy of insurance
has been issued, the owner or keeper shall produce such policy upon request of the
hearing authority or a justice of the district court; and provided further, that if a policy
has not been issued the owner or keeper shall produce proof of efforts to obtain such
===PAGE 6===
keeper of the dog shall cause the dog to be altered so that the dog shall not be
reproductively intact;
g) or that the dog be humanely euthanized.
Mi. Jeffreys stated based on the testimony of the ACO, we should require Ms. Kunze to obtain liability
insurance in the amount of $1,000,000,000; that we have the owner retrofit the pen as described above in
section (b), and that the dogs be muzzled when they leave the property. Mr. Alonzo agreed to all three
but wanted to add (e.), identification throughout lifetime as a requirement. He noted the insurance
coverage would most likely be a blanket policy covering both dogs and that $500,000 should be
adequate. He also wanted restitution paid to the Watts for their goat in the amount of $720.00. He added
any further violation or infraction of these restrictions after they are imposed would result in an
immediate new public dog hearing before the Select Board.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: M. Jeffreys
Per M.G. L. c. 140 8157 (c) the hearing authority (Select Board) has ordered the following:
1) That the dogs known as Zeus and Potato be confined to the premises of the keeper of the dogs;
provided, however, that "confined" shall mean securely confined indoors or confined outdoors in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or dog run area upon the premises of the owner or keeper;
provided further, that such pen or dog run shall have a secure roof and, if such enclosure has no
floor secured to the sides thereof, the sides shall be embedded into the ground for not less than 2
feet; and provided further, that within the confines of such pen or dog run, a dog house or proper
shelter from the elements shall be provided to protect the dogs;
2) That when removed from the premises of the owner or the premises of the person keeping the dogs,
the dogs shall be securely and humanely muzzled and restrained with a chain or other tethering
device having a minimum tensilestrength of300 pounds and not exceeding 3 feet in length;
3) That the owner or keeper of the dogs provide proof of insurance in an amount not less than
$500,000, insuring the owner or keeper against any claim, loss, damage or injury to persons.
lomestic animals or property resulting from the acts, whether intentional or unintentional, of the
dogs or proof that reasonable efforts were made to obtain such insurance if a policy has not been
issued; provided, however, that if a policy of insurance has been issued, the owner or keeper shall
produce such policy upon request of the hearing authority or a justice of the district court; and
provided further, that if'a policy has not been issued the owner or keeper shall produce proof of efforts
to obtain such insurance;
4) That the owner or keeper of the dogs provide to the animal control officer, photographs or videos by
which the dogs may be identified, throughout their lifetimes;
In addition,
1) That the above-listed orders be completed within 60 days of receipt of this letter. During the 60
days in securing the kennel under Order #1, all available means shall be used to restrain the dogs.
2) The owner of the dogs shall pay restitution in the voluntary amount of $720.00 to Mr. and Mrs.
Watt for the loss of the goat and if you fail to do so, Mr. & Mrs. Watt may pursue the matter as a
private cause of action through the courts.
===PAGE 7===
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• The Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 AM until 1 PM until mid-October on the Ritter
lawn.
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Board of Assessors (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Regular Member and 1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Park Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent
to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the
Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (19 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Assistant Meal Site Manager (19.5 hours/week)
• Conservation Administrator (36 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (40 hours/week)
• Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborers Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the website under job opportunities, which are located
on the town website.
Staffing Updates
Accountant's Office: We are still actively searching for a permanent Finance Director and
Assistant Town Accountant. We conducted one interview last week for the Finance Director
position. In the interim, through our Town Accountant consultant Julie Costello, we have a retired
accountant that is assisting with processing invoices so that Karen can focus more on closing out
FY23.
===PAGE 8===
we received one quote from Supportive Business Alternatives for $20,000 for FY24.This was
awarded to Supportive Business Alternatives on September 5th. This work will be a continuation
of outreach, education, reviewing the current contract with EL Harvey and providing
recommendations to the Request for Proposals, data research on other communities contract
rates for collection and disposal of trash and recycling, and education to reduce contamination in
our recycling.
• An Invitation for Bids for the Public Safety Carport Project is currently advertised and filed sub-
bids are due September 13th and general bids are due September 20th.
• The bids received for the Invitation for Bids for the Large Snow Plow Trucks were rejected as
non- responsive and we have revised the IF and re-advertised. Bids will be released on
September 11th and will be due by September 25th.
Infrastructure, Facilities, and IT Updates
•
Page Street Culvert Project: The roadway was closed, and traffic was detoured from Monday,
August 21st through Thursday, August 24th to allow for the excavation of the old pipe and the
installation of the new pipe. The pipe has been installed and the roadway is reopened. The
guardrail was installed last week. The project was done by Powell Stone & Gravel and was on
time and under budget.
•
Roadway Maintenance: The sealcoating by Indus Industries has been completed. The roads
that were sealed are Beachview Road, Cove Road, Cove Terrace, Crescent Road, Crescent
Terrace, Horizon Island Road, Island Road, Peninsula Drive, Sandy Cove Road, South Row Road,
Wildwood Road, and Williams Drive. The DPW crew has been making pothole repairs on
Leominster Shirley Road, cutting back roadside vegetation at various locations, clearing out
drainage pipes, repairing road edges, and other routine maintenance.
• Guardrail Repairs: Premier Fence completed the contracted work for guardrail repairs on
Northfield Road between Holman Street and Gilchrest Street, 140 Leominster Shirley Road, and
Graham Street.
• LED Streetlight Project: Pine Ridge Technologies began the LED Streetlight conversion project
today. Barring any unforeseen issues, the project should be complete by late September.
• Senior Center ADA Patio Project: The Senior Center ADA Patio Project will be complete this
month. The ribbon cutting ceremony will be October 11th at noon.
• TC Passios Roof: There are still issues with the roof leaking at the TC Passios building. The
Facilities Department, along with a roofing company, has been chasing the leaks and have
recently patched two more areas and have also tested roofdrains, which showed no signs of
leaks.
• Teen Center Repairs: Recently the facilities department had the ramp at the Teen Center repaired,
the bulkhead replaced, and some painting done.
• Town Beach: The Town Beach is officially closed and the plan is to do some additional interior work
on the flooring before the next season.
• Marshall Park: The Park Commission submitted a PARC grant in July requesting $500,000 and
are awaiting notification. The 100% schematic design is complete and the next step is to go out
===PAGE 9===
firm to conduct penetration testing on our network. Wereceived a quote from Security Scorecard
and I submitted a Flex Grant application to our insurance company that utilizes our rewards
credits towards risk management costs and received approval that the grant will cover the costs of
the quote.
Ms. Lemieux reported that Unitil has provided a rate case informational flyer regarding their distribution
rates and the impact on users which will be placed on the town website.
Discussion on ARPA funding requests and review Select Board rankings for project requests;
votes may be taken
Mr. Jeffreys stated that the board had provided rankings on the proposed projects. He thanked Ms.
Emkey for pulling together the spreadsheet.
Mr. Alonzo stated to the other board members that from his perspective any ARPA funding allotted
should only be used for the intended purpose and any remaining funding should be returned to the Town
for redistribution.
The board discussed the requests in length.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Alonzo
To commit $50,000 for the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club staffing for FY24 and $25,000 for FY25;
$22,500 for the Cultural Council Artists in the Schools program; $60,000 for Library exterior
envelope; $10, 000 for the Library/Proctor Memorial Garden; $120,000 for the Library Teen
Room renovations; $101,640 for sidewalks for Lunenburg Public Schools; $35,000 for the Water
District for public education on PFAS; $50,000 for the Water District's Master Plan for PFAS;
$200,000 to the Water District to support a PFAS PILOT for the Keating well; $225,000 for the
Municipal Building Design Committee and $100,000 for Sewer manhole repairs
Vote: All in Favor
Mir. Jeffreys noted this leaves $58,855.00 remaining. Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for their
involvement in this process. Mr. Jeffreys thanked everyone for providing their rankings and comments
in a timely manner. Mr. Jeffreys asked for consensus in going to fall town meeting to request $986,000
from the Special Stabilization account to pay for the ambulance and two dump trucks rather than using
ARPA money. The board wanted more information on the impact of doing so from the Town Manager.
Review November 14, 2023 Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
The board reviewed the first four warrant articles:
A. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, all
sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2024 Budget, under Article 7
of the May 6, 2023 Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town
Manager)
===PAGE 10===
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
D. To see if the Town will vote to transfer $80,000 from the Opioid Settlement Stabilization Fund to
be used to fund the Police Department's Mental Health Co-Response program; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Police Chief)
After discussion, it was decided to invite the Police Chief in to explain his request under Article D.
Town Manager Goals for FY2024
Ms. Lemieux presented her goals for the upcoming fiscal year:
1. Goal #1: Continuation of the Goal to Redevelop/Reuse 925 Mass Ave:
a. Objective: To revitalize this property, enhance economic development in the center of town, and
generate tax revenue.
i. Action: Take the steps necessary to sell this property including determining all the required
permitting, discuss different concepts for redevelopment with the stakeholders, and develop
a Request for Proposals that includes this information.
ii. Action: Pursue any available funding necessary for any remaining
contamination through the EPA.
2. Goal #2: Review of Financial Policies and Procedures and Long-Term Planning:
a. Objective: To update financial policies to reflect best practices, formalize unwritten procedures
and address long-term staffing and unknown infrastructure needs to help inform the budget
process.
i. Action: Policies and Procedures: Review and make recommendations to Select Board on
financial policies and create written finance and administration procedure manual for
employees that will formalize unwritten processes. Draft a process and checklist for the
Board of Assessors and Assessors staff to use throughout the year:
ii. Action: Long Term Staffing: Create a comprehensive long-term staffing plan that will be
updated annually and identifies additional space needs and funding sources.
ili. Action: Culverts and Bridges: Apply for a grant to create a Culvert and Bridge
Management Plan, similar to the Town's updated Pavement Management Plan.
3. Goal #3: Employee Recruitment, Recognition, and Retention
a. Objective: To advocate to officials on municipal staffing shortages and retain and recognize
our existing staff.
i. Action: Recruitment: Work with professional associations, state entities, and local
===PAGE 11===
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: C. Nuzzolo
To accept the Town Manager's goals and objectives for fiscal year 2024 as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Approval of May 23, June 6, June 13, 2023 Minutes
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of May 23 and June 6, 2023 as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: L. Franco
2'd: C. Nuzzolo
To approve the minutes of June 13, 2023 as presented Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Alonzo)
Warrants/Action Items
The board signed a payroll warrant in the amount of $887,624.02; an accounts payable warrant in the
amount of $426,498.57, and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $246,980.68.
Mr. Nuzzolo requested adding a page to the website so residents are aware of the food pantry.
Discussion ensued about a glitch on the website when using IPads. Mr. Jeffreys requested the board be
copied on any legal letters or demand letters going out from departments or boards, so they could be
aware of such situations.
Mr. Alonzo requested a crosswalk be installed along the Whalom Road rotary preferably on the town
beach side near the fence. There is no indication for a pedestrian to figure out where to cross. Mr.
Nuzzolo building on that request, suggested a sidewalk from the intersection of Route 13 down to the
rotary.
Committee Reports
Ms. Emkey reported the School Committee met and are drafting their goals for this year and they are
also planning on submitting a warrant article for the special town meeting. The article addresses the
change in scope for the climate control system for the primary school, going from AC to mini-split
systems. There was discussion about Turkey Hill Elementary School. They meet again tomorrow.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee met last Wednesday. He was elected Chair and
Peter Beardmore was elected Vice Chair. Chris Menard is the Clerk. There was a lot of good discussion;
we talked about the process and some potential policy/procedural changes. One of them being that we
would extend our season beyond our ranking of requests from the departments of the projects. Once that
and our ranking of requests
was done in the spring we would continue and try to build a three to five year plan that we could use as
the starting point for the next year.
Mr. Nuzzolo reported the Planning Board reached out to him and requested an update on why we
haven't selected someone to represent the Select Board on the Master Planning Steering Committee.
They did note there is no level of experience requirement for the committee.
Mr. Franco reported the 300" Anniversary Committee was seeking a liaison from the Select Board to
that committee so we may need to discuss this at a future meeting.
===PAGE 12===
Mr. Alonzo congratulated P J Keating on their 100" anniversary of their doing business in Lunenburg.
They have been a good partner in town and he wished them another successful 100 years going forward.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 10:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Clainem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2'': C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
