===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
January 24, 2023
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman; Todd Dwyer, Heather Sroka
Members not present: Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco, Clerk
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; via ZOOM
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2'd: H. Sroka
To enter into Executive Session and enter back into Open Session after exiting Executive
Session pursuant to M.G.L. c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect
ot litigation, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's
litigating position and the Chair so declares. (Pond View Commons, LLC)
Vote: Ms. Sroka- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none.
ANNOUNCEMENT:
Mr. Jeffreys read the statement released earlier today regarding the investigation into the tax
FY23 tax assessments.
"On January 17, 2023, the Lunenburg Select Board voted to initiate an investigation as
authorized by section 3-2(e) of the Lunenburg Town Charter into the process that contributed to
the FY23 property valuation and tax assessments. Over the last week the investigative team
comprised of Chairman Michael Jeffreys, Vice Chairman Tom Alonzo and Town Manager
Heather Lemieux finalized an investigative framework and will be published and we'll be
publishing a request for proposals to solicit independent tax assessors and analysts to assist an
independent review and investigation. The Chairman of the Select Board and Town Manager
have also worked with members of the Board of Assessors and the Assessors' office to identify
support required to process a significant amount of abatements and solicitation for services will
be published this week. The Select Board and Town Manager will continue to work with
personnel from the Department of Revenue and external partners to expeditiously look into
concerns identified by residents as part of the investigation. The investigation seeks to
answer a variety of core questions and will focus on establishing a timeline and identifying facts
supported by evidence. The Select Board will provide regular updates to the public twice a
month on the investigative process and will provide its next update on February 7, 2023."
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Public Safety Desk Clerk-
Kennedy Jackson
Ms. Lemieux stated this appointment is for the public safety desk clerk. She read the letter from
Police Chief Tom Gammel:
"As you are aware our desk position has been vacant since August of 2022. The position had been
posted, but we were unable to identify a candidate at the time of the posting. During the month of
December we were about to begin the process again when our Fitchburg State University Intern,
Kennedy Jackson, expressed an interest in the position. We met with Kennedy, and at the end of the
meeting we were confident she would be a good fit for our Community and Department.
===PAGE 2===
I am pleased to recommend Kennedy Jackson for the full time Public Safety Desk Clerk position.
Kennedy is a lifelong resident of Fitchburg, and is a graduate of Oakmont Regional High School. She
graduated from Fitchburg State University in December of 2022 with a Bachelor of Science degree in
Criminal Justice, and a minor in Sociology. Kennedy also comes from a family of Law Enforcement
professionals, her father is a retired police officer and her mother is a retired correction officer.
Kennedy possesses the skills and knowledge to successfully fulfill this position. During her internship with our
department she was given several tasks, and was able to complete the tasks with minimal direction. Kennedy has
met all of the requirements for this position, which included passing a full background Investigation.
I request that Kennedy Jackson be appointed to the full-time Public Safety Desk Clerk position to be
effective January 25, 2023. Thank you for your consideration of my request."
Motion: T. Dwyer
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Kennedy Jackson to Public Safety Desk Clerk
2'': H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
OLD BUSINESS
1. Sign NEPBA, Local 353 Collective Bargaining Agreement (Police Union)
Mr. Jeffreys stated the board had previously approved the collective bargaining agreement and
would be signing it tonight.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Discussion and Vote on funding for Tax Assessment Investigation
Mi. Jeffreys reported that one of the things that we've been working on as noted in the release is
coming with a framework. We are classifying a lot of the documents that we're currently creating
as confidential. We will make sure that the framework is available for the Select Board on a
routine basis to be able to come into the office to look at. All the supporting documents are
confidential and not available for public release until the actual investigation is complete.
We're going to need to bring in some assessment assistance. Town Manager Lemieux and I have
been working on an RFP to be able to go out and procure these services; there's going to be funds
needed for that and on the investigative side there may be a need for administrative support.
We are going to need to have someone other than the Town Manager gathering a lot of the
documents that we're looking for so there's also the need to significantly bump up the assessment
Office. Currently a high volume year of abatements is about 50 and we are projecting that we're
likely going to have around 500. We need to procure people to be able to assist in that process.
What we asking for at this point is for the Select Board to commit $150,000 for these needs.
We will provide the Select Board with itemized lists of how this is being spent. The finding will
be coming from ARPA.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd; H. Sroka
To allocate $150,000 from ARPA funds for the tax assessment investigation and staffing for
the assessment office
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys stated their next meeting will be on January 31 and continue to meet through
February.
There was no public comment at this time.
Motion: H. Sroka
To adjourn the meeting
2i'l: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 3===
The meeting adjourned at 6:47 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Clairem
Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
