===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Nuzzolo noted the Police and Fire Memorial Service was wonderful; he couldn't attend but watched the
video. He will be volunteering at the pancake breakfast tomorrow at Eagle House from 8-10 a.m. He also
encouraged residents to reach out to him to discuss thoughts or ideas.
Mr. Franco stated as of the end of last week 300 property tax abatement applications had been reviewed. The
Assessors were hoping to finish up reviewing them by the 15'h
Pete Lincoln, Hemlock Drive applauded the DPW for the road line striping throughout town.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Town Beach opening dates are Saturday, June 17th and Sunday, June 18th, the beach will be closed
from June 19th until June 23rd for additional cleaning, and will reopen fully on Saturday, June 24th.
The beach hours will be Saturdays and Sundays 12 PM-6 PM and Monday through Friday 10 AM-7
PM. Seasonal beach passes and swim lessons can be purchased through the lunenburgma.myrec.com
Town Counsel will beconducting an Open Meeting Law,Public Recordsand ConflictofInterest
Training on June 22nd. There will be a training for the staff during the day and the one for the board,
committee and commission members will be in the evening at 6 PM at the Lunenburg Adult Activity
Center (Eagle House). Public Access will be taping this so anyone that cannot attend in person that
evening, the recording will be circulated afterwards.
• The Farmers Market on the Ritter lawn have begun and are held every Sunday from 10 AM until 1 PM
until mid-October.
• The Summer Band Concert Series will begin every Monday evenings at 7 PM starting on July 10th and
ending August 7th, with a rain date of August 14th. The location will be on the lawn at the TC Passios
building.
APPOINTMENIS
Select Board Interviews:
Helen Balcom (128 Whiting Street) for Council on Aging
Ms. Balcom stated she has worked at the Senior Center volunteering for a lot of years. She volunteers to put on
the annual tea and she volunteers at the monthly Veterans' breakfast. The board thanked her for volunteering.
Deb Lincoln, Hemlock Drive, Chair of the COA, stated the entire team supported her application.
Motion: L. Franco
2': C. Nuzzolo
===PAGE 2===
they have to be brought to members of town so everybody understands the concept. Mr. Jeffreys stated what
matters to me is having a customer-focused front when it comes to how the Conservation Commission engages
with the public. The service need for the Conservation Commission and the need for the Wetland Protections
Act is apparent; one part is protecting and ensuring the environment is here for posterity and the other part is
meeting residents where they are and being clear with them and explaining things that come before them. I
would just encourage that continues with your appointment. Mr. St. Germain agreed. The board thanked him for
volunteering. When asked if he would be willing to serve as a non-voting associate if he was not appointed, Mr.
St. Germain stated yes.
Presentation on ARPA Requests from Turkey Hill Lions Club Food Pantry, Lunenburg Public Library
and Boys & Girls Club
Library Trustee Chair Harry Kubetz stated Library Director Haman would be providing the Power point
presentation.
Library Mission: Lunenburg Public Library welcomes all and serves residents of the Lunenburg area as a hub
for the community, enriching our lives through its collections, programs, services, facility, and people.
Summary of Requests (total $760,000)
•
HVAC Redesign and Construction ($300,000) To address increasing inefficiency and
maintenance costs and to correct performance issues that have been present since its inception, this
project would redesign the HVAC system for the library facility with a commitment to increased
efficiency, environmental awareness, and sustainability.
* Address increasing maintenance, respond to difficulty sourcing replacement parts
* High priority for Library Trustees and Director
Target increased efficiency, resilience, and sustainability
Benefit to entire community, especially library users
* Capital Plan project for 2030, at tail end of 15-25 year expected lifespan for HVAC.
•
Teen Room Renovation ($150,000) To address the increasing need for dedicated space to support
the young adult (tween and teen) demographic, this project would design and construct a renovation of
the library facility to expand the teen room by approximately 40%. The project would include the
construction of two additional offices for staff use to address increasing staffing numbers and the
displaced work area resulting from the teen room expansion.
* Address increased teen traffic that has impacted access to library services for all demographics, and
increased staffing volumes
* Inadequate 450 sq. ft. Teen Room
* Renovation to increase that space by 40%, add two staff offices, sacrificing only a small amount of shelf
space
* Benefit all library users, improving access for adults, teens and children/families
* Increased opportunity to partner with Boys and Girls Club?
• Restoration and Expansion of Proctor Memorial Garden ($25,000) To address the utility and
appeal of library grounds, this project would restore the Proctor Memorial Garden and expand the
ecologically designed gardens on the library grounds to create an appealing, supportive, and nourishing
outdoor space. The project would expand the seating available for library programs, restore plantings,
replacing the water feature pump, re-seat stones on the patio as necessary, add a shade canvas, and install
===PAGE 3===
ecosystems.
• Exterior Painting and Maintenance of Library's Building Envelope ($60,000) To address the
deteriorating exterior of the facility, this project would paint and maintain the building envelope.
** Protects the investment the town has made in the facility
* Proper maintenance ensures no disruption of library services
Safeguards the assets stored in the facility and access to those assets for the taxpayers and residents
• Installation of Backup Power Generator ($100,000) To address needs for warming, cooling, and
shelter, this project would install a backup power generator at the library facility to enable the library to
operate independently from reliance on the power grid.
* Increase resilience in response to weather events
* Trustees have volunteered the facility as both warming and cooling facility for town in emergency
situations
* Commitment by trustees and director to expand this role for the facility
* Expanded "community center" role for library benefits all residents, and at-risk demographics, in
particular, during weather emergencies
• Installation of Solar Shades in Library Main Hall ($25,000) To address solar glare in the Main
Hall of the Library, this project would install solar blocking shades to mitigate seasonal interference with
the use of the Main Hall.
** Address solar glare in Main Hall
* Potential impact on solar gain: installation of 27 similar shades in Children's Room in 2019 and 2022
have had significant impact on cooling
* Benefit to visitors, in particular, but also potential improvement in efficiency of cooling operation, could
lessen the burden of running the facility
Purchase of Outreach Vehicle for Library Outreach Services ($100,000) To address
the increased need to meet library patrons outside the walls of the library and to make library
services more accessible to all community members, this project would purchase, renovate and
support the operation of a bookmobile. The library has added staff positions to help address the
need to support underserved and non-library users, and this vehicle would support the initiative
to increase the library's outreach services.
Support initiatives that are part of LL's Strategic Plan for FY22-27
Enable staff to more effectively deliver outreach services
*
Assist in engaging with underserved population and non-library users (priority in strategic plan)
* Cellular hotspot would enable delivery of internet access to underserved areas
* Not funding this request would require staff use of personal vehicles to deliver outreach and
would limit breadth of outreach
Discussion ensued on the various proposals, increased construction costs and the large amount requested. It
was also noted the amount of dedication and work Mr. Haman and the Trustees have put into the library.
Turkey Hill Lions Club Food Pantry $15,000- $20,000
Lions Club President Corrine Scouten, 116 Island Road, noted the Lion's Club is the sponsor of the food
pantry which in the fall of 2022 became a 501c (3) organization. They are seeking equipment such as stock
refrigerators, freezers and shelving due to the increase in donated food.
The board members thanked the Lions Club for all their work with the food pantry.
===PAGE 4===
Youth Staff: Payroll, taxes and benefits
Program Materials and Supplies
Overhead: Insurance, maintenance, software, training, legal etc.
FY24
80,000
7,000
86,000
90,000
8,000
90,000
170,000
15,000
176,000
Total Expenses
This funding will allow BGCL to:
Increase part time staff
Increase our program selection in line with BCA guidelines i.e.:
Communication and Self Esteem Resiliency
Youth Mental Health
Family Support
Developing Healthy Habits
Good Character and Leadership
Academic Success
173,000
188,000
361,000
Dave Tocki, 72 Leominster Road, BGCL Treasurer, stated he volunteers for the club because when he was a
kid he went to the club. Dave Blatt, board member, stated the envelope of the building also needs to be taken
care of at the club. We look at the building as a town building and hope the town can remove the poison office
for us. Some of the funding would pay for additional staffing for new programs.
The board reviewed and discussed the prioritized list of requests. No action was taken.
Select Board Annual Appointments
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2': L. Franco
To appoint the listed Select Board appointments and ratify the Town Manager's appointment of:
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION -TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
JENNIFER DUFFY - MEMBER
ASHLEY YORK -ARONOVICH- ASSOCIATE
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES COMMITTEE-APPOINTED BY TOWN MANAGER/RATIFIED BY
SELECT BOARD - TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
LORI ANN TESSIER
APDC- TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
NATHAN LOCK WOOD -RESIDENT OF APD
COUNCIL ON AGING-TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
DIANE NOWD
GEORGE MARTIN
GREEN COMMUNITIES COMMITTEE- TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
===PAGE 5===
PERSONNEL- TERM TO EXPIRE JUNE 30, 2026
SUSAN ANDREWS
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To appoint Richard Bursch and Chris St. Germain to the Conservation Commission with a term to
expire June 30, 2026
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER APPOINTMENTS FY 2024
Motion: M. Jeffreys
I move to ratify the Town Manager's appointments of:
Animal Control Officer
Kathleen Comeau, 806 West Street
Building Commissioner-Brian Gingras
Alternate Building Commissioner- Eric Chartrand
Dam Keeper
Ronald Wilson- 701 Reservoir Road
Assistant Dam Keeper
Rich Patry- 655 Reservoir Road
Emergency Management Director/Fire Chief
Patrick Sullivan
RACES* Control Officer-Ralph Swick-133 Townsend Harbor Road
Asst. RACES Officer -Brian LeBlanc-67 Mulpus Road
Member-Jeanine Swick-113 Townsend Harbor Road
*(Radio Amateur Civil Emergency Service)
Field Driver
Kathy Comeau-806 West Street
Forest Warden
Patrick Sullivan
Hazardous Waste Coordinator
Heather Lemieux
Hearings Officer
Heather Lemieux
Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner):
Gary Williams-34 Round Road
Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas (recommended by Building Commissioner)
Richard Kapenas-Townsend, MA
Public Weighers- (provided by PJ Keating)
Rich Reynolds
Eric Morin
Brian Contois
2": R. Emkey
===PAGE 6===
Tom Alonzo-284 Lancaster Ave.
Louis Franco-250 Arbor Street
Mike Kidney-86 Lancaster Ave.
Chuck Venezia-1402 Mass. Ave.
William Tyler-S Graham Street
Tree Warden
William Bernard
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To reappoint the following:
Full-time Officers:
1. Chief Thomas L. Gammel
2. Lieutenant Jeffrey M. Thibodeau
3. Sergeant Sean J. Connery
4. Sergeant Joshua B. Tocci
5. Sergeant Sean W. Zrate
6. Sergeant John F. Morreale
7. Off. Joshua M. Mathieu
8. Off. Jonathan J. Broc
9. Off. Bradley J. McNamara
10. Off. Jacob A. Lachance
11. Off. John M. Wagner
12. Off. Gage R. Russell
13. Off. Kamerin P. Munroe
14. Off. Anthony P. Cappucci
15. Off. Jeffrey T. Hill
16. Off. Jesse C. Reed
17. Off. Deven O'Brien
18. Off. Paul C. Theodoulou
19. Off. George E. Tibbetts
Reserve Officers:
1. Ott. Robert R. Dacosta
2. Off. Benjamin R. Campbell
3. Off. Paul A. Duquette
4. Off. Joel Ortega
Civilian Traffic Members
1. Paul Bozicas
2. Tony Brennan
3. John Hazelrigg
4. Daniel Bourgeois
Vote: All in Favor
2nd: R. Emkey
===PAGE 7===
Ten te ta patters. response te ponce Department set up a trac monitor to une north and soun
side of the intersection from May 1st through May 12'. It tracked 5175 vehicles over this time period. The
average speed was 20 miles/hour to 23.5 miles/hour. There was one vehicle recorded traveling more than 10
miles above the speed limit. The 85th percentile of speed was still below the speed limit and that highest speed
was 28.5 miles per hour. What we identified from the traffic survey was that the overwhelming majority of
vehicles that traversed this area are traveling 7 to 10 miles per hour below the speed limit.
The history of accidents in the area indicated that over the last 15 years there have been two accidents in or
around the area of this intersection which is consistently very low for intersections generally in the town.
Marsha Beers, 23 Rose Garden Lane, owns property on the corner of Sunset Lane and Robb's Hill. She stated
we've heard of complaints when we're there during the summertime or on the weekends. We park along the side
of the street, not in the road but as far up the banking as we can get. We do see people speed by when our car is
there. I've noticed when we are parked there if there are cars coming down Robb's Hill and people coming up
Sunset, the people move to the left and if people come down that Robb's Hill corner and they don't slow down,
there is that potential there. I've never seen it but I know there's been complaints from people of us parking
there. People will beep their horn as they drive by because we're parked there. I really don't see the problem
with us parking there because we're not in the road. A solution might to put a stop sign at the end of Robb's Hill,
because that would stop the people on that side and give it a little more time.
whether a stop sign would be beneficial in that area.
Discussion and Vote on Chapter 269 of the Acts of 2022 re: 5% Local COLA Option for Worcester
County Regional Retirees
Ms. Lemieux reported in November of 2022 we were notified by PERAC which is the Public Employee
Retirement Administration Commission that the Governor signed into law Chapter 269 of the Acts of 2022
which provided for an additional cost of living adjustment for retirement boards to act on. Our local retirement
board, Worcester County Retirement System, had previously voted under the sectional law that allows them to
vote every year on the cost of living adjustment which was a 3% adjustment. This change in law allowed
for an additional 2% added to that 3%, so up to 5% which they did vote on, to ask all the member communities
but it requires a 2/3 approval vote of those communities. The board discussed and decided to wait one week to
vote.
Dave Blatt, 411 Goodrich Street, Chair of the Green Community Committee, introduced himself to the new
board members. The committee wants to help the Town save money. He encouraged them to request projects
come to the committee for review so we can understand the return on the investment (ROI). Is there an energy
savings? There are funds that the state can give us; we've already gotten $500,000+. Most of it has gone to the
schools because the facilities director was using our services. I look at that $300,000; there are ways that the
Green Committee can help with that that will be an energy savings. I look at the Library generator request; that
is not the proper way to go. This to me would be a solar system with battery backup because that would be
something that would have a quick ROI. A diesel generator is just going to be a money sink to this town
===PAGE 8===
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978)
582-4130 x 144.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (40 hours/week)
• Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
• Veterans Services Agent (varies)
• Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town website.
Invitation for Bids/Requests for Proposals:
•
Invitation for Bids for Guardrail Repair Services was due on May 31st and the Town received two bids. The
lowest, eligible, responsible bidder was Premier Fence, LLC out of Canton in the amount of $80,886. This will be
paid out of the MassDOT Winter Recovery Assistance Program (WRAP) funding the Town received this year.
•
Invitation for Bids for the Page Street Culvert Replacement project was due on June 7th and the Town received
three bids. The lowest, eligible, responsible bidder was R.A. Powell Construction in the amount of $86,913.16. This
project is funded through the FY 23 Capital Plan appropriation.
Request for Proposals for the Five Year Assessing Revaluation are due on June 14th at 9 AM.
• Invitation for Bids for the LED Streetlight Conversion and Maintenance is due on June 14th at 11 AM.
• Invitation for Bids for the Operations and Maintenance of the Lunenburg Wastewater Collection System is due on
June 14th at 12 PM.
• Invitation for Bids for Roadway Maintenance for Fog Sealing are due June 21st at 12 PM.
• The Assistant Town Manager is currently reviewing the documents for the Invitation for Bids for the Generator
project at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Centerand thetwo Dump DPW Trucks.
FY 2023 Tax Assessment Update:
Municipal Finance Services has fulfilled their contract and dueto an additional 12 inspections needed the total cost
increased by $2,400 for a total cost of $82,400. As of today there were 12 non-waterfront tax abatements approved with a
tax refund amount of $21,410.39 and 359 waterfront tax abatements approved with a tax refund amount of $1,211,386.
===PAGE 9===
Town Facilities:
The ADA Patio project at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center began last Monday and they are currently doing
site work. There will be a change order to reuse the septic sand that was still on site in areas needed on site and
export more of clean material. The change order should be roughly $5,000 and will be paid out of the facilities
budget.
The HVAC System at the Library iscurrently not working properly in the Children'ssection and the Facilities
Director is working on getting costs for repair, which is estimated around $8,000.Unfortunately right now the
parts needed for the repair have a 10-12 week lead time. In the meantime the Facilities Director is looking into
a portable unit to keep that side of the building cool.
The 30 School Street project has been hydro-seeded and the grass is starting to grow.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1)
The Contractor hired by the EPA is substantially complete. They took samples from each of the underground storage
tanks, as wellas from the fuel tank area. They currently have approximately 200 cubic yards of petroleum impacted soil
staged on site and covered with poly sheeting. This material will be removed off site for treatment, as well as a few
hundred gallons of residual sludge/cleaning fluid stored in totes at the site. Once they get the generator ID from MassDEP
they can move that material off site. It has been about a month since they filed the request.
They reused some of the excavated material from the top and upper half of the sidewalls as backfill sincethe readings
were all within the acceptable limits. There is a layer of poly sheeting at the bottom of the UST excavations and then
another layer on top of the reused backfill material to segregate it from the clean imported backfill material. This should
help segregate material down the road iffuture soil excavation is required.
Joe McLoughlinofthe BETA Group willbeour Licensed SiteProfessionalhandlingreportingto DEP regarding the
identified soil contamination that was found during the EPA'sremoval of the UST's, pumps, canopy, and piping. BETA
will prepare the Immediate Response Action Plan that details completed and planned activities requested by MassDEP and
activities that have been performed by EPA's contractor.
On June 2nd I submitteda grantapplication through MassDevelopment's One Stopapplication portal for the Real Estate
Technical Assistance funding in the amount of $50,000. The request isto fund hired staff to work with the stakeholders in
developing conceptual plans for the reuse of that property, a feasibility and marketingassessment, and technical
assistance in thedevelopmentofa Request for Proposals. I spent a significant amount of time on this application to
make it as competitive as possible, included a number of photos and also requested/received a letter of support from
Representative Margaret Scarsdale. The award notice for this grant will be around October-November 2023.
Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported the proposed senior tax relief legislation has been filed with the House of Representatives
Clerk as of June 7" and there could be a hearing between now and February 2024.
He also noted the Adult Activity Center (formerly the Senior Center) has good programs for adults 50 and up.
Select Board Liaison & Committee Assignments
The board discussed the different assignments and what was involved. Ms. Emkey expressed interest in
serving on the Americans with Disabilities Committee and the School Committee. Mr. Franco would like to
remain liaison for the Council on Aging and the Economic Development Committee. Mr. Jeffreys preferred
remaining as liaison to the Library Trustees, Municipal Building Committee and expressed interest in the
Finance Committee Appointing Committee. Mr. Nuzzolo stated he would be willing to cover the Planning
===PAGE 10===
for retirees on fixed incomes. The Social Security COLA for this year was 8.7% and 5.9% in 2022. We
don't get that, we get our pensions because we didn't pay into Social Security, so this modest benefit is
going to help us keep pace with inflation and I urge you to vote yes.
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, stated she watched the ARPA presentations this evening and advised the board
to hold the same standards for the other requests that you had for the Parks Commission. Regarding the Flat Hill
Road drainage problem and as the Town Manager talked about earlier, we don't have a plan for that. She was
also not in favor of helping property owners with private wells with ARPA funding.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
To adjourn the meeting
2": L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 10:24 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire M. Pelerson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
