===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
September 14, 2023
Via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Lou Franco, Vice Chairman; Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk; Tom
Alonzo, Renee Emkey
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Sarah Cammer
Board of Assessor members present: Brian Laffond, Jack Rabbitt
Mr: Franco called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m., noting this is a joint meeting with the two members
of the Board of Assessors to appoint to the remaining vacancy until the May 2024 election.
He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that
this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access Channel, Facebook
Live and the Public Access Facebook page and will be uploaded to the Public Access YouTube channel
within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
Public Comment: There was none at this time.
Mr. Franco requested the Board of Assessors open their meeting. Mr. Rabbitt asked for a roll call: Brian
Latfond and Jack Rabbit stated they were present. Mr. Rabbitt declared a quorum of the BOA was
present and opened their meeting.
Mr. Franco stated Sarah Cammer was applying for the vacancy. Ms. Cammer, 304 Lancaster Ave.,
stated she had lived in town for around 10 years. She believed in civic duty, was good with numbers and
data and thought she should volunteer until the next annual election.
Further discussion ensued about Ms. Cammer and her offer to volunteer. The Select Board and the
Assessors thanked her for stepping up.
Mr. Jeffreys' Zoom link ended abruptly and he did not return to the meeting.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: B. Laffond
To appoint Sarah Cammer to the Board of Assessors until the next election in May 2024
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Rabbitt-aye, Mr. Laffond-aye, Mr.
Franco-aye
The Board of Assessors adjourned their meeting and exited the meeting.
The Select Board voted on the following proposed warrant articles.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: C. Nuzzolo
To request Town Manager to place an article on the November Special Town Meeting warrant to
===PAGE 2===
use the special purpose stabilization fund to purchase three vehicles rather than ARPA funding
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo clarified this was just to place the article on the warrant.
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd. R. Emkey
To request Town Manager place an article on the Special Town Meeting warrant to revise the
Town Charter, Chapter 110, Animals, Article 1 Dog Control
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye
Public Comment: there was none at this time.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye
2'°: C. Nuzzolo
The meeting adjourned at 6:24 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainim Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
