===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
August 30, 2023
via ZOOM
Members present: Lou Franco, Vice Chairman; Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk; Tom Alonzo, Renee Emkey
Member not present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Rena Swezey, Interim Principal Assessor; Jack
Rabbitt, Assessor; Brian Laffond
Vice Chair Franco called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m. He announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Upen Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and
broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
Mr. Franco took a roll call attendance; Mt. Alonzo- present, Ms. Emkey-present, Mr. Nuzzolo-present,
Mr. Franco-present
PUBLIC COMMENT:
There was none at this time.
Joint meeting with Member of Board Assessors to interview/appoint to Board of Assessor Vacancy
until the May 2024 Election: Brian Laffond, 247 Arbor Street
Mr. Latfond stated I've lived in town for about 40 years. I spent 20 years in town government; nine years
on the Planning Board, three years as a Library Trustee and eight years on the Finance Committee,
several of them as the chair. I then stepped back from those type of duties as I felt I had spent enough
time doing Town work for tree, It's always been my feeling that the government works for the people
and in this case the government can't work until you have enough members. I'm happy to spend the time
and effort and I will make the commitment to work as a member of the Board of Assessors, as a bridge
at least until the next election. I am not anticipating going much further than that, but my hope is that we
can get through the next year and find enough candidates to actually make the office work. I think the
office has done a good job of keeping things going in the interim. I've spent 50 years in business, mostly
in high tech. I'm currently between contracts; I've been doing mostly contract work for the last several
years. I try to make data driven decisions, I'm all about open communications and transparency.
The Select Board members, Mr. Rabbit, Ms. Swezey and Ms. Lemieux all welcomed Mr. Laffond and
thanked him for stepping up to fill the vacancy. Both Mr. Franco and Mr. Alonzo had known Mr.
Laffond's previous experience with the Town and had full confidence in his abilities.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2''I: L. Franco
To appoint Brian Laffond, 247 Arbor Street, to the Board of Assessors until the next election
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Rabbitt-aye
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Laffond was reminded to go to the Town Clerk office to get sworn in. He thanked everyone for their
support.
There was no further public comment.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Mr. Alonzo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye
The meeting adjourned at 5:53 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiiem Pilesen
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2"d: L. Franco
