===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Vice Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Alonzo announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
It was noted by Ms. Lemieux that longtime resident John Henshaw had passed away on April 11'
Henshaw had volunteered for the town, serving on the Finance Committee and Capital Planning Committee and
participating in other community events. He will be missed. Mr. Alonzo concurred, stating he was very active in
the community and a personal friend
Mr. Alonzo reminded all of the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club fundraiser, "Are You Smarter than a Sixth
Grader," coming up this Friday, April 28th. Doors open at 6:30 p.m. at the middle/high school auditorium and
encouraged all to attend.
Thomas Laford, 53 Pleasant Street, proposed naming the Town beach house after long-time resident, Genevieve
Nass, who passed away in November of last year. He was directed to the Parks Commission who are the
caretakers of the property.
Mark Bursch, Lunenburg Water District Chair, provided an update on the PFAs issue. The EPA is meeting next
month to discuss lowering their allowable limits in water from 20 parts per trillion to 4 parts per trillion and are
considering a three year compliance period. We need to be concerned from a health perspective as it has been
found to cause many health problems. This is a high priority for the water district. The main concern is
ingestion.
APPOINTMENTS
Meeting with Auditors Powers & Sullivan re: FY 2022 Audit
Frank Serretti began by thanking the Town Manager, Finance Director, Treasurer/Collector and the rest of the
financial team for their cooperation and timeliness in getting information to the auditors. The audit went very
smoothly and they appreciated all the assistance. Mr. Serretti stated our responsibility is to plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable but not absolute assurance that the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and are fairly stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management is
responsible for the selection and use of accounting principles. There were no new accounting policies adopted
this year and the application of existing policies was not changed. We had no difficulties with management
while performing the audit.
The preliminary audit work was completed in early June and then we returned for our year end work in mid-
October. The overall results of the audit were that we were able to issue an unmodified opinion on the financial
statements. That means that they're fairly stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
All the reporting deadlines were met, the information that we received was accurate. As I mentioned all of our
===PAGE 2===
The Stabilization Funds and your General Stabilization Fund totals $2.6 million; that's up about $100,000 from
the prior year; the Zoning Stabilization fund totals $231,000, consistent with what it was in the prior year. The
Vehicle and Equipment Stabilization fund totaled $1.5 million; that was up about $300,000 from the prior year
and you established a new Health Insurance Stabilization fund and that had $373,000 in it at the end of the year.
The Town is doing a great job setting aside reserves for these various needs and your real estate and personal
property tax collections came in at over 99% of the commitment, which is a great collection rate.
Regarding the General Fund, your operations resulted in an $852,000 increase in the fund balance; your
revenues came in over budget by $1.6 million dollars, mainly related to tax liens which are unbudgeted. That
was about $585,000. Penalties and interest were $307,000 over. Intergovernmental revenues were $238,000
over and motor vehicle revenues were $151,000. Your expenditures came in under budget by $754,000. That's
conservative budgeting and that's what leads to building up healthy reserves so that you can address some of
these unexpected things such as the pandemic and other things. Those increases were offset by the use of $1.5
million used to balance the FY22 budget. The budgetary results indicate that you have a structurally sound
budget process and you have good budgetary controls in place.
The Town contributed another $181,000 to the Other Post-Employment Benefits (OPEB) Trust Fund in FY 22.
The trust fund ended the year with the net position of $652,000, so you're starting to accumulate a decent sized
balance in the fund. Although this year you actually had a net investment loss of $118,000 which is consistent
with what we've been seeing in our other communities with the downturn of the market. Your net OPEB
liability totaled $50.8 million; that was a $14.8 million decrease from the prior year and your discount rate
increased from 2.75% to 4.76% and that's the main driver of that decrease in the liability. Your discount rate
is really impacted by the double A 20-year municipal bond rate and that's been going up as the FED has been
increasing rates. As a result of these rates going up, your rate is also a blended rate which takes into account the
money that you're setting aside in your trust fund. As you build up more money there and you have a policy in
place, they'll also look at the long-term rate of return that you can earn on the funds that you've set aside and
that will also increase your discount rate over time.
As far as the net pension liability related to the Worcester County Regional Retirement System; this is for town
and any school employees that don't qualify to be in the Mass Teachers Retirement System. The liability there
was $17.4 million and that was a decrease of $2.4 million from the prior year. That liability is about 56%
funded right now and that was an increase of 6% from the prior year. The discount rate went down by 7.25%
which is more conservative, that's the trend with the discount rate on the retirement systems over time. The
PERAC (public retirement administration commission) has been recommending that the retirement systems
reduce those rates; they just feel that 7.5% is a little bit on the high side. Even though that rate went down
typically the liability would go up, but the retirement system has a 12/31 year end and the investments were still
performing well at that point. That's what caused the decrease in the liability.
Federal Awards: Entities that expend more than $750,000 a year in federal funds are required to have an audit.
The town expended $1.9 million during 2022. $808,000 of that was for the school lunch program and another
$556,000 was related to COVID funding for the education stabilization fund grants. Another $299,000 was
related to the special education program and there was $282,000 related to other federal funds. We were
required to test compliance on the Child Nutrition cluster; we didn't have any findings, we didn't have any
question on costs and we were able to issue an unmodified opinion on the program.
===PAGE 3===
those off on a timely basis and having policies and procedures in place to be followed to improve collections
and have timelier write-offs. The Select Board adopted a policy on June 14, 2022 and those procedures are
currently being put into place, so the last two comments should be fully resolved.
From our standpoint it was a very good audit with very good results; financial position is very strong for the
town, great progress on the management letter, no concerns from our standpoint.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Town Manager and Finance Director and their team for all their hard work which
shows up in the audits. He also thanked Mr. Serretti for his audit report.
Flat Hill Road Drainage Discussion
Ms. Lemieux reported this is a follow-up item from previous ongoing discussions. She noted there has been
work done and meetings with our consultant, Brian Marchetti of McCarty Engineering. He did a study for the
town that was partially funded through town meeting and we had a meeting with the Trustees at Flat Hill to
discuss those results. The DPW Director and the Land Use Director were present as well.
Mr. Marchetti stated he did some preliminary investigations up and down Flat Hill. We had the right-of-way
surveyed, we did some test pits along the shoulders of the road trying to figure out if there are areas
within the town's right away where we could try to collect, intercept and infiltrate the runoff that's been
problematic. The preliminary findings of those investigations showed that groundwater on the shoulders of the
road was high. We did test pits and it was about 12 inches to 18 inches below grade, so it didn't bode well for us
to have a solution within the right of way. We looked at the actual drainage within the subdivision; the
detention basins, the infiltration basins, we did site inspections at different times of year to try to determine
from where this runoff was coming. It was evident during springtime there was a lot of runoff flowing straight
over the grassy areas into the roadway. There was runoff exiting the detention basins through their outlet
structures towards the right of way. We went back last fall and I was did an in-depth study of the actual
subdivision approval back in the 1990s/2000s. I reviewed the plans, drainage calculations, all requirements that
were supposed to be followed at the time. All of the documents that the town had were in compliance with
industry standard, so nothing was designed inappropriately. I found documentation that there was flooding in
that location before the subdivision was built and flooding was exacerbated after it was constructed. So what
can we do at this point! Maintenance of the existing storm water best management practices, and cleaning the
catch basins. Are they functioning properly? Have the infiltration basins located at both entrances to Cortland
Circle been maintained? They still have the same volume that was designed at the time when it was installed.
Those basins if not maintained, collect a lot of sediment which affects storage capacity. When we were out there
I noted in the outlet control structure that there wasn't much water in the basin, but it was flowing so it seemed
there was groundwater infiltrating from underneath the structure. A low flow pipe in that outlet appeared to be
separated, so water was seeping through cracks that probably shouldn't have been. Due to the groundwater
situation, being able to detain it somewhere is really the only way to collect this and let it release it slowly
somewhere else. But we can't just move it downstream to somebody else's backyard. He noted the drainage
system is on private land of the Trustees of Flat Hill, and based on what I saw, maintenance was required. The
inlet pipes were partially buried which tells me that a lot of sediment has built up in the basin. The maintenance
that I saw according to their inspection reports was just vegetation clearing, mowing the banks, cleaning the
bottom of the basin out; that's not restoring the flood capacity of the basin or taking all that silt and material
that's built up over 15-20 years. Digging it out to restore that volume in the pond would go a long way.
===PAGE 4===
situation, but not completely eliminate it. Mr. Marchetti stated yes. Marchetti stated we could not find the
source of the groundwater. The ultimate way to fix the problem is to collect it, pipe it underground and put it
somewhere else. But there's simply no easy location to do that.
Ned Pratt, Paul Sarapsas and Sleu Soukamnuth introduced themselves as trustees of the Flat Hill Homeowner's
Association. Mr. Pratt noted that no trustee was present when the town did the walk through. He added he met
with neighbors Susan Whalen and Matt Allison who provided information about the history of the flooding of
the area. He stated the Village at Flat Hill wanted to be good neighbors and they are in the process of getting
bids of cleaning the structures and future maintenance. They would like to work with the town to find a
permanent solution.
Chris St. Germaine, 268 Flat Hill Road, stated he has a grandfathered buildable 2 acre lot with 50 feet of
frontage. Behind him is another 2 acre lot where the runoff is occurring as well. He asked Mr. Marchetti if
someone built on that, is that going to make the situation worse? Marchetti responded the builder would have to
control the storm water runoff. Mr. Burney added there are other requirements as well.
Susan Whalen, 377 Flat Hill Road, asked if that lot could be used to detain water on it. That question could not
be answered without further research
David Melvin, 655 Page Street, asked if a geological survey had been done. He expressed frustration at several
studies being done over the years and no action being taken.
Chris Menard, 672 Page Street, stated taking no action causes the storm water to end up in Beaver Brook which
is against EPA regulations.
Mr. Marchetti reiterated that you can't send water rushing downhill, it has to be detained and released slowly so
it doesn't become someone else's problem. The roadblock for this issue is you need a detention area and there is
none available in that area.
Susan Whalen asked if a hydrological or a topological has been performed. Marchetti stated at the time a
topographical study was suggested for understanding the watershed system but after reviewing town records he
did not see the need.
Karin Menard, stated the people on Page Street are being affected by a new development's drainage system put
in on the corner of Watt and Flat Hill and added something needs to be done about this as well.
Further discussion ensued on different solutions to the flooding.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Appointment to 300" Anniversary Committee- Laura Brzozoski, 21 Francis Ave.
Laura Brzozoski stated she had been on the Cultural Council and planned the arts festival a couple of years ago.
Motion: H. Sroka
2"d: L. Franco
To appoint Laura Brzozoski to the 300t Anniversary Committee
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Beach Director Elizabeth Simeone and
Seasonal Lifeguards -Paige Gengler, Ethan Gengler, Jarrod Bowser, Mason Bowser, Ean Laundree,
Nicholas Coronella
Ms. Lemieux noted these are all repeat employees, so we welcome them back. They are all certified lifeguards.
2'd: L. Franco
Motion: H. Sroka
===PAGE 5===
• Zoning Board of Appeals Associate - 1 Vacancy
Anyone interested in any of these positions can get a volunteer application found on the town website or at
Town Hall, complete it and submit it to the Select Board office. If you have any questions on the rules and
responsibilities of boards/committees, you can contact our office at 978-582-4130 x144.
Employment Opportunities
Ms. Lemieux reported we received recent resignations from the conservation administrative assistant, Rebecca
Manley; she's been with the town for over a year and has accepted a full-time position elsewhere. The Veterans
Service Agent also gave his resignation; he's been studying for a degree in counseling and he accepted a
position elsewhere. Leominster is going to be helping out in the interim for veteran services.
Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager - 24 hours/week
Assistant Town Accountant-32 hours/week
• Building Commissioner-36 hours/week
• Digital Service Staff Librarian-20 hours/week
• Finance Director-40 hours/week
• Library Assistant-19 hours/week
• Police Officer-40 hours/week
• Public Access Videographer- 2-20 hours/week
Information on these job postings can be found on the town website under the employment tab and you can find
out more information on their job descriptions and responsibilities.
• There is currently one invitation for bids for the senior center patio that is due on May 1s!.
• Update on 925 Mass Ave
We've received the feedback report from our expression of interest that I submitted for that project from Mass
Development. It is an eligible project and that application is due in June. They provide feedback on what makes
a competitive application to give you some parameters. They typically award no more than $50,000 for this type
of project so that wasn't too long a turnaround. The EPA notified us yesterday that a subcontractor has been
chosen and that the work will commence soon. They're looking at a mobilization date of May 15th for the old
gas station. Part of the working with Mass Development will be putting together an RFP on how to dispose of
the property; how do we can get it back on the tax rolls and a viable business in the center:
• The Assistant Town Manager will be participating in the Monty Tech job fair on May 4; the
DPW director and the Fire Chief will be going along with her.
• Announcements
• The Annual Town Meeting will be on Saturday, May 6' at 9:00 a.m. at the Lunenburg
Middle/High School Auditorium
• The Annual Town Election will be Saturday, May 20" from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the TCP building.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, FY 2024 Capital Plan, and Annual Town Meeting
Warrant articles; Votes may be taken
===PAGE 6===
Motion: L. Franco
2": H. Sroka
To recommend approval of warrant article#14 with the information presented
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux updated the board on the opioid stabilization account warrant article. When Town Council
reviewed the motions, he denoted there was an Informational General Release from the DOR that we request
that exact amount that we received in this fiscal year from those settlement funds and revise our Free Cash
number to include that. So the motion will be to create the stabilization fund and to transfer the amount that we
received in fiscal 23 from the opioid settlement to that stabilization fund. She stated the Consent Calendar was
provided to the Finance Committee but they did not discuss it.
She added because they did not submit a report for the Town Meeting booklet, I know they are planning on
distributing a written report at the town meeting. There still could be opportunity for them to discuss it.
(Article 1: To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the Town Officers
and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto.)
CURRENT BUSINESS
Approval of Minutes of February 21, 2023
Motion: L. Franco
To approve the minutes of February 21, 2023 as presented
2nd: H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $301,536.34; a payroll warrant in the amount of
$903,572.39 and a deductions warrant in the amount of $207,088.54.
Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported the Economic Development Committee will be meeting on the April 27" at the Ritter
Building. Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee met last Thursday and approved their report for the
annual town meeting.
Mr. Alonzo noted under the tax investigation issue that they have received a preliminary draft report from the
Assessor who is doing the lakefront property assessments. That report was provided to the Assessors. They met
this afternoon and Mr. Franco attended and it was discussed briefly. They will looking over that and it will be
finalized in the next week. He reminded anyone who has not filed for an abatement that they have until close of
business day on Monday, May 1st to do that.
Ms. Sroka reported the school would like the transportation surveys back on Monday as well. Mr. Alonzo added
the school sent a letter to the Finance Committee, the Select Board and Capital Planning Committee regarding a
capital article about air conditioners last year that got approved, but the amount went over what was budgeted
so they now have another proposal for those committees to review.
Mr. Alonzo listed the upcoming meetings schedule: May 2", May 6" (ATM), May 9"', May 16", May 20" (ATE),
May 23rd
Mr. Alonzo reminded the board that Town Manager has submitted her self evaluation to all of them, so you
should start doing your digital evaluations of her. Then you will need to make an appointment to meet with
her to review it.
===PAGE 7===
Fire Department
Part Time Admin. Asst.
Full Time EMT/Paramedic
1.00
2.00
0.00
1.00
1.00
0.40
1.00
16 hours/week; non-benefitted
Seasonal Cemetery Workers
Scasonal Fall and Spring: non-benefitted position
Facilities & Parks
Part Time Recreation Director
Facilities Technician*
Facilities Director*
Recreational Programming Staff
0.48
19 hours/week; non-benefitted
1.00
1.00
Scasonal staff, non-benefitted positions
Library
Part Time Library Assistants
0.95
2 Assistants at 19 hours/neck; non-benefitted
positions
Council on Aging
Meal Site Manager
Outreach Assistant
0.48
0.25
19 hours/neck; non-benefitted
10 hours/wreck; non-benefitted
Sewer
Assistant to Sewer Business
Manager
X Denotes hours vary or seasonal
*Denotes a benefitted position
0.60
24 hours/week; non-bencfitted
6 FT Police, 6 FT Fire, 2 FT Facilities (one was a restored position cut in a previous FY), 2 other benefitted positions, & non-benefitted, and seasonal staff at Cemetery, Parks and Board Clerks
Mr. Alonzo stated the board would entering Executive Session.
Motion: L. Franco
2"d: H. Sroka
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn the meeting after exiting Executive Session: Pursuant to
MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, where an
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position and the Chair so
declares. i. (Fire Union); ii. (Public Employee Agreement).
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
******************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE************************
The meeting adjourned at 9:04 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
