===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
sculimbrene
Public comment participants are listed in the meeting minutes.
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
The meeting room was filled to capacity with residents concerned about the increases in
their recently issued property tax bills.
Mr. Jettreys stated on November 8, 2022, the Select Board voted to effectively decrease
the tax rate from $17.19 to $14.62 cents per one thousand dollars of value for Fiscal Year
2023. Overall residential values increased by about 23% such that the average single
family home is valued at $470,164 dollars; the average single family residential tax bill is
$6,873.80 per year and is approximately $438 per household more than the last fiscal year.
The average single family home has realized a 52% increase in value over the past five
years and the average single family home had a property tax increase by about 19% over
the same period. Over the past week members of the Select Board and I have received
communications from residents around Hickory Hills Lake, Lake Shirley and Whalom
Lake who are concerned about what is being reported as a significant increase in home
and/or property valuations and a corresponding spike in taxes. Some residents have
reported a 30% tax increase, some have reported a 50% increase and a few have reported
taxes more than doubling or nearly tripling. The majority of the correspondence speaks to
how such increases are astronomically unaffordable and how it negatively impacts one's
ability to continue to remain in town for those working, raising a family and for those in or
near retirement. Many residents want to know why this has happened, why they weren't
provided with any information that such an increase could even occur and how this can be
resolved before third quarter payments are due. This is obviously extremely troubling, the
entirety of this board understands that tax increases have a disproportionate impact on
seniors, retirees and all those on fixed incomes or of limited means. This is why the Select
Board intends to bring forth a bylaw at this spring's Annual Town Meeting that will
provide some tax relief to those seniors who've helped build our community and who want
to remain here throughout retirement. I want to clarify that while the Select Board has
many functions, individual property assessments are not one of them as per the Town
Charter. The elected members of the Board of Assessors answer to the voters and have the
duty to annually make fair cash valuations of all real estate and personal property subject
to taxation within the town. They recommend and apply the rate that this board sets to
===PAGE 2===
"O*'
meeting begins. Residents can attend and participate in person or remotely via Zoom.
Tonight Town Manager will read a statement from our Principal Assessor and then I will
open the floor to public comments.
Ms. Lemieux read the notice aloud:
"The Assessor's Office, according to guidelines set forth by the MA Department of Revenue,
must use market data to value each property in town at its full and fair cash value. One of these
guidelines is to stay within a certain assessment to sales ratio. This means that properties
similar to yours that sold in 2021 (the year analyzed to reach 2023's values) are the basis for
property valuations.
The past couple of years has seen a significant increase in purchase prices, not only in
Lunenburg, but statewide and nationally. This is the reason for the base increase in value
across the board, but it is also the reason for the corresponding decrease in the tax rate from
$17.19 per thousand in 2022 to $14.62 per thousand in 2023. State law prevents towns from
taking advantage of this market shift by collecting more taxes more than the annual increase.
This means that an unusually high increase in taxes on your property is tied to sales of
properties similar to yours. Again, according to DOR guidelines, we must make these changes
to assessed values according to actual sales.
This year we saw an unprecedented increase in sale prices on waterfront property in
Lunenburg. In order for us to assess waterfront properties correctly, we must use actual sales
to determine assessments. Otherwise, we would not be able to achieve the required
assessment to sales ratio that the Department of Revenue requires.
Any taxpayer who feels their assessment does not reflect the value of their home as of the
assessment date of 1/1/2022 is encouraged to file a real estate abatement no later than
February 1, 2023 along with any supporting evidence (i.e. sales of homes similar to yours,
incorrect public record data, recently completed appraisals). The Board of Assessors will then
determine if your value is fair.
Please keep in mind that your January tax bill does not necessarily reflect the dollar amount of
your tax bills moving forward. Any fiscal year that an assessed value increase occurs, that
increase is reflected only on the January and April bills (also referred to as Actual Bills). The
July and October bills were preliminary and calculated based on the prior year's information.
So your annual tax increase is condensed into two tax bills rather than spread across four bills.
The best way to calculate what your annual taxes are is to multiply the assessed value by the
$14.62 tax rate/ 1000 (.01462)."
Ms. Lemieux added on a personal note, I'm extremely sympathetic to the many taxpayers that
have voiced their disbelief upon receiving their recent tax bill. As the Assessor's office has
done with all the calls, emails and foot traffic coming to their office, I would encourage
everyone to file an abatement if you do not feel your value is fair and that has to be done by
February 1st to the Board of Assessors. As noted by the Chairman, the Principal Assessor is
currently out on paternity leave and returning on January 17%. He will be attending next
week's meeting to answer detailed questions. I myself will do everything possible to help
guide taxpayers through the process by relaying important information from the Assessors
and seeking answers to your questions.
===PAGE 3===
single tax rate for all property owners or a dual tax rate between businesses and residents. We
don't approve or disapprove of the plan from the Assessors because they are an elected body.
That's the only thing that's decided on at that classification hearing. The Assessors have that
authority, so that's the only purview of that meeting.
Ken Chenis owns two properties located at 17 Page Street and 265 Sunset Lane. He stated my
lake property taxes went up significantly and my non-lake property taxes went down as did
many others that I've heard from. In spot checking other owners of non-lake and lake
properties, I have found similar characteristics. Land values around the lake more than
doubled and this drove overall valuations very high, whereas non-lake land values stayed
relatively stable resulting in modest valuation increases. My concern is the Principal Assessor
seems to have focused his attention exclusively on lake properties, possibly applying a
blanket 135% increase to all land values and in doing so unfairly assigned a greater portion of
the town's tax levy on lake property owners. Due to the significant difference between a
professional assessment and the Town assessment, I will be filing for an abatement, but I'm
asking the Select Board if they can investigate the practices followed by the Assessor's office.
I believed the Principal Assessor when he spoke at the Select Board meeting on November
8th where Mr. Alonzo asked was there any type of home or area of homes that saw a large
increase in residential value than others and the answer was not significant this year. I think I
reflect many fellow property owners' sentiment when I tell you we don't feel 135% increase
in value is slight. We also don't feel a 30 to 50% increase is not significant as such. The
Select Board and the townspeople have been misled by the Principal Assessor's tax impact
summary prior to their vote to approve the single tax rate levy proposal.
Mary Perkins, 62 Ruth Street, has lived in Lunenburg for 30 years, building my forever home
in 1993 on Lake Shirley. We pay voluntary dues of $300 and fundraise somewhere around
$35,000 - $40,000 a year for our weed control and other expenses to keep the lake clean. The
land my house sits on went from $250,000 in 2021 to almost $600,000; a 136% increase on
the overall assessment. The overall increase including my house went up 66%. My adjacent
empty lot is just an empty lot, you can barely get to the lake from the lot. I don't plan on
doing anything with that property, but that property tax (valuation) increased from $232,000
to $545,000; a 135% increase for a vacant lot; no septic, no town services. I'm 64 years old,
and ready to retire. I am being priced out of my home.
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, 362 Sunset Lane, stated her taxes increased as well. This happened
to the lake residents about 10 years ago and we had the luxury of being notified and invited to
a collaborative meeting to understand why it was going to happen, what the percentages
were, so when you got that tax bill you knew it was coming and to prepare. I'm really upset
that we didn't have that conversation prior to this.
Donna Saiia, 32 Sandy Cove Road, stated the assessment on her property is a 135% increase.
This increase seems to be not taking into consideration the property itself or where it's
located. I moved to a desirable location because I wanted a pleasant life; I chose this house. I
do expect property values to go up, but I don't understand how land value goes up 135% and
not have something wrong with that equation. I am asking for this to be looked into and to be
===PAGE 4===
that number is going to be woefully short. What are the Select Board and Finance Committee
going to do to correct that; what is going to be the financial solution?
Joe Gaunt, 761 Flat Hill Road, asked if he was going to be billed the same amount in each
quarter as the actual bill he received yesterday. Mr. Alonzo explained the first two bills,
Quarter 1 and 2 are estimated. You take the sum of those two, subtract it from what your
actual bill is and then you have two quarters to pay the difference. The difference that you're
getting the increase in is two times what it would be if it was spread around four quarters. So
your actual estimate if everything stayed the same is your actual estimate next year. Mr.
Franco recommended Mr. Gaunt request an abatement as this will trigger an inspection.
Malin Scott Foreman, 9 Fire Road 15A, stated he does not receive any town services,
everything he does has to be done ½ mile away from his residence. His house is 480 square
feet. He was assessed at almost $500,000. He hoped that the Select Board thinks about these
things in the future. It's really hard for people that are living on fixed incomes to be able to
maintain.
Tim Murphy, 97 Island Road, stated his last quarterly bill paid was $1500, the bill received
for this quarter was over $3200.00. He noted even if you file for an abatement, you have to
have your tax bill paid by February 1s!. So you can't just file your abatement and wait to see if
something's going to happen. The Assessors have to review it. They can approve it by
looking at the problem that you've outlined or they could deny it and if they take no action
after 90 days, its deemed denied. So it's going to be a long process. The other thing is that
Ms. Bertram alluded to money set aside for possible abatements. You've got 500 houses in
Hickory Hills and Lake Shirley that are affected by this increase; $116,000 was set aside, so
if all 500 people got relief and there are probably other places in town where people deserve
abatements other than these people, everybody gets $230. We need to figure out what to do
and maybe not have so much money in Free Cash. I don't know what authority you've got,
but you have a lawyer and you've got to take a look at what you can do to fix this problem
and it's got to be fixed soon because I'm talking to people that are telling me they can't sleep
at night since they got their bill. So I'm urging you look at your Free Cash and figure out
what you can do because the $116,000 set aside by the Assessors is not going to cut it.
Katie Kissel, 82 Peninsula Drive, asked if you successfully get an abatement you don't get
the money until January of the following year? Mr. Franco stated it is definitely not
immediate, it's a protracted process. The time an abatement application is filed an action
must be taken on it or else it's deem denied after three months, then if the taxpayer does not
get the relief that they're looking for or thinks that the abatement decision is unjust, they can
appeal to the Appellate Tax Board who then has another three months to act on it, so right
Joel Swenson, 17 Ruth Street, stated when you actually look at the sales data there were
about 160 homes sold in Lunenburg in 2021 and of the lake properties there were only
14, so the percentage of lake properties that were actually sold were only eight percent of the
total. This was used to make a decision to increase the assessment value specifically on the
lake individuals. It's a very small percentage of homes that were used to make a decision.
===PAGE 5===
Dave MacDonald, Island Road, asked where the common sense is and asked the Select Board
to help them.
Carol Hatch, 41 Hilltop Lane, stated many people have lived on these properties for a very
long time, hoping to retire here.
Eric Pettis, 43 Hemlock Terrace, bought his 1400 square foot home in 2007 and it has never
been updated. My taxes went from $1800 to $3900 quarterly. He believed a mistake has been
made and they need to be made accountable. He requested the board to do the right thing.
Michael Bartnowski, 85 Island Road, asked if the board had ever seen a tax increase of
100%.
Mr. Jeffreys stated that while they are providing a forum for public comment, the Board of
Assessors is the authority to make these assessments. We certainly will be working with
them. Mr. Alonzo stated he has never seen this in as broad an area, nothing of this nature.
Derek Fairchild, 21 Birch Island Way, stated he could understand this more if the increase
was over time but with inflation that is newsworthy. He believed this is a mistake.
Assessor Richard Letarte, 262 Lancaster Avenue, appreciated everyone's comments and
noted people had made good points, but reiterated that the Department of Revenue sets the
standards that the Assessors have to abide by. He encouraged people to file abatements and
we will do what we can and work with you.
Bill Hudson, 90 Hemlock Drive, stated his land and his mother's property values went up
John Rabbitt, 214 Townsend Harbor Road, stated with regard to having only 12 to 14 pieces
of property generating your analysis is fundamentally flawed. I would suggest that while you
really have no jurisdiction you might have the ability to initiate an investigation as an
independent group into the methodology that we used.
Nathan Katiesch, 605 Reservoir Road, asked what are the standard operating procedures for
the Board of Assessors office. Where are they published? He asked what deems a property as
waterfront?
Alex Yawer, 226 Sunset Lane, noted if even 250 out of 500 file for an abatement, what's the
likelihood of all 250 getting done in three months? Someone's going to lose out at the end
even if they file an abatement because they don't have time to get to them.
Debbie Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Drive, stated you cannot put a price tag on good will and
community and trust and you just did.
Gina Leone, 52 Pearl Street, stated she was not from here but her fiancé grew up here and
saved every penny so he could live on Lake Shirley. Where is that money going? It's a public
lake. Are you going to put a police boat on the lake every weekend, are you going to take
care of us? What are you going to do to make us stay?
Another resident, name unknown, stated his family owns 56 and 68 Pine Acres Road and
their taxes went up 137%. We are not millionaires but if anyone wants to buy our property
for a $1.2 M, come talk to me.
J. Senja Morgan, 22 May Street, via ZOOM, stated she owns a summer home that cannot be
used year round and is shared with other family members.
===PAGE 6===
the abatement line. She also asked going into the budget cycle for next year and town
meeting that a serious amount of free cash be reallocated to fix this mistake.
Martin Thomas, 30 Peninsula Drive, stated it's been said that the Principal Assessor and the
Board of Assessors have to function subject to regulations promulgated by the MA
Department of Revenue; do those regulations require a distinction between lakefront and
non-lakefront property or was that distinction something the Town of Lunenburg took upon
themselves to do? Mr. Alonzo stated the Principal Assessor will be present next week to
answer those technical questions.
Debra Yawor, 226 Sunset Lane, stated in the information that I saw there was a notation that
next year there will be a formal assessment by the state. If none of this is corrected, are they
going to come in with the baseline understanding that this is where we start?
Carl Derner, 291 Sunset Lane, asked the following questions:
Why haven't the last two years of qualifying sales and resulting assessment values been
posted? When was the current assessment done? Why weren't the results communicated
sooner? Is it reasonable to impose such significant additional costs with just a couple weeks'
notice? What were the criteria applied to set the increase to waterfront and land values at 135
percent? What is the average increase to non-waterfront land values? Is there a precedent for
biased assessment of waterfront land values in neighboring towns within the
Commonwealth? Are we to expect further increases to building values as well? What are the
plans for senior tax relief mentioned in recent Board of Assessors meeting minutes?
Other residents came forth and commented on their situations. Kathleen Oliver, 15 Crescent
Terrace, asked if the town could appeal to the state to overrule this. Sandra Perko, 64 Spring
St. Ext., stated if you're under two acres in Lunenburg, you're not given the freedom to build
anything beyond what the Conservation Commission allows, so is there an allowance for that
in all this crazy assessment?
Betty Macdonald, 155 Island Road, asked what steps are you going to take to financially
prepare (for next week), are you going to look at the budget, are you going to come back with
some kind of suggestions?
Mr. Fortune returned to the podium to ask how long does it take for any one abatement to go
through the process? What is the length of time for one because there's going to be hundreds
and is it something that is reasonable that can get done in the 90 days?
The board members stated they would look into this situation and do what they could to find
the answers to the questions. Mr. Jeffreys stated the Principal Assessor will be at their
meeting next week to answer the questions asked tonight. The board waited until the room
cleared before resuming the meeting.
Announcements
Mr. Franco announced the pancake breakfast tomorrow morning at the Senior Center on
Memorial Drive.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
===PAGE 7===
other towns who have done a 300th anniversary. I can draw on a lot of things that other
communities have done. For the 275th I stood on this very stage for First Connect and sang
as part of an acapella group for the entertainment. I was an actor in the pageant and I helped
coordinate the two-hour parade. The board thanked Mrs. Lincoln for stepping forward.
Mr. Franco stated the board has previously expressed relative to other boards and
commissions an aversion of having spouses on the same committee or board. However, I
don't think that needs to apply here; the 300th Anniversary Committee is a special purpose
committee, it is not a permanent standing committee and it will be dissolved once it once it
has fulfilled its function.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: H. Sroka
To approve Deb Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Drive, to be a member of the 300th Anniversary
Committee
Vote: Mis. Sroka-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mir. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-
aye
Mrs. Lincoln thanked the board.
Cathy Clark, 275 Cross Road, via ZOOM, stated I've been living in town for 30 years and
raised my children here, open to business here. I'd like to do it because it's fun, I'd like to
contribute how I can in terms of helping from my business. I did attend the 2003 celebration
and the 275th parade and I was very impressed by the sense of community and that's always
been important to me. I have a lot of ideas. The board believed Ms. Clark was a welcome
addition to the committee.
Motion: H. Sroka
2n°: T. Dwyer
To appoint Cathy Clark, 275 Cross Road, to the 300# Anniversary Committee
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys -
aye
Ms. Clark thanked the board.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the third applicant, Anthony Sculimbrene, 5 Valley Road, had moved to
town recently and was a member of the APDC and the Municipal Building Design
Committee. Mr. Sculimbrene via ZOOM, stating he has always been interested in history,
and has some experience in centential celebrations. He felt he learned somethings about
planning them.
The board believed Mr. Sculimbrene would also be a good addition to the committee.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint Anthony Sculimbrene, 5 Valley Road, to the 300t Anniversary Committee
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mir. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys -
aye
Mr. Jeffreys stated tonight's meeting was atypical due to the lengthy public comment and as
such we do not have communications from other boards this evening to review and we do not
===PAGE 8===
soon.
Pete Lincoln stated this could have been a volatile situation; you handled it incredibly well. I
think our townspeople handled and expressed themselves well.
Ms. Sroka asked if there's any way to know if this situation happened in other towns with
lakefront properties; if the same kind of thing is happening in other areas of Massachusetts.
Mr. Alonzo stated tax assessments are public record so we could find out about them. There
are neighboring towns like Boxborough or Harvard and there have been complaints on social
media, but I think there always are this time of year. He thanked Mr. Jeffreys for opening up
the meeting and allowing people to speak. I think that is so important. It was clear to them
that we are listening and now we have a lot of work with the Board of Assessors, the
Principal Assessor and ourselves about what do we do about this.
Mr. Dwyer to Mr. Jeffreys stated one question that I think we should look into moving
forward is we have a good comparison right here at Lake Shirley; what did the Shirley
property taxes do because there's a number of houses in Shirley on the lake. Did they see a
similar increase? Mr. Alonzo added and by that same token on Lake Whalom in Leominster.
Mr. Franco to Mr. Jeffreys, stated that's a good point and I also wanted to echo what others
have said about your leadership in conducting this meeting tonight. It was a tough topic but it
was very productive. He thanked Ms. Sroka for covering the Council on Aging meeting
today. He agreed with Mr. Dwyer's points about seeing what Shirley has done with people on
Lake Shirley, that's a place to start as well as Leominster on Whalom Lake. The path of least
resistance is first talking to our own Assessor's office because they kind of know what's going
on in surrounding towns, but then beyond that maybe contacting the Assessors' offices in
these various towns. Short of that you would have to actually go up and look at all of this
information, but compiling it would be a huge task.
Mr. Jeffreys stated what we saw tonight was a community that has confidence that this board
is able to resolve their concerns. Even as I stood toward the exit as people were leaving
earlier they were thankful they had the opportunity and felt heard tonight. I would ask the
board to allow Mr. Alonzo and me to work with the Town Manager over the next week or so.
on what this plan ahead looks like and address these needs. I know a lot of this is going to
unfortunately fall on Town Manager because it is kind of the perfect storm in terms of staff
not being in the office and other issues. What we saw tonight was a community that's trusting
but trust is always situational and it's always shaky. People really want information and if we
cannot deliver that information in a reasonable timely manner there's going to be problems.
There's also financial questions about what do we do to help adjust this. If there is an
adjustment that needs to be made, how do we do it? We may need to plan for a Select Board
meeting next Tuesday prior to the actual 7 PM meeting.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: H. Sroka
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Ms. Sroka- aye, Mr. Dwyer-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys -
aye
===PAGE 9===

