===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, expressed disagreement with the Town Manager's appointment of Rena Swezey
as Interim Principal Assessor. Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, thanked the two newly elected members for stepping
up to run for Select Board. He thanked Mr. Jeffreys for the work on the tax investigation and reminded there are
only three status reports on the ongoing investigation. He requested an update on it from Chairman Jeffieys and
placing a hold on hiring until there is a comprehensive plan in place for the Assessors' office.
Mr. Franco stated he understood the concern but work needs to continue in the Assessor's office until a
permanent Principal Assessor is hired. This is not going to be easy as there are very few people filling these
positions. He believed it would have been reckless not to fill the position at the time as things have to be
processed.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Full Time Police Officer, Michael McCormack
Lt. Thibodeau read Chief Gammel's letter to the Town Manager:
"As you are aware the Department has an immediate opening due to an officer accepting a position with the
Massachusetts State Police. We posted the position and interviewed six potential candidates for the position.
Upon completion of the interviews we were able to identify a candidate that would be an excellent fit for our
Department and Community. I am pleased to recommend Michael McCormack for the Full Time Police Officer
position.
Michael comes to us by way of Essex, VT, where he is currently a Sergeant with the Winooski Police
Department in Winooski, VT. Michael and his wife have decided to relocate to Townsend, where his wife's
family is from.
He is a graduate of Essex High School, and holds an Associate Degree of Science in Criminal Justice graduating
in 2013 the Community College of Vermont. He graduated from the Vermont Police Academy in 2017 as well as
Vermont's part time academy in 2016. Michael completed the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) task
force training in 2021 which led him to be assigned to the Drug Task Force in South Burlington, VT.
During Michael's background investigation it was found that he is an outstanding person as well as excellent
employee. Comments were made such as "a wonderful person and you can't find anyone better," "Michael is a
hard worker that never complained," and "he has a good ability to be coached" to list a few. Previous employers)
described Michael as a great asset to their Department, hard-working, who also volunteered for numerous
community events. One event that Michael is passionate about is the Special Olympics, which he volunteers his
time each year. All of the qualities that were described in his background investigation were also observed during
the interview process. Michael brings wealth of knowledge and experience, all of which we believe would be a
===PAGE 2===
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Michael MeCormick as a full-time police officer
Vote: All in Favor
Officer McCormick thanked the board.
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Town Clock Winder, George Martin- 522
Burrage Street- term to expire June 30, 2024
Ms. Lemieux reported that Mr. Martin's name had been inadvertently left off the annual appointment list for
clock winders.
Motion: L. Franco
2': T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of George Martin as Town Clock winder with a term to
expire June 30, 2024
Vote: All in Favor
Update from DPW Director on Flat Hill Road Culvert project and Flat Hill Road Drainage Update
Mr. Bernard reported the Town has been trying to replace the bridge for at least three years. We got a Municipal
Small Bridge Program grant and we have capital funds. We have a consultant who has designed the new bridge
and put the contract specifications together. We are going to be seeking temporary easements to move some
utility poles and we are working with four residents for easements. Out of the four, one wants to be paid and the
other wants her lawyer to look over her agreement which has held up the project. I have consulted with Town
counsel and he has advised starting eminent domain takings. It is probably easier to all four properties that way.
That could take three to four months, so construction would start next year. Ideally it should start in October
when the lake water level is lowered. Going forward we will get the easements and advertise the contract so we
are able to begin in fall of 2024.
Discussion ensued over the easements and the eminent domain process, as well as the condition of the bridge.
Discussion turned to the Flat Hill Road drainage situation. Mr. Bernard reported since April, consultant Brian
Marchetti contacted the residents across the street from the Allison's property about potentially using their land
to place piping to direct the water. The residents preferred maintenance being performed on the detention ponds
first to see if this alleviates the problem. Mr. Marchetti provided a brief history up to present for the new board
members. Mr. Marchetti agreed that if we have these detention basins maintained, clean and grub them out to
restore their volume capacity, fix the outlet structures and start at the source of where the water is likely coming
from before the Town spends for costs of design and construction. Looking at the condition of the basins now
versus how they were designed, they clearly have diminished capacity.
Mr. Jeffreys inquired what the cost would be for the owners of the detention basins to get the work done. Mr.
Marchetti estimated around $10,000. Mr. Jeffreys asked Land Use Director Burney what tools are available for
the Town to expect or require the owners to perform the recommended maintenance. Mr. Burney replied the
approval does say it should be maintained as constructed but how and what that means isn't clearly defined.
Without the operation and maintenance plan it's hard for a layperson to say this is what I would need to do; the
mowing and removal of vegetation would generally be one. Without consistently surveying and identifying
what the base elevation is, the association and their contractor would probably assume that by maintaining the
vegetation and keeping the pond clear and accepting water would be normal maintenance. The outlet structure
again, until you have an engineer look at it, appears to be functioning correctly because the water goes into it
===PAGE 3===
that the Select Board's visit to the site was not sanctioned by the trustees. Mr. Jeffreys stated he did not know if
at this point Mr. Pratt would be helpful to the conversation. He added that when certain things have special
permits through the Town you allow the Town to perform some forms of inspections. Mr. Pratt again asked the
same question. Did you invite the Trustees to that meeting? Mr. Jeffreys stated he did not recall. Mr. Pratt stated
you did not. Mr. Pratt stated although appreciating the "opinions" of Mr. Marchetti and Mr. Burney, there is no
substantive evidence that the Village of Flat Hill development has caused the water problem. It was just
acknowledged during the first part of the presentation that the water problem existed prior to the development
of the Village of Flat Hill. So I'm going to say to the Select Board as I did at the last meeting that this is a Town
problem. In 2007 the Planning Board signed off on the development; it didn't sign off saying we should bring
our detention basins back to where it is. Mr. Pratt did not believe the statement that the detention ponds are not
up to snuff was a factual statement. So we have a large disagreement with the Town.
Mr. Jeffreys asked about the detention ponds and was interrupted by Mr. Pratt. Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Pratt
for coming in and asked the DPW Director to return to the podium. Mr. Pratt exited the meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr. Bernard if we don't have an association that's willing to clean out the basin and as per
the terms of their agreement, what are you proposing for solutions? Mr. Bernard responded the best solution,
probably the least costly is to catch the water before it hits Flat Hill Road or as it hits Flat Hill Road and then
pipe it to the Town's property behind the Allison's property. We would have to go through the Allison's property
but they don't seem to be willing to allow easements if there's no maintenance done at the Village of Flat Hill so
it's kind of an impasse. I suppose there's other solutions; pipe it further, it's just going to cost a lot more.
The board discussed next moves. A joint cooperative effort was suggested for the solution. Mr. Jeffreys stated
just to clarify we did not extend an invitation to the condominium association to present any information to us
or to speak tonight, understanding that the members were here. I wanted to hear what their plans were based on
the information that we had provided. The resident before us this evening is a long-term resident of Lunenburg
who clearly had a lot of passions. I have full confidence that we will be able to meet again and have a
conversation about what an appropriate path forward is perhaps when cooler heads prevail. I think for next steps
we need to speak with the members of the condominium board and coordinate a meeting with them and see if
we can come to an agreement for them to take some efforts to better understand what their financial needs are
and what their request is from the Town. It was unclear whether they had hired an engineer.
Mr. Alonzo noted that when the Village at Flat Hill trustee was saying that the lack of ability or capability of the
detention pond and the drainage was an opinion; it is an opinion from a trained and certified engineer in this
field.
Mr. Jeffreys stated we will reach out to the Trustees board and schedule a meeting with them for the purpose of
furthering this conversation. Tonight's intent was to hear from Mr. Burney, Mr. Bernard and Mr. Marchetti.
Mr. Burney noted the Planning Board did sign off on the construction of the detention basin throughout the
process. This was approved as a subdivision and a special permit for a planned residential area. He stated when
one develops a subdivision there is a method of surety required from the approval to the final construction. That
method of surety ensures the roadway's utility infrastructure and drainage infrastructure is installed in
compliance with the approved plans. Throughout the process the Planning Board retains a peer review engineer
who does regular inspections of the construction and the plans to ensure that as they move through the process
it's done correctly. The surety is sometimes a covenant which means they can't build houses until it's done, often
it's a cash or surety bond and as construction happens they an amount of that bond over time with a final sign
off releasing all of those funds saying it was constructed and is as it was intended to be built. That doesn't mean
===PAGE 4===
there, the whole area is wet but starting in 2002 after that road went in, that's when we started to notice the
water coming down Flat Hill. Something was disturbed, whether it was from the grading, putting in the
utilities, the road, the houses; it changed the whole way of the water coming down and to say that it's not
coming from the Village of Flat Hill is kind of naive. I get flooded out quite badly, the road in front of my
house gets severely iced in the winter. The water comes across Allison's field and floods my whole driveway
out in the back. I've been working on this for a long time and I would really like to see a solution before I pass
this world. I've been working on it for about 20 years. I was so hopeful that getting everyone to talk about it was
going to help to move this project forward, so anything that can be done will be appreciated.
Mr. Alonzo asked Mr. Marchetti in a system such as this, what would be your anticipated maintenance over the
course of the 20 years since it has been in existence and how long would you expect the corrugated pipes to
last? Mr. Marchetti stated the life of corrugated pipe is at its limit at about 20 years, depending on the material.
He cited DEP regulations for storm water management. Mr. Marchetti noted he was given copies of two reports
that stated it had been maintained twice in the last ten years.
Carl Luck, regarding the bridge, wanted clarification on the timing of completion of the project. The current
plan is to use the lake drawdown in the fall to save costs. He expressed concern if there was a lot of rainfall in
November. Mr. Bernard stated the contractor has to provide a dam and pumping plan and they may want to start
earlier. We don't necessarily have to wait until the lake is at its lowest level.
Matt Woodward, 64 Arbor Street, suggested that we can investigate whose problem this is, but the real solution
is how to try to fix it. He thought Mr. Marchetti's plan was the best approach.
The board and Ms. Lemieux thanked the DPW Director and Land Use Director for coming in this evening and
Mr. Marchetti for his time as well.
Discussion on ARPA funding requests and evaluation criteria.
Mr. Jeffreys distributed a document showing requests and prioritized items, as well as what was committed to
date. Two items, the Board of Health COVID response hours and the remote meeting costs which totaled
around $90,000 have been left blank as he does not have final numbers. But in the available funds he was
accounting for them. He reported some of the requests have been modified, so they have $2,027,390.00 in
requests and $1,080,000.00 remaining. Mr. Alonzo suggested that criteria be used to award the funding and that
the board decide on what that criteria would be in order to decide on how to award the funding. He also
suggested putting some money in reserve rather than spend it all. The board discussed the requests and what
they were in support of individually and why.
After much discussion, Mr. Alonzo motioned to commit ARPA funding of $50,750 for Public Access
Committee. Mr. Franco seconded the motion.
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To commit $20,000 to the Lions Club for the community food pantry
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Nuzzolo)
The board looked at criteria for rating ARPA requests based loosely on the Capital Planning Committee criteria.
Mr. Alonzo noted some of the criteria applies and others don't, but this was a starting point back in November
2022 and at that time the board was not in agreement with them. The discussion continued on how to rate the
requests. It was suggested to provide a list, by department, of the requests.
===PAGE 5===
Stefan McSweeney, co-owner of the limited liability company that owns the parcel, stated the intent is to
develop the entire property consisting of 35 acres (including parcel 4 consisting of 12.5 acres) running from
Leominster Koad to Sunny Hill Road, with four single family homes, as a majority of the property is wetlands.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
To waive the right of first refusal for parcel 4, Leominster Road
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
The Town Beach hours are Saturdays and Sundays 12 PM-6 PM and Monday through Friday 10 AM-7 PM.
Seasonal beach passes and swim lessons can be purchased through the lunenburgma.myrec.com site.
:
The Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 AM until 1 PM until mid-October on the Ritter lawn.
The Summer Band Concert Series was supposed to begin last night but was cancelled due to weather. The first
concert will be on July 17th and will be every Monday thereafter at 7 PM, ending on August 14th at the TC
Passios front lawn.
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
•
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978)
582-4130 x 144.
Ms. Lemieux reported since the last meeting she had received four resignations; the first was Anna Petrie, Conservation
Administrator, who found this role did not fit what she was looking for long-term. Assistant Meal Manager Sandy Ritchie
resigned due to the hours not fitting her schedule, and the two seasonal cemetery workers resigned due to getting full-time
jobs elsewhere.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following isa list of current employment opportunities with the Town: Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
•
Assistant Meal Site Manager (19.5 hours/week)
• Assistant Outreach Coordinator (10 hours/week)
• Conservation Administrator (36 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (40 hours/week)
• Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
•
Seasonal Cemetery Laborers
===PAGE 6===
were estimated too high. The current vendor was issued a two- month extension on the current contract and the
IFB was revised and is going to be re-bid with bids due July 26th.
• Invitation for Bids for Roadway Maintenance for Fog Sealing were due on June 21st and we received one bid
Sealcoating Inc. dba as Indus for $103,233.
• The Invitation for bids for Two Snow Plow Trucks will bereleased on July 17th and will be due on July 31st.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal#1)
In the past few weeks I have worked with the EPA and our consultant from BETA on administrative filings with DEP. A
Bill of Lading was required to be signed off that will allow the transportation ofthe Remediation Waste beingstoredat
925 Mass Aveaspart ofthe remediation work the EPA performed to be removed to a receiving facility. Now that this is
submitted, the contractor will be able to remove the waste pile in the next few weeks.
Our consultant from BETA, who is our Licensed Site Professional handling the reporting required as part of the identified
soil contamination, submitted a Release Notification and Retraction Form that also needed sign-offon.
The Lunenburg Ledger will be doing a story on this project in the near future and I was contacted by the EPA to be part of
their published success stories as well.
Ms. Lemieux read a commentary statement on staffing:
The past few years have been challenging on many levels but staffing continues to be one of the hardest
obstacles to overcome. Looking back over the last two years we average between seven to twelve openings at
any one time. We've had vacancies at the department head level after multi-decade long employees retired like
the DPW Director and most recently our Finance Director. We have retirements of support staff that are critical
to all the components of what it takes for a municipality to run smoothly. No matter the position since we do not
have a large staff to begin with and some departments only have one or two people in it, anytime there is a
vacancy or transition to a new employee, it causes a strain on the organization and a loss of experience and
knowledge that goes with it. We are not alone in the struggle. I hear it from my colleagues in the public sector
and I hear it from those working and managing employees in the private sector. I bring this up for a multitude of
reasons; we currently have a recently retired Finance Director who will assist us in closing out our fiscal year
since she doesn't want to leave the town in that predicament. This is a crucial position in town, we have
advertised for this position for three months now on Indeed.com, the website, MMA, Mass Hire, the Mass.
Govt. of Finance Offices Association, and the Mass Municipal Auditors and Accounting Association with no
candidate to put forth at this time. We have reached out to consultants that assist municipalities in this situation
but they have all have little or no capacity to take this on. The Assistant Town Accountant position has also
been vacant since January. We have gone through interviews, had interested applicants but ultimately don't take
that position. Another critical financial role is the Principal Assessor and the staff in the Assessor's office. This
office has key deadlines to meet all year long to ensure that we are performing inspections, doing data
collection, valuing all real and personal property on a fair value basis, inspecting property sales, implementing a
cyclical property and inspection program, completing annual property value adjustment analyzes, conducting
building permit properties that capture new growth in town, assessing motor vehicle taxes and many other
duties that are critical to the financial stability of the town. We are currently advertising for Principal Assessor,
but last I looked on MMA website, so are seven other communities. I have spoken with private companies
specializing in this work and they do not have the capacity for special projects or to take on an outsourced role
of this nature. I have a verbal commitment from Nate Cramer of Municipal Finance Services that he could help
===PAGE 7===
accounting right now, but not one for assessing. The Collins Center may be working on putting together a
program but currently nothing exists. This does not help the town or other towns right now who need to fill this
important position. The principal assessor and finance director positions are very specialized and specific to the
public sector unless you want to spend time training. You need to be offering enough money to attract or poach
a person with similar title from another community. I understand the position we are in as a town it is something
that keeps me up at night. We are trying to fill these positions as they are instrumental to the operations of the
town, however I can't manufacture people. Right now I am trying to manage expectations. We may be without
these positions and operating on less than what we are used to in the skill and experience level that we're used
to. We're doing everything we can to fill these positions as quickly as possible but responsibly as well. I'm
working on putting together additional checks and balances in place so we don't have a repeat of this past year,
but part of that will depend on people that don't report to me and are accountable to the voters. Everyone needs
to hear that we are in a difficult job market right now and that we will continue to struggle to fill these positions.
I will continue to try to get assistance from outside agencies and advocate to the state that this is a universal
problem with municipalities and that we need assistance.
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Town Manager for the statement as he did not think enough people are aware of this.
This is not unique to municipalities, he hears this from the people he works with, his customers and the
company that he works with. The DOR has got to help us out here, we are advertising and we don't have
people.
Mr. Franco thanked Ms. Lemieux for making the statement as well. People may not like who was put in for the
Interim Assessor, but that position is absolutely critical. Ms. Swezey is expert in the field and she is a good
interim solution and we're very fortunate that she didn't walk out the door and that her appointment was made
when it was. We would really be in a bind if that didn't happen.
Mr. Jeffreys appreciated the Town Manager's comment and added we are in a very challenging time not having
a Finance Director/Town Accountant or Assistant Town Accountant. We have bills to pay, a large budget that
• Be care
has to get administered and we don't have anyone in the office anymore to account for the bills. We are
fortunate that Ms. Brochu is on vacation and is coming back and will work with us in a consulting capacity for a
lot longer, but this is a really challenging time. I spoke with the Assistant Town Accountant who left our
community and I was very direct and asked her why and she made it very clear to me that we don't pay enough.
She loves the community but has to take care of her family and she can't do it on $40,000 a year and that makes
perfect sense to me. I have had conversations with Representative Kushmerek and Senator Cronin and we need
to have pathways to get people into these jobs. That was a conversation I was heavy on with Senator Cronin. I
was thankful that he came up with Innovation Pathways, which is looking broadly at how to get some of the
students who don't go into the college world, how you get them into middle class jobs, they're having success
these jobs and I understand in this state of affairs with vacancies, interns could be hard to manage.
I can see while talking with the office that Town Manager is working a minimum of 65 hours per week; we
know the Assistant Town Manager has been working above and beyond her hours. The Finance Department Just
to get through this year has been working on Fridays and Saturdays. We are in a non-sustainable environment
and when we think about the workplace and the world we are in, it does not help for residents to come in and
bad mouth the staff. Nobody works better when people are talking crap about them. It's rude and uncalled for;
===PAGE 8===
stay. How we get out of this is by first elevating ourselves, controlling what we can control. We can control
how we behave, how we act, we need to exercise some real control over ourselves and how we interact with
government, understanding the environment that we're all in. We also can talk to our friends, neighbors,
children, and encourage people to come into these pathways. Systemic government is unappealing right now for
a variety of reasons and we've got to get the talent, but we have to be an appealing place to work and we have
to pay people more money. It's a complicated thing but this is a warning sign that things are about to get tricky
for a lot of us.
So thank you to the town Manager, I think you understood that 1 was going to make a comment about staffing
tonight and that I was going to make the appeal to people at home. I plan on coming to the town and working
with the members of this board and for this board to work to really advocate for some of these increases. I will
be on the forefront of advocating it in order for the government to work the way we want it to work.
To the Town Manager, I will say I feel like a big part of my job is making sure you stay in your job because I
recognize the impact of how much this is impacting you and your family and the sacrifice you are making.
I know my family already feels like my sacrifices too much, so I can't imagine how much how hard this is on
your family. We can't do this without you Heather and I really personally appreciate you and sometimes you
got to take the hard things and just take them, but don't take it personally.
Master Plan Steering Committee Representative
The board members discussed and then asked if a resident representative for the board could be appointed. It
was read in the message that one member: of the Select Board would be appointed by the Select Board. It was
decided to ask the Planning Board if it absolutely has to be a Select Board member. The board will revisit this
once it gets an answer from the Planning Board.
Warrants
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $43,489.90.
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Appointing Committee reappointed Jay Simeone to the Finance Committee
earlier today. Two vacancies remain on that committee.
Mr. Franco stated the Economic Development Committee met on June 9' and are planning a Meet and Greet
event under the auspices of the Lunenburg Business Association in September. This would include town
officials and business community.
Action File Issues
Mr. Alonzo asked how far we are into the solid waste removal contract. Ms. Lemieux stated we are in year two
of three. Ms. Lemieux reported the plan is to put this out to bid but with consulting services as we've done with
Mr. Toale this past year for outreach. Part of that scope would be to assist the Town with developing an RFP
and best practices and working with both the town and our vendor to see what's worked, what hasn't worked and
then fine-tune the RFP. Mr. Alonzo lauded Mr. Toale for being the intermediary for missed trash pickups.
He then asked about the status of the Ritter Building Certificate to Alter. Ms. Lemieux reported she had a
meeting scheduled with the Facilities Director tomorrow and planned on meeting with the APDC soon.
===PAGE 9===
during war and with someone who shared the same birthday year and day as me who died in front of me. It
brought life into perspective at a very young age for me of being in war at 20 years old. It really made me
wonder and think what am I doing; I could be dead tomorrow and it doesn't really hit you until you see someone
pass in front of you that is equally young, equally inexperienced, equally hasn't had a lot of those moments. I
believe strongly in the value and purpose of democracy, but I also believe that we have to agree to the ground
rules and the ground rules are we have to be respectful and maintain a sense of decorum with one another. It is
okay to be upset, to have heightened emotions, but in this role I see what happens when a meeting goes off the
hinges, when we don't maintain decorum, when we allow those natural emotions to get in the way of the rules
of the society that we've all agreed to live under.
So I offer the comment tonight not as a rebuke of anyone in particular but just to kind of reaffirm what my
belief system is. We provide in all of our meetings an opportunity for people to say whatever they want to say,
to be as critical as they want to be and they have up to three minutes to say it. But in the meeting we try to
incorporate participation in many different areas, but that participation is limited with the understanding that on
the back end of this that we leave these meetings at 10:30, 11 o'clock at night. That our capacity to understand,
comprehend and digest everything in front of us diminishes over time and it's to maintain the decorum that I
believe all residents expect of our government. That is strictly my intent. I personally am okay with people
saying whatever they want to, but I believe it's a level of disrespect to people who've paved the way for this
democracy to exist for the people who've come before us to permit certain behaviors that that go beyond the
ability to have a productive conversation and are strictly adversarial. I recognize that democracy is intended to
be messy, that we're not all supposed to agree. We're supposed to disagree, but we have to agree to a way by
which we do disagree.
Mr. Franco stated in the same spirit, and not bringing the previous conversation into it, the reason I do this and
why I volunteer is because being a patriot is about contribution, that's first and foremost. It's about rolling up
your sleeves and digging in and making your community better and why I act and it's what I say at the Civics
discussions when we go to the school and speak to the students. The preamble to the Constitution, We the
People of the United States in order to form a more perfect union... the formation of a more perfect union was
not a single crystallizing moment in the summer of 1787. It was a charge to future generations and every
subsequent generation that takes that mantle up and sustains democracy because there is nothing self-sustaining
about democracy and it depends on people of good faith participating with intellectual honesty, not poisoning
the well with misinformation and conspiracy theories. It's about drilling down, doing the homework, the hard
work of getting to facts and having sensible intellectually honest discussions that are informed, that's patriotism,
that's making your country a better place whether it's happening in your school, your town, your state or on the
national level.
Mr. Alonzo stated I would agree with most of what you said in the backdrop of how things progress. I
think everybody's goal is to make the place they live a better place. It's okay that people on boards don't agree
and there's dissent and in dissent you come up with common solutions, because not everybody's going to agree
and the only way you can get to those agreements and that cooperation is by hearing what people's concerns are.
While I agree with what you said Mr. Chair, I would be failing in my duty if I said from my perspective both
people that you referenced that you cut off, neither one of them in my mind was being disrespectful to the
board, to the Chair, or to the Town Manager. They were presenting a case of their perspective of a very difficult
problem. I believe that the cutoff was unfair and unhelpful to the situation. I understand what you were saying
but in order to make dissent work in the favor of the bettering of a more perfect union, you have to hear the
===PAGE 10===
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 10:25 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peters on
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
