===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Patel, Hardik Patel
Chairman Jeffieys called the meeting to order at 7:02 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting
Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg
public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access
YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
He announced this meeting will be held in person at the location provided on this notice.
Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-person meting. Please note that while an
option for remote attendance and or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public,
the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual
broadcast unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any
specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person versus virtual attendance
accordingly. The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all
items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for
discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Christos Lekadıtıs, 49 Maple Parkway, President of the Lunenburg Professional Firetighters,
requested using ARPA funds to pay for ambulance replacement of Rescue 1. On January 18th
Rescue 2, our 2019 ambulance, was involved in a motor vehicle acident in North Leominster
while returning from the hospital. While we were fortunate that our members nor the other
occupants of the other vehicle sustained any injuries, the ambulance sustained major damage
which has forced us to use Rescue 1 as our fontline ambulance. During the past month we have
had to request mutual aid to handle simultaneous ambulance calls.
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, stated many residents are concerned about the lack of access to the
Board of Assessors. She noted their next meting tomorrow has no public comment and the only
discussion will be in Executive Session. She questioned the reason for the Executive Session and
if it was valid. She asked why the assessments are not on the agenda. She asked several other
questions and then suggested the Select Board and the Assessors hold a joint meeting.
Bill Hudson, 90 Hemlock Drive, on behalf of the Lunenburg Lake Action committee, asked if
Mr. Jeffreys thought the assessments that went out to all the residents were correct, have you
hired an outside assessor to evaluate the Principal Assessors work, are you aware that if the
Town made a mistake that only the Assessors can go to the DOR to request a redo, are you aware
that the DOR has a caseworker that can answer questions and provide guidance?
To Mr. Franco he asked if he knew former Assessor Chris Comeau and if he had seen his public
comment and if he agreed with his comment. Mr. Franco stated he agreed with some of his
===PAGE 2===
Hardik Patel. Attorney Esposito stated after hearing the comments at the last meeting they
reviewed suggested policies put out by the MA Package Store Association and drafted a policy
reflecting those suggestions and provided assurance that alcohol will not be served to anyone
under the age of 21 or made available through second party sales. There are two current
employees who will be staying on and they have taken the TIPS training. It will also be a
requirement of Jaxx's new owners that all employees take the training. Alan Wernick, the current
owner has offered to stay on for up to 30 days in order to provide training and consultation in
order to provide a smooth transition.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the applicant for their written employee policy and advised them to
communicate who is trained in that policy. He reminded that the Select Board policy needs to be
available in the establishment for all their employees' reference. He had no remaining concerns
and opened questions up for the other members. Mr. Franco asked if a new employee came on if
they would be informed of the policy and have training in selling alcohol. Mr. Esposito assured
him it would be done.
Motion: T. Dwyer
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the transfer of the license and the pledge of the license and inventory for Priha,
Inc. as presented
Vote: All in Favor
The applicant and her attorney thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Belliveau reported there was a resignation of a police officer who was moving on to work
for the State Police. The other resignation was a staff librarian.
OLD BUSINESS
Status Update on Tax Assessment Investigation
Mr. Jeffreys read the following aloud:
"The goal of annual property valuations and assessments is to bring every property to within 90 to 110
percent of the fair market value with the ideal being 100% market valuation. The process requires an
assessor to evaluate sales data and remove those sales that were not on the general market. For over 25
years, the Town worked with an outside vendor to provide valuation and assessment services and
starting in FY21 (which began on July 1, 2020), the Board of Assessors hired an in-house principal
assessor. From July 2020 to the present, the Town has had four personnel in the role.
The investigative team has concluded all initial interviews-this included meeting with all previous
assessors and the previous vendor, some past and present members of the Board of Assessors, Human
Resources, various personnel at MA Department of Revenue, and all staff who have worked in the
assessor's office for the past 10 years.
All interviews were conducted independent of one another, in-person, remotely, or via telephone. These
interviews revealed five key things.
First, there is no indication that CJ Carroll, our current principal assessor, was advised by any member of
===PAGE 3===
the Assessor's office indicated that prior to FY23, they believed that residential properties nearest lakes
were undervalued, but could not be adjusted due to the lack of sales.
The four assessors we've hired have reported over 65 years of cumulative experience and anecdotally
commented that lake values are difficult to establish accurately each year because the formulas to
identify property values are based on market sales and because homes on lakes don't often become
available on the market. Assessors commented that properties nearest a body of water tend to pass down
through families or are sold to family members.
The assessment to sales ratio references the relationship between the Town's assessed value of a
property and the assumed or actual market value. In 2021, on average, residents in index 2 had an
assessed value that was 81% of their sale price. Residents in index 3 had an assessed value that was 88%
of the sale price. In index 4, it was 78%. In index 5, it was 81%. In index 1, it was 48%. Every home in
town received at least a 15% increase in value for FY23, which then brought all residential properties in
indexes 2 - 5 to within 94 - 97% of the assumed fair market value.
Sales in index 1: A property was assessed at $526k that sold for $1.2 million; a property was assessed
for $407k and sold for $887k; a property was assessed for $381k and sold for $780k; a property was
assessed for $543k and sold for $1.29 million; a property was assessed for $386k and sold for $751k; a
property was assessed for $372k and sold for $775k; a property was assessed for $338k and sold for
$440k; a property was assessed for $421k and sold for $695k; a property was assessed for $372k and
sold for $1.4 million. The average property in index 1 sold for more than double the assessed value, but
no other residential property owner in any other index had an assessment to sales ratio that was below
59%.
It appears that 2021 saw more sales in index 1 than previous years, and the additional sales required
the principal assessor to use the sales data and make property value adjustments to the neighborhood.
We are continuing to look into when properties were last inspected. It appears that a serious effort was
taken about 8 years ago to identify values on Lake Shirley. However, several residents in Whalom and
on Hickory Hills that submitted abatement applications haven't had their properties evaluated since
2006, 2007, or 2008. Why does this matter? There could have been more gradual increases to properties
over time and/or more granularity added to the neighborhood maps that were used, and not adjusted to
identify fiscal year 2023 values.
On December 7, 2022, some of the attendees of the Board of Assessor's meeting recall CJ
mentioning that property values on lakes would increase. One attendee remembers him noting that
there would likely need to be additional public meetings in the New Year to explain the increase.
Prior to January 1, 2023 it does not appear as though any member of the Board of Assessors, any
member of the Select Board, or Town Manager had any intimation of how dramatic property values
would increase in index 1. The Board of Assessors do not have operating procedures that require an
impact notice to be provided to residents who see increases above a pre- determined threshold.
Last, we received confirmation and additional verification in the form of an affidavit and postal
receipt that all Quarter 3 and Quarter 4 payments were mailed on December 30, 2022 and prior to
the statutory deadline.
We will upload LA3 and LA4 reports to the Town website this week as well as excel documents that
detail valuations across town and impact by index. As a next step, we will conduct follow-up interviews
and continue to work on procuring independent assessors to assist with our investigation as they will
===PAGE 4===
due to the amount of public scrutiny.
Replying to the question, are you aware of a total redo of taxes if a clerical error was
identified, he replied there is a mechanism to resend bills when there is one, but we
have submittals that have been approved by the MA Dept. of Revenue. In response
to are you aware the DOR has caseworkers, Mr. Jeffreys stated absolutely; we have
been working with them. We have met with our direct representative, Becky
Boucher and her supervisor and the Chief of Assessments, Chris Wilcox. We have
had several conversation through our legal contacts through the legal division of
MA DOR as well.
Discussion about the Request for Proposals that was posted ensued as well as
codes/reasons for not considering a sale of a home, such as being sold to a family
and the house never being listed on the general real estate market or a private sale.
Ms. Sroka asked about an email sent that asked Mr. Alonzo to recuse himself from
the investigation due to "his personal relationships with people who live on the
lakes." Another question asked was has will there be any investigation as to why the
lakefront homes were valued so low prior to the recent valuations.
Discussion turned to the person, Holly Sullivan, who sent the email and her lack of
listing a town address which is required for public comment. Mr. Alonzo stated he
would be willing to speak with her if she provided an address and via phone as there
were errant things in the email from her.
Ms. Sroka pointed out there have been a few emails with no names because people
don't want to put their name out there and face public scrutiny.
Mr. Dwyer stated his personal opinion was that Mr. Alonzo was above reproach
having proven through his actions over the years, and no other person has stated that
Mr. Alonzo should recuse himself. Mr. Alonzo acknowledged that he was friends
with people mentioned in the email, but he did not know 75% of the people who live
on the lake. He was looking out for the interest of the residents and the Town looks
to lose a lot of revenue, so is also looking out for the interest of the Town.
Discussion continued about a Facebook post by former Assessor Chris Comeau
regarding the current Board of Assessors, and the effect of under and over assessing
to the Town.
Mr. Franco stated there was concern expressed about the Board of Assessors not
having public comment listed on their agendas. In fact they never have had it on
their agendas. They do allow it and will tomorrow at their meeting. He wondered if
they were allowed to answer any general questions during this investigation.
Mr. Alonzo noted he did not participate in any interviews except one with the DOR.
He noted he has not been involved in this investigation directly but has researched
the data that was provided to him. He added that some data was unable to be
===PAGE 5===
to enforce our already existing regulations in regards to Regulatory, Section 4.01 Liquor
Licenses; section 1.01, Availability of Rules and Regulations; 1.09 Inspections and
Investigations; section 1.19 Service Training, in advance of the compliance checks.
He reported Ms. Lemieux had noted that previously the Police had not done this and
wanted clarification from the board that this would be a standard practice going forward.
Discussion ensued and it was agreed that the Police could conduct an investigation or
inspection at any time, not at the request of the Select Board as it is the board's policy. Mr.
Dwyer stated he did not believe enforcement should be increased unless the Police are
providing feedback to this board that during enforcement they have identified a problem,
otherwise we should stick with the status quo.
FY23 3rd Quarter Water Commitment of $12,257.75
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"°: L. Franco
To approve the FY23 3" Quarter Water Commitment of $12,257.75
Vote: All in Favor
Approval of Minutes of January 17, 2022 (Session I & Session II)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of January 17, 2023 (Session I)
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
The other minutes will be approved after further review.
Warrants/Action Items
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $380,227.89.
Committee Reports
Ms. Belliveau reported the Personnel Committee has been working with an HR consultant who
has been reviewing job descriptions for ADA compliance. She is also reviewing the
classification and compensation plan for the salary administration plan and the job descriptions
for the clerical union employees. Once finalized it will be presented to Town Meeting.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee starts meeting this Thursday to review budget
requests from departments.
Mr. Dwyer reported the Storm Water Task Force met last Thursday and got an update from the
DPW Director on the ongoing tracking of manpower and dollars that have been expended on
storm water tasks since the beginning of the fiscal year. Next year is year five of the Ms4 permit
and the Town needs to perform a best management practice (BMP) as part of that. There will be
more information on that coming.
OLD BUSINESS
Review American Rescue Plan Act Funding Requests, Evaluation Criteria and Process
Mr. Jeffreys stated tonight is a vote on approving $986,000 for an ambulance and two dump
===PAGE 6===
John Fortune, Hemlock Drive, asked for confirmation that the town lacks digital data from the
previous five years. Mr. Alonzo confirmed but added it is available in hard copy form.
Discussion ensued about assessed values between the board members.
Mi. Franco noted there was a time discrepancy between the town calendar and the Board of
Assessor's agenda. He added the actual meeting time is 2:30 p.m. as you have to go by the
agenda listing not the calendar. He stated he thought a joint meeting with the Board of Assessors
was a good idea to check in with them.
Motion: T. Dwyer
To adjourn the meeting
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 8:56 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
