===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Stanley Barney, Michelle Belleza, Karen Kemp
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. Mr. Watters opened the Finance Committee meeting at 7:04 p.m.
Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access
channel and Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube
channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed
may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the
extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Mr. Jeffreys read a letter from Select Board member Todd Dwyer.
"I'm sending this letter to inform you of my resignation from the Lunenburg Select Board effective
immediately. It has been my distinct honor to have served the residents of Lunenburg. I'd like to thank my
fellow board and commission members past and present. I would also like to thank all of the residents
who put their trust in me to serve. My six years as a member of the Conservation Commission and the
past three years as a member of the Select Board have been very rewarding. Working with my fellow
board members has been a humbling, challenging and fulfilling experience that I truly enjoyed. My
experience also leaves me with no doubt that the Town will be able to tackle its recent and future
challenges due to the dedication and integrity of the town's employees and volunteers. Yours sincerely,
Mr. Todd Dwyer."
PUBLIC COMMENT
Cathy Clark, 275 Cross Road, commented on the snowstorm last week and the restoration of
service. She believed Unitil did not appear to comply with the 2009 storm legislation that
indicates that restoration communication information needs to be given.
Debbie Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Drive, commended Mr. Franco and Mr. Alonzo for their work on
the senior tax relief legislation. Pete Lincoln, recommended the three candidates up for
appointment tonight for the 300" Anniversary Committee.
Ms. Sroka stated (in reference to a previous meeting public comment), I'm not going to apologize
for reading several lines of an unsigned email during my public comment, I simply didn't recall
them. I'm human and it happens to the best of us. None of this makes me deceitful or dishonest.
Reading an unsigned email during my public comment violates no Open Meeting Law, Town
bylaw or Select Board policy. When I spoke about the email that has been the center of so much
scrutiny, I was trying to make a point that there are residents who are fearful of expressing their
concerns in public regarding this tax assessment because they believe it could cause backlash and
===PAGE 2===
ALI•
1IIU
volivia.
It has come to my attention regarding the tax assessment issue that right from the beginning there
was a discrepancy from residents who wanted to know why the tax bills were received so late.
While we did get some documentation from our tax bill provider on a call that Mr. Jeffreys and I
had with the president of that company I did ask whether there was a mail receipt that would
indicate from the post office that it was received. After several weeks of investigating I have
severe doubts that the tax bills were mailed on December 30t" and more likely according to
receipts I've received from the post office they were received on January 6". I will turn this over
to the Town Manager; I spoke with her briefly earlier and I will hand it over to Mr. Jeffreys and
the Town Manager for verification. If that is true, there are different deadlines that come into
play and get changed for lots of people; which would be when you could file for an abatement
would be extended, any penalties that you had for non-payment by February Ist could be negated
because the payments wouldn't be due till May 1s!. I would like to know from a legal standpoint
what constitutes a legal mailing. We need to determine when the bills were mailed because it's
the only remaining urgent item because it does affect people's lives now and when the timing of
payments and filing of abatements would be allowed or when they would be due.
Mr. Jeffreys, regarding public comment, stated we need to be open for all people to be able to
participate, a lot of people come with a lot of different perspectives and sometimes people just
want to offer something without and just lay it on the table. We do receive emails frequently,
communications from the public. It was in my view inappropriate to publicize that individual's
(that Select Board member Sroka referenced), email address on a social media site that resulted
in that individual receiving a series of inappropriate emails. Let's be mindful that the democratic
process is meant to incorporate viewpoints from all people. I want to extend a sincere apology to
the member of the public who provided us an email that was publicized with their contact
information. Mr. Jeffreys also recognized Mr. Dwyer's work and stated it was a pleasure
working with him. Moving on to the mailing date he had a question about the way that the form
was notarized because it wasn't notarized properly and so there was a conversation that was had
with Mr. Alonzo and I very early on to get to the bottom of when those mailings occurred. I'm
very interested in the information you have because it would directly conflict with the affidavit
that we have in our possession from the company.
Communications with Other Boards
Mr. Jeffreys reported a member of the board as well as a member of the public has requested for
us to hold a joint meeting with the Board of Assessors. That request was sent to the BOA
probably about three or four weeks ago now and we are waiting for a response.
APPOINTMENTS
Tollbooth Request- Fitchburg/Leominster Shriners Club - May 13 from 9 am to 2 pm
(Town Center)
===PAGE 3===
Mr. Edmands thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Tollbooth Request- Lunenburg Skate Park- May 27 from 10 am to 2 pm (Town
Center)
Aiden Swift presented the group's request and stated they were approximately
$15,000 away from their benchmark goal of $225,000 after six years of fundraising.
The board members commended them for their fundraising efforts.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the tollbooth request for May 27 from 10 am to 2 pm in Town Center
2n: H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
The group thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Appointments to the 300fh Anniversary Committee:
• Stanley Barney-1236 Mass. Ave.
Kathy Comeau- 806 West Street.
Michelle Belleza-126 Sunnyhill Road
Ms. Comeau and Mr. Barney related that they had worked on the previous anniversary
celebration and Ms. Belleza stated Mrs. Lincoln had reached out to her to get the kids involved.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To appoint Stanley Barney, Kathy Comeau and Michelle Belleza to the 300# Anniversary
Committee
Vote: All in Favor
Appointment to Board of Registrars: Karen Kemp, term to expire March 31, 2026
Karen Kemp stated she has been a registrar for almost 40 years.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To appoint Karen Kemp as Registrar with a term to expire March 31, 2026
2"': H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Kemp thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Recreation Director Angela Clement
Ms. Lemieux stated this position has been vacant since the end of August 2022 when the
previous Recreation Director resigned. Since September 2022 we have received 14 applications
and of those, seven interviews were offered and five people accepted interviews. Angela was one
of the top two candidates for the position. She comes with a bachelor's degree in physical
education, recreation and fitness club administration and has over five years of relatable
experience gained while working as a youth sports manager. Her references describe her as
pleasant, hard-working, organized and a go-getter, so I'm asking you to ratify this appointment
tonight.
Motion: L. Franco
2"': T. Alonzo
===PAGE 4===
• Agricultural Commission (2
vacancies)
• Council on Aging (1 vacancy)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate
vacancy Historical Commission (2 vacancies)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be
sent to the Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact
the Select Board's Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Administrative Assistant Police(16 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Digital Services Staff Librarian (20 hours/week)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (40 hours/week)
• Library Assistant (19 hours/week)
• Police Officer (40 hours/week)
• Production Technician (20 hours/week)
• Seasonal Lifeguards (Seasonal)
• Beach Director (Seasonal)
• Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Line Striping Contract
At the end of February the DP W Director sent a letter to K5 Corporation to notify them again of their
breach of the terms of the contract with the Town and we were terminating the contract as of March 7th.
Along with this notice, a project evaluation form was completed by the DP W Director that will get
submitted to MassDOT that rated this company poorly on the relevant categories. The DPW Director is
working on a new spring contract for the remainder of this fiscal year and a revised Road Materials Bid for
work in FY24.
===PAGE 5===
consulting services. I submitted an order for the equipment from a vendor on the state contract on March
10th and the expected delivery is between 6-8 weeks. Thereare other components such as "labels" and
disconnection fuses that are ordered separately and both have been ordered. I am reviewing the draft
RFP from the consultant for the installation that will go out shortly. Based on delivery of the equipment
and projected award of bid for the installation, we anticipate the project to be complete by the end of the
fiscal year.
Wealso submitted our Energy Incentiveto Unitil and I signed off on thisat the end of February. Our
estimated incentive is $33,500. These funds will be deposited into the general fund and closeout at the end
of the fiscal year they are received.
Facility and Parks Updates:
• The Town Beach project is complete per the bid requirements. There is some additional work
needed to be done, including repairs to a ceiling in another section and exterior work. This is
planned to be complete before the beach is set to open.
• The Facilities Director is lining up repairs to the McNally structure which will include demolition
of the second floor that was not built to code and retaining the first floor which is still
structurally sound.
• The Facilities Director secured a new architect for the Ritter ADA Ramp and Building Envelope
project. Once he has updated the drawings and specifications, we will work on re-submitting a
Certificate to Alter to the APDC.
• The Facilities Director attended procurement training the week of March 7th.
Department Head Updates
Land Use: The Building Commissioner needs to do a final inspection on this property and once a
Certificate of Occupancy is issued, this will capture the new growth for this property towards the
certification in the fall. The Planning Board has reviewed and interviewed the three firms for the
Master Plan and the award will be to a company called Over Under of Boston for a total of $153,000
The MBTA Action Plan was submitted to the State and is now pending approval. This is to be in
compliance with the new multi-family zoning requirements for MBTA communities and adjacent
communities.
Fire: The Fire Chief reported that by fall of 2023 there will be 2 paramedics on each shift. Chief waiting
on update on repairs to Ambulance and when it will be back in service.
COA: The Council on Aging is planning on having a volunteer job fair in September, which will include 7-
10 large non-protit organizations. Free Reiki classes will be held the Ist Monday and last Friday of the
month from 10 to noon and the Memory Cafe is back up and running. The lunches put on by the Meal Site
Manager are going well.
Police: Due to Officer Pingitore leaving for the MA State Police, they have one patrol vacancy. The
hybrid police cruiser is expected to be delivered the week of March 20th. The department is still
working towards full accreditation, which is expected by summer. The PD's security system is having
critical failures and trying to work with current vendor to provide temporary fixes. The Chief reported
===PAGE 6===
Library: The Library has been busy with programming and is currently looking for a Digital Services
Librarian and Library Assistant.
Disposal of Surplus Equipment/Vehicle through Municibid:
The Councilon Aging Directorauctioned a 10 year old steam tableon Municibid. Thetablesold
for $525.
• The Police Department is auctioning off a 2016 Ford Explorer Police Cruiser with over 168,000
miles on it on Municibid. This vehicle is no longer part of the fleet and is not reliable as a cruiser. It
is also the last gas Ford vehicle.
Mass Development One Stop for Growth Expression of Interest (TM Goal #1
Last week I submitted an Expression of Interest application for two projects to Mass Development
through their One Stop for Growth portal. The purpose of an expression of interest is to give
applicants an opportunity to articulate the goals, objectives and preparations as they related to certain
projects related to economic development and receive feedback and guidance from Mass
Development for the path forward for each project.
The first project was improvements to the Leominster-Shirley Road corridor. This project was proposed
by the Land Use Director and he provided all the relevant information that needed to be submitted as
part of the Expression of Interest. This proposed project is to design intersection improvements at two
locations on Leominster Shirley Road to ease traffic congestion and mitigate safety concerns along the
corridor. The two intersections on Leominster-Shirley Road are at Reservoir and Fort Pond Roads.
The other Expression of Interest project was for technical assistance through Mass Development's
Real Estate Services Technical Assistance program to assist with putting together a Request for
Proposals when we are ready to sell the property. Feedback on both of these projects will assist the
town to submit formal applications that are due by June 2,2023.
Public Employee Committee Agreement Update:
The last time the Town amended the health insurance agreement with the Public Employee Committee,
the Town agreed to investigate offering a health insurance opt out plan. We will be working with our
health insurance consultant and areaimingto meet with the Public Employee Committee in April.
The idea behind a health insurance agreement is that employees that have been on the town's
health insurance would opt out for a minimum period of time and receive a payment for opting
out. This would result in an overall savings for the town for the employer share of health insurance
30 School Street Hazardous Materials Abatement and Demolition:
The Contractor awarded the hazardous materials abatement and demolition of 30 School Street provided
a project schedule and they have begun the administrative side of the project by notifying DEP ofthe
hazardousmaterialsabatementand requestingpermits. Theirscheduleindicatesthey will be preparing the
site the last two weeks of March and the abatement will be the first two weeks of Apriland begin to
mobilize for demolition by mid-April. The current schedule indicates a completion dateof May 8th.
Tax Assessment Services Update:
===PAGE 7===
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• The Citizens Party Caucus in Monday, March 27th at 7 PM at the MS/HS Auditorium.
• TheFinance Committee has a public hearing on the budget and articles on the ATM warrant on
March 30, 2023 at 7 PM at Town Hall.
• The Annual Town Meeting is Saturday, May 6, 2023 at 9 AM at the Lunenburg Middle/High
School.
• The Annual Town Election is Saturday, May 20, 2023 7 AM-5 PM at TCP.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Approval of Common Victualler license for Priha, Inc d/b/a Jaxx Country Variety,
1353 Mass. Ave.
Mr. Jeffreys noted this had been overlooked at the alcohol license hearing for Jaxx Country
Variety.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the common victualler license for Priha, Inc. d/b/a Jaxx Country Variety
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
ri
Review Upcoming List of Board/Committee Vacancies for June
Mr. Franco read the list of upcoming vacancies, including current vacancies and annual
appointments/reappointments in June.
300t ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE
2 MEMBERS (after this evening's appointments)
AGRICULTURAL COMMISSION
2 MEMBERS
1 ASSOCIATE MEMBER
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT COMMISSION
1 MEMBER AT LARGE
1 RESIDENT MEMBER
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES COMMISSION (APPOINTED BY TOWN MANAGER/RATIFIED BY
SB)
1 MEMBER AT LARGE
CONSERVATION COMMISSION
2 MEMBERS
COUNCIL ON AGING
===PAGE 8===
JIVIDBALO
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE
2 MEMBERS
PACC
3 MEMBERS
ZBA
1 ASSOCIATE MEMBER
Mr. Jeffreys noted these vacancies will be advertised and anyone interested should submit a
volunteer form to the Select Board office prior to the end of May.
3. Approval of Minutes of January 17, 2023 (Session II)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of January 17, 2023 (Session Il) as presented
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
OLD BUSINESS
Finalize Budget and Legislative Priorities Submittal to Legislators
The board reviewed the various department requests. She presented a list for this year to the
legislators:
1. Security Upgrades at the Public Safety Building (cost TBD but estimated at $50,000)
Security Upgrades identified on FY24 Capital Plan for THES and Primary School ($160,000,
$131,000, and $83,500, respectively for three projects)
3. Fire Alarm at THES on FY24 Capital Plan ($287,000)
4. Marshall Park Funding
Ms. Lemieux noted the security upgrade amount (#1) has been finalized at $83,000. Ms.
Lemieux noted the security upgrade amount (#1) has been finalized at $83,000. After
discussion, the following was decided on:
1. Turkey Hill Elementary School $374,000
2. Marshall Park $250,000
3. Library $36,000
4. Sewer Pump stations $300,00
Old Business (continued)
===PAGE 9===
General Court may reasonably vary the form and substance of the requested legislation within the scope
of the general public objectives of this petition:
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG TO ESTABLISH A MEANS
TESTED SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION.
SECTION 1. With respect to each qualifying parcel of real property classified as class one, residential in
the town of Lunenburg, there shall be an exemption from the property tax in an amount to be set
annually by the board of assessors as provided in section 3. The exemption shall be applied to the
domicile of the taxpayer only. For the purposes of this act, "parcel" shall mean a unit of real property as
defined by the board of assessors under the deed for the property and shall include a condominium unit.
The exemption provided for herein shall be in addition to any other exemptions allowed under the
General Laws.
SECTION 2. The board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg may deny an application for
exemption if the board finds that an applicant has excessive assets that place the applicant outside of
the intended recipients of the senior citizen tax exemption created by this act. Real property shall
qualify for the exemption under section 1 if all of the following criteria are met:
(i) The qualifying real property is owned and occupied by an Applicant who has applied for
and been granted the State's Senior Circuit Breaker Tax Credit;
Each Applicant named in an application who has attained the eligibility age 70 years for an
elderly exemption in Lunenburg under M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 41(C) must have
applied for and been granted this exemption;
(i)
Each Applicant named in an application has attained the age of 65 years by the close of
the calendar year immediately preceding the year of application;
(il) The Applicant has owned and occupied a home in the Town of Lunenburg, as his or her
primary residence, for at least 15 consecutive years pre-dating and including the date of
application;
(ill) The Applicant has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Lunenburg Board of Assessors
that (s)he, and each co-applicant, owns no other significant assets such as, by way of
non-limiting example, a second home, a trust fund, securities, equities, and bonds.
(iv) The amount of relief granted to each Applicant under this program shall not exceed 100
percent of the Circuit Breaker Tax Credit for which the Applicant qualified in the previous
SECTION 3. The board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg shall annually set the exemption amount
provided for in section 1 relative; provided, however, that the amount of the exemption shall not exceed
the amount of the circuit breaker income tax credit pursuant to subsection (k) of section 6 of chapter 62
===PAGE 10===
SECTION 4. A person who seeks to qualify for the exemption under section 1 shall, before the deadline
established by the board of assessors of the town of Lunenburg, file an application, on a form to be
adopted by the board of assessors, with the supporting documentation of the applicant's income and
assets as described in the application. An applicant must submit an application, and demonstrate
eligibility, for each year for which the applicant seeks the exemption.
SECTION 5. No exemption shall be granted under this act until the department of revenue certifies
a residential tax rate for the applicable tax year where the total exemption amount is raised by a
burden shift within the residential tax levy.
SECTION 6. This act shall expire after 3 years of implementation of the exemption. or
take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
The board discussed legal counsel's comments. It was noted that if approved at town meeting, the state
legislature will have to be petitioned under home rule or petition. After discussion, Ms. Lemieux will ask
Town Counsel a question about expiration after three years (section 6) and an amended draft will be
presented next meeting.
The board moved on to the ATM warrant and reviewed the articles and made recommendations
on some of them. Many did not have monetary numbers as yet and were passed over.
• To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the
Town Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: RECOMMENDS 4-0
• To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards,
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44,
Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023 to be expended in accordance
with the by-law heretofore approved; or take any other action relative thereto.
Submitted by the Town Manager)
• To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, boards,
committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44,
Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2023 to be expended in accordance
with the by-law heretofore approved; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
Revolving Fund
FY24Spending
Limit
===PAGE 11===
Revolving
Stormwater Task Force
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing
Inspector
Technology
$5,000
$46,000
$30,000
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: RECOMMENDS 4-0
• To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money
necessary to the Overlay Account for all costs associated with FY 2023 abatements; or
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Ms. Lemieux stated she was recommending $1.5M from Free Cash. That includes worst case
scenario if every abatement was approved plus interest if it moved on to Appellate Tax Board
and that we had to pay back interest on those abatements minus the $200 000 from the overlay,
so worst case scenario is $1.5 M. Further discussion ensued about the possibility of the bills
being mailed late and changing the deadline date.
•To see if the Town will vote to appropriate the sum of $10,000.00 from the
Sale of Lots account to be used for the care, improvement and
embellishment of the
Town Cemeteries; or to take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Cemetery
Commission)
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: RECOMMENDS 4-0
• To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-
4.1 by inserting §250-4.1K(20) Self-Storage as shown below, or any other action
relative thereto.
4.1K
COMMERCIAL
USES
4.1K(
Self-Storage
20)
RA
RB
LB/R
C
OP/I
R
VC
D
TT
W
S
-
-
SP
-
ZB
-
-
Z
B
4.1K(20) Self-Storage: A building or group of buildings of a controlled- access and/or fenced
===PAGE 12===
including those outlined in applicable opioid-litigation settlement documents, a
document prepared by the Substance Abuse Bureau of the Commonwealth's Office of
Health and Human Services Department, found at
https://www.mass.gov/doc/massachusetts-abatement-terms/download entitled
"Abatement Strategies", and consistent with any state guidelines or regulations further
clarifying allowable uses of opioid litigation settlement funds; and further, to adopt the
last paragraph of said §5B and dedicate to such fund, without further appropriation,
100% of the opioid litigation settlement funds received by the Town; and further, to
transfer from available funds a sum of money equal to that received or to be received
by the Town from opioid litigation settlements resulting from the Town's participation
in the national Opioid Multi-District Litigation into said Opioid Settlement
Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town
Manager)
SELECT BOARD RECOMMENDATION: RECOMMENDS 4-0
WARRANTS
The board signed an Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $366,747.26.
ACTION ITEMS
Mr. Jeffreys in response to Ms. Clark's public comment regarding Unitil's communications
during the March 14 storm, brought up the discussion. Ms. Lemieux stated during one of our
calls; we had calls twice a day during the storm it was addressed. Unitil met or exceeded those
requirements of that law; they were sending out PSAs daily, they were doing social media
posts, they did interviews with the media and they sent emails to their customers that they had
email addresses for. They did address that with every all the member towns that were on that
call and I did put that as well in a post I did on Facebook.
Mr. Jeffreys asked how the resident who doesn't have power gets the communication from them.
Ms. Lemieux will research that. Mr. Alonzo commended the DPW for their work during the
storm.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Mr. Franco reported he attended the Council on Aging meeting and there was much discussion
about the 300" Anniversary Committee and how the COA could be involved. Eagle House
Supporters are still holding their clothing drive for the Epilepsy Foundation. They are collecting
clothing every Tuesday and Thursday between 10:00 AM and 12 Noon until April 29th
Mr. Alonzo reported Finance Committee is holding their public hearing for the budget on March
30" at 7:00 PM in this room.
Mr. Jeffreys reported Ms. Lemieux, the Finance Director and he met with the Library Trustees
Chairman regarding their trust funds. The legislature has finally approved their using other
===PAGE 13===
Monday of April to finalize the hybrid option as well as providing the Select Board with their
needs. The committee believes we have met the board's charge being able to come forward with
different plans. We will be looking to schedule a meeting with the board in April with the intent
to provide those permutations to lay out what a projected timeline could be for this board's
consideration and further development.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the upcoming meetings; March 28' and April 4th
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Lemieux reiterated she was sad to hear of Mr. Dwyer's resignation. I think he was an
excellent board member. I respected his opinions and what he added as far as value to the
meetings. So it's hard to see him go.
Mr. Alonzo reminded the Water District is holding their annual election this Saturday from 8:00
- 10:00 a.m. and immediately after they will hold their annual meeting.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2'': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:41 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elaire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
