===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Emkey
Member not present: Lou Franco, Vice Chairman
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, attorney Gina Wilson, Vinay Patel, Jignash Patel,
Jasminkumar Patel via ZOOM, Attorney Jeff Aveni, Jonathan Dickhaut
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to rise for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel, Facebook Live and the Public Access Facebook page and will be uploaded to the Public
Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
Public Comment: There was none this evening.
Announcements:
Mr. Jeffreys stated the Cemetery Commission would like the community to join them at Town Hall next
Tuesday at 7:00 PM in the Bilotta Meeting Room to hear their presentation on the proposed restoration
of the North Cemetery boundaries as well as to discuss next steps.
Ms. Lemieux announced the Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 AM until 1 PM until mid-October
on the Ritter lawn.
The Special Town Meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 14th at 7 PM at the MS/HS Auditorium.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ms. Lemieux announced she had received two resignations, the first was from Alex Page, DPW Heavy
Equipment Operator. The second was from the newly hired Facilities Superintendent Scott Oja, who
will be staying with his former employer as they had made a counter offer to him to stay.
Town Manager Report
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
•
Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
•
Green Communities Committee (1 Regular Member and 1 Associate vacancy)
•
Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
===PAGE 2===
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Assistant Meal Site Manager (19.5 hours/week)
• Conservation Administrator (36 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operators (40 hours/week)
Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborers Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the website under job opportunities, which are located on the
town website.
Update on Certification of Property Values, Certification of New Growth, and Third
Quarter Preliminary Tax Bills for FY24
The Bureau of Local Assessment approved the request for a valuation delay beyond the January 1st deadline on
September 13th through Gateway. Through conversations with our Bureau of Local Assessment Field
Representative and our Bureau of Local Accounts Field Representative, since our property values will not be
certified until February, our New Growth will not be certified until DOR certifies our values, which according to
VISION's completion date will be in February. This equates to using the same estimate that we used at the Annual
Town Meeting for New Growth at the upcoming Fall Town Meeting.
We will need to submit a Pro Forma Recap after the Special Town Meeting and once approved, can mail out the
third quarter estimated tax bills before December 31st and they will be due by February 1st.
I spoke with another community that went through a third quarter preliminary billing and they provided a
template for a tax bill insert for the 3rd and 4th quarter bills, which we will use as a starting point to provide
taxpayers information in their tax bills why they are receiving a third quarter estimated bill and what to expect for
the 4th quarter actual bills.
Infrastructure, Facilities, and IT Updates
LED Streetlight Project: Our contractor has converted approximately 50 lights so far. We met with Unitil today
and our contractor will be documenting any wiring issues they find in the field and we will provide all this
information to Unitil at the conclusion of the project to review costs with the Town.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Resign the Temporary/Permanent Easement for 895 Flat Hill Road
The board needed to resign the easement agreement as they did not sign the finalized version that
included payment last week.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To sign the easement agreement for 895 Flat Hill Road
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
2. Committee Reports
===PAGE 3===
Liquor Mart from Elena's Gourmet Grocery (1 Main Street) and a Change of Location to 88
Mass. Ave. and application for a Common Victualler License
Mr. Nuzzolo read aloud the public hearing notice.
"The Lunenburg Licensing Authority/Select Board will hold a public hearing on September 19, 2023 at 7:15 PM
in Town Hall, 17 Main St., Second Floor, Lunenburg, MA, on the application submitted by Lunenburg Liquor
Mart, Inc., d/b/a Liquor Mart for an All Alcohol Retail Off- Premises (Retail Package Store) License located at
88 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA. This is a change of location for the transfer of the license from Elena's
Gourmet Grocery (1 Main Street). The premises is described as single story building, with two rooms, storage
area, two entrances/exits, total 3,100.57 square footage."
Attorney Wilson from Pusateri and Wilson PC, introduced herself and Mr. Vinay Patel, the applicant.
Mr. Patel stated he was looking to start a business in town with the all alcohol license at 88
Massachusetts Avenue. The unit located in the mini strip mall is currently empty. Mr. Patel has been in
the alcohol business for approximately 15 years. He has extensive experience; he is certified, he has
been a manager and an operator of other off-premises liquor establishments for quite some time.
There are a couple of changes to bring to the board's attention procedurally with regard to the
application. Abutter notification was sent out based on the addresses we had on the abutters' list.
Of the three that were listed two of the notices came back; both the certified and the first class came
back as undeliverable, so I just wanted to bring that to your attention. In actuality it was the same
abutter that owned the two properties so that they or may not have had actual notice of this meeting. The
other issue was that we do have a couple of updates to the application packet that's before you since that
was submitted. There has been a change to the proposed floor plan. I have the updated floor plan here
it's not a major change they just added in a second bathroom to the area. Square footage has changed and
there is an additional exit on the side.
Ms. Emkey asked what was the plan for being at the business since you have two other businesses in
Orange and Gloucester. Mr. Patel planned to be in Lunenburg while other employees covered the other
businesses. Mr. Patel's brother, Jignesh stepped forward and stated he owns other businesses and has
been helping him out. He is moving to Lunenburg as his son is going to be attending Monty Tech in
Fitchburg. When asked if he had any incidents in the other businesses, he replied no. Hours of operation
will be 8 am to 11 pm Monday through Saturday and 10 am to 11 pm on Sunday. Mr. Patel will be using
an ID scanning system purchased from the state to verify legal age requirements. An id has to be
scanned in order for an alcohol sale to go through the register.
Discussion ensued about Mr. Patel meeting the requirement of being there at least 50% of the time. Mr.
Patel assured the board that he would be in the store usually between 10-12 hours daily. Mr. Jeffreys
reminded the applicant that the policies need to be readily available for the employees in the store.
Jasminkumar Patel via Zoom, 155 Northfield Road, was in opposition of the license being transferred
out of the town center as it would serve the residents better there. The board responded that they did not
know of any other place in town center the applicant could use and there was an existing all alcohol
business a short way down Massachusetts Avenue. Mr. J. Patel responded that they did search around
===PAGE 4===
Public Hearing for Amendment to Alcohol License 07528-RS-0636 for Lakefront
Beverage Inc. d/b/a On the Rocks, for a Pledge of Collateral
Attorney Aveni, 6 Grove Street, Leominster, stated he was representing Avidia Bank who provided a
loan to Mr. Dickhaut and we are now fulfilling the obligations of the commitment letter to get the pledge
in place. Mr. Alonzo asked for clarification that the pledge cannot occur without the Select Board's
approval. Attorney Aveni concurred.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2nd: T. Alonzo
To approve the amendment to license #07528-RS-0636 for Lakefront Beverage Inc. d/b/a On the
Rocks, for a Pledge of Collateral
Discussion: Mr. Jeffreys stated recently we were advised of an incident at On the Rocks and the way it
was handled by your staff represents the appropriate actions we want to see when there are people under
the influence of alcohol, so kudos to you.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Aveni and Mr. Dickhaut thanked the board and exited the meeting.
Review November 14th Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
Ms. Lemieux presented warrant articles that have been added to the warrant since the last meeting.
There are five Planning Board articles and one from the Agricultural Commission. The Agricultural
Commission Chair and Town counsel worked together on their warrant article. It amends the Protective
Bylaw regarding zoning and the definition of a farm and use and dimensional regulations as it relates to
farms. Another article submitted by the Parks Commission has to do with an application for a PARC
grant and a required Town meeting vote regarding the ARPA funding and the commitment per the
agency they are applying to for the grant. The Parks Commission will be invited in to a meeting to
clarify the requirements and the article wording. The Planning Board will be requested to explain the
changes in their warrant articles. The Municipal Building Committee is requesting to present an update
on their work at the Special Town Meeting. Other articles will address the Animal bylaw, and using the
Special Purpose Stabilization Account to purchase an ambulance and two dump trucks.
I. CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Select Board Bylaws (FY24 Select Board Goal #3)
Mr. Jeffreys stated as part of our goal we are starting the process of reviewing the wording in the Charter
and Bylaws that pertain to the Select Board. The board began with Section 3.2 of the Charter, noting
Board of Selectmen should be changed to Select Board.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'°: C. Nuzzolo
That the board change the wording of "Board of Selectmen" and " Selectmen" to "Select Board"
in every legal document including the bylaws, procedures, and every other document that the
Town has, except the Charter which will have its own review
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 5===
Upcoming Meetings & Events
October 3, October 10, October 17, October 24
October 11 Ribbon Cutting for new ADA Patio, 12 PM, Adult Activity Center, 25 Memorial Drive
Public Comment: there was none at this time.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Alonzo
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn the meeting after exiting Executive Session
pursuant to MGL c. 30 § 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's
bargaining position and the Chair so declares. (Clerical Union)
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:03 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
