===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Bill Bernard, DPW Director
Cemetery Commission Members: Nancy Foss Yasko, David Dorren
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to rise for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel, Facebook Live and the Public Access Facebook page and will be uploaded to the Public
Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
Public Comment:
Mr. Alonzo expressed condolences to the Cities of Leominster and Fitchburg that experienced extreme
flooding conditions yesterday.
Mr. Franco reminded all of the Pancake breakfast tomorrow morning at the Eagle House Adult Activity
Center from 8:00 to 10:30 am.
Residents Tom Watkins, 64 Beale Street and Tim Murphy, 97 Island Road, noted their previously
approved event of the Oktoberfest at St. Boniface Parish scheduled for this Saturday may need to be
postponed due to the extreme weather conditions. They had a one day liquor license for Saturday and in
hindsight they should have requested Sunday as well. Mr. Jeffreys stated the Select Board was meeting
on Thursday so the request would be added to their agenda.
Announcements:
Ms. Lemieux announced the following:
• The Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 am to 1 pm through mid-October on the Ritter
lawn.
• The Discovery Center and the Council on Aging are partnering on a Volunteer Fair taking place
tomorrow night from 4 to 7 pm at the Adult Activity Center.
• The warrant for the Special Town Meeting will close on Monday the 18 at 5:00 pm.
• The Special Town Meeting is November 14" at 7:00 pm at the Middle/High School Auditorium.
Joint Meeting with the Cemetery Commission: ARPA Request
Ms. Foss Yasko called the Cemetery Commission meeting to order. She had prepared a presentation for
the request for ARPA funding.
===PAGE 2===
to $388K. This reduces the life-cycle cost associated with this asset.
Cemetery Commission recommends the Select Board members to move forward with securing from the
American Rescue Plan Act - significant funding for a New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall vs.
Hemlock hedges.
North Cemetery 100 year-old Arborvitae hedges were severely pruned in 2023. Following the pruning
several licensed and professional arborists were called in by the Cemetery Commission to make
recommendations regarding the recovery options to the 100 year-old Arborvitae hedges.
Recommendations were simple - because of the lack of historical maintenance and limited access to
water, the landmark hedges are likely beyond recovery. Arborists advised not to put good money toward
working to improve their health, due to an expected poor outcome and instead recommend removing
them.
Replacement cost of Hemlock Hedges are estimated at approximately $185K. Anderson Landscape
Construction Horticulture Preservation walked the Cemetery Commission and DPW Director through
this process.
Recommendation and estimate provided to install and plant 173 young trees up to 6-7 feet tall.
Extraction and disposal of stumps, set in new planting bed with mulch and watering allowance for one
season.
Key Note: three seasons of water needs to be complete, which is going to be cost prohibitive - due to
lack of water and irrigation at the North Cemetery.
Complete estimate from Anderson Landscape Construction Horticulture Preservation has been provided
and given to each Select Board member and Town Manager for review.
Additional Cost for newly planted Hemlock trees; having 173 newly planted Hemlock trees will cost a
significant amount of money for both the watering and maintenance care for three years and beyond.
One year of watering will cost the Cemetery Commission and DPW an estimated $3K. This will raise
the life-cycle cost significantly.
There is no electricity at the North Cemetery for required well pump to water new plants. Both of these
requirements will require additional funding.
North Cemetery cannot handle the water flow for the additional amount of water needed to keep these
newly planted trees alive. Additional cost of $15K or more for a well to be drilled. This does not include
the cost for a pump, piping and electricity. A possible solution is tie into the water system on Highland
Street - cost to be determined.
Preferred Solution:
Permanent New England Rustic Field-Stone Wall - estimated range at approximately $288K to $388K,
which reduces the life-cycle cost associated with this asset. Permanent New England Rustic Field-Stone
Wall - estimated range at approximately $288K to $388K, which reduces the life-cycle cost associated
with this asset.
Request: $350K for Restoration of North Cemetery Boundaries.
===PAGE 3===
establishments:
• Select Board for allowing the Cemetery Commission to make this presentation during your
weekly meeting
• Stan Dillis - Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group
• Jeff Schwarz - Alphagraphics - Shirley
• Fred Anderson - Anderson Landscape Construction Horticulture Preservation
• Brett Ramsden - Ramsden Stone Walls and Waterproofing, LLC
• Matt May - Lakeview Landscaping & Irrigation
• Mark Flagg - M Flagg Tree Service/Arborist Central Mass Gardens
• Einstein's Solution
• David Dorren - Vice-Chair & Clerk, Cemetery Commission
• Bill Bernard - DP W, Director
The board asked questions about the previous maintenance of the cemetery bushes or the possibility of
the current bushes recovering, having more water available in both cemeteries, past vandalism in the
cemetery to some bushes, as well as the high cost of the project versus what ARPA funding remains.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the Cemetery Commission for their presentation. He recommended reaching out to
the abutters and other residents for feedback on their proposal. Mr. Alonzo commended Ms. Yasko for
her presentation.
The Cemetery Commission adjourned their meeting.
Town Manager Report
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Board of Assessors (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Regular Member and 1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Park Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board
office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
===PAGE 4===
More information on each position can be found on the website under job opportunities, which are located on the
town website.
September 11th Flash Floods Storm Event and MEMA Situational Awareness Update on Upcoming Rain
Although it is estimated we received over 7" of rain from last night's storm event, the damage in Town does not
compare to the devastation in our neighboring city of Leominster. Today Senator Cronin's office reached out to see
if we had any initial damage assessment to include in their request to the state for relief funding. DPW Director
Bill Bernard put together an estimate of approximately $24,000 in costs attributed to this storm and this was
forwarded to Senator Cronin's office at the end of the day. Representative Scarsdale and Representative
Kushmerek also reached out to see if we needed any assistance, as did our North Central Chamber of Commerce.
Today I shared a post from North Central Chamber of Commerce, as they have created a dedicated email hotline
for businesses affected by the flood event to contact them for assistance. That email is help@northcentralmass.com.
I would like to thank our public safety staff, including our Fire Department that responded with an engine, ladder
truck, dive truck and boat to assist Leominster, The engine and ladder truck responded to calls in the City and
assisted with evacuations on Exchange Street. The dive truck and boat assisted with evacuations at the
Meadowbrook Trailer Park. Also, thank you to the DPW crew who were out until midnight last night closing
certain roads that had flooding issues and clearing out drains until they were passable.
With the expected additional rainfall tomorrow and Hurricane Lee effects over the weekend, MEMA issued a
situational awareness update:
"The National Weather Service (NWS) in conjunction with the MEMA Agency Meteorologist are predicting
another round of showers and thunderstorms on Wednesday. High humidity coupled with a slow-moving cold
front will run the risk for heavy bouts of rainfall mainly between 12PM - 10PM. Rainfall rates of near 1 inch per
hour may occur across portions of western and central Massachusetts Wednesday afternoon and evening. While
these showers and thunderstorms are expected to be more progressive than they were Monday, any storm that
produces 1 inch per hour rain rates, especially over a previously hard-hit area, is likely to cause additional instances
of flash flooding."
Drier weather is expected to return Thursday afternoon into Friday.
"MEMA is actively monitoring Hurricane Lee through this week as it makes its way up the east coast. Daily
coordination calls with the National Weather Service, National Hurricane Center, and MEMA Command and
General Staff are underway. Future information on pre-event planning actions, activation, coordination calls, and
response posture will be updated in the coming days."
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal #1,ii) The EPA has approved funding for additional work to be done at 925 Mass Ave
that will include soil borings, soil samples, monitoring well installation, groundwater sampling, removal of the
hydraulic lift in the building, closure of the floor drain, and removal of the floor drain holding tank.
Due to the concentrations of VPH in the underground storage tank excavation groundwater samples, new
groundwater monitoring wells in locations where each underground storage tank existed will be installed. Soil
samples will be collected from each soil boring to provide additional site data. The work would also include
collecting groundwater samples and updated groundwater elevation data.
===PAGE 5===
Infrastructure, Facilities, and IT Updates
LED Streetlight Project: Pine Ridge Technologies began the LED Streetlight conversion project on September
Sth and ran into issues with the wiring on a majority of the streetlights they have attempted to convert. We
contacted Unitil and are coordinating a meeting between their Electric Operations Manager and the vendor
tomorrow to review what our contractor has found in the field. In the meantime, our contractor will proceed with
the conversion and will address any wiring issues as they are encountered at each light.
Senior Center ADA Patio Project: The Senior Center ADA Patio Project is expected to be complete by the end of
this month. The ribbon cutting ceremony will be October 11th at noon.
TC Passios Roof: There was yet again another leak at TC Passios that occurred over the weekend. After speaking
with the Facilities Director and discussing everything that has been done to try to find where the leaks are
originating, the patches that have been done, and that the roof is over is life expectancy, he is going to seek quotes
to repair that roof in phases. A warrant article has been submitted for the Special Town Meeting as a placeholder.
New Website: The question that was raised about accessing the town website with an iPad and having to double
tap in order to expand menus will not be an issue with the new website through CivicPlus. Our IT Administrative
Assistant contacted our current website host and they would have to remove the whole menu and rebuild it and
there would be a cost to that. Since we are moving to a new website in a month, we will not make this change on
the current website but it will be a feature in the new website.
Third Quarter Preliminary Tax Bills for FY24
third quarter preliminary tax installment cannot be more than the amount of the first quarter preliminary tax
installment (IGR 23-1, IV. B.)
This year, a "Pro-Forma" Recap Sheet, which does not contain valuation information, will need to be done to
issue a third quarter preliminary tax bill and actual tax bills cannot be issued for the third quarter. Once we
complete the certification process at the end of January/beginning of February, a tax classification hearing can be
held, a Tax Recap Sheet submitted to DOR to set the tax rate, and the 4th quarter actual tax bills issued once the
Tax Recap is approved.
Budget Updates
Health Insurance Estimate for FY25 and future years: The Assistant Town Manager/HR Director,
Payroll/Benefits Coordinator, our health insurance broker, and I met with our health insurance account
representative last week for our annual review. We were advised that due to the state of the healthcare industry
and medical trends, we should budget 10% for active plans for FY25 and expect 8-10% increases in health
insurance rates each year over the next five years. This was explained that due to low employment in the medical
fields and hospitals renegotiating their contracts, insurance rates are trending high. Our retiree renewal for
calendar year 2024 is estimated to be a 6% increase.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Review November 14 Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
===PAGE 6===
Ms. Lemieux reported this article is due to the project scope changing
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, a
sum of money for repairs to the TC Passios Building located at 1025 Massachusetts Avenue; or
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Ms. Lemieux stated the Facilities Director is getting quotes for the roof.
To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $1,851.30 into the Sewer Reserve
Capacity Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer
Commission)
To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $5,340.00 into the Sewer
Inflow/Infiltration Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
the Sewer Commission)
Ms. Lemieux noted there will be four articles coming from the Planning Board. The board also wanted
an article to transfer funds from the special purpose stabilization account to pay for three vehicles
originally to be paid by ARPA funding.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote to Authorize Town Counsel to respond to 15 Cliffview Terrace Appeal to
Worcester Superior Court
This is to authorize Town Counsel to respond to the appeal filed through Worcester Superior Court by
the residents of 15 Cliffview in response to being informed their home was not zoned for BnB use.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2": T. Alonzo
To authorize Town counsel to respond to the appeal to Worcester Superior Court
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
2. Sign Temporary/Permanent Easement for 895 Flat Hill Road
This is necessary the Flat Hill bridge construction.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'°: C. Nuzzolo
To sign the temporary/permanent casement for 895 Flat Hill Road as presented
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye Mr. Jeffreys-aye
3. Discuss/Review Dog Hearing Bylaw, Section 110-1
The board discussed discrepancies between state law and the local bylaw when it comes to nuisance or
dangerous dog language for dog hearings. Feedback will be solicited from the Police Chief, Animal
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Jeffreys believed the information was already in the google drive. He hoped to discuss this further at
another meeting.
5. Approval of Minutes of June 20, 2023
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
To approve the minutes of June 30, 2023 as presented
Vote: Ms. Emkey-abstain, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye, Mr. Franco-aye
6. Warrants
The board signed a school payroll warrant in the amount of $3514.26; an accounts payable warrant in
the amount of $40,779.97; a payroll warrant in the amount of $971,248.01 and an accounts payable
warrant in the amount of $1,099,483.99.
There were no Action Items this evening.
7. Committee Reports
Ms. Emkey reported the School Committee met for the first time since school was back in session. They
noted how the first day of school and transportation went well. There was also discussion around the
need tor an engineering study tor ADA compliance at Turkey Hill Elementary.
Mr. Alonzo reported Finance Committee will be meeting next week. Mr. Nuzzolo reported the Planning
Board met and discussed the lack of a Select Board representative on the Master Planning Steering
Committee. They meet again next week. Mr. Franco will be representing the Select Board on that
committee.
Mr. Franco attended the Council on Aging meeting and the projected ribbon cutting date for the ADA
patio is October 11th
. There is a pancake breakfast tomorrow at the Adult Activity Center from 8 to
10:30 am.
Mr. Jeffreys reported he would be attending a regional meeting with Rep. Scarsdale next week. The
Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee will be meeting next Monday. We also received a
communication from the Water District about representation at an informational seminar. Mr. Jeffreys
will work with them to get that scheduled. The Cemetery Commission is meeting this Thursday; Town
Manager, Mr. Alonzo and myself will attend their meeting.
Mr. Franco stated he would like to attend the 300" anniversary committee meetings on an informal
basis, the board concurred
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed upcoming meetings. September 14 at 6:00 pm to appoint to the Board of
Assessors vacancy with the Board of Assessors until the next annual election; September 19, October 3,
October 10, October 17, October 24.
Public Comment:
===PAGE 8===
To adjourn the meeting
Vote: Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
The meeting adjourned at 8:56 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
