===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Ms. Sroka noted a Facebook page independent of the Town sponsored Facebook page
generated resident complaints about trash pickup, taxes going up, etc., but is not a town
sponsored forum. The administrator of the FB page is unknown. She encouraged anyone with
a complaint to go to the source to get it resolved.
Mr. Dwyer announced the Lunenburg Water District will be meeting tomorrow and they are
going to address some of the concerns that have been raised regarding the Hickory Hills well
study. Discussion ensued about the holiday trash pickup schedule and the recent real estate
tax bills that went out.
Mr. Jeffreys noted Governor Baker will be ending his term tomorrow. It's a tremendous
responsibility and Governor Baker has done a wonderful job over his tenure and we look
forward to what comes next with Governor Healey. Mr. Alonzo echoed Mr. Jeffreys and
added Governor Baker and Lt. Governor Polito have done an excellent job in staying engaged
with communities. We've gotten lots of communications from them about policies and
programs that they're doing and leading us through the pandemic was a very trying time. I
think they did an excellent job and I wish them both the best in their future endeavors.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, thanked the Police and Fire Chiefs who came out and
rang the bell for the Salvation Army on Christmas Eve. He also wanted people to know they
can apply for a tax abatement with the Board of Assessors until February 1s!.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• 300t" Anniversary Committee (8 vacancies)
• Council on Aging (2 vacancies)
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Historical Commission (2 vacancies)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
===PAGE 2===
• Library Assistant (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Police Officer (Full Time Benefitted)
• Production Technician (Part Time Benefitted)
• Public Safety Front Desk Clerk (Full Time Benefitted)
• Recreation Director (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
• Videographers (Part Time Non-Benefitted)
FY 2024 Budget Process
Departments were sent target budget forms for FY 2024 the third week of December and
requests are due back next week. I will present the Five Year Financial Forecast and Capital
Plan recommendation the week of January 16th and the FY 2024 Preliminary Budget will be
presented the week of February 13th. The Finance Committee will begin their budget
meetings with departments on February 23rd and end on March 23rd. The Finance
Committee public hearing will be on March 30th. The Annual Town Meeting this year is
Saturday, May 6th.
Meetings, Events, and Other Announcements:
• The Lions Club will be holding their annual Christmas Tree Recycling event on
Saturday, January 7th from 8 am until noon at the Ritter Building rear parking lot.
Lakeview Landscaping will be conducting the event on their behalf and will have a
dumpster for the trees.
• The ZBA will be holding a continuation of the public hearing for the Pond View
Commons project on Wednesday, January 11"h at 7 p.m. in this meeting room.
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
Mr. Jeffreys reported he received an email from Conservation Commission Chair Bob Pease
regarding encroachments on the Cowdry Conservation Area that were identified by the Dillis
and Roy survey. The abutters have removed everything without the Town having to resort to
any legal action. The Commission appreciates the support shown by the Select Board and
funding the survey. The commission will now be requesting that Town Counsel send
encroachment letters to another batch of abutters to the large Town Forest, Clarkes Hill,
Laurel Bank and the Rayno Conservation area.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Status Update on Town Manager and Select Board Goals
Ms. Lemieux reported the Land Use Director and I met with Mass Development
representatives regarding 925 Mass Ave. in December. They do have a program that consists
of Requests for Proposals for when we're at that that stage. I did state that we would like to
utilize that program and their services. She added long-term staffing discussion was part of
her pre-budget meetings. She is working on that process of putting that together.
===PAGE 3===
calculus that Principal Assessor CJ Carroll has done into this. I suggest we bring it to the tax
relief group first; refine it more and then bring it here with a more refined version of what's
being drafted.
Mr. Jeffreys stated our third objective was to review Select Board bylaws and propose
updates for the 2023 Annual Town meeting. Our first action was to review our policies and
procedures which we have completed. Our second action is to review all Select Board bylaws
and prepare modifications and updates to improve clarity and consistency with the Town
Charter. We will be working on that a little bit later today or at least starting that. The third
action is holding a public hearing to present any proposals, get feedback from the public and
then preparing the actual warrant article.
Open Meeting Law -Permanent Changes (cont.)
Mr. Jeffreys stated this is a placeholder, I don't realistically expect that we'll have much
discussion on this. It sounded last week as if we may just want to keep the opportunity to
meet remotely but we don't want to be encumbered by mandated requirements to host them.
Motion: L. Franco
2': T. Alonzo
To allow each board or a committee to use remote technology and have hybrid meetings
but not as a requirement that has to be enabled
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Report on FY24 Budget Priorities
Ms. Lemieux read from her memo to the Board:
Each year, prior to my presentation of the preliminary budget proposal to the Town, I review with the
Board foreseeable budget priorities for the next fiscal year. In line with prior years, there are always
more needs than resources and the fiscal approach is to balance the needs of the schools, town
departments, and capital needs while adhering to our financial policies and maintaining strong
To date, departments have been sent target budgets and I had meetings with various department
heads to discuss their needs for next fiscal year prior to sending out the target budget. After
receiving each department's budget request in mid-January, the Finance Director and I will meet
with every department and have more thorough discussions about their budget requests.
On the projected revenue side, currently the target budget includes a 2½ percent increase from the
prior year's levy limit, an estimated new growth figure of $200,000, the debt exclusion amount for
FY 24, level funds state aid, and includes a $50,000 increase to local receipts. By the end of
January, we will receive the Governor's budget proposal, which will amend our state aid estimate
until the state budget is finalized.
At this point in the budget process, I foresee staffing needs to be addressed conservatively in Fiscal
Year 2024. In prior years, the ten-year staffing plan for the Police Department and the five-year
staffing plan Fire/EMS were part of the preliminary budget presentations. The five-year Fire/EMS
plan was realized this fiscal year and the Fire Department obtained their Paramedic License on
January 2, 2023.
===PAGE 4===
and oversight will be a need that we will look to outsource. Trash and recycling are one of the top
resident complaints we receive and the goal of having a coordinator is to address these complaints
and resolve ongoing pick-up issues. Once the Board approves the pending ARPA funding requests,
federal reporting requirements, procurement, and oversight of projects will be added
responsibilities that we currently do not have the staff resources for. Outsourcing grant writing
services would also be another beneficial need that would have a positive return on investment.
Another area I will be recommending resources be allocated is training for staff. We currently have a
very limited budget for staff training and try to utilize all available free training through our
insurance company or grants. As we have on-boarded various employees, it has become obvious that
additional training resources would acclimate employees more quickly to their roles.
Operationally, there are several requests I expect to receive, including:
• Additional funding for ADA public rights of way improvements
• Hazardous tree removal expenses
• Drainage improvements across town
• Cemetery improvements that were below the $20,000 capital project threshold
• Facilities and grounds expenses
• Internet costs for fiber at various buildings
• IT equipment including camera upgrades and replacement of work stations
• Constructing small kennel for vicious dogs behind the Public Safety Building
• Library programming expenses
The target budget also includes increases for non-discretionary expenditures such as health
insurance, liability and workers compensation insurances, debt payments, and our retirement
assessment. The renewal rate increase at this point in the budget for health insurance is an 8.5%
increase, liability and workers compensation are estimated to increase 5%, and our retirement
assessment will increase 13% next fiscal year. We will receive the rate range for health insurance
at the end of January and our actual renewal rate in March. This is one of our largest "unknowns".
Fortunately, we created a health insurance stabilization account that we could tap into to stabilize
this cost if required
Lastly, we will be negotiating the clerical union contract this year and a consultant is currently
undertaking a compensation and classification study that will impact all proposed salaries for non-
contractual, non-union employees. The impact of both will need to be borne through the FY 2024
Salary Reserve appropriation.
It is still relatively early in the budget process and there are many moving parts that become known
later in the fiscal year. As budget developments come about or needs are identified, I will keep the
Board updated.
===PAGE 5===
The board will continue the discussion at a later time.
Acceptance of gift of New Sign at McNally Field
Ms. Lemieux reported communication from the Parks Commission that they voted to accept
the donation of a new sign for McNally Field. The Select Board needs to vote to accept the
gift. The board requested a photo of the sign be provided before voting.
Workshop-Bylaw Review
Mr. Jeffreys directed the board members to their meeting materials. We have a section of the
Charter that goes into the role of the Select Board. The purpose of this workshop is to align
the Charter with our bylaws. The Select Board has a lot of policies so there may not be a need
for a lot of revisions, but the idea is to look at the actual bylaws that we have and identify if
there's a need for any kind of changes. It was suggested to look over everything and continue
the discussion another time. The goal is to familiarize ourselves with what's here and then to
be prepared at our next workshop to discuss changes.
Vote to open the Annual Town Meeting warrant on January 10, 2023 and close the
warrant on March 20, 2023 at 4:00 p.m.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To open the Annual Town Meeting warrant on January 10, 2023 and close the warrant
on March 20, 2023 at 4:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Sroka presented a photo of the McNally Field sign to the board.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Alonzo
To accept the new sign donated to the Park Commissioners for McNally Field
Vote: All in Favor
It was clarified the donation was from friends of the McNallys.
Approval of December 13 and 20, 2022 Minutes
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"°: L. Franco
To approve the December 13 and December 20, 2022 minutes as submitted
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,737,128.07; a payroll
warrant in the amount of $956,240.90 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of
$61,236.91.
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo reported there has been a back and forth discussion between the Town Manager
and a Capital Planning Committee member about the property lines around the TC Passios
building and the ownership/custody of not just the building but the property. We should try to
get it out there about where the property lines are. There seems to be confusion depending on
who you talk to, when you talk to them, and what they're talking about as far as a project.
===PAGE 6===
did do survey work related to the building so there was a survey done at that time.
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported after our final Capital Planning meeting while there's no requirement
that all the requests be rated distinctly, we removed from consideration one item, so that
caused a blank area in some people's report and then some people wanted to rework it. So l
asked the committee to rank them uniquely and that's what we did. We re-met via Zoom only
on Wednesday and re-voted and resubmitted and voted to supersede the previous final one to
the new one and that is now with the Town Manager. Mr. Franco reported Economic
Development Committee was canceled due to lack of a quorum. Ms. Sroka reported School
Committee meets here and on ZOOM tomorrow night.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys reported their next meetings are on January 10, 17, and 24.
PUBLIC COMMENT: there was none at this time.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:19 P.M.
2nd: T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
