===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
ay in fact be discussed and
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked the Town band and its conductor, Steve Archambault, which held its first summer concert
last night. They did a great job.
The board expressed condolences to Stanley Barney's family on his passing.
John Reynolds, Sewer Commissioner Chair, clarified some comments made at the last meeting. It was stated
that a new request in the form of email was sent into the board. We didn't send in a new request; it was
documentation to support what I had presented at the last meeting. We haven't submitted a new request since
DO i had a direct impact on the soure and if you got the package that was emailed to each of you can see
it in that graph.
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, via ZOOM, thanked Mike Mackin, who was up for appointment to the
Sewer Commission this evening. He encouraged people to volunteer for the Town.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• The Town Beach hours are Saturdays and Sundays 12PM-6 PM and Monday through Friday 10AM-7
PM. Seasonal beach passes and swim lessons can be purchased through the lunenburgma.myrec.com
site.
• The Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 AM until 1 PM until mid-October on the Ritter lawn.
• The Summer Band Concert Series is every Monday at 7 PM, ending on August 14th at the TC Passios front
lawn.
• Tax Bills are due Tuesday, August 1st.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
• Montachusett Regional School Representative Reappointment- Barbara Reynolds, 952 Flat
Hill Road- term to expire June 30, 2027
Mr. Jeffreys noted that since this is a reappointment, we did not ask Ms. Reynolds to appear. Ms. Lemieux
reported Ms. Reynolds is an excellent representative for the town. She attends meetings that I have with Monty
Tech on occasion and she has served in this role for many years. Mr. Alonzo stated he had served with her on
the Finance Committee and she is an excellent volunteer for the Town.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
===PAGE 2===
Guard she served as the administrative clerk; in the last 10 years she served as their chaplain. Her most recent
work was for Trinity hospice where she served as the chaplain. Her references validated her passion for this
type of work which was apparent during her interview process and confirmed that her strength is
advocacy. She is committed and compassionate. Since Michelle has not served as a Veteran Service Officer
before, the Assistant Town Manager has lined up training from the Leominster VSO as well as the state
representative to help on the processes and submittal of paperwork that needs to be done for veteran benefits.
Motion: L. Franco
2"d. C. Nuzzolo
To ratify the appointment of Michelle Durkee as Veterans Service Agent
Vote: All in Favor
Public Hearing for Transfer of a Wine & Malt license to Mahant Baker's Variety Inc., d/b/a Bakers
Whalom Variety located at 423 Electric Ave; Common Victualler & (3) Automatic Amusement Devices
(video games) Licenses
Mr. Nuzzolo read the public hearing notice aloud:
The Lunenburg Licensing Authority/Select Board will hold a public hearing on July 18, 2023 at 7:15 PM in Town Hall,
17 Main St., 2nd Floor, Lunenburg, MA, on the application submitted by Mahant Baker's Variety Inc. d/b/a Baker's
Whalom Variety, for the Transfer of a Wine & Malt Retail License located at 423 Electric Ave., Lunenburg, MA. The
premises is described as a single story variety store consisting of display and storage areas, and an office with 1 entrance
and 2 exits; total 1600 square feet.
Attorney Beau Akers of Brainsky Levinson, LLC introduced himself as representing the applicant/proposed
manager, Ashishkumar Patel. Just as an overview the proposed open hours are 7:00 A.M. to 11:00 PM.
The current employees will be staying on alter the transter. There is a purchase and sales agreement, a lease as
well as a request for the automatic amusement device licenses; everything as far as what would be sent to the
ABCC, CORI forms, business certificate, TIP certificates, and an alcohol sales policy regarding security and
safety measures such as determining legal age requirements.
Ms. Emkey asked for confirmation that the applicant owned four other businesses in Massachusetts. Mr. Patel
confirmed. Attorney Akers stated his client has 12 years of experience in this industry. Mr. Alonzo noted the
other businesses are a significant distance away, how are you going to handle management in Lunenburg?
Attorney Akers replied his client visits all of his businesses, he would have a manager overseeing the store here.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the hours, 7:00 A.M. to 11:00 PM, were a change from the current ones. Akers was not
sure.
Mr. Nuzzolo asked if there had been any violations or issues over the past 12 years. Mr. Patel stated no, he has
never received any tickets for anything. When asked, Mr. Patel stated he had a business in Swansea, Fall River,
New Bedford and Attleboro.
Mr. Jeffreys continuing on the management of the business, stated you mentioned that later down the line you
plan on having a manager or a different manager on record. Mr. Patel stated I have a general manager in my
stores, but on top of that my wife also has more than 12 years' experience, so she also comes and takes care of
training employees and she's going to one or two stores every day to check on things. My brother also is the
manager for one store. Attorney Akers clarified that Mr. Patel was applying as the manager on record for this
license. Mr. Patel is speaking about a general manager for the other stores that oversees the employees as well
as Mr. Patel visiting and making sure everything's running smoothly. More discussion ensued about managing
the stores. Mr. Jeffreys read from the Select Board policy that states "the manager or their designee must be on
===PAGE 3===
the license. I think to be in compliance with the town's liquor policies agree with my colleagues that you re
going to want to appoint somebody else to be there as well, otherwise either you're not going to be there and
then you won't be in compliance or you're going to spend a lot of time driving to and from here or getting a
home here quickly.
Mr. Jeffreys stated we are in support of small businesses in town. To be fully compliant with our policies I
would expect that you will come back before us and submit a change of manager or add another manager in
because of the distance from Seekonk to Lunenburg. Mr. Patel stated maybe he will move to this area.
Carol Baker, current owner of Baker's Whalom Variety, stated she and her husband Henry have owned it for 35
years. It's been a wonderful store. We've had the beer and wine license for a good 20-25 years. It's worked out
very well. We've had underage people try to come in and buy because when you ask for their license they say
oh I left it in the car and they go out to the car and never come back. Those young people who want to come in,
don't come in anymore because they know they're not going to get anywhere. I wanted to thank you all and my
husband Henry is here; we both own the store and we just can't do it anymore. Mr. Patel is going to improve the
store, it's an old post and beam. I liked what he was going to do so I chose him to buy my store.
Mr. Alonzo stated I am glad that Mrs. Baker came up because it gives me the opportunity to say the store has
been a cornerstone of the town ever since I moved here in 1998. It's been run by an excellent family, it's been a
arent to say the 105 be a
great store and I really appreciate all the work that you put into it and thank you for what you brought to the
community. Thank you to your husband as well.
Matthew Straight, 279 West Street, stated he represented the Bakers as the listing real estate agent. He hoped
the Select Board would support the decision today. They certainly want to retire. One thing that Mr. Patel didn't
point out is about a month ago he reached out to me asking to help him look to purchase a home here and we
had a pretty serious conversation about that. I live in Lunenburg, I can practically walk to the store. I want to
make sure that it's run by people who are invested in and care about Lunenburg and although my kids are
young, eventually they're going to be thinking about alcohol and we're all on the same page. I think we're going
to have a great new business partner.
Seeing no further comments, Mr. Jeffreys closed the hearing at 7:39 p.m.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
To approve the transfer of license of the wine and malt license to Mahant's Baker Variety, Inc. doing
business as Baker's Whalom Variety located at 423 Electric Avenue, inclusive of the common victualler
license and three automatic amusement licenses
Vote: All in Favor
Attorney Akers thanked the board and exited the meeting. The board wished the Bakers a happy retirement.
Joint meeting of Sewer Commission & Select Board to interview Michael Mackin to fill the Sewer
Commission Vacancy (Failure to Elect)
The Sewer Commission called their meeting to order at 7:42 p.m.
i to orderat our pith anniversary as homeowners in Lunenbur
Mike Mackin, 26 Cortland Circle, stated we just passed our 20th anniversary as homeowners in Lunenburg.
What brings me to the Sewer Commission? Anybody that knows Mr. MacDonald; knows he's very persuasive.
I've been on the School Committee; I served two terms and one was as the chairman. I served two years on the
Finance Committee. I served on the School Building Committee, I then became the chairman and served on that
until the completion of the project. In my professional background I spent years in service to people with
===PAGE 4===
Ramsden- aye. Mr. MacDonald-aye, Mr. Reynolds-aye
Mr. Mackin thanked the boards after they congratulated him. The Sewer Commission adjourned their meeting
at 7:54 p.m.
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Lifeguard, Cole Keeter
Ms. Lemieux stated Cole would serve as backup for the other lifeguards. He was a lifeguard at the Jewish
Community Center in Lancaster and has certifications for Lifeguard, CPR, AED. He is a senior at Lunenburg
High.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Cole Keefer as Lifeguard
2'': C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the Select
Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's Office at (978)
582-4130 x 144.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
.
Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Assistant Meal Site Manager (19.5 hours/week)
• Assistant Outreach Coordinator (10 hours/week)
• Conservation Administrator (36 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operator (40 hours/week)
• Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborers
•
Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town website.
Home Rule Petition for Means Tested Senior Citizen Tax Exemption (House Bill 3911)
Representative Scarsdale's Office notified me that a hearing for the Home Rule Petition to create a Means Tested Senior
Citizen Tax Exemption is scheduled for July 25th with the Joint Committee on Revenue. Written testimony may be
submitted to the Committee via email to jointcommittee.revenue@malegislature.gov or to the Joint Committee on Revenue
===PAGE 5===
the concrete sidewalk are in, and the footings for the pavilion are in place. The pavilion slab is supposed to be
poured this week.
•
The architect has completed the drawings for the Ritter ADA Ramp and building envelope project. The Facilities
Director is working on preparing a new Certificate to Alter application and once submitted, the APDC will need to
schedule a hearing within 45 days and a decision by the APDC must be issued within 20 days after the close of the
public hearing and no later than 90 days after the submittal of the application. It is noteworthy that during the
architect's preparation of the drawings, documentation from the Historical Society revealed that thecurrent
windows in that building are not the original windows. The replacement windows drawn on the plans will look
like the windows that were original to that building.
•
The Facilities Director will be sending the Assistant Town Manager a draft bid this week for the Lunenburg Adult
Activity Center Generator project and is close to sending a draft bid for the Public Safety Carpet project to the
Assistant Town Manager forreview. He iscurrently working with the architect on a review of the Public Safety
Building carport project and once complete, that will be forwarded to the Assistant Town Manager for review as
well.
• The School terminated their use of SchoolDude for reservation of space at the school buildings, which was also
used to reserve space at the TC Passios. The Facilities Department transitioned all reservations of space at the TC
Passios to MyRec. Right now this is a temporary solution.
Ms. Lemieux stated we had a leak in this room (Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall) today; that project obviously was part
of a capital plan to replace this roof so that's going to become a higher priority. We are doing that in phases because the
initial bid we received for the comprehensive project exceeded the appropriation. Also which will be coming to the
Municipal Building Design Committee is there have been about 23 leaks identified in the TC Passios building roof. We've
known for a long time that roof is beyond its life expectancy but this is becoming of an issue. We utilize a lot of that
space, some rooms are not able to be used because the asbestos is hot and we don't want that to occur in the space we are
using due to leaks. That is something the Facilities Director and I spoke of today, to bring that to the Municipal Building
Design Committee and plans should be identified as quickly as possible so we don't lose space that we really depend on.
IT Updates:
• The fiber at Town Hall was installed by Comcast in June and new phones for the Town Hall, Ritter, Library,
Lunenburg Adult Activity Center, and DPW have been ordered.
• The new town website, through CivicPlus, is expected to go live by the end of August.
• The migration of data for the MUNIS update is complete and we are now entering the training phase. The go
live date is scheduled for the beginning of September.
Discussion about other communities using MUNIS software ensued.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Sign letter to ABCC revoking Jaxx Country Variety transfer to Priha, Inc.
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Executive Assistant had received a notification that the applicant had withdrawn her
application for the license transfer for Jaxx Country Variety. The Alcoholic Beverages Control Commission
(ABCC) was requesting a letter from the Select Board that confirmed the application had been withdrawn and
the license returned to the original owner. Mr. Jeffreys would be signing the letter for the board.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"'': C. Nuzzolo
To authorize the Chair to sign the letter on behalf of the board
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 6===
Discussion on FY24 Select Board Goals
Last year's goals were:
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building at 30 School Street (a
continuation of FY21 and FY22 Select Board Goal - Objective 1, with modified actions).
I. Action: Oversee hazardous material abatement and demolition of Old Primary School through weekly
updates and timeline review with Town Manager
Il. Action: Seek public engagement to review and evaluate landscape architect plans for potential resubmission
at 2023 Annual Town Meeting
III. Action: Create working title that provides a clear unique purpose and benefit to residents
IV. Action: Communicate funding sources, distinct from Marshall Park project.
It was noted the building had been demolished, so some progress was made. There is a little more work to do. Mr. Jeffreys
stated we had planned on considering the location become a park; we went before the town. At that time town feedback
was that our plan was costly, the idea wasn't fully developed and the town did not support moving forward in that
direction. Presently we have a parcel sitting in the center of town, grass was applied to the area where the building was
demolished and that area is pretty level. But there's still a decent parcel that we may want to figure out a usage for.
Mr. Alonzo added the project presented had excellent reception by the public. It was poorly labeled as a park and we
should consider changing that, it was meant as a multi-purpose, multi-generational open space. I'd like to revisit that at
some point, but I think the project that was presented there was excellently suited.
Ms. Lemieux stated instead of delaying that, doing something, even a forward vision of what that timetable is going to
look like; whether it's pursuing grants at a different period of time, looking forward for financing, but just something to
keep progress moving on the parcel, because there's changes of board membership over time and it may get lost.
After further discussion, Mr. Jeffreys asked, are we in agreement about a goal related to buildings by next spring? There
was consensus on that.
Objective 2: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to establish a means- tested senior citizen property tax
exemption or abatement.
I. Action: Discuss the authority allowing us to pursue this program. Evaluate examples of how other towns have
already adopted similar programs.
Il. Action: Discuss and determine the eligibility criteria for seniors to be able to qualify and participate in the
program.
II. Action: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to create financial models and illustrations to allow the
Select Board to weigh options and to fine tune any proposal. At a minimum, these illustrations should include
what the exemption and/or abatement would be to the eligible seniorsand what the impact would be on all other
taxpayers.
IV. Action: Hold public hearings when necessary (but at least one) to present the proposal and get feedback from the
public.
V. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final proposal for Town
consideration.
It was noted that this is now in the hands of the legislature.
===PAGE 7===
Mr. Jeffreys stated he would like the Select Board to continue working on this goal.
Another goal suggestion was to work with the Green Communities Committee on installing solar panels placed
at the old dump to generate income for the Town.
A common theme from three Mr. Franco, Mr. Nuzzolo and Ms. Emkey was staffing, what could we do to assist
in that situation? Discussion ensued on possible reorganization or bringing in a consultant, retention of
employees and improving morale.
Mr. Nuzzolo also had a goal of exploring establishing a municipal electrical power plant; we pay more than
double the national average in electricity costs. He also had thought about increasing participation in town
government.
Mr. Jeffreys suggested providing new resident packages about the Town.
Action Items
Ms. Emkey requested an update on the tax assessment investigation. Mr. Jeffreys stated he would be
reporting on August 15" after speaking with Mr. Alonzo.
There were no committee reports or further public comment this evening.
Upcoming Meetings:
August 1, August 8, August 15, August 22
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2": L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
