===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Vice Chairman Alonzo called the meeting to order at 6:32 p.m. and noted the Board would enter Executive
Session and return to Open Session pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with
respect to collective bargaining, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's
bargaining position and the Chair so declares. (Fire Union) He noted Mr. Jeffreys was en route and would be
joining the meeting shortly.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: H. Sroka
To enter Executive Session and return to Open Session upon exiting; Pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21,
Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, where an open meeting may have a
detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position and the Chair so declares. (Fire Union)
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye
*********EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE*********
The meeting resumed at 7:12 p.m.
Mr. Jeffreys asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the
requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live
over the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public
access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, inquired about the tax assessment investigation, asking if Town Counsel had
communicated with the Dept. of Revenue (DOR) regarding the mailing dates of the tax bills as well as how the
135% assessment of the lake front properties was determined.
Chip Gershew, Laurel Lane, reported he filed for an abatement, had an inspection but when he asked the BOA
office what came next and if he could sit on his abatement review, he was informed he could not. He felt he had
reasons for relief and wanted to express them. Mr. Jeffreys stated those questions really should be addressed by
the Board of Assessors (BOA).
Ms. Lemieux reported the company doing the abatement inspections has gone through around 207 to date.
They will be presenting their recommendations to the BOA possibly around April 23rd
• The conversation
etween Town Counsel and DOR resulted in finding there is a two part decision; the date of the mailing
because the person responsible for the collection of taxes determines the date of mailing which determines wher
those tax bills are due. The Treasurer/ collector has determined based on the information provided there is
enough doubt about the contradictory evidence between the postal service dates and the affidavit of mailing
from our billing company that she will be relying on the January 6" date as the date of mailing. What that
means in essence is that the third and fourth quarter bills will be due May 1, 2023 and no interest is due on third
quarter taxes between the period of February Ist and May 1st
===PAGE 2===
don sce t a sta sens. te new poncy wants to maximize the electiveness or what we
have. We only have so many buses, we want to make sure that each bus is as full as needs to be and that they
run effectively. There is a new form, it went home to parents via email; several different ways, they were
probably called as well. I'm not sure but everybody needs to fill it out on time by May 1s!.
The bus company needs to develop their routes that needs to be done between May and say the end of June. If
those seats fill up somehow it would be they would be filled by first come first serve of the date stamp on the
application submitted. The complete policy is on the front page of the school website if anyone wants to look at
it. www.lunenburgschools.net
Tollbooth Fundraiser Request by Lions Club/Community Food Pantry for April 29th
Corinne Scouten, 166 Island Road, presented on behalf of the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Lion's Club. We put in
our request through the town manager's office to have a voluntary tollbooth on April 29th from 8 A.M till Noon
(Rain or Shine) and you know we've done this in the past. We have it down pretty well we've been in touch with
the police and the DPW Director and they've signed off on it as well so just here for your blessing.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'°: H. Sroka
To approve the tollbooth request from 8 am to noon on April 29t" in Town Center and setting up a trailer
for food collection on School Street as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Presentations on Annual Town Meeting articles from Personnel Committee representatives and
Historical Commission representatives
Donna Fortune, 50 Island Drive and Sue Andrews, 81 Horizon Island Road, presented on behalf of the
Personnel Committee's warrant article.
To see if the Town will vote to replace the current Salary Schedule in the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 70, Section 70-
8.A, entitled "Salary Administration Plan", Schedule A, with a FY 2024 Salary Schedule as recommended by the
Personnel Committee, which authorizes wage increase for Fiscal Year 2024, for permanent employees not covered by a
collective bargaining unit agreement or individual contract, and further transfer a sum of money from the FY2024 Salary
Reserve Fund to fund the wage increase for Salary Administration Plan employees. (Submitted by Personnel
Committee) $38,095.13.
Thank you for the opportunity to present and discuss the 2024 budget impacts within the Salary Administration
Plan (SAP) The SAP covers approximately 85 employees and 34 position titles. The titles include several
department heads, seasonal staff, part-time staff, on-call firefighters and non-grandfathered reserve police. The
Personnel Committee has been working over the last 18 months on job descriptions and job classifications and
compensation. This was a much bigger task than our five-member committee could handle. We worked with the
Assistant Town Manager/HR Director and the Town Manager to obtain an outside consultant to analyze the
SAP job descriptions and job classifications. Mary Beth Bernard is an HR consultant with broad experience in
Municipal compensation planning. She attended our November meeting and gave an overview of how the
project would proceed.
Our goal was to get something in on the Annual Town Meeting. We are still working with Mary Beth and are
about 75 percent complete. At our March 22nd meeting the committee voted to recommend the salary
compensations steps and grades continue to be worked on and presented at the Special Fall Town Meeting we
discussed the COLA increase and after discussion voted to include that with the special town meeting as well in
===PAGE 3===
Ms. fortune and Ms. Andrews thanked the board. William Lakso, 30 Prospect Street and Jenniter Sanderson,
848 Northfield Road, was present for the Historical Commission warrant article.
To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds, a sum of $25,000 for
consultant services to complete a survey program to inventory historic homes within the Town; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Historical Commission)
Mr. Lakso stated the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth through the Massachusetts Historical
Commission maintains an inventory of historic homes, buildings, parks and cemeteries. When the local Historic
Commission was formed all of the historic buildings and so forth within the district were added to that database.
There are many more such buildings and facilities and architectural features locally that we feel should be
added to the inventory. All of the communities in the state participate in this and we hope that Lunenburg will
continue to put on record all of these historical sites to accomplish that we need to file a letter of intent with
the MA Historical Commission in November. The survey is a 50/50 matching grant coming from the federal
government. It's a very modest amount for a very valuable asset.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the Select Board has voted unanimously to support this warrant article.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Alternate Electrical Inspector Baron Bowser
Ms. Lemieux stated Mr. Bowser was recommended by our Electrical Inspector John Biery who is the current
electrical inspector. Mr. Bowser has many years of experience working his own company and a company called
Piper Electrical previously to that and as a qualified MA master electrician. So he comes highly recommended
Motion: T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Baron Bowser to Alternate Electrical Inspector
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
• Appointment to the Agricultural Commission- Jacqueline Chabot, 40 Page Street- term to expire
June 30, 2025
Jackie Chabot stated she is the co-owner of In the Meadow Farm and has a great interest in farming and
promoting the farming community.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: H. Sroka
To appoint Jacqueline Chabot to the Agricultural Commission with a term to expire June 30, 2025
Vote: All in Favor
• Appointment to the 300t' Anniversary Committee-Christopher Sullivan- 108 Highland Street
Chris Sullivan stated he was approached by Pete and Debbie Lincoln about the committee because I am on the
Parks Commission and they wanted a member to be part of the committee. He thought it would be a great
opportunity to contribute to the town.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To appoint Chris Sullivan to the 300 Anniversary Committee
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
There was no Town Manager report this evening.
===PAGE 4===
Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 15, 2022 Special Town Meeting; or take any other
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Ms. Lemieux referred the board to the chart that details the transfers related to the article.
FY 23 Budget Adjustments from 5/7/22 ATM and 11/15/22 STM
FY23 Budget Adjustments
Appropriation
Workers Compensation
Technology Department
Reserve Fund
Police Lockup
Injury Leave
Radio Watch
Veterans Benefits
Recycling Program
Health Insurance
Snow Removal
Total FY23 Omnibus Budget Adjustments
Voted 5/7/22 & 11/15/22
$
$
154,173.60
316,022.89
75,000.00
$
$
$
50,600.00
4,000.00
309,785.27
99,275.00
312,634.00
$
2,455,674.99
$
350,000.16
$
4,127,165.91 $
5/6/23 ATM Adj.
(25,377.77)
$
(14,229.73)
$
(75,000.00)
$
(33,184.96)
(4,000.00)
(15,853.80)
(30,922.80)
38,000.46
63,576.68
$
$
$
$
96,991.92
Amended Appropriation
128,795.83
301,793.16
17,415.04
293,931.47
68,352.20
350,634.46
2,519,251.67
446,992.08
4,127,165.91
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 4
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 5: To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a sum of money to the Overlay
Account for all anticipated costs associated with FY 2023 abatements; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Ms. Lemieux noted the amount would $1.5 million from Free Cash.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article #5
2"': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 6: To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds
a sum of money for the FY 2024 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital Planning Committee Report;
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
TM
Priority
CPC
Priority
Collins
Score
CIP #
Dept.
Project Title
FY2024 TM Prelim.
Capital Plan Rec.
FY2024 TM Final
Capital Plan Rec.
2
3
2
34
31
34
33
32
29
FD17-03
LPS23-08
LPS23-09
LPS23-10
DPW 17-14
DPW23-18
Fire
School
School
School
DPW
Replacement Rescue 1
THES Exterior Door Upgrades/Replacements
THES Security Upgrades
Primary Security Upgrades
6 Wheel Dump/Spreader/Plow Truck
6 Wheel Dump/Spreader/Plow Truck 2
$506,000.00
S160,000.00
S131,000.00
S83,500.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
S506,000.00
$160,000.00
S131,000.00
$83,500.00
$240,000.00
$240,000.00
===PAGE 5===
TOTAL:
Free Cash
Unexpended Capital
American Rescue Plan Funding (Does not require
vote at ATM)
S0.00
S17,710.91
$986,000.00
S1,360,500.00
S467,268.98
S14,951.93
$986,000.00
S2,025,010.00
Ms. Lemieux reported the amount the town would need to approve at Town Meeting is $1,039,010.00.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article #6
2'd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 7: To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2024 and to fix the salaries and compensation
of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
This article covers the omnibus budget totaling $42,584,048.95.
Motion: L. Franco
To recommend approving Article 7
2nd. T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: T. Alonzo
To defer Article 8 (Firefighter's Union Contract)
2"': H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Article 9 had already been voted on.
Article 10: To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
($100,000 from Free Cash)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 10
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 11: To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum
of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted
by the Town Manager) ($250,000 from Free Cash)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 11
2": H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Article 12: To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November 10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Transfer $282,855 from Free Cash and
$1000 from the Sewer Retained Earnings)
===PAGE 6===
L'aYUl
Article 15. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, a sum of money into the Sewer
Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer
Business Manager)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 15
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 16. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money ($302,000) to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 2024; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 16
2"d: H. Sroka
Vote: All in Favor
Article 17. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of
money ($25,000) to operate the Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2024; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: T. Alonzo
To recommend approval of Article 17
2nd. L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Article 18. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money ($163,261.) to fund the FY 2024 Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise
operating and capital budgets; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the PAC Committee)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To recommend approval of Article 18
Vote: All in Favor
Articles 19 and 20 were already voted on.
Article 21. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board, on behalf of the Town, to petition
the General Court for the enactment of special legislation substantially as provided below, provided that
the General Court may reasonably vary the form and substance of the requested legislation within the
scope of the general public objectives of this petition.
Ms. Lemieux stated there are two options presented by Town Counsel on the wording of the preamble to the
warrant article. The first option would be worded as such to see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select
Board on behalf of the Town to petition the General Court for the enactment of special legislation substantially
as provided below provided that the General Court may make clerical and editorial changes of form to the
petition only.
Option two would be to see if the Town will vote to authorize the Select Board on behalf of the Town to
petition the General Court for the enactment of special legislation substantially as provided below provided that
the General Court with advance approval from the Select Board which is hereby authorized may reasonably
===PAGE 7===
discussed
Vote: All in Favor
Article 22 had already been voted on.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: T. Alonzo
To remove the following previously submitted articles from the warrant booklet concerning the clerical
union, OPEB, security upgrades to the public safety building and a TIF for Luffa Farms
Vote: All in Favor
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $3502.00. Mr. Jeffreys, on behalf of the
board, signed a letter of thanks to former Select Board member Todd Dwyer. The board signed a
certificate of appreciation to the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch in observance of National Public
Safety Telecommunicators week.
The board signed the annual election warrants.
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee had their public hearing of the warrant on Thursday. Mr. Franco
and I attended to present the senior tax relief warrant article. They deferred on voting on it until they see the
final wording.
The board recessed for five minutes before beginning their workshop. The meeting resumed at 8:57 PM.
The board moved off the stage on to the meeting room floor table to join the Board of Assessors.
WORKSHOP: TAX ASSESSMENT INVESTIGATION REVIEW
Mr. Letarte called the Board of Assessors meeting to order. He reported 207 abatement applications have been
reviewed. Discussion ensued about letters being sent to property owners by the BOA regarding extensions of
their abatements and the time it would take for the BOA to review those abatement applications. Question was
asked about public access to the BOA meetings. Mr. Letarte stated they would have to be limited to 20-30
minutes before the meeting due to the volume of applications. Our hands are tied currently because we are
awaiting for site visit reports from the inspectors.
Ms. Lemieux reported when she spoke with the owner of Municipal Finance Services today they said they've
gone through 207 inspections so thus far; they're expected to do another 60 this Friday and Saturday. He's
working on tables for recommendations and they're also working with Vision to create a dummy valuation table
for those recommendations and those inspections. I think the expectation is the ones that have been done by
April 23rd
• I want to make sure to clarity that versus the 400 applications; they haven't done 400 inspections so I
wouldn't anticipate that they would have that done by April 23rd
. That's why extension letters are being sent out.
So I think you're right they're halfway there.
Question was asked in what order the inspections are being done. Ms. Lemieux stated they are going out in both
order of receipt and mutual neighborhood areas. Mr. Alonzo asked for clarification on the question regarding
property owners being able to attend the abatement hearings. Mr. Letarte stated it could be under a 30 minute
===PAGE 8===
detailing the investigation
Authorization and Purpose
On January 17, at a meeting of the Select Board in the Middle/High School auditorium, the Select Board (whose
membership is comprised of: Chairman Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chairman Tom Alonzo, Clerk Lou Franco,
Selectman Todd Dwyer, and Selectwoman Heather Sroka) unanimously approved for the Select Board to, "as
authorized by Section 3-2(e) of the Lunenburg Town Charter, conduct an investigation into the effects that Covid-19
had on property values in 2021, the corresponding impact on FY23 tax assessments, and the process by which the Town
of Lunenburg, through its agents, conducted property valuations and distributed tax assessments to residents. The
chair of the Select Board will lead the investigation, assisted by the Vice-chair, and in coordination and collaboration
with the Town Manager."
Facts and Rules of Evidence
Investigators will compile a list of facts, and reference each to supporting evidence. Facts are not subject to
reasonable dispute because they are:
(a) commonly known; or
(b) can be accurately and readily determined from sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be
questioned
Evidence, catalogued into exhibits, must be directly relevant to support the existence of a fact. Evidence is
relevant if:
(a) it has any tendency to make a fact more or less probable than it would be without the evidence, and
(b) the fact is of consequence in determining an action
Interview Principles
1. Interviews have a clear goal or objective with pre-determined written questions.
2. All interviews should begin with an establishment of rapport. The interviewee should be in a familiar and
comfortable location, and preferably where the interviewee can access notes and otherrecords.
3. All employee interviews should be 1:1 and conducted by the principal investigator; panel interviews are
required when questioning vendors or external professionals.
4. Interviews should begin with an explanation of the goal of the interview and begin with questions that are
not likely to cause hostility or apprehension.
5. Questions should be frank and elicit a free narrative from the interviewee. The interviewer should ask on-the-
spot follow-up questions to ensure understanding of what was stated.
6. Questions should not be suggestive of facts or perceptions or lead to "yes" or "no" responses.
7. Interviewees rarely recall all information in the first instance. Investigators should ask questions about the
little things noted in answers, to attain more detail.
8. Investigators should be careful to separate perception and belief from facts and attain answers that support
===PAGE 9===
12. Investigators shall make copious notes in shorthand throughout the interview. Immediately following
the interview, and prior to initiating any other major task, the investigator shall prepare a written report
that details:
(a) date and location ofinterview
(b) name of interviewee
(c) questions asked and answered
(d) physical observations of interviewee's responses during interview, with reference to shifts in body
language or movements, if observed.
Phases of Investigation
The investigation will be conducted in phases, with each phase defined by its key tasks. Phases will conclude when all key
tasks are completed and the subsequent phase will begin; overlap between phases should be exceptional and not ordinary.
Investigators should exhibit flexibility to potential causations while gathering evidence, and should conduct additional inquiry
into all areas that may seem pertinent in order to best determine relevance.
Pre-investigation: Preparation
Key Tasks:
1. Create investigation framework that establishes guidelines for how the investigation will
be conducted
2. Identify core questions the investigation seeks to answer
3. Identify initial internal and external resources that will be required, create scopes of work, and request
bids from vendors or publish RFPs to procure
4. Collect key data on FY23 valuations and tax assessments
Phase 1: Gather Evidence
Key Tasks:
1. Establish a timeline of events
2. Answer core questions through the establishment of facts and supporting evidence/exhibits
3. Evaluate data, for its completeness, as it is received
4. When interviews seem necessary, investigators will conference to prepare interview questions
5. Conduct interviews and create interview reports
6. External resources will conduct review andanalysis
7. Maintain Investigative Report that details process and that captures all facts and evidence
Phase 2: Analyze Evidence and Data
Key Tasks:
necessary.
1. Evaluate all evidence received and finalize facts attained; gather additional evidence as is
2. Ensure that each core question is answered, to the satisfaction of a majority of the investigators, with
===PAGE 10===
a. Summarize what the change in process or required action should be
2. Evaluate the process that was followed, and if found to be non-compliant or erroneous, identify
additional safeguards that would have prevented the outcome.
3. Evaluate the entirety of the timeline and identify shortcomings and/or areas that contributed to broad
frustration -and reasonable alternatives that could mitigate such frustration ifemployed.
Final Phase: Finalize Investigative Report
1. Prepare Investigative Summary
2. Identify components of the Investigative File that will be made public, and prepare a redacted file
3. Legal review of Finalized Report
Projected Timelines
The length of the investigation will be determined by the availability of information and time at which core questions are
satisfactorily answered, as supported by evidence.
Timeline 1
Key assumptions:
• Support personnel will be in place on March 6 and will require 5 weeks to conduct analysis
• 70% completion by April 22 of individual property assessments for owners that submitted an abatement
request
• The investigation will break on April 7-10, from April 23 - April 28, and from May 2 - May 7
• Extended conferences: 4-hour conference between May 15 and May 18; 1-hour conference on May 22.
Pre-investigation: Preparation
January 17-January 24
Phase 1: Gather Evidence
January 24-April 7
Phase 2: Analyze Evidence and Data
April 7-April 20
Phase 3: Identify Corrective Actions
April 21-May 8 Final Phase:
FinalizeInvestigative Report
May 9 - May 22 Publish
Investigative Summary and Findings
Tuesday, May23
Known caveats: Town meeting will be expected to vote on a FY24 budget in which there may be a budgetary impact
due to abatements, without having a complete understanding of the causation. Q4 payments are due prior to the
conclusion of the investigation. Timeline may be affected by unseen external factors and/or unrealized assumptions.
Timeline 2
Key assumptions:
• Support personnel will be in place by February 27 and will require 4 weeks to conduct analysis
• 50% completion by April 1 of individual property assessments for owners that submitted an abatement request
• The investigation will break from April 7 - 10, and from April 23 - April 28
• Extended conferences: two 4-hour conferences between April 11 and April 14; 4-hour conference on April
29; 2-hour conference on May 1.
===PAGE 11===
Town Meeting will be significant. Q4 payments are due prior to the conclusion of the investigation. Timeline may be
notably affected by unseen external factors and/or unrealized assumptions.
Timeline 3 (Best case scenario)
Key assumptions:
• Support personnel will be in place by February 27 and will require 3 weeks to conduct analysis
• Data from actual tax assessments/appraisals conducted during the abatement process will not heavily weigh on
analysis or recommendations.
• The investigation will break from April 7 - 10
• Extended conferences: 4 hour conference between March 20 and 25; 4 hour conference between March 27 and
April 1; 4-hour conference between April 10 and April 15; 2-hour conference mid-day on April 16..
Core Questions
I. Was the Principal Assessor competent from March 16, 2022 - December 31, 2022?
Il. What was the decision making process that the Principal Assessor undertook, to achieve FY23 property values
andassessments?
III. Were all sales that were considered, to achieve FY23 property valuations, compliant with DOR standards?
IV. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook consistent with professional standards and norms?
V. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook to achieve FY23 property values and assessments compliant
with DOR standards?
VI. Was there a historical error or decision that contributed to increases in any index for FY23 valuations or
assessments?
VIl. When were FY Y23 Q3 and Q4 payments mailed?
VIII. Was the Board of Assessor's competent from July 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022?
IX. What was the process that the Board of Assessor's undertook to perform their duties, as outlined in the
Lunenburg Town Charter, as it relates to FY23 property valuations and tax assessments?
X. In the event that error, either clerical, professional, or procedural are found, what are the potential remedies for
both the affected residents and the Town?
Investigation Questions & Answers (Note: not all questions were answered during this workshop
I. Was the Principal Assessor (PA) competent from March 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022?
Mr. Jeffreys stated the overall answer to that was yes, based on the standards as identified by Mass DOR which they
identify the competence of an individual.
A. What was the PA's education and experience?
The principal assessor has a bachelor's degree in finance; that they performed data collection activities in the Town of
Lunenburg for over two years, that their primary coursework was completed and the MAO designation which is
===PAGE 12===
Commissioner for Assessors? Yes
II. What was the decision making process that the Principal Assessor undertook, to achieve FY23 property values
andassessments?
A. Are some private parcels exempt from taxation, and if so, why?
B. Is there a statistical difference in property values between homes nearest Lake Shirley, Lake Whalom or
Hickory Hills?
C. How was the index map determined?
1. How often is it updated?
2. What is the ordinary process to update it?
D. How is the property value determined for the 327 acres, known as Hickory Hills Lake?
E. What software was employed to assist with property valuations or assessments?
1. Does the software provide standard alerts or notifications about impact, from fiscal year to fiscal year?
2. Does the software analyze sales data and provide recommendations?
3. Does MA DOR have a position or requirement regarding the assessment software that was used?
F. What valuation did the properties that sold in 2021 get for FY23?
G. Did the Principle Assessor analyze FY 22 property values and assessments alongside FY23 values and
assessments and consider variances/differentials?
1. Do guidelines or regulations recommend or require such analysis?
Mr. Jeffreys noted this question is not completely answered. One of the things we decided early on was to attempt
to bring in outside support who could meet with Town Counsel. I was provided with eight different
recommendations and I reached out to all of them; six declined and one is willing to talk with me. We've had a
couple of conversations; they're still talking but they have not accepted, so it has become more challenging for us
knowing that our priority was to use anyone we could find to help do the actual property inspections. The secondary
need was also to have someone meet with CJ Carroll.
III. Were all sales that were considered to achieve FY23 property valuations compliant with MA DOR standards?
A. Does exclusive lake access or the perception of it contribute to home values around lakes?
1. Has advertising for homes in Hickory Hills promoted private access to the lake? Yes
2. Has advertising for homes on Lake Shirley promoted limited public access? No
IV. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook consistent with professional standards and norms?
V. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook to achieve FY23 property values and assessments compliant
with MA DOR standards? The answer from MassDOR was yes.
VI. Was there a historical error or decision that contributed to increases in any index for FY23 valuations or
assessments?
A. Forthe last 10 years, what was the Assessment to Sales Ratio (ASR) for all indexes prior to and
after actual assessments were provided? We do not have answers to this yet.
===PAGE 13===
concerns about the quality of information, about whether or not the cyclical inspections were being performed
and whether or not the vendor was actually doing the work that was supposed to happen. The board moved
away from RRG and towards an in-house principal assessor to improve the quality of data. It seems as if the
BOA was universally aware that there was a problem and they made the effort to move in the right direction.
When Sue Burns was here she completed two years of property evaluations in 13 months. When Chris Kumar
came on board she didn't complete any evaluations because her employment with the town was in the very
beginning of the year and there was a break. Ms. Swezey came on board as in interim when Ms. Kumar left and
remained until Mr. Carroll was hired
One thing that also came out in the investigation is that assessors generally are getting a little older and there's
not a lot of younger people coming into the field, which makes it challenging. Mr. Letarte confirmed the BOA
had concerns about RRG and decided not to renew the contract.
VII. When were FY23 Q3 and Q4 payments mailed?
We have conflicting information on this. There is high probability that they were mailed after December 30".
Mr. Alonzo stated we received evidence from the post office business mailing entry units where these were
mailed in North Reading that the date that they were received by their system was January 6"h. They have a very
stringent system about when things are checked in and how things are operating at that branch. Everything in
their systems indicated it was January 6'h
Mr. Jeffieys presented the affidavit the vendor had provided for the mailing and identified some concerns with
it. After discussion, Mr. Jeffreys stated we are looking to the BOA to determine what the mailing date would
have been in order to proceed. Mr. Alonzo noted that Town Counsel has informed that since the Tax Collector
has accepted the mailing to come on January 6th that the application deadline for the abatements is by statute,
May 1st
', so it does not require the BOA vote although I would not object to that.
Motion: K. Fish
2': C. Higdon
That we revise the sending date of the FY 2023 3rd and 4' quarter property tax bills to January 6th as
opposed to the current date of December 30th knowing that it will move the abatement due date to April
30 and the due date for payments to May 1st
Vote: All in Favor
VIII. Was the Board of Assessors competent from July 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022? Yes
Was the Board compliant with requirements identified in 830 CMR 58.3.1 and/or other requirements as determined by
the MA DOR Commissioner?
Yes, however both Mr. Fish and Ms. Higdon were both appointed by the Select Board into BOA vacancies; they ran
for office and were elected in May of 2022. Both came on the board around the same time approximately five months
before these values were turned into the Commonwealth. Mr. Letarte as the longest serving member, was the one who
actively recruited Ms. Higdon and helped get the word out to get people on the board. Mr. Letarte has completed the
course with Mass DOR. Mr. Fish has completed his course with also confirmed by Mass DOR. Ms. Higdon does not
intend to run for election again and has not completed her course with Mass DOR, however is allowed to operate in the
capacity as an assessor provided that that course is completed within two years of appointment or election.
IX. What was the process that the Board of Assessor's undertook to perform their duties, as outlined in the
Lunenburg Town Charter, as it relates to FY23 property valuations and tax assessments?
A. Did the Board of Assessor's analyze FY22 property values and assessments alongside FY23 values and
===PAGE 14===
In the event that an error, either clerical, professional, or procedural is found, what are the potential remedies for both
the affected residents and the Town? Mr. Jeffreys noted the law unfortunately favors municipalities not making errors.
The only way that residents seem to be able to affect the change of their property is through the solo abatement
process.
Further discussion ensued about how to proceed. Mr. Alonzo requested a presentation from the principal
assessor on how he came to setting the tax rates so we know how he came to where we are now. He also wanted
to see the historical data from fiscal year 2019 in order to do an analysis. One thing I would ask the BOA to do
is adopt a policy that every year you keep a spreadsheet in whatever format you find fit year after year for
historical records so that if this ever happens again at a moment's notice we can pull up 10 years of spreadsheets
and say here now you can look at all the data for as long as you want to go and no one's searching through
papers.
Mr. Jeffreys stated this might be a good place to stop. He thanked the BOA for coming in tonight.
Ms. Lemieux also thanked the BOA for coming in and believed this was a good process. Mr. Alonzo
encouraged the BOA to communicate with residents going forward. The BOA adjourned their meeting.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the board's upcoming meetings; April 11, April 25, May 2, May 6 (Annual Town
Meeting), May 9, May 16, May 20 (Annual Town Election), May 23
PUBLIC COMMENT
Donna Fortune, 50 Hemlock Drive, asked how was the transition of work between Rena Swezey and CJ Carroll
done, if so for how long and did they work together for some time to ensure smooth transition? Mr. Jeffreys
stated that Ms. Swezey did not do any work related to the actual tax assessments for FY23. There appeared to
be one or two weeks of overlap with each other.
Marilyn Jewell, 20 Sunset Lane, asked why Mr. Carroll was not mentored and why the Town Manager did not
oversee him. Mr. Jeffreys stated part of the process is internally the BOA can do a review of one fiscal year to
the other by parcel and I think this board is encouraging that to happen going forward. It is not an expectation or
a requirement to come up with property values to actually do any comparison to what the impact is going to be
on residences. Town Manager is not an assessor, nor the right person to oversee the details of what happens, we
have an elected board who's supposed to provide that.
Mr. Alonzo noted while the Town Manager hires the principal assessor with the ratification of the BOA, the
Town Manager does not have a role in the assessment or tax bills at all. Her oversight of the principal assessor
would be equivalent to the oversight of the police department in administerial functions. No one would ask her
how's the investigation for this crime going, that's not the details that she gets involved in. The Town Manager
doesn't have any role, it goes to the BOA and gets approved; the principal assessor sends it to the DOR, the
BOA approves it in the DOR site and then it becomes final.
John Fortune, 50 Hemlock Drive, cautioned the BOA that pushing abatements out for another 90 days is going
to push into the first quarter of FY24.
Renee Emkey, 6 Iris Court, asked if the property owner would be given the re-inspection report from the
independent inspector; Mr. Jeffreys stated the BOA would have to answer that. She then asked if the abatement
is declined and we go to appellate tax board and if it is declined could the inspector's report be used at the
===PAGE 15===
Mr. Jeffreys thanked the BOA for coming in tonight.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 10:41 PM
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
2'd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
