===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffieys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised
that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook
Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Emkey reminded of the immediate need for Assessors due to the two recent resignations and encouraged
volunteers to come forward.
Mr. Alonzo noted last night was the last summer band concert for the season. It was a beautiful night and had an
excellent showing. He thanked band leader Steve Archambault for organizing and conducting as well as all the
musicians. He thanked all the sponsors as well. He encouraged anyone who hasn't attended this year to try to
attend next year. The concerts are held on the TC Passios building lawn.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Town Beach hours are Saturdays and Sundays from 12 to 6 and Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 7
p.m. It is expected to close on Labor Day weekend.
• Board & Committee Vacancies
• Assessors (2 vacancies) until the next annual election
> Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy) until the next annual election
> Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 vacancy and 1 associate vacancy)
> Open Space (1 member at large vacancy)
› Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Volunteer Applications are available on the website, in Town Hall and at the Town Manager office)
• Employment Opportunities
> Council on Aging Administrative Asst.
> Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager
> Assistant Town Accountant
• Finance Director/Town Accountant
• Assistant Meal Site Manager
• Conservation Administrator
• Facilities Superintendent
• DPW Heavy Equipment Operator
• Administrative Assistant for Minutes Recording
• Principal Assessor
===PAGE 2===
but not required. He lauded Library Director Muir Haman, his staff and the Library Trustees for all their work.
Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for 9/16/23; 10 am to 2 pm- Town Center
Andrew Woods, 94/ Flat Hill Road, presented for the request. Participants will be adults/parents over the age of
18 years. This is to raise scholarship funding for their after school program. The Police and DP W departments
have approved this request. All participants will be wearing yellow safety vests and no one will be interfering
with traffic patterns.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2": R. Emkey
To approve the tollbooth fundraiser for the Boys and Girls Club on September 16" from 10 am to 2 pm
in town center following all applicable laws and guidelines as presented
Vote: All in Favor
COA Director Report on the Discovery Program
COA Director Sue Doherty and Jamie Toale, 147 Island Road, appeared for the presentation. Ms. Doherty
stated just before the pandemic, the Massachusetts Councils on Aging developed a Discovery Center for Civic
Engagement Program.
The Discovery Center for Civic Engagement and Lunenburg Council on Aging have partnered together to
help new retirees who are thinking "what's next," in their retirement and who would like to use their talents
or skills to make a difference in their lives and communities. This event will be held at the Lunenburg
Adult Activity Center on Wednesday, September 13, 2023 from 4:00-7:00 p.m. We have invited about 20
organizations. As part of the Discovery Center program, we have Transition Navigators, who help guide
retirees through the process of seeking volunteer opportunities. Mr. Toale stated he is one of three
Transition Navigators that have been trained by the program to meet with people and discuss their options
tor volunteer opportunities. The other two specialize in non-protits such as Americans with Disabilities,
organizations, hospitals, etc. I have taken the lead on those who want civic volunteer opportunities. He
would also like to set up a booth at this for town committee and board volunteer recruitment. He added it
would helpful if some committee members were there to answer questions about their boards. The board
was supportive of the idea. Some Select Board members may join him that day at the booth.
Meeting with Building Commissioner for Earth Removal Permit Renewals
Mr. Gingras reported he had conducted site inspections of all the PJ Keating permit sites. He stated there was
nothing out of the ordinary going through all the parcels listed in all the permits, but did note better dust control
measures than seen in years past and access roads were in better shape. Otherwise everything's pretty much how
it has been. All sites are in compliance, no concerns.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2" :L. Franco
To approve permits #15, 16, 17, 27, 30 and 57 as presented in the inspection report
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Gingras exited the meeting.
Bicycles Battling Cancer Request to Pass through Lunenburg on September 17, 2023
Mark Walter presented on the request to pass through Lunenburg on September 17" for the Bicycles Battling
===PAGE 3===
Request for Special Event license and One Day Wine & Beer license for St Boniface Parish's
Oktoberfest on September 16, 2023
Mr. Jeffreys read the hearing notice aloud:
"The Lunenburg Licensing Authority/Select Board will hold a public hearing on at Tuesday, August 15, 2023 at 7:30 PM
in Town Hall, 17 Main St., Second Floor, Lunenburg, MA, on the application submitted by St. Boniface's Parish, for a
Special Event License (Oktoberfest) located at 817 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. The outdoor event, occurring
on September 16, 2023, from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. will include music provided by a DJ, food and craft vendors and
wine & beer sales and will most likely exceed attendance of over 100 people."
Tom Bodkin and Jamie Toale presented for the requests. Mr. Toale reported Chief Gammel has no concerns and
has offered Hank the Comfort Dog and perhaps a police vehicle to be part of the event. Fire Chief Sullivan has
offered to try to provide a fire truck to be available as well. Mr. Jeffreys noted there are 2 requests, one for the
special event license and one for a beer and wine one day license.
Motion: L. Franco
2'': T. Alonzo
To approve the special event license and the one day wine and beer license for September 17, 2023 as
described in their application
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Toale and Mr. Bodkin thanked the board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Vote on Special Town Meeting Date (November 14, 2023 at 7 PM) and Opening/Closing Dates for
Warrant (August 16th/September 18th at 5 PM)
Ms. Belliveau reported the Special Town Meeting is scheduled for November 14". This falls in line with past
special town meetings which have always been the week before Thanksgiving. Opening of the warrant allows
for four weeks to accept warrant articles for the meeting. The Select Board and Finance Committee will be
reviewing articles through October 17" and making recommendations on them.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Alonzo
To schedule a Special Town Meeting for November 14 at 7:00 p.m. and open the Special Town Meeting
warrant on August 16" and through September 18 at 5:00 p.m.
Vote: All in Favor
Approval of Minutes of May 2, May 9, 2023
Motion: L. Franco
2"d: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of May 2 and May 9, 2023 as presented Vote: 3 in favor, 1 abstention (Emkey)
Warrants
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $742,050.93; a payroll warrant in the amount of
$768,160.76 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $17,945.56.
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported the Capital Planning Committee will hold their first meeting the last week of August or the
first week of September. We will start the season with the Town inventory that the Town Manager has sent out
and also the Capital Plan for 2023-2024. Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building Design Committee will
===PAGE 4===
outcomes or activities that benefit residents. This is more promotional stuff and Mr. Alonzo had a great
recommendation which was engaging residents or professionals skilled in marketing to help promote the town.
The board discussed how to set criteria to measure if their goals have been met. Regarding the town bylaws
(objective 3), Mr. Jeffreys noted there are a couple of items in the Select Board bylaws that conflict with the
Town Charter. The board paused to return to the Conservation Commission agenda item.
Meeting with Conservation Commission Representatives to request Select Board authorization of
litigation for encroachment by 950 Chase Road onto the Large Town Forest, Announcement of the
Award of a MassTrails Grant for Engineering Plans and Permitting for Conservation Land
Improvements, and need for office support for commission
Commissioners Bob Pease, 11 Wintergreen Court, and Mary Wilson, 138 Whiting Street, were present. Mr.
Pease requested the Select Board authorize litigation against the property owners of 950 Chase Road, who are
encroaching on the Large Town Forest. When the property was listed for sale, it was in the listing that the new
owner was responsible for moving the building off town property. Two pre-litigation letters had been sent
earlier this year asking the resident to remedy the encroachment. No response was received back. The
commission has voted to move forward with litigation. A brief discussion occurred
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2'd: L. Franco
To authorize litigation for the encroachment on the Large Town Forest by the property owners at 950
Chase Road
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Wilson informed the Select Board that due to the lack of staffing in the Conservation office, work is piling
up. This is causing the commission to prioritize urgent tasks and deprioritize others which is impacting our
local businesses and homeowners. Our current priorities are scheduling and conducting hearings which are
required to be held within 21 days of a request submittal or the applicant has a presumptive approval and we
lose the opportunity to protect our wetlands. We are also prioritizing emergency orders, were having to de-
prioritize the publication of meeting minutes and de-prioritizing issuance of approval letters. She listed various
things that are not getting done due to lack of statt. I don't want to let the public down but this is impacting my
layume job. her advocate for a solution. also would like to get a status on what is happening with
hiring.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he appreciated her volunteerism and recognized the seriousness of her commitment.
Although you are in a situation where you are down 300 hours over the course of this year, we are generally
down 300 hours per week in terms of staffing. It is a significant burden on existing staff and it is not unique to
Lunenburg. As a member of the conservation commission there is no policy that invites you to participate in
the hiring process. We entrust the Town Manager and the HR Director/Assistant Town manager to fully engage
in that process. Even with the ratifications that we do, we do not receive information related to other applicants
and I think we've taken the position that we have skilled qualified people sitting in those roles and that we are
trusting them. I am aware that there are three interviews scheduled for next week. This is an active process
where they are actively working to fill this and it is one of their priorities, but I know that again in the
environment we're in, you're not alone. Most people don't know but for about five or six months of this year,
everyone in the Finance Department was working Fridays and Saturdays.
===PAGE 5===
included in the process.
Ms. Emkey noted that in her day job they were having difficulty recruiting as well. She stated there is not as
much transparency with the town as with her place of employment. She has not seen any engagement by the
Town Manager or HR Director with the groups that are trying to fill the vacancies.
Mr. Jeffreys noted that most of the town employees are in unions. There's a whole different conversation that
has to happen with making sure that job descriptions are in line with the union contracts. There's a lot of
training that goes into being able to conduct an interview and it's almost like a snowball effect that when we're
in this environment where we have so many vacancies and everyone's doing more work already, it's hard to be
able to have the time to do what we all recognize is a necessary step forward, which is engaging the key
stakeholders in the process who will be working with these personnel.
Ms. Lemieux and Ms. Belliveau are doing an excellent job in trying to fill the vacancies, but I also hear as this
has come up repetitiously that we have to create a clearer framework on what ratification for us looks like and
that's the mechanism that we have given the charter.
Further discussion ensued about the process of hiring and how the Open Meeting Law affects confidentiality.
Ms. Belliveau stated much of the process that we do is already being done in-house. I am a strong advocate that
the HR Director be present at every interview, unfortunately with the amount of vacancies that is not possible.
There is a lot of prescreening and I do send them out to the hiring manager and unfortunately per Charter. most
boards, committees, commissions aren't the supervisor. We have the land use director who oversees the
conservation administrator who's very much involved in this process with me; he's been filling in for the
conservation administrator as much as he can. If there's ever a question of what's going on with the hiring
process, just ask, I can answer it. She informed of the current applications and interviews for the Conservation
Administrator and where the job has been posted. Going back to the hiring process, it is very much what Ms.
Emkey described and I've also worked in private employment and that is a much faster speed.
Discussion ensued about steps going forward.
Ms. Wilson announced the Conservation Commission has received grant funding in the amount of $61,305
from the Mass Trails Program. This grant will help fund the development of engineered plans for improvements
to three conservation areas. These improvements include the creation of two parking areas off Northfield Road;
Table Rock Conservation Area, Reno Conservation Area and the Cowdrey area off Townsend Harbor Road.
Plans will be developed to improve the cart path that provides handicapped accessible access to the Harold
Harley Wildlife viewing platform and at the Cowdrey site. Plans will be developed for a bridge over Mulpus
Brook to provide a direct connection between the southern and northern Cowdry Trail systems. The grant
requires that the town provide matching funds of $15,450 which will come from the Conservation
Commission's timber rights fund. The board congratulated the commission.
Discussion on FY24 Select Board Goals (continued)
Mr. Jeffreys asked the board to continue on Objective# 1.
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building at 30 School Street
(a continuation of FY21 - FY23).
I. Action: Seek public engagement to review and evaluate landscape architect plans for potential
resubmission at 2024 Annual Town Meeting
II. Action: Create working title that identifies multi-generational benefit for residents with a clear
===PAGE 6===
design for 30 School Street, and voters being against it as it was premature when there are other infrastructure
needs in Town. She believed it should be used for additional parking in the center
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Jeffreys stated their next meeting is August 22nd
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
The meeting adjourned at 8:49 p.m.
2"°: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Respectfully submitted,
Clave M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
