===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Tibbetts, Christopher Ruth
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m. He asked everyone to stand for the
Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open
Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over
the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live and it will be uploaded to the
Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions.
Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought
up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT: There was none at this time.
APPOINTMENTS:
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Full Time Police Officer-
George Tibbetts
Chief Gammel stated on Friday, January 6th, we conducted interviews for the full-time police
officer position. Upon completion of that interview we had a top candidate; Reserve Officer
George "Trey" Tibbetts. According to the panel Officer Tibbetts scored a perfect score, 135
points out of 135 points. Officer Tibbetts has been a Lunenburg Reserve Officer since
October 2022 and completed his Field Training Officer (FTO) requirements in a relatively
short period of time. Tibbetts was described by his FTOs as compassionate, professional and
demonstrating sound decision making. During his training period he was given the
opportunity to cover the front desk, where he performed the duties exceptionally well. Officer
Tibbetts has definitely distinguished himself. I would concur with the panel's statement that
"George was professional, had an ability to articulate his answers and provide examples
relevant to the position and Town. These qualities along with his qualifications and
experience, show he is an exceptional candidate. It is my pleasure to recommend Officer
Tibbetts as full-time Police Officer.
Officer Tibbetts stated it was great to be back in front of everyone again. Nothing new has
changed other than all the training. He learned from the training how important discretion is;
it has to be used wisely. He thanked the department for all their support during the training
process. The board congratulated him and thanked him for his service.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: H. Sroka
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Full-time Police officer of George "Trey"
Tibbetts
Vote: All in Favor
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Facilities Director-
Christopher Ruth
Ms. Lemieux reported we received 43 applications and of those the Assistant Town
Manager and I narrowed it down to 7 candidates with relevant experience and chose the top
===PAGE 2===
ati tan tanta taa tantan tin ha ha ta tan tan tata tin tan ta a tan tan can tan tan a ca
facilities, overseeing multiple, large scale projects, building management systems, contract
administration and the importance of building maintenance. His references described him as
able to multi-task, a great problem solver, knowledgeable of facilities, and "one of the
smartest people they've ever worked with".
'. I am asking you to ratify my appointment
tonight.
Mr. Ruth stated he has been involved in construction since he was about 16 years old. He
started his career working at Burbank Hospital as a facility/construction manager and
worked his way up in all kinds of projects. He grew up in Townsend and has been living
in town for about seven years. He is excited to be coming on board and get started.
The board welcomed him. When asked what his biggest obstacle or challenges would be
coming into the job, Mr. Ruth replied delicately handling issues that people are all fired up
about and the buildings; they can be complicated or simple, it's just another problem to
figure out and solve. He added keeping everyone happy.
Motion; T. Alonzo
2nd; L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Chris Ruth as Facilities Director
Vote: All in Favor
The board congratulated Mr. Ruth on his appointment.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Review Tiquor Li
1. Review Liquor License Hearing Materials for the 7:15 PM hearing for an All
Alcohol/Restaurant License Application hearing for La Balena LLC, d/b/a La
Balena Ristorante, 50 Massachusetts Ave. including license applications for
Common Victualler and Weekday/Sunday Entertainment
There was discussion about the site plan and the outdoor patio area and access. It was also
noted the hours of operation were until 1:00 a.m. and the lack of an alcohol serving plan.
Question was asked if they would be serving food until 1:00 a.m. Discussion also ensued on
the required safety inspection for the license not being completed yet. It was suggested the
vote could be contingent on that. The hearing will be later this evening at the Middle/High
School Auditorium.
2. Review Section 3-2 (b), € of the Town Charter and Town Bylaw Chapter 74-1
Mr. Jeffreys stated this is being discussed relative to conducting an investigation concerning
the recent assessment process. Under the Charter, Article 3, §3-2 Select Board, (e)
"Investigations - The select board may make investigations and may authorize the town
manager to investigate the affairs of the town and the conduct of any town agency
including any doubtful claims against the town. The report of the results of such
investigation shall be placed on file in the office of the select board and a report
summarizing the results of such investigation shall be printed in the next annual town
report." He also noted section (b) Powers and Duties in General - The executive powers
of the town shall be vested in the select board which shall be deemed to be the chief
executive office of the town. The select board shall have all of the executive powers it is
possible for a select board to have and to exercise.
===PAGE 3===
The consensus of the board was that they agreed with Mr. Jeffreys' statement.
Approval of January 3, 2023 Minutes
Motion: T. Alonzo
To approve the minutes of January 3, 2023 as presented
2nd. T. Dwyer
Vote: All in Favor
Warrants
The board signed a payroll deduction warrant in the amount of $850,429.78; an accounts
payable warrant in the amount of $298,119.37 and a payroll warrant in the amount of
$951,144.52.
Committee Reports
Mr. Dwyer reported there is a stormwater task force meeting on Thursday at the Ritter
Building at 7:00 p.m.
Mr Jeffreys attended a 3½ hour training at the schools that was conducted by the Police
Department, it was very good and it provided a better understanding of their methodologies
and processes. The Municipal Building Design Committee met last week with the Building
Commissioner to go over their hybrid concept and get a better understanding of code
implications. We now need to look at how to reduce costs. Mr. Jeffreys reported ha had
facilitiated a conversation between the booster clubs as a neutral party to identify if a unified
booster would be the way to go. There was not universal support for that but they will work
on a combinded fundraiser that will benefit all student athletes. He noted 48% of the student
body plays sports. There is a lot of demand for field space.
Mr. Jeffreys announced there would not be a public comment at the end of this meeting and
the board will adjourn and hold another meeting at the Middle/High School Auditorium at
7:10 p.m. this evening to accommodate more seating for residents regarding the recent tax
assessments.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 6:42 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
