===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Franco announced the pancake breakfast scheduled for tomorrow is canceled. It will resume next month.
He also thanked everyone who attended town meeting. Mr. Alonzo echoed Mr. Franco and thanked the Town
Moderator, Town Manager, Finance Director and everyone else who helped with its preparation.
Matthew Allison, 188 Flat Hill Road, regarding the Flat Hill Road drainage discussion a couple of weeks ago,
stated he was glad there is finally some interest in doing something. The review engineer has confirmed what
the residents have been seeing since 2001. The basin is broken, the outlet structure is useless, the sub drains are
allowing groundwater to further exacerbate the negative impacts. In the early 2000s the roads had been cleared
and grubbed; late November 2000 is when the water problems began. Soon after this is when Susan Whalen and
I began contacting the town about flooding issues. Why would this board suggest that we move downhill and
build a new basin, why wouldn't we just fix it? Why would you push this problem downhill onto the neighbors
as has been done for 20 plus years? The Land Use Director failed to mention a possible recourse; there is a
clause in the Village of Flat Hill master deed that speaks to the Town potentially taking a drainage easement.
Why was that not mentioned, questioned or even suggested? Also I think it was on the 24th that Susan Whalen
sent some documents to the Executive Assistant to be discussed at that discussion of Flat Hill drainage. Did
anyone receive those documents? It was noted they were in the board's meeting packet. Mr. Allison asked that
the Select Board vote on a directive for the review engineer and that the vote would include looking at the
potential for taking the drainage easement as is mentioned in the master deed.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, regarding the previous comment, stated she believed the engineering firm is
responsible for design, not installation and if it was failing, it would be a problem for whomever installed it.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Representative Margaret Scarsdale will be holding office hours on May 10th from 5-6 PM at the
Lunenburg Public Library.
• Yard Waste Days at the landfill off of Young's Road, near Tri-Town Landing will be on May
13 and 20.
• The Lunenburg Youth Baseball and Softball Parade will be on Saturday, May 13 at 9 AM
starting at Kids Kingdom.
• The Annual Town Election is Saturday, May 20, 2023 7 AM-5 PM at TCP.
• The Memorial Day Ceremony will be on Monday, May 29 at 10 AM at Veterans Park. Chairman
Jeffieys will be taking the lead on this project.
===PAGE 2===
Public Hearing for Class Il Auto Dealer License for J& E Realty Enterprises, Inc. Jacques Nasif,
Owner) d/b/a J & E Auto Sales at 383 Whalom Road-postponed due to failure to notify abutters.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's
Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Administrative Assistant for Conservation (10 hours/week)
• Administrative Assistant for Planning (36 hours/week)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (24 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week-contractual)
• Police Officer (40 hours/week)
• Veterans Services Agent (varies weekly)
• Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
ARPA Commitment for Ambulance and Two 6 Wheel Dump Trucks:
On February 21st the Select Board voted to use ARPA funds for purchasing the two large dump trucks and the
ambulance listed underthe Capital Plan, to beableto expedite the ordering instead of waiting until after July 1,
2023.
Status of Ordering the Ambulance
After the February 21st meeting the Fire Chief obtained all the specifications needed for the replacement
ambulance and received a quote from MAPC, which is a cooperative purchasing group we have used to
purchase ambulances. Since this is using federal funds and therefore subject to federal procurement
requirements, we reviewed how the cooperative purchase was procured against federal requirements and it met
all the requirements.
===PAGE 3===
chassis on their lot. The DPW Director asked about these chassis, and they replied all the units on our website are
retail units and do not fall under our contracts.
On March 29, 2023, the DPW Director asked Allegiance Trucksto provide a cost estimate for two dump trucks and
on April 6, 2023, they responded Ford announced they are having serious supply issues with anythingon order
with air brakes. The DPWDirectoraskedifother manufacturersarehaving similar issues and they stated, "it is
industry wide; they can't get steel, glass, tires (big one lately), chips (still) and you nameit". Furthermore,
Allegiancestated, "International cut production in 2023 by 54% due to supply chain issues; specifically, frame
rails and brake systems. Allegiance Trucks was oversold by over 200 trucks".
On April6, 2023, the DP W Director sent quote formstotwo suppliers under thestate contract: McGovern
Commercial HO and Marcotte Ford Sales Inc.
On April 21st and May 9th, the DP W asked Marcotte Ford Sales for a quote as they have not responded. On
April 21st, McGovern responded, "We don't have any Chevys or Rams available, and the order bank isn't open
yet. I have a list going right now for customers that are looking to get Chevys and I can send you a quote closer to
when the order bank is opened."
The DP W Director is now writing an IFB (Invitation for Bid) for the two trucks. The specification section of the IFB
is finished. The DPW Director is working with the Assistant Town Manager on the remaining language.
As you would recall, we are currently down 4 out of our 7 large trucks. Two of the four trucks were part of the
FY22 and FY23 Capital Plans, respectively. The FY22 Capital Plan had a replacement of a 6 Wheel Dump
truck with plow and sander and this was ordered on September 13, 2022 through Allegiance Trucks under the
state contract. The initial delivery date was September of 2023, however, this changed as the build date for this
truck is 10/11/2023, then it goes to JC Madigan for upfitting.
Therefore, delivery is anticipated now in January of 2024. The truck in the FY23 Capital Plan was to replace a 10
Wheel Dump Truck. This truck was also ordered on Allegiance Trucks under the state contract. The initial
delivery date was September of 2023, however, this changed as the build date for this truck is 12/15/2023, then it
goes to JC Madigan for upfitting. Therefore, delivery is anticipated now in March of 2024.
The ARPA funding allocated towards the two trucks is critical to snow operations and although we are having the
same challenges ordering trucks, the critical need for them for Snow and Ice operations has not changed.
DPW Updates:
• Line Painting: The DPW has secured a contractor to paint the double yellow center lines and/or the single
white edge lines on the following streets: Townsend Harbor Road, Pleasant Street, Highland Street,
Main Street, Memorial Drive, Oak Avenue, Prospect Street, White Street, West Townsend Road, New
West Townsend Road, and West Groton Road. Weare waiting fortheir W-9 and we are on their schedule to
do line painting at night when the weather allows.
• The Cemetery Superintendent and two seasonal workers have been working on getting the cemeteries
ready for Memorial Day and are in good shape.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals:
• On May 8th we received two bids forthe Lunenburg Adult Activity Center Outdoor Patio project. The low
===PAGE 4===
At the last Select Board meeting I reported in my Town Manager Report under Department Head Updates that
the Planning Board had approved the 39 Main Street project. Last week it had not been approved yet, but it was
approved at their meeting last night, on May 8th.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Town Manager Performance Evaluation
This was tabled until the next meeting.
Discussion on Follow-up Items from Annual Town Meeting
Ms. Lemieux reported she received the certified vote from the Town Clerk regarding the home rule petition.
Today I emailed Senator Cronin, Representatives Kushmerek and Scarsdale to notify them and provide that
attachment and ask them to put that forth. I stated I hoped it would be done as quickly as possible so the benefit
to those people affected could be seen sooner than later.
Mr. Franco thanked the voters who came out and overwhelmingly supported the senior tax relief warrant
article.
Mr. Jeffreys thought the meeting went very well which speaks well to the preparation that occurred prior to the
Mr. Alonzo noted since the advent of the voting clickers the process has become very streamlined and he
believed people vote more honestly as they feel more comfortable using them than raising their hand. It
eliminates the cumbersome process of hand counting votes.
Alcohol License Violation Hearing for JK Waterfront d/b/a On the Rocks, 96 Lakefront Ave.
Mr. Jeffreys read the violation hearing sent to the owner/Manager Ken Ricker.
"On May 9, 2023 at 7:30 p.m. the Select Board will be holding a hearing to discuss your alcoholic beverage license
[# 00031-RS-0636] at 96 Lakefront Avenue, Lunenburg. The hearing will be held in Town Hall, 17 Main Street,
Second floor, Lunenburg, The hearing will concern violations of the Liquor License Regulations set forth by the
Select Board and violation of Massachusetts General Law c. 138, §34 that allegedly occurred on April 14, 2023;
specifically the following sections:
Article IV. Regulatory; Section 4.01 Liquor Licenses
Section 1.07 Alcoholic Beverage Sales and Laws (t)
Licensees shall be responsible for ensuring that minors are not served alcoholic beverages and are not drinking
Alcoholic beverages on the premises, whether served to them by an employee or handed to them by another patron.
Licensees who do not have the ability to keep track of the drinking activity of minors at the premises shall exclude
minors from coming onto the premises in order to meet the burden of ensuring that there is no underage drinking on
the premises. Sufficient security personnel shall be employed to monitor the premises to ensure that patrons do not
pass alcoholic beverages to minors.
•
Section 1.08 Environs of Licensed Premises (a)
It shall be the obligation of licensees to ensure that a high degree of supervision is exercised over the conduct of the
licensed establishment at all times. Each licensee shall be accountable for all violations that are related to the
licensed premises to determine whether or not the licensee acted properly in the given circumstances.
===PAGE 5===
19D any such beverages or alcohol to or tor use by a person who he knows or has reason to believe is under 2l
years of age or whoever procures any such beverage or alcohol for a person under 21 years of age in any
establishment licensed under section 12 or procures any such beverage or alcohol for a person under 21 years of
age who is not his child, ward or spouse in any establishment licensed under said section 15, 19B, 19C or 19D or
whoever furnishes any such beverage or alcohol for a person under 21 years of age shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $2,000 or by imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
Mr. Jeffreys stated this is a violation hearing. We will be hearing testimony from the licensee or their
representative and testimony from the Lunenburg Police Department. Following the presentation of testimony
the board will ask questions and then deliberate. The board will make a finding and determine a penalty, if
applicable and then we will issue a notice of decision. The pertinent parties were sworn in for the hearing.
Chiet Gammel reported on April 17th he was notified by the night shift sergeant that a fight had occurred at the
bar. The fight occurred on April 14th at about 11:50 P.M. The responding officers found that one of the
involved combatants was 20 years old. Upon learning this, he asked the detective to reach out to the bar to pick
up video, examine it and see if we could determine if that was true. One of the things Chief Gammel noticed
while reviewing the police report and through the sergeant was that when they spoke with the bouncer/doorman,
he told the officer that the first time that he saw that combatant that was 20 years old was when he broke up the
fight. When Chief Gammel viewed the video it was very clear that the 20 year old walked through the front
door right by the bouncer seated next to the door, up to the bar, sat at the bar, ordered a drink and was issued a
drink. The bouncer had indicated that he may have snuck in through the side door or somebody led him in
through the side door. There was no such indication. The next part of the video that we examined was prior to
the fight. That 20 year old was again seen bringing what appeared to be an alcoholic beverage to a table. That
part of it we can't determine because we don't know what was in those cups. The first incident clearly shows the
bartender pulls an alcoholic beverage bottle from the well, makes a drink and hands it right to the party
involved. It was then we determined that the violation that Chairman Jeffreys spoke of would be the basis of
what we're looking at. Chief Gammel stated he brought the officers that were involved in the call to answer any
questions or provide any testimony.
Kenneth Ricker, owner of On The Rocks, stated whatever the Chief determined from the tapes he fully agreed
with. He added he has been in business almost 19 years and this was his first offense for serving an under aged
person. Mr. Ricker stated it is what it is; I am not going to make up any stories. My own bartender called the
police that night. I talk to Chief Gammel whenever we have an issue, we always comply and provide videos
when requested. It is a busy bar and we try to keep order at all times. We are changing some procedures to make
sure this doesn't happen again.
Ms. Sroka asked Chief Gammel if the bouncer asked the 20 year old for an id. Chief Gammel responded no and
there were also a couple of other people that walked right into the bar.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the owner is conceding to the evidence. Mr. Ricker confirmed. Mr. Ricker stated some
things he has done in the past to avoid serving under aged people. Mr. Alonzo asked if a past violation(s) on
November 24 and 26, 2021 were considered one or two violations. Chief Gammel believed they were
considered as one at the time.
Mr. Jeffreys asked Mr. Ricker if he was owner of the bar in 2012. Mr. Ricker stated he was. Mr. Jeffreys asked
Mr. Ricker if he recalled a hearing on November 20, 2012 in which the Alcoholic Beverages Control
Commission (ABCC) found JK Waterfront Inc. d/b/a On The Rocks in violation of 204 CMR 2.05 to wit a
===PAGE 6===
been with On The Rocks?
Officer Hill stated all three of us work night shift patrol so the early hours of our shift are normally involving
On the Rocks, Kindred Spirits, Embers Pizzeria, Asian Imperial; places that serve alcoholic beverages. Officer
Hill stated he has been with the Town for two and a half years. It's a younger crowd, normally very respectful.
Sergeant John Morreale stated he has worked for the department for nine years. I've responded to similar calls
to other bars and restaurants in town. In my experience with On the Rocks they've always been cooperative and
anything that we've needed or asked they've done so for us.
Officer Jesse Reed stated we conduct routine patrols at On the Rocks, especially on Friday or Saturday nights
when it is busy. We like to keep our presence there. Up until that incident on April 14th I haven't had many
incidents at the establishment and from what I understand too the owners have been cooperative if there ever
has been an incident.
Mr. Ricker expressed dissatisfaction with Mr. Jeffreys' previous comment at another meeting about himself and
it being "all about the money." From his perspective, Mr. Ricker has done everything he can to make this a nice,
sate, clean area. He stated this incident is going to make me change my procedures.
Deliberation was very quick as the owner conceded there was a minor served. The board moved onto their
finding.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2n: L. Franco
To find that J K Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a On The Rocks, violated Article IV, Regulatory, Section 4.01;
subsection 1.07 [Alcoholic Beverage Sales and Laws (f.)
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To find that J K Waterfront, Inc. d/b/a On The Rocks, violated Article IV, Regulatory, Section 4.01;
subsection 1.08; Environs of Licensed Premises
Discussion: Mr. Alonzo stated these are overlapping violations, all this one says is because they have to ensure a
high degree of supervision, each licensee shall be accountable for all the violations that are related to the
licensed premises to determine whether or not they acted properly; so I don't know what the violation is that's
different from the first one. They are two aspects of the same thing. Further discussion ensued.
Vote: 2 in favor, 2 against (Motion does not pass)
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To find that J K Waterfront d/b/a On The Rocks violated Article IV, Regulatory, Section 4.01, subsection
1.10 [Standards of Conduct on the Premises (c) No alcoholic beverages shall be sold to anyone under
twenty-one years of age. No service of alcoholic, wine/malt beverages shall be made to anyone under the
twenty-one years of age.]
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys moved on to M.G.L. c 138, §34: Sale, delivery or furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under
twenty-one years of age.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2n': M. Jeffreys
To find that J k Waterfront d/b/a On The Rocks violated M.G.L. c 138, §34: Sale, delivery or furnishing
alcoholic beverages to persons under twenty-one years of age.
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 7===
Ricker to turn over the alcohol license to the Police Department once the appeal period is over. They will return
the license at the end of the suspension period.
Mr. Jeffreys also reminded Mr. Ricker to keep a copy of the Select Board policies available for his employees.
Mr. Franco noted Mr. Ricker was cooperative and admitted to the violation and if he had not been, Mr. Franco
would have no hesitation in agreeing to a longer license suspension period.
Discuss Request for 243 Summer Street
Lois Cosme presented a request on behalf of herself and her husband, who is blind, for a handicapped parking
area within the Town right of way on the front of their property at 243 Summer Street. They had origınally
reached out late last year to get a handicapped spot painted on Summer Street in front of their home. It was
identified that there is adequate parking available on Summer Street. Mi. Jeffreys stated he and Ms. Cosme
spoke to the Building Commissioner and Land Use Director about this. Town counsel was consulted as well.
When Summer Street was reconstructed a few years ago, the property line of the town was pushed back and is
now about 1 foot from their front steps.
Ms. Cosme stated her husband is legally blind and requires dialysis. He cannot walk for too long and has taken
a couple of falls outside already. The sidewalk is higher than the grass and he has fallen a couple of times.
When we purchased the property we were told that the grass area was our property, so we were ready to put in a
parking area right in front.
Mr. Jeffreys organized a site visit to the property with the Police and Fire chiefs and the DPW Director to see if
they the other way or award a license agreement to the owners. A quote to pave the area in the amount of 83400
was provided by Ms. Cosme and she is asking the Town to assist with the funding.
Question was asked about the ample parking area on their property, why do you need more paving? Ms. Cosme
stated she was looking for how to connect from the front of the house to the car without having to go around the
sidewalk or through the grass.
Discussion ensued about a possible liability or setting precedent on the street for other residents. Suggestion
was made to level the area and/or raise the lawn. Ms. Cosme stated because of the walking stick it would not
work because it needs a hard surface. It was decided to do some more research on the matter. Ms. Cosme
thanked the board and exited the meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Discuss American Rescue Plan Act Evaluation Criteria
Mr. Jeffreys suggested putting criteria to the side, looking at the requests that we have and seeing where we can
find agreement on where we can disperse or commit certain funds and then figure out what the remainder is and
apply a process to that.
The following are requests that the Select Board considered discussing further:
• The Water District is requesting $485,000 for public education ($35,000), PFAS Master Plan ($50,000)
and Pilot testing at the Keating and Lancaster well sites ($400,000).
• The North Central Chamber of Commerce is requesting $50,000 for a proposed Regional Business
Investment Fund
===PAGE 8===
a e s a cea ca ca ca cate cal ala ds va. sevelal
of the requests require more information and the groups will be asked back to explain further. Mr. Alonzo noted
the Flat Hill drainage issue was not on the list of requests, but could potentially be a big expense. He suggested
discussing this further.
Carol Archambault, School Committee Chair, regarding the sidewalks request, explained the idea was to go
from where Turkey Hill and Northfield Road connect, down Northfield to the adjoining sidewalk on Oak Ave
that's already there. Then pick up again on Oak Ave at the end where it connects with Main Street and follow
along to Marshall Park. She added she would provide a map to the board.
Ana Lockwood, Parks Commission Chair, thanked the board and assured the board they would put the funding
to good use.
Warrants
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $1,898,130.24; a payroll warrant in the amount
of $967,747.09 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $678,110.05.
Action Items
Ms. Lemieux will speak with the Land Use Director regarding the easement mentioned earlier in public
comment. Mr. Jeffreys will touch base with Mr. Allison about the engineering on Flat Hill Road for more
clarity. Mr. Alonzo stated he would continue to advocate for getting a crosswalk installed at the Whalom Road
rotary and the lake.
Committee Reports
Mr. Franco announced the Council on Aging meeting was canceled. Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal
Building Design Committee will be meeting with this board next week at their May 16 meeting.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys announced upcoming meetings are May 16 and May 23. The annual town election is Saturday,
May 20"". The Memorial Day ceremony is on Monday, May 29" at Veteran's Park at 10:00 a.m.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated one of the downsides of painting crosswalks in the fall is that they get
beat up by the snow plows in the winter. He wondered if the one from the corner of Memorial Drive to the
sidewalk in front of Town Hall could be redone. He also urged the board to use the Capital Planning process for
the remaining projects and funding.
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road, asked about a previous consultant that provided a presentation on managing
ARPA funding for the town. Mr. Jeffreys informed her that they did not hire that company. She added the
presentation recently given by the Parks Commission was excellent. Mr. Jeffreys thanked her for the positive
feedback.
Motion: L. Franco
To adjourn the meeting
2': T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
===PAGE 9===

