===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone who attended the Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club fundraiser last Friday. He
thanked all the teams who participated and congratulated the winning team (Police Dept. & comfort dog Hank).
Mr. Jeffreys stated it was great to be there and lauded Mr. Alonzo for hosting the event.
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle, asked Mr. Jeffreys about a statement made at the January 17 meeting about
tax increases/decreases in different areas of town. Mr. Jeffreys informed him he would have to review the
video.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Ms. Lemieux noted the Eagle House Supporters clothing drive collected 1200 bags of clothing totaling
12,786 pounds from December to April. This raised $2557 for the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center.
• Representative Margaret Scarsdale will be holding office hours in Lunenburg on May 10" at the public
library from 5-6 p.m.
• Yard waste days at Young's Road will be May 6, May 13 and May 20.
• The Lunenburg youth baseball and softball parade will be May 13th at 9 00 a.m. starting at Kids
Kingdom
• The Annual Town Meeting is May 6th at 9:00 a.m. at the Middle/High School Auditorium
• The Annual Town Election is May 20th 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the TC Passios Building
• The Memorial Day ceremony will be on May 29th at 10:00 a.m. at Veteran's Park
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS
The Planning Board has begun their master planning process and they are seeking a representative from the
Select Board to serve on the steering committee.
The Sewer Commission has informed us the intermunicipal agreement with the City of Leominster expires at
the end of June of next year and Dave MacDonald and Mike Nault will be representing the sewer commission.
They were reaching out to see if the Select Board also wishes to have a representative present.
Mary Wilson (Conservation Commissioner) and Ana Lockwood (Parks Commissioner) reported on the Earth
Day 2023 Activities
===PAGE 2===
4/15
4/22
4/22
4/22
Library: Sheet Mulching
Wallis Playground: Spring Clean-up
Pollinator Habitat: Spring Clean-up & Seed Starts
Library: Tree Planting
Various
Ad hocs: Chestnut St Neighborhood Cleanup, New West Townsend Rd Clean Up, Mass Ave
Clean-Ups, Northfield Rd Clean-ups
SUMMARY REPORT:
Description
Properties & Areas Supported
Volunteer Turnout
Volunteer Hours
Equivalent Value Back to Lunenburg
Metrics
13
122
361
$11,180.00
Comments
9 Properties + 4 Ad Hoc Areas
Volunteers at Events
Man-hours
used $31/hr. consistent with
MassTrails "In-Kind" metric
Special Thank you to:
• Lunenburg Ledger
• Sponsored the initial ¼ Page Color Ad to Promote Visibility
Lunenburg DPW & Facilities
• Trash Pickups, dumpster support, etc.
Event Coordinators
• Coordinating with Volunteers, Leading Projects
State Representative Support
Margaret Scarsdale
Groups
===PAGE 3===
Rocks, for an All Alcohol Restaurant License located at 96 Lakefront Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. The premises is described
as a one-story sports bar with a 29'x 12' sq. ft. outdoor patio; 1540 total sq. ft.
Jonathan Dickhaut, owner/manager, was present for the application. Mr. Dickhaut stated his family owns a
business in Townsend, Townsend House, since 1974. He also owns Partners Pub in Fitchburg, which was in
need of some serious attention when he bought it. We've remodeled/rebranded and had zero alcohol violations
since we took over. When asked, Mr. Dickhaut stated none of the current management will be staying at On the
Rocks but some of the staff will remain.
Discussion ensued about a liquor violation pending against the current owner of the business.
When asked, Mr. Dickhaut stated hours of operation will remain the same. There was a memo from the Land
Use Director concerning the special permit for the outside seating area.
"It would be my belief that this would transfer as the business is continuing in the same manner as the new
owner would be subject to all the conditions. The language that the ZBA often includes relative to the
permit ceasing with the property transfer does not exist in this permit."
Mr. Alonzo asked if Mr. Dickhaut had read the Select Board policy regarding liquor licenses. Mr.
Dickhaut stated he had. He stated he would be the manager and once this license is approved, he will be
changing the manager at his other business in Fitchburg. We will be a hands-on management team and
use the same policies we use in Fitchburg.
Discussion ensued about the pending violation against the current owner of On the Rocks and Mr. Dickhaut was
advised that the hearing is next week for that. Also discussed were possible scenarios if the transfer is approved
and possible results of the violation hearing next week.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, stated his wife's mother and father lived next door to the Townsend House
and there was only one time there was a problem and they fixed it immediately. He did not know Mr. Dickhaut
personally, but he restated the family are nice people. Seeing no other public comments, Mr. Jeffreys closed the
public hearing.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd. H. Sroka
To transfer the all alcohol license and approve the common victualler license for Lakefront Beverage Inc.
d/b/a On the Rocks, 96 Lakefront Ave.
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Dickhaut thanked the board and exited the meeting.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
• Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Building Commissioner Brian Gingras
Ms. Lemieux stated we advertised and got six applicants. Three out of four accepted an interview with us and
Mr. Gingras was our top choice. He has 15 years of relatable municipal experience He's previously worked 10
years as a local inspector for Athol, Lowell and Woburn before becoming a Building Commissioner and he
currently works for the Town of Lancaster where he gained two and a half years of experience as their Building
Commissioner. He's a certified local building inspector and will be taking his final test for his certification later
this month. Prior to municipal work he owned and operated a general contracting company for 17 years. He did
extensive research on the community for his interview. He's very well versed and we look forward to bringing
him on board.
===PAGE 4===
IvIs.
"As you are aware we have been looking to fill the new part time Administrative Assistant role for the Police
Department since January of 2023. The position has been posted, and we have gone through two rounds of'
interviews with several candidates. During the second round of interviews, we identified a candidate who we believe
will be a great fit for our Department and Community. I am pleased to recommend Gail Kemp for the part-time
Administrative Assistant for the Police Department position. Gail is a resident of Fitchburg and has family in
Lunenburg. She holds an Associate's Degree in Business Administration from Jamestown Community College
and has extensive administrative assistant experience. In her previous roles, Gail has been responsible for
maintaining payroll, accounts payable and receivable, and has familiarity with the Microsoft Office suite.
Gail possesses the skills and knowledge to successfully fulfill this position. Gail has met all of the requirements for
this position, which included passing a full background investigation. I request that Gail Kemp be appointed to the
part time Administrative Assistant for the Police Department position to be effective May 3. Thank you for your
consideration of my request."
Ms. Lemieux stated she had personally met her and felt she would be a good fit.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2^°: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Gail Kemp as Police Part-time Administrative
Assistant
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's
Office at (978) 582-4130 × 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
•
Administrative Assistant for Conservation (10 hours/week)
• Administrative Assistant for Planning (36 hours/week)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (24 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Police Officer (40 hours/week)
• Veterans Services Agent (varies)
• Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
===PAGE 5===
Ave were teles a yelasign, butterested dess nos dese me shoo
Mrolo thesies aiming ease and sins be tons a stay in theigh turnaes mergame and gostraight
recommendation would beto control themovementcomingoff Chase Road.
MassDOT installed traffic counters at the Route 2A/Electric Ave/Lunenburg Crossing driveway intersection and
at the Route 2A and Chase Road intersection the week ending 12/02/2022 and removed them week ending
12/09/2022.
In early March, the DPW Director asked Ann Sullivan of MassDOT for an update, and she had responded that
they were still evaluating what they could do on this stretch between Chase Road and Electric Ave and the
intersection and signal were designed as such that the outside lane is a shared through/right turn lane. As part of
their evaluation, they are looking to determine if the outside lane on the WB approach at the signal can be modified
to an exclusive right turn lane.
On April 28th the DP W Director spoke with Lori Shattuck, MassDOTDistrict 3 Traffic Engineering. Shestated the
intersection is a Top 5% Intersection Crash Cluster and as such is eligible for funding under the Highway
Safety Improvement Program (HSIP). She is going to find out if a Road Safety Audit can be started. She
envisions a future project to make permanent changes to alleviate the traffic conflicts. She is also willing to meet
with public safety officials in the field to discuss temporary measures that may help. Ms. Shattuck said she would
get back to the Director soon.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals:
• Bids forthe Lunenburg Adult Activity Center Outdoor Patio project were initially due May 1st but will be
extended to Monday, May 8th due to an addendum that needs to go out to address some changes to the
bid specifications.
• The Assistant Town Manager is currently reviewing draft bids for the Five Year Assessors
Revaluation, Page Street Culvert Construction project, Guardrail Repairs, Fog Sealing, and a RFP for
Operation and Maintenance of the Wastewater Collection System. Also, the Assistant Town Manager
will be re-bidding the Public Safety Building Carport project shortly.
I am finalizing the Request for Proposals for the LED Streetlight Conversion and hope to have this
advertised by next week.
30 School Street Hazardous Abatement and Demolition
Demolition of the building began on April 27th and is expected to be complete by town meeting. Site work and
grading is expected to complete by May 19th.
Department Head Updates:
Facilities: The Facilities Director reported that the architect will be wrapping up the plans for the Ritter
Building Envelope project soon; the bid for the Adult Activity Center Generator will begoing out soon; 30
School Street will be completed by the end of May; the Facilities Director is working with an architect on
putting the PSB Carpet project bid together; the schematic design work for Marshall Park should be
complete around mid-June.
Land Use: We are currently in between Building Commissioners but our Alternate Building
Commissioner is reviewing any permits in Viewpoint and available if needed until our next Building
Commissioner starts; Master Plan; The Planning Board reviewed a draft charge for a Master Plan
===PAGE 6===
229); Arrest: 114 (ytd) (March: 24, April: 30); Accidents: 82 (yta) (March: 23, April: 10); Year to date
officers have issued 603 Citations and have written 292 Reports not involving the above calls.
• Finance: The Finance Director willbesendingout a purchaseorder memo forendofthe yearPOs soon
and after town meeting will set up FY24 budget so it is all set in MUNIS beforesheretires.
• The Finance Director will complete the next expenditure report for ARPA that is due April 30th.
• COA: TheCOA Directorreported that the center has been busy with programming, including Memory
Cafe, Zumba, Line Dancing, Yoga, Stitch & Chat, Reiki and more. COA Director is beginning to plan for
the Memorial Day Ceremony which will be on May 29th at 10 am.
Library: March 25th burglary $400 in cash; June 2nd 2-7 June 3rd 9-2 pm Friends of Library Book
Sale; partnered with Parks with tree planting and mulching project;
• Assessors: Principal Assessor reported the hired consultant has done about ½ of the cyclical inspections
(not related to abatement inspections); working with the Assistant Town Manager on the RFP for Five
Year Revaluation to be put out shortly.
• Public Access: The position of production technician was filled by an in-house videographer
recently; Public Access will be getting ready for filming Are you Smarter than a Sixth Grader,
Memorial Day Ceremonies, Graduation, and the ATM.
• DPW: The DPW Director relayed that after the last big snowstorm the crews are still cleaning up a lot of
roadside debris from trees. The crews are also street sweeping, performing catch basin cleaning
operations, cutting back excessive roadside plant growth, repairing road signs, addressing drainage
issues, and picked up branches collected during the Earth Day cleanup. CEI spent 2 days collecting
data from our storm water systems (catch basins, manholes, connecting pipes, etc.) this past week. The
DPW Director has been trying to get the easements signed for the Flat Hill Road Bridge project; two of
the four have been signed to date.
• IT: Fiber has been installed at the TC Passios and working with Comcast to schedule the fiber install at
Town Hall; obtaining updated quotes for town building phone systems; MUNIS migration date is May
1st-5th and the go live date September 7th-8th; still waiting on a couple quotes from vendors for the
camera system at the Public Safety Building.
Ms. Lemieux reported a resident sent an email "sending a big thank you to the DPW (regarding street
sweeping/catch basin cleaning) especially the operator, the street sweeper I don't think I've ever seen anyone do
a more thorough job." She commended the DPW for all the work that they do.
Ms. Lemieux read aloud a letter sent to Library Director Muir Haman.
"Dear Mr. Haman,
On behalf of the Statewide Massachusetts Teen Choice Book Award Selection Committee, I'm writing to
express our sincere appreciation and gratitude for the outstanding work that Lunenburg Public Library Teen
Librarian Susan Elbag has done as a founding member of our volunteer committee over the past two years.
Being a part of the committee is a considerable undertaking. We require members to review at least 20 books
and attend a series of meetings throughout the year totaling more than 15 hours of volunteer time. Their
dedication and commitment to the committee's mission and fulfillment of these responsibilities has been truly
remarkable. Her deep knowledge of adolescent development, library experience and professionalism have been
invaluable as we work to curate an outstanding and diverse list of new young adult books for the youth of our
state to vote on. Ms. Elbag's collaborative skills, commitment to literacy and attention to detail have helped us
to create a welcoming and inclusive slate of books that serves our state's diverse needs. Additionally, as the
===PAGE 7===
Dalgall Agreement Was Deal, agree n Dye Dr de g a real agre Dy
the Lunenburg Professional Firefighters.
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds, a sum of
money to fund the first year of the FY 24-FY 26 Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2023 - June 30,
2026 with the Lunenburg Professional Firefighters, PFFM Local 5369; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Town Manager)
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To recommend approval of Article #8 which is the Fire Union Bargaining Agreement
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Lemieux reported the agreement included a 2½% increase for each year of the three-year agreement and a
change in the shift differential between the top steps of Lieutenant to the first step of the Fire Captain position.
That change in year 1 went from 3% to 5% differential; for year 2 an additional percent, and year 3 an
additional percent. A fourth step for the Fire Captain position was added as well as a $1000 annual stipend
position for the SAFE Coordinator. Also added was an officer out of grade pay increase of $2/hr. if there's not
an officer on duty for a shift. The overall impact for fiscal 24 would be $26,043.04; for fiscal year 25 the impact
will be $36,022.18 and for fiscal year 26 is $25,320.14.
Mr. Alonzo noted there was a typo on Article 21 and there will be an amendment made on the meeting floor to
remove the word "residential," and replace with "all taxpayers." The board reviewed the motion sheet for
annual town meeting.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Approval of Minutes of February 28, 2023
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of February 28, 2023 as presented
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Action Items:
Mi. Jeffreys reported a resident sent a request to place no parking signs north or south of the intersection of
Sunset Lane and Robb's Hill Road. The Police Chief will setting up some traffic monitors to study implications
of doing so. Mr. Jeffreys stated a request for residents of Summer Street for a paved parking area in the Town
Right of Way will be coming next week.
Mr. Alonzo asked about the town roads getting line painted as this poses a safety issue. Ms. Lemieux will
follow up with the DPW Director.
Mr. Alonzo asked if the Assessors could provide this board reports of the abatements given out weekly.
Upcoming Meetings
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the upcoming meetings: May 6 (Annual Town Meeting), May 9, May 16.
He noted the Town election is May 20"i
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the schedule for the Town Manager evaluation process.
Committee Reports
Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building Design Committee met and we are looking to meet with the Select
Board on the 16" to review the hybrid plan as well as some rough estimates for phasing and costs.
===PAGE 8===
and what we've done as far as policy work and planning speaks for itself. I would hope that voters would see
that as evidence that the Town is in a good position, that the budget being put forth is appropriate, meets the
Town's needs and there was a lot of thought and process that went into it as well.
A gentleman who believed he had a peddler's license hearing for Sun Run Solar scheduled this evening stepped
forward but his appointment was not listed on the agenda. He will be rescheduled for the next meeting.
Mr. Alonzo following up on Ms. Lemieux's statement regarding Town Meeting, stated this is an opportunity for
people to voice their opinions. The audit we received last week is similar to the audit we received the year
before that and years before that. The Town is run very well, I think the Finance Director and the Town
Manager and their teams do an excellent job. This is the time to come and support the budget that serves the
needs of the town. If you look at any individual article separately from all the rest, it is either self-explanatory or
easily supported about why we need it. These are not "nice to haves," these are core things like passing the
budget and putting things in stabilization fund, etc. I encourage people to come to participate.
Motion: L. Franco
2nd: H. Sroka
To enter into Executive Session and to adjourn immediately after exiting Executive Session: Pursuant to
MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining, where an
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's bargaining position and the Chair so
declares. (Public Employee Agreement).
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
******************EXECUTIVE SESSION MINUTES ARE SEPARATE************************
The meeting adjourned at 9:12 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
