===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Allegiance.
Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that
this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook Live
and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone for coming out for the Town Caucus last night.
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, commented on the tax assessment process and the oversight of the Principal
Assessor. Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, followed up on requesting more information about the 135% increase of
assessment on the lake properties. Mr. Alonzo stated he was still seeking the same information and Mr. Jeffreys
concurred. Mr. Franco stated he was still calling for a joint meeting of this board with the Board of Assessors
(BOA). He also thought it would be helpful if the Principal Assessor created a presentation for residents on how
they got from Step 1 to sending out tax bills and all the steps in between on the tax assessments.
Mr. Alonzo, regarding residents asking to be able to sit in on their abatement requests, and how it was a
decision of the BOA, not the Principal Assessor, noted the BOA have been invisible during this investigation in
responding to this board and residents. He noted some residents were contacted via email by the Principal
Assessor who stated according to state law there was not going to be any way for residents to sit in on their
abatement review. Mr. Alonzo stated it would behoove the BOA to answer those emails on their own behalf on
policy questions. The answer provided to those residents was incorrect because it does not apply to hearings,
only records. Mr. Franco noted there would not be enough time to allow everyone to spend 30 minutes going
back and forth. However it would be agreeable to bring in supplemental information such as an appraisal since
the initial filing.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he would again reach out to the BOA and invite them into the next meeting. We have elected
officials who do not believe it's necessary to be accountable to the voters and that we have been fielding the
majority of all the concerns for the last two months and they have been wholly absent. It's unacceptable.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Principal Assessor had met with Town Counsel prior to giving that response and I
think he inadvertently misinterpreted the law. He quoted that the law does not contemplate a hearing process or
that the public has a right to attend these executive sessions and like Mr. Franco stated and this was further
confirmed with Town Counsel, there's neither a right nor a prohibition for the public to attend these sessions. It
is at the full discretion of the Assessors, not the Town Manager not the Principal Assessor. So just to make that
very clear and further I'm not holding back information on the calculation of the land valuation. I have
requested this information for the Principal Assessor to put this together.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Lunenburg Conservation and Park Commissions will be holding Earth Day cleanup on April 9t and this is
located around town. It's also online on Facebook and it will be addressing Veterans Park, the Lane property
(Holman Street), the public library, Proctor Park pollinator habitat and Wallace playground. There are various
times to sign up for cleaning each location.
===PAGE 2===
this road was approved and was answered that the road is already roughed in and this pole is in the dead center,
so we would have to move it.
Renee Shattuck, 396 Howard Street, stated he got the hearing notice and the accompanying plan was outdated.
He provided updated copies of the proposal and his quitclaim deed, noting there was a land swap back in 2019.
He did not agree with moving the pole because it is anchored in good dry land and would be moved where there
is storm water runoff.
Anne Shattuck, same address, stated it was not so much the pole being moved but the recording of something
legal based on the wrong diagram. Mr. Jeffreys reported the board did have the old 2016 map and a newer map
showing updated information.
Kevin O'Brien, property owner/developer, reported a pipe was discovered last winter and they would not drill
anywhere near it. The pole is being moved back a little bit more off the road to #42, maybe two to three feet
further off the road. I think the only thing we pick up on this is the property right here (pointing to the map,
that's 396 Howard Street, this sliver of land that says Kevin Drive is not Kevin Drive, it's part of their
(Shattucks) property. I think it's just a simple typo I know that they own that property, I deeded it to them. Some
other details to the map were discussed. The Shattucks stated if the Unitil drawing was changed to reflect the
correct map, they would have no objections to the pole being moved.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: L. Franco
To approve the pole petition for Howard Street pole# 42, Plan 976L, as presented and discussed
Vote: 3 in favor, 1 against (Jeffreys)
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Appointment of Council on Aging- George Martin, 502 Burrage St. -term to expire June 30, 2023
George Martin stated he has been a town resident for over 26 years and hi smother was on the COA in
townsend and he would like to contihue the tradition. He has also been attending the Senior Center lunches and
would like to contribute. Deb Lincoln, Chair of the COA, endorsed Mr. Martin's appointment. He was also
volunteering to be a town clockwinder.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: L. Franco
To appoint George Martin to the Council on Aging with a term to expire June 30, 2023 and to ratify the
Town Manager appointment as town clockwinder term also to expire June 30t" this year
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
There was no report tonight but Ms. Lemieux announced two upcoming retirements; the first is Kit Walker,
Facility Superintendent, retiring on May 1st. Police Sergeant Sean Connery will be retiring July 5" after 33
years on the force.
OLD BUSINESS
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Capital Plan, and Annual Town Meeting Warrant
Articles, Possible Votes on Recommendations
Ms. Lemieux reported the budget is finalized and the Capital Plan has been revised for FY24. The Finance
Director is working on a chart to reflect all the transfers within the FY23 budget, including the snow and ice
budget.
===PAGE 3===
regular UPED. ypically for efficiency we combine those two and the motion will stipulate what the sources are
for the deposits; one being into the Town OPEB account and one into the Sewer OPEB account ($1000). The
Solid Waste Enterprise account will have $302,000 and the Water Enterprise account will get $25,000. More
articles will be discussed at a later time when departments come in to discuss their warrant article requests.
CURRENT BUSINESS
1. Vote on Updated Nashoba Regional Dispatch Agreement
Mr. Jeffreys recused himself from this discussion due to a conflict. Ms. Lemieux reported there are multiple
towns that are part of the Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District. When the district was originally formed it
wasn't a district; it was formed through inter-municipal agreements. A law was enacted later to form signed
District agreements versus the original communities intermunicipal agreement. We had two different documents
we were working with and we worked on putting the document you have before you tonight.
The Administration Board has been working on updating the District Agreement, so that all NVRDD
Committees have signed and agreed to the same terms of participation.
Some of the updates are:
1. Member Community Representatives can only serve on one of our boards: Administration,
Finance or Operations.
2. The Operations Committee will be formed by two Representatives from each
community: Police and Fire Chiefs, or Public Safety Director.
3. Every Representative on the Operations Committee will have one vote.
4. The Administration Board appoints the Executive Director.
5. The Executive Director's job qualifications, duties and responsibilities shall be
established by the Admin Board in conjunction with the Operations Committee.
6. The Executive Director reports to the Administration Board, but works in conjunction with the
Operations Committee on all matters pertaining to communications equipment and systems,
dispatch protocols and operational policies and procedures, and making recommendations to the
Administration Board.
7. The Executive Director with the assistance of the Operations Committee will be
responsible for the District's Budget. Including Capital Budget.
8. The District Accountant and Treasurer positions are designated as part-time employees of the
District and report to the Executive Director and Finance Committee.
9. Year-end balances from the budget will be carried forward to the next year until all assessments
and grant reimbursements are received for continuity of operations. Once all funds are received
the Executive Director will present the balance to the finance committee and make
recommendations as to the appropriation of the remaining amount.
10. The District will be responsible for maintaining and purchasing its systems and
equipment.
11. Each of the Participating Communities shall provide and maintain all necessary telephone
circuits, radio circuits/frequencies, two-way radios, antennae and any related and/or necessary
equipment required for their agency's operation, communication with the dispatch facility and
their respective emergency networks. All such telecommunications costs, maintenance costs, and
expenses for equipment located within its community shall be the responsibility of each
===PAGE 4===
Manager.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To authorize use of ARPA funding in the amount of $81,054 for the public safety security camera
system upgrade as presented by Town Manager
2'': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Authorization from Select Board to expend $69,600 from ARPA funding on Tax Assessment Services
Motion; M. Jeffreys
2': L. Franco
To authorize expending $69,600 of ARPA funding for tax assessment services
Vote: All in Favor
Response to Open Meeting Law Complaint
Mr. Jeffreys reported we received an open meeting law violation complaint against the Select Board related to
the investigation. The board reviewed Town counsel's response to the open meeting law complaint.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2': T. Alonzo
To accept the response to the Open Meeting Law complaint and to instruct Town counsel to provide the
response to the complainant
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Jeffreys noted the complainant alleged the SB was conducting meetings that were not open to the public.
Part of the response to the complainant reads as:
"Here, according to the draft meeting minutes, the Select Board voted at its January 17, 2023 as follows:
As authorized by [S]ection 3-2[(e)] of the Lunenburg Town Charter... [to] conduct an investigation into
the effects that Covid-19 had on property values in 2021, the corresponding impact in fiscal year 2023 tax
assessments and the process by which the Town of Lunenburg through its agents conducted property
valuations and distributed tax assessments to residents.
The Board did not create a subcommittee to undertake the aforesaid investigation; indeed, Section 3-2(e) of the Town
Charter vests the Board as a whole with investigatory authority, or else allows the Board to "authorize the town manager to
investigate..." The minutes further indicate a statement, following or as part of the vote above, that:
The Chair of the Select Board will lead the investigation assisted by the Vice Chair and in coordination and
collaboration with the Town Manager[.]
In my opinion, neither acknowledging leadership by Chair, nor assistance by the Vice Chair, nor "coordination and
collaboration" with the Town Manager, is the same or equivalent to an indication that the Select Board intended to create
a multiple-member body."
In addition to the above, I am informed by the Town Manager that she, the Chair and the Vice-Chair have not been
meeting regularly with respect to the aforementioned investigation; in other words, consistent with the Select Board vote
===PAGE 5===
Mr. Alonzo and Mr. Jeffieys reported on whether the tax bills were actually mailed on the date the mailing
company stated they were. It was noted the mailing date affidavit read December 30" but other research led
them to believe the bills could have been mailed as late as January 6th
• Mr. Alonzo stated by state law all tax
bills for the third and fourth quarter have to be mailed by December 31st
. If they are mailed on January 1st or
after, the first due date for any tax bill which would be the combined Q3 and Q4 tax bill would be due on May
1s!. The affidavit provided by our tax bill mailing company, Kirkwood Direct indicated they mailed the tax bills
on December 30th at 4:30 in the afternoon. There was a call with the Chair, myself and Kirkwood Direct. The
Chair raised valid concerns about the manner in which the affidavit was notarized, that it did not have a physical
signature but a pre-scanned signature and that there was not a raised seal like it wasn't an original.
Mr. Alonzo reached out to the USPS about a check-in process. After much discussion with the post office and
someone who has worked for the post office for 30 years, he believed the real mailing date was January 6.
There is a discrepancy now and with the amount of impact it has had on residents it would behoove the board to
the board to
accept that date. There are some people who have been drastically hit and it would give them until May 1st to
come up with the money. Anybody who didn't file an abatement because maybe they didn't know the process or
didn't pay the payment therefore felt they couldn't file an abatement would now be able to file an abatement.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mi. Alonzo for the amount of detail he went into finding out about the post office
procedures. More discussion ensued with the other board members about the mailing date.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2': M. Jeffreys
That the board accept that to the best of our knowledge tax bills were mailed after the last day of the year
and were mailed in 2023 and therefore the due date should be for all calculated purposes of penalties and
interest and filing of abatements should be May Ist
Discussion: Ms. Lemieux has checked with Town Counsel about checking with the Dept. of Revenue if the
Select Board has that authority to designate which is the actual mailing date whether to abide by the affidavit or
the post office records and we have yet to hear back from Town Counsel. He has not been in touch yet with
DOR's legal counsel on that question. Ms. Lemieux noted that the Select Board's vote will affect her and her
staff's actions going forward.
Mr. Alonzo amended his motion to add no action will be taken until Town counsel receives a response
from the DOR. Mr. Jeffreys amended his second to support Mr. Alonzo's amendment.
Vote: All in Favor
Review Town Manager Evaluation Process and Timeline
Mr. Jeffreys stated every year we have the Town Manager complete her self-evaluation and then following that
we try to get everything done before the annual election. After the Town manager completes her self-evaluation
individual members do their draft evaluations to the Town Manager and meet individually with her.
Following those individual meetings you would send me your evaluation and I will compile them into one
composite evaluation that we would discuss at one meeting. Individual evaluations are not public record and
cannot be shared or referenced in the public meeting. What's really critical in this process is that we meet with
the Town Manager that last week of April and that way you have the opportunity to give that kind of feedback.
' Communications between the Chair and the Vice-Chair, outside of a public meeting, are not prohibited under the Open Meeting Law. Per
G.L. c. 30A, $ 18, a meeting is "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's jurisdiction" (emphasis added). A
deliberation is "an oral or written communication through any medium... between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business
within its jurisdiction." Id. (emphasis added). A quorum is, generally, a simple majority of the members of a public body. Id. (emphasis added).
The Select Board is a five-member public body, such that three (3) - not two (2) - members constitute a quorum.
===PAGE 6===
Action Items- there were none
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported Finance Committee is holding their public hearing this Thursday. Mr. Franco and I will be
there to present the senior tax relief warrant article.
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed the board's upcoming meeting schedule: April 4 (workshop), April 11 and April 25.
The Select Board will be meeting on the 18th
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Rhonda Lisio, Reservoir Road, asked about the SB vote concerning the tax bill mailing date and would people
be able to file an abatement later than the cutoff date. Mr. Alonzo stated they would be awaiting word from
Town Counsel regarding the Dept. of Revenue's opinion.
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, asked for clarification about the Sewer Dept. requests amounting to
$500,000 in ARPA funding. He asked if the Sewer Dept. was running on a deficit of $100,000 from Operations.
Ms. Lemieux stated they're utilizing $427,000 from retained earnings as a combination towards their FY 24
budget, but they typically use it on for OPEB, the Reserve Capacity and their other Stabilization account. Mr.
Rodgers asked is it true that they have about $2.2 million in retained earnings? Ms. Lemieux stated that was
approximately the amount, adding that retained earnings are like Free Cash for an enterprise. Mr. Rodgers asked
if it makes sense for the entire town to take care of the expense to repair sewer manholes and reset the sewer
covers. This is an Enterprise account. Mr. Jeffreys advised Mr. Rodgers to reach out to the Sewer
Commissioners for that answer. Mr. Rodgers stated he thought it would be a big mistake for the Sewer Dept. to
take half a million dollars from ARPA Funds and apply it to the Sewer because not everybody in town gets the
benefits of using sewer. Mr. Jeffreys noted the ARPA funds can be applied towards infrastructure. Upon exiting
Mr. Rodgers commended the Select Board and Town Manager for their work.
Mr. Jeffreys announced the board would be entering Executive Session and adjourning immediately following.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: T. Alonzo
To enter Executive Session and adjourn immediately after for:
i.
Pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to litigation,
where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's litigating position
and the Chair so declares, namely National Prescription Opiate Litigation Case No. 1:17-MD-
2804
ii.
Pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to discuss strategy with respect to collective
bargaining, where an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government's
bargaining position and the Chair so declares. (Fire and Clerical Union)
Vote: Ms. Sroka-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys- aye
===PAGE 7===

