===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffieys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
The board members thanked outgoing member Heather for her service to the Town. They welcomed new board
members Renee Emkey and Caesar Nuzzolo. Ms. Emkey and Mr. Nuzzolo thanked everyone for supporting
them in the election.
Mr. Franco stated he had been getting phone calls and emails regarding the Water District's request for ARPA
funding. He encouraged people when the time comes to express any concerns or questions regarding the ARPA
funding request.
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street, spoke about the ARPA funding process and how there were three questions
that had to be answered by requestors in the process. She noted that Mr. Alonzo had mentioned the Flat Hill
Road drainage issue and possibly applying some ARPA funding towards it. If those questions were applied to it,
it would not qualify. She also did not agree with using the capital project process for the ARPA funding
requests.
Acceptance of Gift from Eagle Scout Marcellus Thorson for Food Donation Box
Marcellus Thorson of Carlisle is working on his Eagle Scout project and interested in doing something for a
food bank because he was interested in addressing global hunger. He was contacted by Lions Club President
Corinne Scouten about a need for a food drop off box in Lunenburg. He was interested in doing the project. It
would be in front of the TC Passios building and will have a 5' × 2' base and it will be around 2-2 1/2" feet high
with a slanted roof to keep it waterproof, It will have an inner lining to keep it animal and waterproot; have a
latch to keep animals out and it will be blue color to represent the Town. The board thanked him for doing this
project. Corinne Scouten noted it would sit in front of the cafeteria facing Route 2A.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2'd: C. Nuzzolo
To accept the gift from Marcellus Thorsun of a food drop off box for the food pantry
Vote: Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The Memorial Day Ceremony will be on Monday, May 29 at 10 AM at Veterans Park. Refieshments
will be provided by the Lions Club outside the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center: Please bring a folding chair if you
wish to have seating
• The Town Beach will open on Saturday, June 17th. Seasonal beach passes and swim lessons can
be purchased through the lunenburgma.myrec.com site.
===PAGE 2===
Request from School Committee to Support Modified Scope for the FY23 Capital Plan AC Project at
Primary School
Dr. Burnham referred the board to a letter dated April 24, 2023;
"The purpose of this letter is to provide information on FY23 Capital Plan Primary AC Project and ask for your
support for the modified plan outlined herein. The intent of the project remains the same - managing classroom air
comfort; however, the scope and execution are modified from the original plan presented last spring. The district
administration presented this plan to the Lunenburg School Committee and the Committee approved this plan on
March 15, 2023.
BACKGROUND
During the 2021-2022 school year, two hundred and thirty eight thousand dollars ($238,000.00) was approved under
the 2023 Capital Plan to install air conditioning improvements at the Lunenburg Primary School, 1401
Massachusetts Avenue. The original budgeted amount was $290,000, and then reduced to $238,000. The initial
assumption for the air conditioning upgrade was that the existing roof top air handling units could be utilized for this
purpose. It was later determined that it was not possible.
A subsequent assessment and project pricing for a complete air conditioning upgrade/replacement was conducted by
VAV International. This consultant provided recommendations and complete project pricing; a total estimated
project was $7,984.035. This was not viable.
PROPOSED SOLUTION
Alternative solutions were reviewed and it was determined that the best alternative plan would be installing ductless
split systems for each classroom. These "systems" consist of one (1) 48,000 BTU Dual Zone condenser with Heat
Pumps and two (2) 24,000 BTU wall or ceiling mounted heads for distribution. Each system will provide coverage
for two (2) classrooms. Currently there are seven (7) rooms on the second floor and eight (8) rooms on the first floor
that are air conditioned by permanently installed AC units as opposed to removable window mounted units. We
are looking to provide air conditioning and supplemental heat in twenty two (22) classrooms and an additional
two (2) offices.
PROJECT PRICING
The district has been working with various vendors on estimated projects costs, here is summary:
PHASE 1-FY23 Capital Plan Funding $238,000.00
It is estimated that the district will be able to purchase eight (8) 48k BTU Condensing Units and sixteen (16)
18k BTU Cassettes Units 16 for classrooms. Electricians and roofing contractors will be hired independently
to complete the installation of the units. This includes all thirteen (13) classrooms on the 2nd floor as well as
three (3) classrooms on the first floor.
PHASE 2 - Alternative Funding $119,000.00
The district will seek alternative funding, such as grants, and/or begin the local budgeting process to
purchase the remaining eight (8) units for the six (6) remaining classrooms on the first floor and two
(2) offices on the second floor:
OPERATING COST
===PAGE 3===
the summer break. Unless there are supply chain challenges, we are quite confident that PHASE I can
be completed during the 2023 summer break. The district will solicit bids for this project.
We thank you in advance for your consideration."
Mr. Cassidy stated the alternative Phase 2 funding has not yet been identified. We are looking within
our own budget and toward the end of the next school year and this is just to give you a preview. There's a
good chance that this may end up as a capital project submission as well. Mr. Pusateri clarified only the
classrooms would be affected by the mini-splits; common areas will not be addressed.
Mr. Jeffreys asked what the expected lifespan of these units would be noting 24 items would need to be
replaced at some point in the future and with Phase 2 that's an additional 14 more. This is not the normal
approach to air conditioning.
Mr. Pusateri agreed this was not the optimal solution but they are working with the funding they have. He
believed they could probably get 15-18 years out of these systems. There are other alternatives out there for a
central chilling unit but you're looking at a much larger and expensive system and running refrigerant supply
and return piping to every classroom.
Mr. Jeffreys asked if a mechanical engineer was consulted. Mr. Pusateri stated no. We engaged with an
engineering firm and the initial cost quoted was $7 M. With this plan we're looking at about $350,000 over the
course of the next year or so and this is going to be a planned Capital replacement expense every 10 to 15 years.
Mr. Alonzo asked about Phase 2; what is the breakdown? Mr. Pusateri stated for every two classrooms it would
be one condenser and two cassettes. That would be another four condensing units and so the budget is about
$27,000 for every two classrooms.
Phase 1 plan is to locate three 48,000 BTU condensers on the roof and the rest would be on the ground. Phase 2
with the first floor classrooms would be on the ground outside the building and we would try to place as many
in the courtyard and back of the building to make them the least visible. We're limited to approximately 93 feet
of supply and return lines of each unit, so we're limited in location.
Mr. Alonzo reported this was brought to the attention of the Capital Planning Committee and through
individual responses from the members no one thought it that it rose to the level of being reconsidered as it
addressed the initial funding. Alternate funding would have to be raised in some other fashion, so we did not
meet to discuss this.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, noted that with the original plan, the current electrical system in the building
would not be able to support the upgrade. He wanted to make sure this scenario would be supported by the
current electrical infrastructure. When asked, Mr. Pusateri stated we do not know, but we have plenty of space
in the breaker panels to accommodate this installation. Mr. Passios also recommended that these type of projects
be passed by the Green Communities Committee to see if there any eligibility for grant funding.
Mr. Jeffreys supported the plan but was uncomfortable that an electrical or mechanical engineer was not
consulted. Mr. Pusateri was not sure an engineer was needed based on his experience.
Evan Watters, 245 Sunny Hill Road, Finance Committee Chair, expressed concerns about the proposal as well,
especially about not having an engineer consulted to see if the scenario would work in the building.
What happens if we open the school in August and we can't get the temperatures to go down? Is there a
contingency plan? Mr. Pusateri stated the building was well insulated and the 24,000 BTUs is big enough to
keep the rooms comfortable. Dr. Burnham stated a couple of years we installed min-splits in the core areas of
===PAGE 4===
Mr. Jeffreys encouraged the school committee to take the additional time to enlist a consultant to confirm the
building can handle the additional load and that you're not going to spend $238,000 to have items that you're not
going to be able to utilize. The Finance Committee will meet on Thursday and discuss as well.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Administrative Assistant in Planning Department, Anne Aubrey
Ms. Lemieux stated I'm asking the board to ratify an appointment tonight for the Planning Department
Administrative Assistant position. Marjorie Boggio is retiring, so we thank her for many years of service. Her
last day is June 1st
!. The person that was I'm recommending tonight is Anne Aubrey. This position was posted
internally and after the required time was posted externally after not receiving any internal candidates. We
received 17 applications; three accepted interviews and Miss Aubrey stood out. She's going to be a great fit. I
was able to meet her, she's extremely personable. I can tell that she'll have a great interface with the public and
people coming into that office and she's excited for the opportunity as well. Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Boggio for
all her service to the town. The other members echoed Mr. Alonzo's words.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2'': M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment is Anne Aubrey as Planning Board Administrative Assistant
Vote: Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Ms. Lemieux informed the board that DPW worker/Heavy Equipment Operator Matt Lubao will be going to
work for the Lunenburg Water District.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's
Office at (978) 582-4130 × 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Administrative Assistant for Conservation (10 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week-contractual)
• Police Officer (40 hours/week)
===PAGE 5===
over 100 ppm. This came as no surprise as it aligns with the limited soil contamination that was identified in the
environmental siteassessment report.
Notification to MassDEP is outside their scope of work, so I will be working with the consultant I have worked with since
2019, Joe McLoughlin of the BETA Group on the notification to DEP. This will not stop the work that is being
conducted through the EPA and the hope is that due to the limited proximity of where these field meterreadings
occurred, the soilremoval that is part of the EPA'sscope will be removed as part of this project.
Open Meeting Law/Public Records/Conflict of Interest Training:
I havecoordinated a tentative date of Thursday, June 22nd for Town Counselto do a training on Open Meeting Law, Public
Records Law, and ConflictofInterest. There will bea training during the day forall staff and an evening training for all
boards/committees/commissions. More details to follow on location.
Welcome to LunenburgSign from North Central Chamberof Commerce
The North Central Chamber of Commercehas offered usa Welcometo Lunenburgsign sponsored by the Chamberand
would take care of the construction and installation. We will need to identify theroad it would be placed that would be
in a gateway location on town owned land (cannot be located too close to a state highway property). The sign itself
will be made of a composite material for durability and longevity. I will work with the DW Director on an appropriate
gateway location that is on town property for the sign.
OLD BUSINESS
Review and Approve the Town Manager Evaluation
POLICY AND PURPOSE
The purpose of this evaluation instrument is to formally appraise the Town Manager's performance on an annual basis. The
document allows the Select Board to assess the Town Manager's performance in management practices and in the
accomplishment of goals. Through the evaluation procedure, Board members will recognize strengths, offer positive
feedback, and suggest any areas that require corrective action.
Individual performance evaluation forms prepared by members of the Select Board are considered work product/personnel
documents, and shall not be publicly released. The only document to be released will be this overview document, compiling
the ratings and comments, prepared by the Chair.
PROCEDURE
1. The Town Manager will be reviewed annually on the achievement of the agreed upon goals established the previous
year and performance standards. The performance standards will be measured using a rating scale of "consistently
exceeds expectations, "often exceeds expectations", "meets expectations", "needs improvement" and "unsatisfactory".
In addition to annual goal(s) ten categories of performance standards and core responsibilities will be used to evaluate
the Town Manager:
2. The Town Manager will submit a narrative self-evaluation including a summary of the Town Manager's performance
against goals and objectives for the year.
3. Board members will complete their evaluations, meet and discuss their conclusions with the Town Manager and give
their input to the Chairman by a date set by the Chairman.
4. The Chairman will compile ratings from individual reviews and develop a composite overview document.
5. Copies of the individual reviews will be given to the Town Manager and placed in the Town Manager's personnel file.
6. The Chairman will provide the other Board members and the Town Manager with the composite evaluation overview
document at a scheduled Select Board meeting. Publicly discuss the evaluation at a subsequent meeting(s).
===PAGE 6===
RATING SCALE
The following scale will be used to rate the Town Manager's performance in all categories.
4
Consistently Exceeds Expectations:
Performance consistently exceeds expectations. The overall quality of work is excellent, results far exceed the position
requirements and annual goals were met.
3
Often Exceeds Expectations:
Performance often exceeds expectations. Demonstrates the ability to take on progressive responsibility showing high success
and most annual goals were met.
2
Meets Expectations:
Performance consistently meets expectations and the overall quality of work is good. The most critical goals were met.
Needs Improvement:
Performance has not met expectations and improvement is needed. One or more critical goals were not met.
0
Unsatisfactory:
Performance is inadequate and employee demonstrates an inability or unwillingness to meet job standards and performance
expectations of the position. Immediate and sustained improvement is required.
N/O
Not observed:
This rating is used when the reviewer has not directly observed the actions of the Town Manager. It will not be counted in
the compilation of scores.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND CORE RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Individual Characteristics/Professionalism
• Is dedicated to the highest ideals of honor and integrity in all public and personal relationships in order to merit
the respect and confidence of the elected officials, other officials and employees, and of the public. Demonstrates
accountability for actions; conducts him/herself fairly and honestly.
• Treats others in a fair, consistent, impartial, and professional manner. Is effective in dealing with people without
arousing antagonism and demonstrates an understanding of difficult situations.
• Maintains an open and approachable manner, presents a positive outlook and sets an example for subordinates.
RATING - 4
The Town Manager was challenged by a difficult year, in large part due to blistering and frequently unfair public
attacks. Heather was objective, personable, honest, collaborative, fair, reliable, level-headed and calm. She
managed a large volume of emails and Freedom of Information Act Requests with integrity and an even
temperament.
2. Problem Solving/Decision-Making/Planning:
• Anticipates and analyzes problems to develop effective approaches for solving them. Willing to try new ideas
proposed by the Board members and/or staff. (Moved from Criteria #3 Professional Skills and Knowledge, as it
speaks to problem solving)
• Anticipates future needs, organizes work operations, and establishes timetables for work units or projects. Is
aware of technological advances and changing standards; identifies and understands trends. Effectively allocates
resources and predicts the impact of service delivery decisions. (Moved from Criteria #7 Community and Public
Relations)
Knows when to take action and what type of action is appropriate.
Effectively allocates resources to provide service to the community. Anticipates stakeholder needs and attitudes,
and the impact of policies and procedures, and responds appropriately.
===PAGE 7===
•
Demonstrates skill in listening, speaking and writing, persuading without diminishing the views of others.
• Has a full working knowledge of the administrative and management systems and procedures.
• Understands and implements long-range and strategic planning techniques; identifies trends that will
affect the community; demonstrates an understanding and ability to analyze and facilitate policy choices
that will benefit the community in the long run.
RATING -3.75
Heather has an impressive set of knowledge and knows the role of Town Manager inside and out. She is a member
of multiple professional organizations, consistently improves her knowledge base and collaborates with
neighboring Town leaders and the Town's Senator and Representatives. Her ability to strategically network paired
with her desire to self-improve allows her to be resourceful and stay attuned with new ideas, policies, and laws that
affect the Town. She provides informed opinions and is a great communicator, both in person and in writing.
4. Organizational Leadership and Personnel Management:
Builds cooperation and consensus among and within diverse groups, helping them identify common goals and act
effectively to achieve them; recognizes interdependent relationships and multiple causes of community issues;
and anticipates the consequences of policy decisions.
• Encourages the development and high-level performance of staff and employees throughout the organization.
Effectively selects and hires employees for position vacancies.
• Professionally manages the compensation and benefits plan.
• Develops and executes sound personnel procedures and practices. Seeks to foster high morale and cohesiveness
among employees.
• Effectively plans, organizes and delegates work. Monitors results and evaluates performance of those supervised,
and provides feedback in a timely manner.
RATING - 2.25
Heather has sustained all previous improvements and meets the expectations of her position. She has been
successful at identifying personnel needs, creating new roles (supported by existing workloads), and incorporating
new positions into the government. While there's hope and confidence that the Town will see positive results in the
future due to Heather's organizational planning, a majority of the Board has identified this as an area that would
benefit from more attention and development. Heather relies heavily upon her department heads to work
proficiently and is perceived at times of having a "hands off" managerial style.
In the future, it would be beneficial for Heather or her designee to provide regular professional development for all
staff that among other things, trains personnel on effective communication techniques as several communications
from key staff notably missed the mark. One member would like for Heather to revisit the minute-taking
positions/hours and instead develop an internship program with Fitchburg State University and Lunenburg High
School.
5. Community and Public Relations:
• Understands the basic principles of service delivery in functional areas (e.g. public safety, community and
economic development, human and social services, administration, public works).
• Provides responsive, equitable service to town residents and instills the value of good customer service in staff.
Communicates effectively with the public. Maintains respectful, polite, and civil speech and demeanor in
dealings with all.
===PAGE 8===
The second half of the rating year was challenging due to the tax crisis, and while most members believed that she
was a "good face of the Town," a minority opinion was that information was not clearly or effectively
communicated to the public in a timely manner.
6. Fiscal Management:
• Prepares and administers the budget; shows knowledge of budgeting principles and practices, revenue sources,
projection techniques, and financial control systems; presents information in an intelligent and accessible format.
• Makes the best possible use of available funds, conscious of the need to operate the local government efficiently
and effectively. Determines the cost effectiveness of programs, and compares alternative strategies.
• As Chief Procurement Officer, effectively manages Town purchasing of supplies and services, disposition of
town property, and construction projects
• Establishes and manages sound fiscal policies including Five Year Financial Forecast, financial policies, and
Capital Plan.
RATING - 4
Fiscal management continues to be Heather's strength and the Town continues to be in an exceptionally healthy
financial position, as confirmed by a clean and glowing annual audit provided by Powers and Sullivan. Heather's
conservative budgeting practices meet the needs of the community, reserves money for future needs and allows for
increased funding for capital projects that have been deferred or overlooked. Heather diligently follows our
established fiscal policies and keeps excellent tabs on all aspects of our financial situation that impacts the Town's
debt and bond rating, assuring us with competitive access to capital when/if needed.
7. Relations with Members of the Board:
• Maintains effective communication with the Board. Maintains mutual trust and treats all Board members equally.
• Offers professional advice to the Board on items requiring board action, with appropriate recommendations and
supporting information based on thorough study and analysis.
• Responds well to requests, advice, and constructive criticism.
RATING - 3.5
Heather always makes time for questions and concerns and is fair in disseminating information to the entire Board
and being willing to meet with any member to discuss items of particular interest or concern. She is respectful and
engaged and follows up and reaches out, when needed. She is also receptive to arguments counter to her positions
and advice. It is noted that a member expressed concern that some information related to the tax crisis was not
shared in a timely manner.
8. Reporting
• Provides regular information and reports to the Board concerning matters of importance to the local government,
using the Town Charter as a guide.
• Reports produced by the Manager are accurate, comprehensive, concise and written to their intended audience.
• Produces and handles reports in a way to convey the message that affairs of the organization are open to public
scrutiny.
RATING - 3.75
Heather's weekly Town Manager reports, as well as her communications between meetings is timely and thorough
and there is no doubt that she has her finger on the pulse of the Town of Lunenburg. Communications are
===PAGE 9===
Best Achievement:
Financial Management, Project Management and Tax Crisis Management
Heather was able to manage capital projects effectively, with specific progress on the demolition of the old Primary
School and progress toward the Town taking possession of 925 Mass Ave (old gas station). Heather excelled at
budgeting and financial management and provided critical support that enabled the Select Board to present and
Town Meeting to pass Senior Tax Relief. She also handled the pressure and scrutiny of managing the tax crisis
effectively - this was all on display in a smooth-as-silk 3-hour Town Meeting!
Subject Which Would Benefit Most from Further Attention:
Personnel Management - The board is uniform in its assessment that while Heather is a strong leader and has
made notable progress in this area and is able to meet the expectations of her role, there's a need for a more
focused lens on the management of her direct reports and fostering a supportive environment across all
departments, in which personnel are mentored, trained and more directly supervised. There's a need for a multi-
year plan that details facility deficiencies and a desire for a more collaborative hiring process that invites elected
officials onto hiring committees.
General Comments:
Heather is an excellent Town Manager and is a true pleasure to work with! The Board and the Town are fortunate
to have such a capable leader at the helm and Heather's dedication to her job and staff is self-evident. She
demands the best of herself and appropriately manages deadlines while maintaining a genuine, professional and
approachable demeanor. We hope to work with Heather for many more years to come!
Ms. Lemieux stated obviously the public lens on this is not the most comfortable position to be put in, but I
appreciate the constructive criticism and commentary as well that's positive. I thoroughly enjoy the one-on-one
meetings with the board members. That's one piece of the process that I wish I had more time for. I try to
communicate as much as possible. I thank you for your comments. We as humans are a work in progress, so I
know my strengths and weaknesses and appreciate and recognize them as well.
Mr. Alonzo noted not everybody who works in a professional field gets evaluations or has to give evaluations.
It's a special thing when you have to hear it on public TV, recorded on YouTube forever: We all need to
appreciate the kind of position that puts anybody in. The Town Manager does an incredible job in listening to
that.
Mr. Franco stated your composite is an excellent distillation of what all the members said. This has been an
extremely challenging year for many people including residents. Many people don't engage with the Town
Manager until something is going wrong and that's the unfortunate lens through which they may view her. They
don't see everything that's going right on a day-to-day basis and keeping the town moving in a positive way.
Any aspect of which if it weren't operating smoothly would be highly noticeable, but it goes unnoticed because
it is going smoothly.
Mr. Jeffreys stated this year has been challenging being in this role and being a member of this board. The
relationship between the Chair and Town Manager has to be a close one and I appreciate Heather's openness.
We've developed a healthy working relationship and most people don't know the amount of time that she and I
spend together. These meetings for me are about 20% of the time that I give to the town and the other 80% is
outside of these meetings. Heather and I spend a significant amount of time talking during her commutes in and
===PAGE 10===
CURRENT BUSINESS
Reorganization of the Select Board
Ms. Emkey asked to postpone nominations until the next meeting as she is so new to the board. Mr. Alonzo
having been in that position himself, understood the request. Mr. Franco stated he appreciated Ms. Emkey's
position and concern however he wanted her to realize that making a motion or seconding a motion would bring
discussion thus making you more comfortable making a vote. Mr. Nuzzolo added it's common for newly elected
boards or bodies in general for their first business to be electing leadership. Since this is our policy I would not
be in favor of straying away from that. You're always welcome to either not make nominations or to abstain
from votes. Mr. Jeffieys stated he heard Ms. Emkey's concern, but he was not comfortable deviating from
policy either. Further discussion ensued about voting in officers.
Motion: L. Franco
2"d: C. Nuzzolo
To nominate Michael-Ray Jeffreys as Select Board Chair
Discussion: Mr. Franco clarified his nomination of Mr. Jeffieys is in no way a negative reflection of anyone
else. Mr. Jeffreys has led well and done enough to earn a second year out of the position. Mr. Jeffreys stated it
has been a challenging year and believed it was important to hear feedback not only from the public but fellow
members. We have made good progress and if elected I will meet with each board member. Mr. Nuzzolo stated
Mr. Jeffreys was the first person he met when he moved to Lunenburg. He strongly encouraged me to get
involved and I submitted a talent bank form for the Finance Committee. His professionalism and cool, calm and
collected nature were my first impressions of the Select Board and the leadership. I think we've really benefited
from these qualities and that's why I'm supporting Mr. Jeffreys for a second year as Chair.
Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-present, Mr. Alonzo- no, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
To nominate Lou Franco for Vice Chair
Discussion: Mr. Franco stated he would accept the Vice Chair as long as Mr. Alonzo does not have an interest
in being Vice Chair. Mr. Alonzo thanked Mr. Franco but noted that's not how nominations work. I think you
would make a fine Vice Chair.
Motion: R. Emkey
2"d; L. Franco
To nominate Tom Alonzo for Vice Chair
Mr. Alonzo thanked Ms. Emkey but refused the nomination. Ms. Emkey withdrew her nomination and Mr.
Franco withdrew the second.
Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo-aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Mr. Jeffreys explained the board clerk's duties.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To nominate Caesar Nuzzolo as Clerk
Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
2'd: L. Franco
===PAGE 11===
individual coverage - $2,000; Opt-out incentive payments will be paid at the end of the fiscal year.
The other one is called the Pillar RX program. There's only three employees out of town and school that are be
affected. The insurance company would work with them to make sure that they get enrolled in this program.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2"d: T. Alonzo
To accept the Public Employee Committee amendments as presented
Mr. Nuzzolo-aye, Ms. Emkey-aye, Mr. Alonzo- aye, Mr. Franco-aye, Mr. Jeffreys-aye
Per Appointment Policy - Identify boards for in-person interviews
Mr. Jeffreys referred the board to the list of the upcoming annual appointments/reappointments in June.
All new applicants are interviewed. It was decided to request Sam Welch, Chris St. Germaine, Helen Balcom
Dr: Robin Chandler and Steve Dubois to present for an interview for appointment.
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $322,016.08, a payroll warrant in the amount of
$954, 616.74 and a payroll deductions warrant in the amount of $209,605.15.
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported Finance Committee meets this Thursday. Mr. Jeffreys reported the Municipal Building
Committee met and realized that the ARPA funding request that they prepared earlier this year somehow was
not forwarded to the board and so they did resubmit.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
This board meets again on June 6, June 13 and June 20.
PUBLIC COMMENT
M: ME. Alone dauered Town angres proside a aly aly of shandants alted by marine on the
decisions by the Board of Assessors.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2': C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:17 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaine M. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
