===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD
MINUTES
October 3, 2023
Town Hall and via ZOOM
Members present: Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman; Lou Franco, Vice Chair: Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk;
Tom Alonzo, Renee Emkey
Others present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Attorney Gina Wilson, Vinay Patel, Jignash Patel,
Jasminkumar Patel via ZOOM, Attorney Jeff Aveni, Jonathan Dickhaut, Chris Martin, Police Chief Tom
Gammel; Officer Brad McNamara, Matthew Allison, Land Use Director Adam Burney, Matthew
Brenner
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. He asked everyone to rise for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel, Facebook Live and the Public Access Facebook page and will be uploaded to the Public
Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
Public Comment: Mr. Alonzo thanked everyone involved in the Meet and Greet Town Officials event
last Thursday at Low Places Ranch, hosted by the Economic Development Committee. Elected and
appointed town officials as well as some town employees and various businesses located in Town
attended.
Mr. Jeffreys noted a thank you card received from the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club for the ARPA
funding. He also acknowledged a thank you card sent by the Trustees of the Library for the same reason.
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, inquired as to why the Select Board investigation team is not following
the Open Meeting Law (OML) after it was determined by the state that is was in fact a public body
subject to the OML. She requested copies of any emails between the investigation team members and
contractors or any other organizations or individuals and stated if they were all published to the Town
website, she would withdraw her request this evening.
Mr. Alonzo responded that the implication or the insinuation that something nefarious is going on is
absolutely not true, because the amount of times that our team met is zero; there were some email
exchanges, mostly of documents. You're certainly allowed to get them through a public record request
but we did not meet at all, and never discussed this in any personal way. There was no behind the scenes
deliberations of any kind.
Secondly, I would also say for the record and this is me as one person who just read the report; their
finding has a numerous amount of ambiguity and contradiction, so it's not as clear-cut as may seem. I as
one member dispute the finding and I don't know if we as a board are going to dispute the finding
officially. The intent of what the creation of that investigation team was for is certainly not anything
they can define. They can define what they believed to be procedurally what was happening, but that
was not the intent of what was going on. Those are the inaccuracies I wanted to point out as far as
getting to the root cause. I think the report from the independent contractor who we hired came up with
===PAGE 2===
the root cause, that I support; so there are other things that need to be addressed in the department and
hopefully we will be coming to a conclusion on addressing those. But the root cause was completely
disclosed in the outside contractor's final report.
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, did not have the same opinion as Mr. Alonzo and maintained the state did
determine there was an Open Meeting Law violation.
Announcements:
• The ribbon cutting ceremony for the new ADA Patio at the Adult Activity Center is on
Wednesday, October 11th at 12 PM, Rain or Shine.
• Halloween Trick or Treating will be Tuesday, October 31 from 6-8 p.m.
• The Special Town Meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 14th at 7 PM at the MS/HS
Auditorium.
• The Finance Committee will hold their Public Hearing on the warrant articles on Thursday, October
12th at 7 PM in the Town Hall meeting room.
Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club request to close Memorial Drive on Saturday October 21st from 4-
10 pm and reschedule date for tollbooth fundraiser to Sat. October 14th
Chris Martin, 981 Northfield Road, introduced himself as a board member of the Lunenburg Boys and
Girls Club, and presented their request to close Memorial Drive on October 21 from 10 am to 4 pm. The
event runs from 6:30 to 9:30 and we have food trucks coming in as well as hayrides, the Shrieks and
Creaks haunted house, and we would like to close the road early for safety. The Police will be doing a
traffic detail and setting up road closing equipment. We also unlock the gates behind the Library for the
hayride. The Fire Dept. is providing two light towers and will do a walk through inspection of the
haunted house before the event as well.
Their second request is for a tollbooth fundraiser on Saturday, October 14' from 10 am to 2 pm in town
center with a rain date of October 28"h as they had to cancel the last one due to weather conditions.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2n: T. Alonzo
To approve the Boys and Girls Club's request to close Memorial Drive to traffic on October 21st
from 4 - 10 pm
Vote: 4 in favor, 1 abstention (Jeffreys)
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2nl: L. Franco
To approve a rescheduled tollbooth fundraiser on October 14 from 10 am to 2 pm in town center
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting with Police Chief re: Special Town Meeting Warrant Article on Mental Health Co-
Response
Chief Gammel noted police officers are not trained to handle mental health situations and we recognize
we need help. He introduced Officer Brad McNamara, School Resource Officer for the department. We
had talked about developing a co-response program within the Police Department with a "ride along"
with our officers to provide services when someone is in crisis. The other part is to provide follow up
services for those in need, as we can't keep a clinician on board 24 hours a day. Officer McNamara and
myself, mostly Officer McNamara, have been working on this for the past three years and it is now at
the point where we are ready to start the program. That is why we are here tonight; to request opioid
relief funding. We are looking at a partnership with Lancaster Police Dept. and Open Sky Community
Services. We felt this would be the best fit for our department and community. We would split the
===PAGE 3===
clinician and cost between Lunenburg and Lancaster (20 hours per week/town). They would respond to
critical incidents in either community as needed and available. The clinician would provide on scene
assistance with individuals experiencing a mental health crisis, divert non-violent, low-level offenders
experiencing a mental health crisis or substance use disorder away from the criminal justice system and
provide follow up services for mental health and substance use disorders. They presented some statistics
from 2021 concerning mental health illness or substance use disorder and noted this affects all ages,
cultures and races. The Police Department is part of a program called SIMS, which notifies us if a
resident overdoses in a community other than Lunenburg. Once we are notified, one of our officers
along with a recovery coach visits the resident to see if we can provide follow up services.
Officer McNamara expanded on the co-response program. If approved, a mutual aid agreement with
Lancaster would be entered into as well as a Memorandum of Understanding with Open Sky
Community Services. We are requesting $79,032. This would be split between Lancaster and
Lunenburg and we would be the host community and would have to provide the entire amount then
Lancaster would reimburse the town 50%. We are also applying to the Dept, of Mental Health for a
$200,000 grant. As this grows we will look for a funding source to keep this going. If we get the grant,
we will return the opioid funds. Discussion occurred about the need for the program, how to keep the
program sustainable and other resources that could be used.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: C. Nuzzolo
To include Article D (To see if the Town will vote to transfer $80,000 from the Opioid Settlement
Stabilization Fund to be used to fund the Police Department's Mental Health Co-Response
program in the Special Town Meeting warrant.
Vote: All in Favor
Special Town Meeting Warrant Article for Agricultural Commission Warrant Article
Matt Allison, 188 Flat Hill Road, Agricultural Commission Chair, stated this article (M) is the second
time we've tried it. We had recent discussions with Town Counsel and he confirmed that this is in fact
within the exemption for farming in the state laws, so that our bylaw is effectively not enforceable.
The three revisions of the farm size referencing Chapter 48, § 3 is enforceable.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
To add Article M to the Special Town Meeting warrant
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Land Use Director Burney requested to have the Planning Board hold a hearing regarding the article
because it is a requirement for any zoning articles.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To refer Article M to the Planning Board to hold a hearing consistent with our zoning bylaws
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Allison noted the Planning Board will hold the hearing because the Agricultural Commission does
not have that capacity.
Meeting with Land Use Director re: Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles from the Planning
Board
Mr. Burney stated one of the articles presented for the STM warrant addresses off street parking.
Currently section 6.4c 5K of the zoning bylaw is common driveways. The Planning Board over the past
several years has heard more and more petitions for common driveways. The current language by right
allows two lots to share a common driveway as long as it splits the lot line between the two. In practice
it tends to be more complicated and there's language that allows the Planning Board and the
===PAGE 4===
Building Commissioner to independently make a determination that an alternative location is okay.
Essentially it's just a determination; people come to the Planning Board and sometimes it's easy and the
Planning Board says yes, this makes total sense, you're splitting a lot off your existing house and you
want to use the existing driveway; people know where it is, there's a curve in the road, why not? Other
times it's more complicated and we end up with some fairly ridiculously shaped lots.
Secondly the purpose behind common driveways is often to reduce pavement to reduce interactions
between driveways and roadways. The Planning Board doesn't have any real standards and wants to
formalize this and permit larger development on a common driveway. They've introduced the language
that you have in front of you on the warrant and the intent would be to separate it out from section 64 C5
and make it its own section 64 C7. It would allow for four common lots to share a singular driveway as
long as all of those lots have frontage on the road that the driveway intersects with. It creates a special
permit process for these common driveways, so it makes it a subjective process that the board will
review under their special permit standards, their rules and regulations for special permits and site plan
approval and it clarifies what the submission requirements would be, what the time frames are and it
gives them the ability to condition these common driveways. We spoke with the Fire Chief about
requirements he would look for; there are requirements in here for signs at the end of the driveway
showing the layout and number location as well as numerical signs at each of the branches for the house
that would be located there. It also codifies commercial common driveways MA DOT is highly in favor
of and has pushed other communities to introduce.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
To accept Article N for the Special Town Meeting warrant
2"d: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Burney moved on to Article O, which is Solar Parking Canopy: a special application of a ground-
mounted solar energy system that is installed on top of a functional parking surface that maintains the
function of the area beneath the canopy. This is essentially covered parking that generates electricity.
Currently this would not be allowed in Lunenburg because anything over 10kw of production is
considered a large scale ground mounted solar and you would need 200 feet offset from the property line
and 20 acres of land. So we came up with solar parking lot canopy as an accessory use in the
commercial industrial area. This would allow people to install them based on the standards in the bylaw
and they would meet standard structure setbacks, you would need to screen with natural vegetation the
associated cabinets and equipment and you'd need to make sure that essentially you're not harming the
drainage patterns with the installation. There's an exorbitant cost to installing these compared to a green
field solar because the racking is more structural and requires footings, but there are opportunities
where this could be something people would pursue and take advantage of.
Regarding the requirement to install EV charging stations, Mr. Jeffreys noted there is funding provided
by the state to businesses to install them. When a minimum height requirement was suggested, Mr.
Burney stated he would bring it back to discuss with the Planning Board.
Article P amends the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.13, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw
entitled "Solar energy systems," Subsection B, entitled "Definitions," by modifying the definition of
"Large-Scale Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Installation.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2': T. Alonzo
To accept Articles O and P and include in the Special Town Meeting warrant
Vote: All in Favor
The next warrant article (Q) concerned the Water Supply Protection District:
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250-4.9, which is a Section of
===PAGE 5===
the Protective Bylaw entitled "Water Supply Protection District," by deleting the same in its entirety
and by substituting therefor a new Section 250-4.9. Mr. Burney stated the Water Supply Protection
District bylaw that we have dates back to a D model from 1991, and it's now 2023, so we're 32 years
late and a whole century past. In 2011 DEP issued a new model bylaw for water supply protection and
this is based off that bylaw. We're looking at deleting the entirety of what exists now as section 250-4.9
and replacing it with the updated version. It has been presented to the Lunenburg Water District and
they did not think Zone III needed to be regulated
(Zone III: An area beyond a Zone II recharge area, as approved by MassDEP and defined under the
Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00.)
That opinion is echoed by DEP; they don't include Zone III in their bylaw; it just covers Zone II.
(Zone II: The delineated recharge area to a public drinking water well as approved by MassDEP and
defined under the Massachusetts Drinking Water Regulations 310 CMR 22.00.)
Upon seeing the way the board addressed Zone II, the Water District doesn't see it as a hindrance or
problem, and they would be supportive of it.
Matthew Brenner, 615 Northfield Road, Planning Board Chair, agreed with the discussion that the
Planning Board warrant articles should be presented earlier in the evening when a quorum is present and
voters are not leaving early.
Mr. Jeffreys thanked Mr. Burney for his years of service to this community and his thoroughness in
assisting the Planning Board. (Mr. Burney had submitted his resignation recently to go to another
community as Land Use Director) Mr. Alonzo echoed those thanks adding it's been a pleasure working
with you over the years. Mr. Franco expressed thanks as well. Ms. Lemieux also thanked Mr. Burney for
his nine years with the Town noting he is always professional in everything he does. Mr. Burney
thanked the board for their expressions of gratitude. He stated it has been a pleasure working for the
town. It's been nice to see the town grow and make changes.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To accept Article Q. for the Special Town Meeting warrant
2"'d: C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2nd: T. Alonzo
To refer all the Planning Board warrant articles that were reviewed this evening to the Planning
Board for public hearings
Vote: All in Favor
Presentation of Environmental Policies
Mr. Jeffreys noted these are policies that he had presented last year. He asked the board to review them
in advance of their discussion as a starting point.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointments of Townsend Police Officers as Special Officers
& Ret. Officer Robert DiConza to Civilian Traffic Member effective 10/4/23
Ms. Lemieux started with the Townsend Police officers as Special Officers:
James Satell, Chief of Police
Christopher Peach, Lieutenant
George Reidy, Sergeant
David Phillips, Sergeant
Jeffrey Giles, Sergeant
===PAGE 6===
Mark Francis, Officer
Michael Marchand, Officer
Christopher Low, Officer
Eric Modica, Officer
Christopher Tucker, Officer
Dylan Silvestri, Officer
Matthew Faria, Officer
Peter Eldredge, Officer
Dylan Denis, Officer
Rafael Huertas, Officer
Austin Cote, Reserve Officer
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To ratify the Town Manager's appointments of Special Officers as read by the Town
Manager
2"'i: C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Lemieux reported the next appointment is for Robert DiConza as a Civilian Traffic Member.
Mr. DiConza is a retired Lieutenant in good standing after serving with the department for 20 years
both full-time and part-time. He meets all the requirements to become a member of this unit and this
would be effective October 4, 2023.
Motion: C. Nuzzolo
2nd; T. Alonzo
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Robert DiConza as Civilian Traffic member
effective October 4, 2023
Vote: All in Favor
Town Manager Report
Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies:
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following boards/committees/commissions:
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
• Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy until the next Annual Town Election)
•
Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
Green Communities Committee (1 Regular Member and 1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board
office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Employment Opportunities with the Town:
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (19 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Assistant Meal Site Manager (19.5 hours/week)
• Conservation Administrator (36 hours/week)
Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Heavy Equipment Operators (2) (40 hours/week)
===PAGE 7===
• Land Use Director (40 hours/week)
• Principal Assessor (40 hours/week)
• Seasonal Cemetery Laborers Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the website under job opportunities, which are located on the
town website.
Update on Certification of Property Values Project with Vision Government Solutions
Last week there was a kickoff meeting with Mike Tarello of Vision, our consultant Nate Cramer of MFS, the
Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey, and myself. We discussed the timeline for the project, updates to the
Board of Assessors and next steps. Vision is finishing up a number of other projects right now, so the first phase
of sales analysis and verification will begin around mid-October but will still be complete according to the
timetable in their bid. As part of the sales analysis and verification process, Mike Tarello will review the Sales file
and the Town will send any sales verification forms we receive to Vision. Vision would like to meet with the
Board of Assessors in mid-October to explain the process and answer questions. We also discussed getting
information out as early as possible and throughout the process so taxpayers would be aware of what to expect
and be part of positive public relations.
Community Compact Best Practices Grant Application
I applied for the Community Compact Best Practices Grant last week. Towns can apply for up to two "Best
Practices", which are outlined in the state's program guidelines. The two best practices I requested funding for
were:
1) Financial Management category to utilize the services of the Collins Center to create a comprehensive
package of financial management policies, financial procedures manual and a memorandum detailing any
additional findings and recommendations regarding financial structure and general administrative
practices. This request was for $30,000.
2) Resilient and Reliable Transportation category to create a multi-year asset management plan that
inventories and rates the condition of our bridges and culverts. This request was for $25,000.
Both of these projects are part of my FY24 goals, as they will be extremely valuable to the Town once completed.
As we are all aware, having written policies and procedures identify laws and regulations that need to be complied
with, provide guidelines for financial decision making, and outlines for internal processes that should be followed
by all stakeholders. The additional value of this best practice would be the inclusion of a high-level review of the
overall management structure and recommendations for improvements that will address prior year annual audit
comments, a Financial Management Review done by the Department of Revenue in 2008, and will address
questions about financial management structure in light of this past year's tax assessment issues.
The second best practice will be critical information we are lacking in our capital planning process right now and
overall long term planning. We have 26 bridges and large culverts and we do not have a corresponding
management plan of when they need to be repaired or replaced or the associated costs. To give an idea of the
financial impact, we have approximately $900,000 in local funds and the Small Bridge Grant funds to reconstruct
the Flat Hill Road culvert. The end product will be similar to our Pavement Management Plan with an inventory
assessment, priority rankings, and estimated costs.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals:
Bids for the Public Safety Carport Project were due on September 20th and we received one bid from
Diversified Construction Services for $517,918. When this project was put out to bid in June of 2021, we
received two bids and the low bid was $298,750. We currently have $135,000 in the FY21 Capital Plan
appropriation, thus both bids far exceed the available funds for this project. After speaking with both the
===PAGE 8===
Police Chief and Facilities Director, we all agree that we will not be pursuing this project and I will be
requesting these funds be re-appropriated at a future town meeting.
• Bids for the Two DPW Trucks were due yesterday and we received one bid from Minuteman Trucks LLC
for 2 F750 trucks totaling $481,975 (not including trade in values for the de- commissioned trucks. This
amount is equivalent to what was committed through ARPA funding. We will be putting the
decommissioned trucks on Municibid to see if we can receive more than the trade in value for the trucks
and then will award the bid based on those results. Also, the anticipated delivery date by Minuteman is on
or before June 30, 2024.
• The DPW Director had Mayer Tree Service remove 15 years of accumulated brush from the yard waste
area at the capped landfill site as there was no room for more brush. They performed the work under the
State Contract for Solid Waste and Recycling Services Category 10: Organic-- Leaves, Yard Waste, &
Floating Vegetation and Category 17: Wood.
Route 2A/Chase Road/ Electric Ave/Lunenburg Crossing intersections:
VHB held a kickoff meeting for the Road Safety Audit (RSA) on Thursday, September 28, 2023 at 10 AM at the
Public Safety Building. The meeting was attended by the Town Manager, Police Chief, Fire Chief, DPW Director,
VHB engineers, MassDOT District 3 engineers and engineers from MassDOT Headquarters. The issues with the
two intersections were discussed. A field investigation was conducted. Repair and mitigation solutions were
discussed. A write up of proposed solutions will be forthcoming at a date unknown.
Employee Highlights:
•
This weekend different staff members participated in fundraising events for different causes. COA
Director Sue Doherty, the Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy, and Diane Now of the Council on Aging
participated in the Alzheimer's Walk In Worcester. The name of their team was the Lunenburg Purple
Turtles and the money they raised goes to the Alzheimer's Association. Police Chief Gammel participated
with other Massachusetts Chiefs in the Jimmy Fund Walk this weekend. The name of their team was
"Team Police Chiefs" and the money they raised goes to support cancer research and patient care at Dana-
Farber. Thank you to the employees recognized here and those that we are unaware of participating in
causes like these.
The Economic Development Committee's Public Official Meet and Greet was on Thursday, September
28th and there was a great turnout. Thank you to Low Places Ranch for opening up their beautiful
location for the event, Joeci Gilchrest and the Economic Development for putting the event together,
Lunenburg business owners, staff and committee members for attending. For staff, the DPW Director Bill
Bernard, Fire Chief Pat Sullivan, BOH Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf, Planning Board
Administrative Assistant Annie Aubrey, Conservation Administrative Assistant Ashleigh Denio, Building
Commissioner Brian Gingras, Executive Assistant Elaine Peterson and IT Administrative Assistant Kara
McCarthy for making the time to attend and connect with our local business owners.
Sign Amended License for Lunenburg Liquor Mart Inc. (correction to square footage)
The board signed an amended license for Lunenburg Liquor Mart Inc. as the square footage was
changed for the business.
Discuss Animals Bylaw Special Town Meeting article and remainder of Special Town Meeting
Warrant Articles
Mr. Jeffreys noted we had discussed adding an animal bylaw on the Special Town Meeting warrant to be
in agreement with the state law, but it would be better to tackle this in the spring and take enough time to
focus on the wording. Warrant article J (To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg,
Chapter 110, being the Animals Bylaw) will be removed from the warrant. The board will vote on the
finalized warrant at their next meeting.
===PAGE 9===
Motion: T. Alonzo
To include all draft warrant articles as presented with the exclusion of Article J
2nd: C. Nuzzolo
Vote: All in Favor
Discuss Disposition of Town Property
Mir. Jetfreys referred the board members to the Town properties folder. Picking up from last year, the
goal is to see which properties we want to hold on to for future use and to determine why we are holding
on to some of them. Then we would see if there's a policy to create that identifies the rationale why
we're holding them. The other part is there are some parcels that we have through tax title that we might
want to consider selling and asking Town Meeting to sell. Last year we started the process in the center.
We went to a couple of parcels last summer so what I would like is for you to identify if you have
Saturdays that you are available or not available for some site walks.
Sign Bond Anticipation Note
Mi. Lemieux stated this bond is for a ladder truck and the Saliba property purchase in the amount of
$152,499. $96,900 of that is towards the Saliba property and in this debt schedule is the second to last
year paying that off. This renewal is for one year.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"l: L. Franco
To sign the bond anticipation note in the amount of $152,499 as presented by the Town Manager
Vote: All in Favor
Approval of Minutes
Motion: L. Franco
2'd: C. Nuzzolo
To approve the minutes of July 11, July 18, August 1, 2023 as presented
Vote: All in Favor
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo asked about the status of line painting at the intersection of Electric Ave and Route 13 as
well as Goodrich Street.
Committee Reports
Ms. Emkey reported the School Committee met on the 20" and DPW Director Bernard will be
managing the sidewalk project. The school has hired a new Facilities Director who will start on October
23"d. They have published their bullying prevention and implementation plan on the website and are
seeking public feedback. The retirement of Geraldine Sampson after working for 32 years at the
Middle/High School was announced. They are working on their capital plan; there was discussion of
replacing the playground equipment at the Primary School in phases.
Ms. Lemieux reported the Personnel Committee is going through the process of rating positions. When
asked about the Town Clerk position, she stated it is an elected position and doesn't fall under the Salary
Administration Plan or a union contract. Discussion about bringing her pay in line with surrounding
communities ensued.
Mr. Alonzo reported the Finance Committee is meeting this week. We are working to set the next
meeting of the Capital Planning Committee and the beginning of the real work in October. Mr. Nuzzolo
noted the Planning Board met last night and it was a standard meeting. They also came in tonight in
regards to their warrant articles. The MRPC has not met in quite a while.
Mr. Franco reported the Master Planning Committee had their kickoff meeting and mostly concentrated
on organizing and discussing the schedule. Their next meeting is October 5'
Mr. Jeffieys met with the delegation of the Water District and Tighe and Bond to discuss the ARPA
funds that were distributed to them and the public education component of the funds. Two weeks ago
===PAGE 10===
Ms. Lemieux and I attended the Chamber of Commerce reception. The North Central Chamber of
Commerce received an award for being the best Chamber of Commerce in the United States which is
quite phenomenal. It was a good opportunity to meet other elected officials. He also met a consultant
company that installs solar panels. They help municipalities identify their brownfields, which Lunenburg
is now eligible for. The consulting fee is $20,000 to $25,000. They have a model that allows the
community to get solar panels on their landfills at no additional cost to the municipality. He is also
going to reach out to the Green Communities Committee and involve them in the process. When asked
about the cap on the landfill and keeping it intact, Mr. Jeffreys said he would look into it.
He met with Habitat of Humanity to go over what their program offers. They are seeking land for free or
at minimum cost and they have engineered plans for one story structures of about 1200 square feet. They
have a partnership with Monty Tech and Leominster Tech. I've invited them to come and present to the
board. There is no date set yet.
Mr. Alonzo reported he had attended the Board of Assessors meeting. He thanked the two new
members, Brian Laffond and Sarah Cammer for coming forward. They reorganized with current
member Jack Rabbitt and discussed what their next steps will be as far as the five year valuations that
Vision will be performing. They would like to address items as a board that were identified during the
tax issue problem and how to address them. The new members are on their way to final certification.
Mr. Jettreys reported the Municipal Building Committee is meeting with the School Committee as we
have identified that phase three has some overlap between Turkey Hill and TC Passios. We are
expecting the full School Committee to attend our next meeting.
Upcoming Meetings & Events
October 10, October 17, October 24
October 11 Ribbon Cutting for new ADA Patio, 12 PM, Adult Activity Center, 25 Memorial Drive
November 14th
', Special Town Meeting; 7:00 PM at the Middle/High School Auditorium
Public Comment:
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street, wanted to thank all the elected and appointed committee members,
volunteers, and Town employees; they are working very hard and they don't get the credit they should.
He thought the preliminary review of pay rates was a good thing.
Mr, Alonzo suggested at the next meeting to discuss their response to the Open Meeting Law violation
determination. He believed it was errantly decided for the reasons we put forward through our Town
Counsel in response to the initial complaint and believed potentially an appeal was necessary, even it it
is not successful to just point out what I think are clear contradictions in the decision.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To adjourn the meeting
2nd: T. Alonzo
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:53 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Cident
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
