===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Vice Chairman Franco called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised
that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and Facebook
Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair: Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Mr. Alonzo announced next Monday at 7:00 p.m. is the last Town band concert of the season.
Mr. Franco announced the pancake breakfast tomorrow morning at the Adult Activity Center from 8-10 a.m.
Ms. Lemieux commented on the recent resignation of two members of the Board of Assessors. Last Wednesday
the Chairman of the Board of Assessors (BOA) Richard Letarte and member Kevin Fish resigned. Recognizing
that this may be cause for alarm, this meeting is intended to address the short and long-term implications of
being down to one member of the BOA. The board cannot hold meetings or vote on any required votes until at
least one of the two vacancies is filled, as a quorum of two members would be required to hold a meeting and
the single remaining member cannot act on his own. Before Mr. Letarte and Mr. Fish resigned, the board voted
on all the pending abatement applications and at their last meeting on August 1st addressed a handful of
abatement applications that had additional information that impacted their assessed values. However, anyone
that wished to meet with the board on their abatement application to provide supplemental information that has
not already done so, and received a signed off abatement form will not be able to do so until there is a quorum
of that board. Those that filed abatement applications on time and received notification of the decision of the
BOA and wish to appeal to the Appellate Tax Board (ATB), must do so within three months of the date of the
decision per Mass General Law Chapter 59, section 65. Outside of any persons that still wish to meet with the
assessors to provide supplementary information on their abatement application that are still within the three
months of the date of the decision on their abatement application, there are no required votes of the board or
signatures needed that are necessary in order for business to proceed as normal until the tax classification
hearing and the relevant tax rate forms need to be submitted this fall. The forms that are submitted must be
signed by assessors that have become certified by taking Module 0 and 4 under the DOR-101 course.
I have been meeting with office staff and our consultant to check on day-to-day operations and discuss the
progress of the required actions, such as making sure data entry on new construction inspections, lot splits and
sketches are entered, sending sales verification forms etc., to confirm we are on schedule to keep on track for
the tax classification hearing and submittal of the required tax rate forms and what we need to do for our five-
year certification of values process. I will continue to meet weekly with the interim assessor and the consultant
to monitor the progress.
To summarize, in the short term operations can commence without a major impact. The long-term implications
are more dire. There exists no alternative other than having at least two members of the BOA that have passed
Module 0 and 4 under the DOR course 101 to sign off on the tax rate forms and ultimately certification of
values. This will require at least one registered voter, preferably two, to step up and be willing to take these
self-paced online courses and be able to pass them as soon as the end of September.
===PAGE 2===
taxes are assessed. Without a fully functioning assessing department there is no revenue and without revenue
operations of the Town cannot be sustained. For the purposes of proper functioning of the Town, the Select
Board is putting out this call for volunteers and requesting members of the public strongly consider service on
the BOA. Your Town needs your help. Although members of the BOA are normally elected to three-year terms,
the term of any member who is appointed expires at the next town election in May 2024. Terms are for three
years if you desire to run for election in May.
Mi. Franco listed desirable qualities and skills needed for the positions; the ability to work with numbers and be
heavily data-driven; willingness to learn and work to achieve the command of rules and regulations necessary to
contribute and be effective. A good member will possess integrity and intellectual honesty who can see issues
from many angles, collaborate in constructive deliberations with other board members, and render decisions in a
fair and impartial manner. It is also imperative that a member of the BOA work cooperatively, constructively
and professionally with the Town's paid staff and with members of the public.
Any person potentially interested in serving should visit the town's website and become acquainted with the
basic roles and functions of the assessing department and with the BOA. Interested persons should submit their
interest to the Executive Assistant to the Town Manager.
Ms. Emkey noted this appeal is a high priority but also wanted to remind that there are other vacancies and
employment opportunities with the town.
Mr. Alonzo stated volunteerism is how the Town largely runs, obviously there are paid employees in all
different departments and all across the town but this body plays a critical role in the running of the Town. The
BOA has state mandates that go along with them.
Ever since I've been involved in town I've done my best to try to get people involved as best I could. This one is
one of the more critical ones. He spoke about the rewards of volunteerism. It is going to take work; we are
going to be rebuilding a department by strengthening things that have been revealed as weaknesses this year.
He echoed Mr. Franco's list of desirable qualities for the candidate(s) and added it would be a plus to have
residents that represent different areas of the town. He thanked Mr. Letarte and Mr. Fish for their time served on
the BOA.
Mr. Franco also thanked Mr. Letarte and Mr. Fish noting they did stay on through the difficult time and the
abatement process and for that he was gratetul.
Mr. Alonzo added anyone who would be volunteering would be welcome, but I would also ask any prior
members of the BOA, even if you don't intend on running next year, if you would act as an interim to get us
from here to next May just to help and to guide people along, especially a new member would be really
beneficial.
Ms. Lemieux expressed appreciation to Mr. Letarte and Mr. Fish for their service to the town. Mr. Letarte has
served for eight years and this was a tough year. But they both stuck it out through the full abatement process.
WARRANTS
The board signed an accounts payable warrant in the amount of $237,226.46; an encore fire payroll warrant in
the amount of $4046.04 and a payroll warrant in the amount of $509,823.27.
UPCOMING MEETINGS
Mr. Franco noted their next meetings are August 15 and August 22.
===PAGE 3===
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elainem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
