===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. Mr. Jeffreys announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel and
Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the
meeting. He provided the ZOOM link for those who would like to participate remotely.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by
the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and
other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
Ms. Sroka thanked the people that have supported her over the last nine years that she has been in public office
and encouraged everyone to go vote this Saturday no matter who you're voting for; every vote counts. Thank
you.
Mr. Franco commented about his attendance at the Board of Assessors (BOA) meeting today. During that
meeting it was requested that residents be provided with some kind of a letter they can present to their banks
because their mortgage payments have gone up because the banks that pay their property taxes through an
escrow account have seen their payment amounts increased. For some people that would be an inflated amount.
That idea was rejected. He believed that should be rethought.
Also, there had been an outstanding request that people would like to attend their abatement application review
with the BOA. The solution was to have people attend public comment at the beginning of a BOA meeting at
which abatement applications are going to be heard in Executive Session. Mr. Franco believed the public
comment time is not the right setting for this. Another request was made that people be notified by letter or
some other means when their abatement application is going to be reviewed and that was refused. It was
brought up that a person is going to have to appear every single time the BOA meet. This is totally unworkable
and it (the BOA meeting) is at 3:00 pm in the afternoon, when people are working. It was disheartening.
Mr. Alonzo stated those seem like reasonable requests; and not knowing when your abatement application is
coming up and having to attend each meeting is burdensome. Also, in a report from MFS, a suggestion was
given that the lakefront properties be rated in three categories. The author of the published document on the
town website, talks about average, good and below average waterfront and people wanted to know before their
hearing if could they know which one of this MFS group assessed their property so they know what to expect.
That was also denied. The last thing people were asking was if their property gets abated when they should
expect getting refunds. But it was unknown at the time. The very short public comment of the meeting and these
are my words; the meeting was once again shameful, completely tone deaf and way too rigid. The people who
have been on the receiving end of these large tax increases, the burden has been on them every step of the way
at every corner. They argue that their bills were too late but that was late in coming. So they had to come up
n coming. So they had to come u
with money, sometimes in as little as two weeks. Then everybody was filing; they knew this was going to be
lengthy so they filed extensions. This is something in the BOA's control; they certainly out of the 440
abatements can organize them and tell people when they would be on the agenda. These are people's properties,
these are people's lives that have been affected all along the way and now yet another hurdle gets put in their
way. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. Mr. Jeffreys stated this was disheartening to hear. This has been the
crisis of the year.
===PAGE 2===
Dear Mr Jelleys, would like to thank the select Board for the tunding trom AkA funds for the Athletic
Facility feasibility side study. Your support in maintaining our facility is much appreciated. As requested please
find the map of the proposed sidewalk project attached to this email. The estimate of $101,500 includes Turkey
Hill Road. This map does not include Turkey Hill as I believe most people would feel it is not necessary. I
would probably still set aside $100,000 to cover the instability of material costs."
Lunenburg Boys & Girls Club Tollbooth Fundraiser Request for Saturday, June 3; 9 am to 1 pm
Andrew woods, 94/ Flat Hill Koad, and Madelyn Dame, 612 Mass. Ave., presented for the tollbooth request.
We have cones and have been in contact with the DPW and they will be assisting with more cones. We have
also talked with the Police Chief. Ms. Sroka asked if they were aware it was the weekend of graduation.
They stated they were. Funds raised will go towards the club's summer program.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2"d: H. Sroka
To approve the request for the tollbooth on Saturday, June 3d from 9 am to 1 pm in the town center
Vote: All in Favor
Meeting with the Municipal Building Design Committee
Greg Roy provided a PowerPoint presentation of what the committee has arrived at:
• Review the space needs for Town offices, school uses and community space
• Prioritize and/or rank the existing space usage requests
• Explore a variety of design permutations that would meet the needs of the Town
• Committee may analyze, discuss and investigate other Town-owned buildings (not just TCP)
• Prepare viable, cost-effective solutions to the Select Board that conform to all the Town's existing
financial/fiscal policies
• Take into account large scale capital expenditures projected for the next 10 years
Committee Progress
Performed a review a spaces needs using existing intormation previously pertormed
Reviewed previously prepared building studies (Vertex, Tappe, recent TC Committee report
• Identified several options for addressing space needs using existing municipal buildings and property
• Identified and advanced a "Hybrid Concept" that merged the options identified into a single option
Hybrid Concept
Ritter Building becomes the New Town Hall and School Administration Building including the ACE
Program
• Perform a Historically appropriate renovation of the Ritter building (~6,000 SF)
• Construct an addition (~4,000 SF) to accommodate additional space needs
Town Hall becomes the Meeting House
• Perform a Historically appropriate renovation of the Town Hall Building (~6,500 SF)
• Construct 3 new meetings rooms on first floor
• Increase the size of the second floor meeting room
• Provide ADA upgrades
TC Passios is used for transition space during other renovations and then renovated to become a
community center
===PAGE 3===
Preliminary Costs
• Using square footage costs from a previous TCP study with acceleration - $545/sq.ft.
• Purpose of this cost analysis is for a presentation of relative project costs of each step
• Final project costs WILL be different
• Ritter (Town Hall/School Offices)
• Renovation ~ $3.27 Million
• Addition ~ $2.18 Million
• Town Hall (Meeting House)~ $3.53 Million
• TC Passios (Community Center) ~ $13.63 Million
Mr. Roy stated the committee believes we have made significant progress. We came in tonight to get feedback,
answer questions and get some input from you on our next steps. Perhaps the next step in the process might be
to start to develop some a road map for how we proceed through those various stages. Each of the projects is
independent and separate from each othei, so you could spread out the cost over a much longer period of time,
which has the benefit of perhaps of aligning with the 10-year capital projections that we have.
Mr. Jeffreys added we tried to identify ways to save money. One of the things looking at Town Hall was going
with the meeting house concept that goes back to our New England roots. This building is providing supports
a good process was and a key takeaway was to renovate a smaller portion that will not trigger all those code
upgrades. When we finish we tear the rest of the building down that we don't need. Looking at the Ritter the
idea was to figure what the barriers were, overcoming them and recognizing that would be a substantial
renovation. Advice we were given from Mr. Sculimbrene and the Building Commissioner is that it's important
for new construction to look different than the historic structure. We identified having two separate buildings
conjoined and on that same parcel.
Mr. Roy noted in addition to a road map they would need funding for architectural consulting services.
The board members thanked the committee for the presentation and all their work. Mr. Alonzo asked about the
Boys & Girls Club's request for space in the building. Mr. Jeffreys noted the Club had requested between
6,000-10,000 square feet and at $545/sq.ft., you are looking at millions of dollars.
Dave Blatt, 411 Goodrich Street, added one of the things that the committee looked at was to provide multiple
usages for the building, trying to get the most use out of a building. One of the things the Boys & Girls Club
looked at is having a quiet space for the kids to study which possibly could be this meeting space here and then
a gym or some area that they can go to on a rainy day and they can maybe utilize the gym or something in the
community center. Seeing the proximity of the Boys and Girls Club to these two buildings, we thought it would
be prudent that we looked at this as a multi-use building. Trying to get the most out of it, using it for the
community, not just one group. Mr. Alonzo stated as a follow-up I would advocate to see if we could do it;
those uses are what they're already doing and that splits up their employees. They have to hire more people
because when they're not on site they have to provide somebody to go to the library or to go to the gym. Mr.
Blatt noted there's a concern in this town for vacant buildings and that was one of the things we had to take into
consideration. So we felt it was the best use for now. If something happens in the future where there's another
space that opens that makes a lot more sense, than we'd more than happy to entertain that as well.
===PAGE 4===
values based on sales that occurred in calendar year 2021. As part of this analysis, MFS is performing physical
interior and exterior inspections of all taxpayer properties that filed for a tax abatement that are located in Site
Index 1. Site Index 1 (SI1) is a factor in the VGSI CAMA system that is applied to waterfront properties.
In addition to physically inspecting properties, MFS reviewed sales in MLSPIN from that time frame, and
interviewed many of the real estate agents/brokers that have had waterfront sales in Lunenburg since calendar
year 2020. Finally, for sales that occurred in calendar year 2021, each deed was reviewed in order to help
determine whether or not the sale was arms-length. An arms-length transaction is defined as a sale between a
willing buyer and a willing seller with no unusual circumstances involved in the sale. It is important for
assessors to determine whether a sale is arms-length because non-arms-length sales (NAL) are most often not
reflective of the market.
In analyzing waterfront sales to determine assessed values for FY23, the principal assessor found that two-thirds
of the sales that occurred in calendar year 2021 had an Assessment to Sales Ratio, (ASR) of .40, indicating that
a major adjustment was needed in order to bring values in line with DOR guidelines (.90-1.10). This was done,
which created an increase in land values in some cases of around 135%. MFS was able to re-create the scenario
that the principal assessor used to justify the increase, and we can honestly say that had we not inspected almost
every waterfront parcel in the town we could have very easily made the same assumptions.In performing our
own sales analysis, we disqualified some sales that were initially qualified and qualified some sales that were
initially disqualified. We also expanded the time frame, looking at 2020, 2021 & 2022, then 2020 & 2021, then
half of 2020, all of 2021 and half of 2022. In short- we used different data and different time frames.
As of the writing of this report, there are 455 101 class (Single Family) properties located in Site Index 1, which
indicates waterfront. Of these 455 properties, forty-one (41) sold during cendar 2021; the rest being disqualifie
as arms-length. To be considered statistically significant, a sample size of at least 2% is needed. In this case, 2%
would require nine (9) sales. In the event that the sample size is not large enough, assessors must consider two
years' worth of sales. This can be done by either including the full prior calendar year (2020), or the second half
of the prior year and the first half of the following year (2022). In calendar year 2020, there were seven (7) valid
sales in SIl and in calendar year 2022 there were eight (8) valid sales. Between calendar 2020 and calendar
2021, there were thirteen (13) valid sales in SI1. Using calendar 2021 and combining it with the last half of
calendar 2020 and the first half of calendar 2022, there were fourteen (14) valid sales. Prior year's sales data
was not available. It is the understanding of MIFS that the Town went from the now defunct State CAMA, to
Tyler, to VGSI since 2019. As such, MFS is unable to analyze any value changes that occurred between
calendar years 2019 to 2020. It is our understanding that the principal assessor used sales from 2020 and 2021
in their sales analysis to determine the FY23 assessed values.
With regards to the accuracy of the data on the buildings themselves, we found the data to be very accurate
overall, making only minor changes, such as adding a central air system/mini split, a shed here and there or
maybe a deck measurement was off by a foot or two. There were very few instances where we found that the
house itself needed value correction, whether positive or negative. The issue was clearly specific to land
valuation.
MFS feels the waterfront land tables should be brought back to FY22 levels. From there, an increase of around
17% should be applied. This adjustment will establish values for "waterfront average," which we feel includes
===PAGE 5===
Dave MacDonald, 155 Island Road, thanked Mr. Cramer. He repeated what was mentioned in public comment
about escrow taxes increasing.
FY23 4th Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $10,066.11
Motion: T. Alonzo
To commit the 4' Quarter Water Commitment in the amount of $10,066.11
2''': L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
Announcement on Existing Vacancies
The following is a list of current vacancies on the following committees:
• Finance Committee (1 vacancy)
• Green Communities Committee (1 Associate vacancy)
• Open Space Committee (1 Member at Large vacancy)
• Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
• Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Associate vacancy)
Interested persons can find Volunteer Applications on the Town Website and completed forms can be sent to the
Select Board's Office. Anyone that has any questions on volunteer opportunities can contact the Select Board's
Office at (978) 582-4130 x 144.
Current Employment Opportunities with the Town
The following is a list of current employment opportunities with the Town:
Administrative Assistant for Conservation (10 hours/week)
• Administrative Assistant for Planning (36 hours/week)
• Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager (24 hours/week)
• Assistant Town Accountant (32 hours/week)
• Facilities Superintendent (40 hours/week)
• Finance Director (40 hours/week- contractual)
• Police Officer (40 hours/week)
• Veterans Services Agent (varies weekly)
Videographer (2-10 hours/week)
More information on each position can be found on the job postings, which are located on the town
website.
Invitation for Bids/Request for Proposals:
• Bids for the Guardrail Repairs IFB are due on May 31st.
• Bids forthe LED Streetlight Conversion project are due on June 7th.
• Bidsforthe Page Street Culvert Construction IFB aredueon June 7th.
===PAGE 6===
Dale hassage Dilyeasts signage on mass dre do act decade datalies
"An Act to Reduce Fatalities" was signed into law in December 2022 that stipulates when a motor vehicle is passing a
vulnerable user, the operator of the motor vehicle shall pass at a safe distance of not less than 4 feet and at a reasonable and
proper speed. As part of this new requirement, the Massachusetts Department of Transportation is responsible for
providing the signage to towns for the towns to install on public ways that will notify operators of motor vehicles of the
requirements for passing a vulnerable user from a safe distance asrequired by this law. MassDOThasalso provided
guidance to public works on the location and installation of the signs. While the distance applies to passingallvulnerable
road users, the sign created by MassDOT pictures bicyclists, which are likelyto bethe most common vulnerableroad user
that a motor vehicle operator will encounter. As a reminder thisnew law appliesto allroadways, regardless of whether the
Safe Bicycle Passing isposted. The sign is to serve as a reminder to drivers of the rule of the road.
The DP W Director will be identifying how many signs we will berequesting and the locations. This information is then
submitted to MassDOT.
925 Mass Ave (TM Goal#1)
The EPA provided an update this week that the contractor that was hired by the EPA will be on site tomorrow to do some
groundwater sampling and the work on the canopy structure and the underground tanks will start next week. If there are
any changes to the schedule, I will update the Board.
30 School StreetUpdate:
The hazardous materials abatement and demolition of the old Primary School, also known as 30 SchoolStreet, willbe
substantially completeby the end ofthis week. Thecontractorsaredoing final grading of the site this week, loamed and
hydro-seeded after the completion of the loam placement.
OLD BUSINESS
Action Items
Mr. Alonzo asked about posts on social media about inspectors peering into private homes' windows without
the owner's permission. Mr. Lemieux stated she was aware of a complaint and was looking into it.
Committee Reports
Mr. Franco reported the Economic Development Committee is meeting Thursday at 6 p.m. at the Ritter
Building. He attended a Council on Aging meeting today and gave a senior tax relief update. The 300th
Anniversary committee was brought up at the meeting as well. Mr. Lincoln stated they were going to start
brainstorming on how to get every resident and every department involved in the celebration. There is a joint
fundraiser run but the Eagle House supporters and the skate park project that is a raffle calendar.
Discuss Request for 243 Summer Street
Mr. Jeffreys following up on the homeowners' request to pave town property (easement) in front of their house
for additional parking at the last meeting, asked the board for feedback. None of the board members thought the
Town should have to pay for paving even if allowed. Although the board was sensitive to the situation, they did
not want to set precedent by allowing the paving in the easement or licensing to an individual homeowner.
Some other solutions had been presented to the homeowners at the last meeting but they only wanted a paved
area installed in the easement. It was pointed out the homeowners were aware of the existing conditions when
they bought the house and even if they were not, the responsibility fell on them to do the research before
===PAGE 7===
Select Board:
Objective 1: Continue to pursue a project acceptable to the Town regarding the property and building at 30
School Street (a continuation of FY21 and FY22 Select Board Goal - Objective 1, with modified actions).
1. Action: Oversee hazardous material abatement and demolition of Old Primary School through
weekly updates and timeline review with Town Manager COMPLETED
I. Action: Seek public engagement to review and evaluate landscape architect plans for potential
resubmission at 2023 Annual Town Meeting INCOMPLETE DUE TO CURRENT FINANCIAL
CLIMATE
III. Action: Create working title that provides a clear unique purpose and benefit to residents
IV. Action: Communicate funding sources, distinct from Marshall Park project.
Mr. Jeffreys stated he had not discussed this with the Town Manager but we may want to look into having a
conversation with some of the big businesses in town. There may be some land that the Town owns that would
be of interest in terms of earth removal and we may be able to structure an RFP in exchange for services. We
could perhaps get work done at a much lower cost or offset the cost with work at other locations in a way that
does not run afoul of procurement law.
Objective 2: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to establish a means-tested senior citizen
property tax exemption or abatement.
1. Action: Discuss the authority allowing us to pursue this program. Evaluate examples of how other
towns have already adopted similar programs.
II. Action: Discuss and determine the eligibility criteria for seniors to be able to qualify and participate in
the program.
III. Action: Work with Town Manager and Finance Director to create financial models and illustrations to
allow the Select Board to weigh options and to fine tune any proposal. At a minimum, these
illustrations should include what the exemption and/or abatement would be to the eligible seniorsand
what the impact would be on all other taxpayers.
IV. Action: Hold public hearings when necessary (but at least one) to present the proposal and get
feedback from the public.
V. Action: Prepare a Town Meeting warrant article, when ready, detailing the final proposal for Town
consideration.
COMPLETED
Objective 3: Review Select Board bylaws and propose updates for 2023 Annual Town Meeting
1. Action: Review Select Board Policies and Procedures
Il. Action: Review all Select Board bylaws and prepare modifications/updates to improve clarity and
consistency with the Town Charter.
===PAGE 8===
meetings and when things came in late, it was usually things that he was adding 10 minutes before a meeting.
I think the availability of information has been better. Just the applicants that come before us, there's a lot of
things that go into that. We had a calendar that mapped out the whole year's agendas from May 2022 to this
May 2023. Once January hit the whole thing went out the window but we were on target going into January and
it allowed us to have more workshops. I've tried to collaborate and reach out to other chairs. I've had a lot of
conversations with them. It was certainly more Herculean than I recognized on the front end trying to balance
the varying needs. I am grateful to Carol Archambault for the many conversations and engagements that we've
had. Dr. Burnham always takes my phone calls. There are many areas in which I offered comments unrelated to
the Select Board, but she was receptive and the School Committee was receptive to most of them. Mr. Franco
has had numerous conversations with the BOA this year. Adding that collaborative time on our agenda for any
other board to come has helped foster an improved relationship with the Parks Commissioners.
I've had to call Mr. Alonzo for advice and I've called Mr. Toale and Mr. Rodgers for advice and many other
previous members of the Select Board. We were under Mr. Alonzo's leadership for the last three years and I
know that he and I have very similar hearts and intents, but very different styles about doing certain things.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Mr. Jeffreys announced their next meeting is May 23. The Annual Town Election is this Saturday, May 20".
The Memorial Day ceremony is on Monday, May 29' at Veteran's Park at 10:00 a.m.
PUBLIC COMMENT
Rhonda Lisio, Reservoir Road, offered some alternatives to providing community space.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2"d: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Elaiem. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager
