===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Clerk; Tom Alonzo, Renee Emkey
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Nancy Foss Yasko, Cemetery Commissioner; John
Kimball,
Lawrence Lagoy, Scott Oja, Dr. Robin Chandler, Donna Saiia, George Emond Ji., Perry Jewell, Paul
Fortin, Jim Garreffi
Chairman Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and asked everyone to stand for the Pledge of
Allegiance. He announced in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be
advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg public access channel
and Facebook Live and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24
hours after the meeting.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at this meeting and are those reasonably
anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in
fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted
by the Open Meeting Law.
PUBLIC COMMENT:
John Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road, Assessor, appealed to anyone who might want to volunteer
on the Board of Assessors due to the recent resignations.
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Council on Aging Administrative Asst.
Michele Beauvais
Ms. Lemieux stated Ms. Beauvais has been with the town as a van driver for almost a year and during
this time she has formed positive relationships with van riders. Her previous experience includes over 20
years of administrative work. Her knowledge of Lunenburg and her positive attitude and experience
makes her a perfect fit for this position. The board members thanked her for her interest in working for
the town.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2"d: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Michele Beauvais to COA Administrative Asst.
Vote: All in Favor
Ratification of Town Manager's Appointment of Temporary Conservation Administrator Leah
Grogorov
Ms. Lemieux stated the filling of the permanent position is ongoing. Ms. Grogorov would be filling this
role temporarily for about 10 hours a week. She comes with experience as the assistant conservation
agent in the town of Westborough. She has her Bachelors of Science from UMass Amherst in natural
resource conservation and she is in the process of taking a new full-time position in East Longmeadow,
so she would be doing most of this work remotely. The board thanked her for getting temporary help in
the interim.
===PAGE 2===
already vote to accept this as a gift.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
To accept the gift to the Cemetery Commission as discussed
2nd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
Ms. Yasko Foss thanked the board.
Pole Petition Hearing for Northfield Road @, Gilchrest St. Plan# 977-L
Mr. Nuzzolo read the hearing notice aloud:
"To All Interested Parties:
In conformity with the requirements of Section 22 of Chapter 166 of the General Laws (Ter. Ed.), you are
hereby notified that a public hearing will be held at the Town Hall, 17 Main Street, 2nd
Floor, in the Joseph
F. Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg, MA, on Tuesday, August 22, 2023 at 7:15 PM upon petition of
Unitil Fitchburg Gas & Electric Company for permission to erect or construct, and a location for, a line of
wires, poles and such other fixtures as may be necessary to sustain or protect the wires of the line, for the
transmission of electricity, upon, along, across, or under the following public ways of said Town:
LOCATION
Northfield Road@ Gilchrest Street, (1) Proposed new Stub pole #23-51 approximately 2345 feet north
of Turkey Hill road and approximately 1476 feet south of Holman Street with anchor to be
approximately 9 feet behind new proposed stub pole. Location as shown on sketch. Plan# 977-L dated
7/12/2023
Location approximately as shown on plan attached.
Wherefore it prays that after due notice and hearing as provided by law, it be granted a location for and
permission to erect and maintain poles and wires, together with such sustaining and protecting fixtures as it
may find necessary, said poles to be erected substantially in accordance with the plan filed herewith marked.
Also for permission to lay and maintain underground laterals, cables, and wires in the above or intersecting
public ways for the purpose of making connections with such poles and buildings as each of the petitioners
many desire for distributing purposes."
John Kimball, Unitil Field Services Supervisor, was present for the hearing. He stated Unitil would like
to remove the guy wires that are presently anchored to an oak tree and install a pole (#23-51) to support
pole #23 in the island of the intersection. When asked what it would involve to remove the island pole,
Mr. Kimball replied it would take a massive amount of tree work on that scenic road. As there were no
other questions, the hearing was closed.
Motion: T. Alonzo
2': C. Nuzzolo
To approve the pole petition for proposed pole #23-51as presented by Unitil
Vote: All in Favor
Change in DBA for La Balena LLC, 50 Massachusetts Ave.
Owner Lawrence Lagoy presented for the request of a change of "doing business as." The LLC will
remain the same. The name change will be from La Balena Ristorante to The ReBoot. Mr. Lagoy stated
===PAGE 3===
Ms. Lemieux stated Mr. Oja is a Master Plumber with over 40 years of experience in residential,
commercial and industrial settings; working with plumbing, gas and heating systems. His most recent
employment is with Fitchburg State University where he is responsible for all the plumbing and steam
fittings for all of the academic buildings. He has also worked for Community Health Connections and
for the Health Alliance Hospitals as a plumber. He holds eight licenses which will be an asset to the
Town where the work can be done in-house instead of outsourcing. He is a graduate of Montachusett
Regional Technical Vocational School for the plumbing trade school and his references indicated that he
is calm and a true professional.
Mr. Oja stated Facilities Director Chris Ruth reached out to him to see if he would be interested in
applying for the position and he was intrigued. The board thanked him for applying to the town.
Motion: M. Jeffreys
2nd: L. Franco
To ratify the Town Manager appointment of Scott Oja to Facilities Superintendent
Vote: All in Favor
Mr. Oja thanked the board.
Proposed Pilot "Dream Team" Budget for LHS for ARPA Funding Request: Dr. Robin Chandler
Dr. Chandler, 717 Reservoir Road, Cultural Council member, presented an Artist at School Program for
the high school curriculum that would, if approved, be paid for with ARPA funding. The amount she
was requesting was $22,500.
Statement of Need
Why does art matter at Lunenburg High School? LHS is an "above average" educational institution in the top 5%
of Massachusetts secondary schools. With three (3) dedicated permanent arts instructors, a supportive learning
environment, and 17 arts-related courses, the school is an ideal launching pad for an AIS program operated by the
LCC and its partners. To create a "buzz" for the program, revitalizing the artist community in Lunenburg would
ensure the public as well as grant makers that the arts are alive in town and would provide evidence of
"community engagement". A locally supported AIS pilot project in 2023-2024, initially funded by the Select
Board, will position LHS to join the top 20 secondary schools as an "arts hub" in north central MA by 2029.
A unique Five-Year Strategic Plan featuring a 3-Phased program for a high-performance school-LHS, is
proposed, beginning with the 2023-2024 pilot implemented by an inclusive planning committee composed of
cultural council member(s), Lunenburg High School (LHS) official(s), LHS teachers, a parent representative, and
other stakeholders. At this stage the primary beneficiaries are Lunenburg High School students. The most critical
element of this pilot year is to solicit the services of PAC to document/videotape the residency for marketing
purposes and grant making.
An end-of-the-year report will be submitted (first draft to the Lunenburg Cultural Council (LCC) for review) and
the Office of the Superintendent by the co-Pls and will include recommendations, documentation, and learning
outcomes from Phase I for Phase II.
An evaluation of the pilot project, both quantitative and qualitative will be submitted by the evaluator to the LCC.
===PAGE 4===
appropriate approvals are on time and signed off on.
Donna Saiia, 32 Sandy Cove Road, stated the Cultural Council ran into roadblocks during the COVID
pandemic; many things were put on hold or canceled. We are dedicated to promoting the arts as well as
sciences and we want to reach people of all ages. The grant process will start on September Ist and end
on October 17%
', and we're encouraging anybody in Lunenburg that has a program that will benefit the
community to consider applying for a grant. They do have to work with a venue in town and have
established places like the library, the senior center, places where they will have this event. Sometimes
it's a trek through the woods to learn about foraging; so there's a lot of things we cover.
Dr. Chandler stated she would be meeting with the School Superintendent and Principal this week. She
will be visiting other local schools to build common cause with these institutions, both cultural and
educational, because this particular program is going to put the town on the map because it's attracting
prominent artists.
Dr. Chandler described the process going forward pending Cultural Council and Select Board approval
of ARPA funding. Mr. Alonzo believed this was a great opportunity and lauded Dr. Chandler and the
Cultural Council for bringing this opportunity forward. Ms. Saiia noted as Treasurer for the Cultural
Council, she would be working closely with the Town Treasurer to ensure these funds, if granted, would
be separate from the state grant funding. Mr. Nuzzolo commended the council for bringing innovation to
the public schools and the opportunity to inspire creativity. Mr. Franco thanked them for their
enthusiasm and for engaging in and doing this important work. Mr. Jeffreys agreed with many previous
statements and suggested meeting with Town Manager about the administrative side as the Town has
unions and checking in about procurement, etc. He believed the artists' fees were reasonable and
thanked them for coming in tonight. Dr. Chandler and Ms. Saiia thanked the board and exited the
meeting.
Meeting with the Board of Health (BOH) on Use of ARPA Funding on PFAS Related
Expenditures
BOH Chair Emond opened the Board of Health meeting. Ms. Emkey stated FAS has come up recently
with respect to drinking water. The Water District has requested ARPA funding to address this. The
Water District is taking care of the public water supply, but residents with private wells are left on their
own. What are the guidelines with respect to private wells; are they obligated to test? If they do test and
they find they exceed the limit are they obligated to remediate? Private wells fall under the purview of
the Board of Health so I don't know if you as a board have begun thinking about PFAS and the new
regulations and impact on private wells.
Mr. Emond stated there is very little information coming from the federal government about PFAS. The
information that we are getting is after the first of the year they will take some action. The amount to test
a private well is around $400 and we guess there are around 1800 private wells in Lunenburg.
Mr. Alonzo asked is there a program that we have that you could mimic that provides monetary
assistance, not paying for the whole thing, to private well owners to have their wells tested for PFAS and
===PAGE 5===
regulates private wells and requires certain parameters. At this point PFAS is not a required parameter.
The board does require new homeowners to remediate if they exceed
the primary drinking water standard. Typically in town we see arsenic which naturally occurs in
bedrock. He anticipated the EPA coming out with new standards for PFAS and the state to adopt them
as well. The Board of Health under MGL c. 111, §31, has the ability to amend their regulations.
Discussion continued about the cost of testing and treatment and maintenance of wells and water
systems in the event PFAS are detected if the state changes the regulations; and how the Town would
play a role in that.
Mr. Jewell believed the most helpful part is education. The issue is we really don't know anything yet.
PFAS are still being manufactured and being used in industry.
Mr. Jeffreys noted the Water District is requesting ARPA funding for $485,000; $400,000 for PFAS
pilot testing for the Lancaster and Keating wells; $50,000 for a PFAS Master plan related to the public
water supply; $35,000 for public education related to PFAS. He asked the Board of Health members
given you have authority over wells and the reality of PFAS, what can we do to be supportive of you at
this time? Mr. Fortin stated nothing is going to happen until after January 2024 so there are no requests
from the BOH at this time. The Board of Health adjourned their meeting at 8:47 p.m. and exited the
meeting.
TOWN MANAGER REPORT
• Town Beach hours are Saturdays and Sundays from 12 to 6 and Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 7 p.m.
It is expected to close on Labor Day weekend.
• The Farmers Market is every Sunday from 10 am to 1 pm until mid-October on the Ritter Building lawn.
• Board & Committee Vacancies
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 vacancy)
> Board of Assessors (2 vacancies) until the next annual election
> Cemetery Commission (1 vacancy) until the next annual election
> Finance Committee (2 vacancies)
> Green Communities Committee (1 vacancy and 1 associate vacancy)
» Open Space (1 member at large vacancy)
> Parks Commission (1 vacancy) until the next annual election
› Personnel Committee (1 vacancy)
Volunteer Applications are available on the website, in Town Hall and at the Town Manager office
• Employment Opportunities
> Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager
• Assistant Town Accountant
• Finance Director/Town Accountant
> Assistant Meal Site Manager
> Conservation Administrator
===PAGE 6===
Chad TEmpey LLC. The contract has been awarded to this company.
• A Request forQuotations for Trash & Recycling Consultant Servicesis due by August 31st. This is paid
through our Recycling Dividends Grant.
Opioid Settlement Funds
The Town received another opioid settlement payment in the amountof$14,709, bringing the Opioid
Settlement Stabilization Fund balance to $99,449. The Police Chief will be submitting an article for the
fall town meeting to request funds from this account to pay for costs related to a Co-Response Mental
Health Clinician.
Discussion ensued about the use of the opioid settlement funds.
Employee Highlights
Council on Aging: Thank you to all the volunteers and staff at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center. They have
been short-staffed during the last several months, especially in the kitchen, and the staff and volunteers have
stepped up to the plate by filling in where needed in the kitchen by learning how to "job share", driving multiple
meals on wheels routes, and just going the extra mile to keep the center up and running. The kitchen staff includes
Pamela Myllykangas, Elsa Watson, and Ann Penney and the kitchen volunteers are Joyce Boyce and Deb Lincoln.
The COA van driversareal waysready fora challenge. Currently MARTisusing Lunenburgasa test site for new
driver software but our drivers always manage to get the passengers to their destinations safely. The Van Drivers
are Dave Gallagher, Kimberly Moore, and Michelle Beauvios. A special thanksto Jim McGuigan, who although he
hastried to retire as a driver, agreed to come back any time as an on-call driver when needed
Thank you to all the Meals on Wheels Drivers which include Laura Boussom, Cynthia Romano, Betty Orlow,
Walther Orlow, Larry Letarte, Robin Roach, Tricia Arsenault, Bob Hamel, Elise Schofield, Robin Cilmi, Louann
Longenecker, Carol McShane, Robin Roach & Melody Nielsen. Thank you to the Outreach Coordinator Pauline
Roy and to COA Director Sue Doherty who always goes above and beyond in managing the Center and making
the Center a welcoming place for seniors and always trying to improve the lives of our seniors.
Land Use: As noted in last week's meeting, the lack of having a Conservation Administrator has caused a backlog
of work for that office and has caused more questions and follow-up on conservation related issues that have been
directed to the Land Use Director Adam Burney. Thanksto Adam for trying to field the questions that have been
directed his way due to the absence ofthe Conservation Administratorand working with the Assistant Town
Manageron interviewing any applicants with relevant experience.
Treasurer/Collector's Office: This past year the staff in the Treasurer/Collector's Office has had to workextra
hours, including Fridaysand Saturdays, dueto the numberofabatementrefundsand a vacancy in that officethat
caused a backlog of work. The staff has also had to address angry and upset residents repeatedly for many
months. Thank you to the Assistant Treasurer Sue Murchie, Collector Principal Clerk Erin Mahoney, and to
Treasurer/Collector Myleen Mallari.
Assessors' Office: It goes without saying that this year has been especially difficult for the Assessors' Office and
the Board of Assessors. The current Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey came out of retirement and assisted
the Town in our time of need. Assessing Administrative Assistant Sheila Craigen has been amazing and has also
worked extra hours in order to keep up with her regular duties and the abnormal amount of calls, emails, and foot
traffic to that office this year. Thank you to both Rena and Sheila for keeping that office functioning.
===PAGE 7===
and all adjustments that were made during those inspections were made to the FY24 values, so if there
were any changes say an extra fireplace or a new valuation to that home that would be in the FY24
valuation. When it is turned over to the new fiscal year, there are automatic adjustments in the tables that
are factored into conditions. Mr. Alonzo requested further explanation because people are asking
questions and he wanted them to be aware that if they got a minimal tax increase last year, the increase
is going to catch up for two years this year. Ms. Lemieux added during the reevaluation period we will
be using Vision to help gear outreach and communication on what to expect as well. Ms. Lemieux stated
she needs to submit a letter to the Division of Local Assessment to request an extension for the
certification of values because typically they are due January 1st
. Next meeting the Select Board will
need to vote on a letter for sending out preliminary 3d quarter estimated tax bills. The Assessors have
already done this.
OLD BUSINESS
Discussion on ARPA funding requests and review Select Board rankings for project requests;
votes may betaken
The board discussed the ranking process and how to improve it to make it easier. Mr. Jeffreys will
amend and return with it for the next round of discussion about how to award the funding.
Tax Investigation Update
Mr. Jeffreys reviewed core questions that the investigation sought to answer.
I. Was the Principal Assessor (PA) competent from March 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022?
A. What was the PA's education and experience?
Bachelor's Degree in Finance from UNH, 2 years working as a data collector (including in
Lunenburg) 2 ½ years as an assistant principal assessor in Winthrop, responsible for general and cyclical
inspection, building permits, abatements, generation of excise and real estate taxes, evaluation of public
records; interacting with the public.
B. Did the PA have a mentor? If so, what support did that mentor provide?
Yes, a Principal Assessor with over three decades of experience. He provided resources and
collaboration on nuances. He reviewed the work that was submitted to MA DOR.
C. Was the PA certified to perform his duties?
Yes. The PA completed DOR Course 101.
D. Did the PA receive specialized training or have familiarity with software systems employed?
Yes, the PA received on-site training for the Vision 8 upgrade; completed Vision Report Building
Course; MA Assoc. of Assessing Officers-completed; Principles of Assessing Procedure, Valuation
Administration, Income Approach to Valuation; International Assoc. of Assessor Offices- completed;
Fundamentals of Real Property Appraisal; Appraisal of Land
===PAGE 8===
B. Is there a statistical difference in property values between homes nearest Lake Shirley, Lake Whalom, or
Hickory Hills?
As per the site index map in use at the time of the evaluation, no. However, Hickory Hills is the largest
private lake in Massachusetts and boasts home values largely equivalent to the values on Lake Shirley, where
homes are generally larger. Homes on Lake Whalom are generally assessed at a lower value than homes on
Hickory Hills Lake and Lake Shirley.
C. How was the index map determined?
1. How often is it updated?
The map is expected to be updated every five years. However there's no available record of
previous site index map indexes. RRG, Inc. (previous assessor) confirmed that the map has been in use
for at least fifteen years.
2. What is the ordinary process to update it?
The map is expected to be updated every five years when the Town receives an in-depth evaluation.
RRG, Inc. reported that they were advised by MA DOR that due to the lack of sales on lakes, homes
should get consolidated into the same index. This guidance was familiar to one assessor interviewed;
another assessor interviewed indicated that this guidance is not consistent with her experience
working with MA DOR.
D. What software was employed to assist with property valuations or assessments?
Vision Government Solutions (VGSI) provides the computer-assisted mass appraisal (CAMA) software
that was employed. It is noted that prior to FY20, the Commonwealth's CAMA was utilized. There was a
transition from that system to Tyler CAMA. RRG, Inc. had a financial interest in Tyler CAMA that was
not disclosed to the Town. The Principal Assessor hired in 2020 transitioned from Tyler CAMA to Vision.
During the investigation there were no digital or other records to reveal what was in the Commonwealth's
CAMA or Tyler CAMA. RRG, Inc. indicated the site indexes used property attributes with detailed notes.
These attributes did not transition into Vision CAMA.
1. Does the software provide standard alerts or notification about impact from fiscal year to year?
No, as per DOR, impact on taxpayers is not relevant to the identification of fair market value.
2. Does the software analyze sales data and provide recommendations?
No
3. Does MA DOR have a position or requirement regarding the assessment software that was
used?
No, but MA DOR recommends the use of CAMA software.
E. What valuation did the properties that sold in 2021 get for FY23?
F. Did the Principal Assessor analyze Fy22 property values and assessments alongside FY23 values
and assessments and consider variances/differentials?
No.
1. Do guidelines or regulations recommend or require such analysis?
MA DOR notes that many communities provide impact statements to advise property owners in
advance of real property bills of notable increases. This is not required and there was not a best
practice in place (or policy) to require an impact evaluation.
===PAGE 9===
2. Has advertising for home son Lake Shirley promoted limited public access?
No. One listing identified that semi-private nature of the lake but nearly all did not.
IV. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook consistent with professional standards and norms?
Mostly yes. The PA evaluated homes from similar classes (i.e. ranches, colonials, etc.) and
identified that all homes near lakes that sold in 2021, sold for values much higher than homes of the
same class in different indexes. As a result, the PA identified that the ASR was around .48. After
applying an across the board increase to all home values in all indexes, land values in index 1 were
increased uniformly to achieve an acceptable ASR. This was technically correct and consistent with
vith DOR guidelines and ess stocking to ve men a more everal protoss that wasted tolly consistent
1) Conversion of Software: AstheMA CAMA waswinding down, Lunenburgwasone ofthelast
communitiestoconvert.RRGsold the BOA topurchasea CAMA thatthey had a (reported) financial
interest in and was a software that all assessors interviewed considered to be inferior to Vision
CAMA and other CAMAs on the market. WhileRRG asserts thatpropertyattributesweredetailed in
MACAMA; there is no way toconfirm this. Noneofthosespecificattributeswerein the Vision CAMA
that performed the assessments.
Inexperienced Board of Assessors (BOA) A: While one member (Rich Letarte) of the BOA had many
years of experience, he reported that he had life events that challenged hisability toserve, but didn't want
to leave the town in a bind so he remained on the Board, albeit distracted. At the time that the
assessments were certified, two members had served forabouta yearand one did not have her DOR
coursework completed. Thelackof public interest in serving on the BOA and the lack of longevity,
contributed to the minimal oversight that was provided during the assessment process.
3) Four Principal Assessors in three years. From 2019-2022, The Town experience had theservicesof
RRGand hiredanadditional three assessors. RRG completed theFY19assessmentand one principal
assessor completed the 2020 and 2021 assessments.
1) Lackof Best Practices: Ifthe BOA had adopted a policy that required impactreview, theylikelywould
haveidentified an anomaly in thedistribution oftaxesand taken anotherlookat thecausation. The
pandemic was anomalous, and therewasn'ta requirement or best practice to takea six month look back
into 2020 and asix month look ahead into 2022 to consider whether the 2021 assessment results were
or meredits vere
consistent with market trends. Thesurgein homevaluesdueto thepandemicwas not considered during
the assessment process —and therefore no efforts were made to mitigate or slow the impact.
5) DOR Guidance-DOR does notaccount forimpact. Unlikeotherstates, they don't have any considerations
for long-term homeowners surprised by a large tax bill. The Commonwealth's practices seem to encourage
an outlook that increases estimated home values based on market trends.
V. Was the process the Principal Assessor undertook to achieve FY23 property values and
assessments compliant with MA DOR standards?
Yes.
VI. Was there a historical error or decision that contributed to increases in any index for FY23
===PAGE 10===
It is unclear. The Board received conflicting information and concluded that, more likely than not, tax
bills were mailed on or about January 11,2023.
VIII. Was the Board of Assessor's competent from July 1, 2022 - December 31, 2022?
Yes. All members were complied with MA DOR requirements.
A. Was the Board compliant with requirements identified in 830 CMR 58.3.1 and/or other
requirements as determined by the MA DOR Commissioner?
Yes.
IX. What was the process that the Board of Assessor's undertook to perform their duties, as outlined in the
Lunenburg Town Charter, as it relates to FY23 property valuations and tax assessments?
A. Did the Board of Assessor's analyze FY22 property values and assessments alongside FY23 values
and assessments and consider variances/differentials?
No.
1. Do guidelines or requirements recommend or require such analysis?
No.
B. Does the Board of Assessor's consider impact of tax assessment increases during the usual process
of property valuation and tax assessment?
No.
X. In the event that error, either clerical, professional, or procedural are found, what are the potential
remedies for both the affected residents and the Town?
Mr. Jeffreys stated his expectation was to talk through this for what the next steps will be.
He anticipated having the full document and making it available to the public with all of the
interviews, all of the supporting documents, with all of the analysis spreadsheets that were provided
through the assessor's office and combining all those into one document and referencing the nexus
between the answers that are provided to these questions and the documents that support where these
answers have come from.
Referring to question #4, he believed it was a perfect storm of factors that went unidentified.
He was not able to conclusively say what Mr. Carroll did was not consistent with DOR standards or the
work that Mr. Cramer did that was also consistent with DOR standards. There's a clear need for more
policies. Looking at these proximate causes, if you take one away, the situation likely wouldn't have
happened. If it was true that the MA CAMA had all these site attributes and if that conversion had
happened to Vision where all those attributes were brought over, we would have had a result that didn't
treat every single home in Index 1 the same and that would have had a different outcome in terms of the
taxes. If we had had a Board of Assessors that were more experienced, would this situation have
happened? Probably not.
===PAGE 11===
perfect storm. It's pretty clear from DOR and our conversation with them and the standards, that once
you complete those courses you meet their standards. Technically everyone had to have training to have
the knowledge to dig into this in more detail and it wasn't exercised.
Ms. Emkey agreed, the purpose of looking back is not to point fingers and assign blame. What can we
learn, what can we change, so it never happens again. But common sense says if you see an assessment
doubled, that should set off bells and say we need to look into this more. Going forward we need to look
at these numbers more closely. Some safeguards need to be put into place.
Mr. Alonzo stated in order to prevent this from happening again, that cause has to go on somebody. He
didn't disagree about the inexperienced BOA or other items. We paid somebody a lot of money who
came up with an errant product that we followed and that hammered people in the town, lost the Town a
lot of money and lost some people their homes. It's not a mechanical mathematical problem. It's the
data and the investigation of the data that's the critical component and that is what was missed. We had
tour previous PAs, nobody else came up with these numbers. At the November tax classification hearing
he had asked Mr. Carroll if there were any substantial changes, Mr. Carroll replied incorrectly, whether
intentionally or not. The DOR was absolutely unhelpful and their whole practice is unhelpful.
Everybody I spoke to, assessors and people who are on Boards of Assessors said the first thing you'd
want to know when that number 0.48 came up or the actual tax bills were looked at, is we have a
problem. It wasn't like these numbers were right and were upheld in the abatements. They weren't
upheld because we had a Principal Assessor with more experience look at these numbers at our request
and on our dollar, who came up with very different numbers and his report stands on its own. We need
best practices. We don't have data from the past, decades of data are gone because we did not have a
backup practice. Once the tax rate was approved, the tax bills got mailed out; people were clamoring to
find out what their bills were because they didn't find out from their mortgage companies yet what the
tax bills were. They should be updated immediately as soon as the tax bills were done. I completely
disagree with the assessment that we didn't know when the tax bills were sent. We came up with
documents from the USPS about when we received it. No reasonable person will think with the evidence
that those were mailed on time and yet we forced that through which caused further hardship because
now people had to come up in two weeks with thousands of dollars. This report does not in my mind
even begin to say what and where the problem was and how we should avoid it. When those tax bills
come out, there better be a spreadsheet that I can look at that shows the tax bills or I will not vote on a
tax rate.
Mr. Nuzzolo stated it was important to remember the impacts that this situation caused to people.
Fear, anxiety; it caused much division in our community. My hope is that this investigation produces
actionable information that we can actually do something with so that we can get to a point where we
can just move on as a community.
Mr. Franco stated many of the points that have been made so far are fine. As part of this investigation I
was interviewed because I was on the BOA in previous years. I commented and I see some of myself in
this report including characterizing that I wasn't the only one that did say that procedures were
===PAGE 12===
and elements of every prior speaker has said that are true. The last principal assessor that assessed at the
time that these assessments were made owns those assessments and those numbers. But you identified in
the report how many factors contributed to the data not being carried forward by the previous computer
systems. Those trash numbers came from somewhere and they may have started off only as small errors
but they propagated over a period of years and that's how we impart in no small measure how we got
where we got with that 0.48 ASR.
Mr. Jeffreys pointed out what seemed to be the commonality from the last three principal assessors was
they all felt that the quality of the data in the system was exceptionally poor. Mr. Carroll also
commented on the data as being very poor. Mr. Jeffieys expanded on the reasons the data came in as it
did. It was an unreasonable workload to expect someone in seven months to do a critical assessment of
data in the entire town. So Mr. Carroll took the same approach that the previous principal assessor did
which was I'm not touching any of the raw data, I'm keeping everything the same even though I think
there's problems. In his case the ASR did not match because of what actually happened in the market
and because that ASR was so low. If everyone had gotten the average tax bill increase of $278, I feel
like most people wouldn't have said anything. The lens that he was looking at it through was limited by
his own experiences and it was very much by the book. Had he have had more experience
like a Nate Kramer then he would have seen I need to go into a bigger range to look at a two-year range
rather than a one-year range. I do believe the Principal Assessor was a primary contributor to why we
landed in this situation. There is a reason we have elected boards who create policy and provide
oversight and the BOA have to be trained. There was a recognition that you need to have someone
double checking your work and he did have someone double check his work who was an assessor for 30
years. We would be best served by making sure that all these lessons we're learning from this process as
we identified at the very beginning of this investigation process is identifying recommendations to the
BOA so this never happens again.
Discussion continued on the lack of experience of the Principal Assessor, and all the contributing factors
that led to the ensuing situation as well as the concerns of the former principal assessors and previous
assessors of the poor data and lack of past data.
Ms. Lemieux agreed that anyone coming on board should have a more defined mentorship. We are not
seeing anyone with that level of experience anymore; we getting more applications from appraisers.
There is a large learning curve even after they take all the courses. Hiring a consultant permanently for
an oversight and review process would be helpful. We need to look at policies and procedures and what
types of documents are going to be part of the tax recap. The BOA wanted to have a principal assessor
in house who would be more accountable as the contract with the regional assessor was not being
fulfilled. I think a hybrid model of consultant/staff would be the best model.
Mr. Jeffreys stated we will make revisions to the report and I will make notes on recommendations. We
will schedule to revisit this for the second week of September.
Review Dog Hearing Procedure
The board reviewed the hearing procedure in anticipation of a dog hearing next week. He encouraged
===PAGE 13===
Approval of Minutes of April 25, May 16, 2023
Motion: T. Alonzo
2nd: M. Jeffreys
To approve the minutes of April 25 and May 16, 2023 as presented
Vote: 3 in favor, 2 abstentions (Nuzzolo, Emkey)
Committee Reports
Mr. Alonzo reported Capital Planning's first meeting is on August 30". Mr. Franco reported the
Economic Development Committee is meeting on August 24"'. Ms. Emkey reported the School
Committee will meet on August 28th
Mi: Jeffreys reported Municipal Building Design Committee met last night and reviewed the scope of
services for the ARPA funding request. We received a generous offer from Mr. Allison and Mr. Roy for
use of their cad design experience. The committee meets again on September 18"
Mr. Jeffreys reported he worked with the Cemetery Commissioners on a draft policy that Town Counsel
had some concerns about. I worked with them to identify language that is more aligned with the Town
Charter and identify areas that need further discussion with Town Counsel. Town Manager is working
with them as well.
Mr. Jeffreys updated the board on the effort to stop the closure of the Leominster Hospital birthing unit.
He announced Rep. Scarsdale will be holding a regional meeting of district communities to identify and
discuss shared concerns related to their communities.
Mr. Alonzo reported Senator Cronin, Rep. Kushmerek and Rep. Scarsdale signed a letter of opposition
to the Dept. of Public Utilities regarding Unitil's proposed rate increase. He thanked them for doing this.
Upcoming Meetings:
Mr. Jeffreys stated the board would be meeting again on August 30"h And September 5"h and 12".
PUBLIC COMMENT
There was none at this time.
Motion: T. Alonzo
To adjourn the meeting
2'd: L. Franco
Vote: All in Favor
The meeting adjourned at 10:49 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Claire m. Peterson
Elaine M. Peterson
Executive Asst. to the Town Manager
