===PAGE 1===
 
Page 1 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg Select Board Meeting Minutes Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom  Tuesday, October 22, 2024  Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey Members Absent: None  Also Present: Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes   CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to Y ouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  PUBLIC COMMENT  Board Comment Chair Nuzzolo and the Select Board wished Mr. Terenzini a Happy Birthday.  Public Comment John Bowen, 162 Highland St: Mr. Bowen commended the Select Board on the goal of evaluating Town employees respectfully.  He described his concerns regarding the Cemetery Commission’s progress on the West Street Terrace eminent domain issue, financial management, and warrant articles.  He called for Miss Foss-Yasko’s (current Chair of the Cemetery Commission) resignation.  Ana Lockwood, 91 Main St:  Ms. Lockwood described the extensive planning on funding of Marshall Park, starting in March 2023 including 3 Town Meeting votes.  She also commented on Mr. Alonzo’s actions related to Town personnel proposals as brought forward by the volunteer Personnel Committee and by employees during listening sessions.  She supports the modifications proposed by Mr. Terenzini to the SAP .  She urged respect for Town employees and volunteers, and the need for leaders to work collaboratively.  Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys stated that free speech and criticism are part of the process of democracy, but that at the end of the day, we want to encourage volunteers.  ANNOUNCEMENTS  
===PAGE 2===
 
Page 2 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that yard waste begins this Saturday, October 26th, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. for all Saturdays up to December 14th excluding Thanksgiving week, at the landfill on 27 Y oungs Road.  Residents can bring leaves, grass, easily raked material but no plastic bags, stumps, or household garbage.  Chair Nuzzolo announced that Special Town Meeting is November 12th at 7:00 p.m. at the Middle/High School auditorium.  COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that the Agricultural Commission will appear before the Select Board on November 5, as an update under Communication From Other Boards.   SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS  Public Hearing for the transfer of a General On Premise All Alcohol License, Common Victualler license, Automatic Amusement license, Jukebox license, and Weekday Entertainment license to St Mary and Christ Inc., located at 1 Main Street (Continued from 10/01/2024 and 10/15/2024).  The premises is described as a single story lobby takeout counter bar 22x20 feet, and outdoor patio, main dining area, women’s restroom, office,  storage area, order area, and cook kitchen.  Clerk Amanda Moore read the public hearing notice into the record. Both co-owners appeared to introduce themselves and describe their experience running businesses in support of their liquor license application.  One of the owners stated that he has been in the food business for 25 years, mostly pizza restaurants and full service like Bad Larry’s, currently one in Holden and a partnership in Worcester.  He has always had good help and spent a couple of days in each place he managed.  He has a good partner he trusts for Bad Larry’s, who will be the day to day person there. Chair Nuzzolo stated that in addition to the Select Board liquor license approval and the common victualler license already approved, they need a food service license from the Board of Health (BOH).  He asked for an update as the application has not yet been submitted.  One of the owners responded that he had thought that everything was all set and he would talk to his lawyer or do it tomorrow.    Vice-Chair Jeffreys requested details of about the co-owners’ experience in serving alcohol and the ABCC application. One of the owners responded that his experience was in Florida for 2 years with a full service Italian restaurant with a bar for beer and win and answered the remaining questions. The Select Board discussed the logistics of providing the Select Board’s victualler license before the BOH food service license is approved.  The Select Board concluded that despite some procedural confusion, the applicants had the necessary experience.  Motion by Member Tom Alonzo to approve the All-Alcohol license transfer to St. Mary and Christ Inc.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
===PAGE 3===
 
Page 3 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
 Motion by Member Alonzo to hold the Common Victualler license transfer to St. Mary and Christ Inc. until such time as the applicants provide or until the Board of Health, either one, provides us with notification that they have the proper certificates from the Board of Health to serve food.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  One Day Entertainment License for American Graffiti, 113 Summer St for 11/27/24 from 7:30 PM – 11:00 PM The owner appeared to request a one day entertainment license for a one man band performance, on 11/27, from 7 :30 to 10:30 p.m. They are going to close at 11. Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to approve the One Day Entertainment License for American Graffiti, 113 Summer St for 11/27/24 from 7:30 PM – 11:00 PM.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS None  INTERIM TOWN MANAGER REPORT Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini provided his report to the Select Board.  The Interim Town Manager provided updates on several projects. The library exterior paint project is almost finished having taken advantage of good weather, leaving only a few punch list items to do so it's coming to closure quickly. The Interim Town Manager informed the Select Board that the second DPW salt contract has been signed.  Additionally, the tree cutting services contract had come in a little bit above what we expected, but they've agreed to accept the unit price at $47,500 not to exceed so we'll be able to proceed with that contract. Three ARPA project bids are due tomorrow, better detail will be at the next meeting.  The projects are the DPW garage flooring, the partial roof replacement at the DPW, and the sewer manhole rehabilitation.  Two site visits are scheduled soon: the library teen room and the town hall roof replacement.    Both bids for those projects are due on November 4th which will be the day before the meeting of November 5th so we will have better information then on ARPA. The municipal building design bids are due November 4, based on the Committee’s meeting last night. The data collection services contract had some last minute questions which were resolved with the Chair of the Board of Assessors and we are just waiting for Vision to sign that contract.  
===PAGE 4===
 
Page 4 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
We continue to have some open jobs. We are accepting applications for 2 to 10 hours per week for PAC. We have sewer business manager and assistant sewer business manager and we have a vacancy today in the truck driver labor category. This does not require a commercial driver's license, but the Town would help the driver to prepare for the test. We also conducted interviews for the assessor’s administrative assistant and hope to secure the candidate. In terms of general communications, the Select Board has a copy of the memo that was sent to all the Village of Flat Hill residents.   The sales data, which forms the basis of our submission of proposed values, was submitted this past week and has been approved. We now submit our actual proposed values.  It's a three-step process.  The Board of Assessors need to sign that form. We expect to get that done this week and have an estimated tax rate by the Special Town Meeting. It won't be the classification hearing because of the 14-day notification requirement, once approved by the state. Fares on the Lunenburg Connect program will be going up a little bit.  A 1-10 mile ride will go from $3 to $4.  The 11-15 mile ride goes from $4 to $5, and the 16-20 mile ride will be $7. A ride to Emerson from anywhere in Lunenburg will be $7.  The Interim Town Manager signed a grant request from the Green communities program for $225,000.  Staff training on the challenges in dealing with First Amendment Auditors was completed for about 15 attendees.  There are a number of Town vacancies and the process of keeping track of them is under review. In response to a question from Member Renee Emkey, the Interim Town Manager plans to have the New Growth Certification done before the Special Town Meeting.   OLD BUSINESS Status Update and Discuss ARPA No update on ARPA  CURRENT BUSINESS Action Re: Agreement Extension Re: Interim Town Manager Chair Nuzzolo stated that per the Charter we can have an interim Town manager for 90 days and we are allowed to renew that once. As the 3 months is coming up at the end of this month, the Board must decide whether or not to renew the contract.  The Select Board discussed the Interim Town Manager’s recent and unannounced acceptance of a second and concurrent Town Manager position contract.  The Interim Town Manager assured the Select Board that there would be no conflict of interest and all obligations to Lunenburg would be met.  He apologized for the lack of notice.  
===PAGE 5===
 
Page 5 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys addressed the practical consequences of not renewing the contract; the Town would be without a town manager for some months.   Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to extend the contract for the Interim Town Manager for 90 days.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Three-aye. Two –nay (Member Alonzo and Member Emkey). The motion passed unanimously (3-2-0).  Review and Approval of Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles The Select Board revisited warrant articles on which they hadn’t already voted a recommendation.  Article 1 (Canon copier late bill for the School Department): Motion by Member Alonzo to accept and recommend approval of Article 1.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.  Article 2 (Amending school fiscal year budget): Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept and recommend approval of Article 2.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.  Article 3: Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept Article 3.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.  Article 4 (adoption of prudent investor rule): Motion by Member Alonzo to accept Article 4.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0. Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend Article 4.  Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Four Aye.  One No (Vice-Chair Jeffreys). The motion passed 5-1-0.  Article 5 (tax exemptions): Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept Article 5 as presented.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.   Article 6:  Motion by Member Alonzo to accept Article 6.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys.  Call for the vote: Four Aye.  Member Emkey abstains.  The motion passed 4-0-1.  Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to defer Article 6.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: Four Aye.  Member Emkey abstains.  The motion passed 4-0-1.  Article 7 (COA revolving fund for meals program): Motion by Member Alonzo to include it.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.   
===PAGE 6===
 
Page 6 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
 Article 8 (parks department revolving fund): Motion by Member Alonzo to include Article 8.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.  Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 8.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys.  Call for the vote: Five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.  Article 9 (Brooks House): Motion by Member Alonzo to include Article 9.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: five Aye.  The motion passed 5-0-0.    Article 10 (Salary Administration): The Interim Town Manager described proposed salary administration changes as developed by listening sessions with staff, with review by the Interim Town Manager and now the Select Board.  The changes would affect such matters as scheduling, incentives and the potential establishment of a Sick Time Bank.  Although the Personnel Committee has a role in reviewing it, the Committee does not currently exist.  A modest ($5,000) financial impact would be expected but productivity losses could be higher.  Member Alonzo voiced concern about the lack of review time for the Board and the public.  Clerk Moore said that the Town needs these changes to support Town employees and attract talent.  Member Emkey felt that the article needed clarity.  Vice Chair Jeffreys did not see that any of the proposals were controversial.  Chairman Nuzzolo raised a question to clarify who has authority to grant compensation increases about Step 4 in the absence of a Personnel Committee.  The Board agreed to cap the Town Manager’s ability to go beyond Step 4.  On the whole, Chair Nuzzolo believes these proposals are a step in the right direction for the Town to become a better employer, and thanked the Board for a robust discussion. Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept Article 10 as modified (clarification that in the absence of a Personnel Committee, the Town Manager can only go to Step 4 increases, and delete section 70-21-1 after ‘medical emergency’).  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: 4 Aye (Chair Nuzzolo, Vice Chair Jeffreys, Clerk Moore, Member Alonzo), 1 No (Member Emkey).  The motion passed 4-1-0.  Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 10.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: 3 Aye (Chair Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Clerk Moore), 1 No (Member Alonzo), 1 Abstention (Member Emkey).  The motion passed 3-1-1.  Article 11 A (Intermittent Employee V acation & Sick Leave): Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept and recommend approval of Article 11 as presented.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Four Aye. One No (Member Alonzo).  The motion passed 4-1-0.  Article 11 B (renumbered due to splitting of 11) Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to accept Article 11b.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: 5 Aye. The Motion passed unanimously. 
===PAGE 7===
 
Page 7 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
 Article 12 (Debt Authorization for Marshall Park Improvements).  Submitted by the Parks Commission but there was lack of clarity about whether the article would be discussed at Town Meeting.  The Select Board preferred to leave the decision to the Parks Commission.  Motion by Vice Chair Jeffreys to recommend to accept Article 12 and defer recommendation to the floor of the Town Meeting.  Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: 5 Aye. The Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Article 13 (Citizen’s Petition).   Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend to defer Article 13.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: 5 Aye. The Motion passed unanimously 5-0-0.  Article 14 (standing budget amendment wording).   Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to authorize the Town Manager to revise standard verbiage as needed for insertion as the new Article 1 in current Town Warrant (from the Special Town Meeting 2023); this includes acceptance of the Article.  Seconded by Member Alonzo.  Call for the vote: 5 Aye. The Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to defer the Article.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: 5 Aye. The Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Discussion on Annual Climate Survey Policy Nothing current on this.  Discussion on Select Board and Town Manager Goal-Setting Process Nothing current on this.  MINUTES/W ARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS  Minutes of Regular Session of October 8, 2024; November 28, 2023; Minutes of Executive Session of October 8, 2024 Motion by Member Alonzo to accept the minutes of the Executive Session of October 8, 2024.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: 3 Aye (Chair Nuzzolo, Member Alonzo, Member Emkey), 0 No, 2 Abstain (Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Clerk Moore).  Motion passed 3-0-2.  No Action Items.  COMMITTEE REPORTS Member Emkey reported that the Budget Task Force discussed health care plans and options. Member Emkey reported that the School Committee discussed the allocation of additional Chapter 70 funds and that they have received 7 responses to the Turkey Hill ADA study.  
===PAGE 8===
 
Page 8 of 8 Select Board Meeting Minutes October 22, 2024 
Member Alonzo reported that Capital Planning met yesterday and received a presentation from the schools on their 10-year capital plan.  Clerk Moore reported that the Economic Development Committee meeting did not take place as scheduled.  The Master Plan Steering Committee chair has stepped down and the Committee needs to be re-organized.  Vice-Chair Jeffreys reported that the Library Trustees are pleased with the increase in usership due to new programming. The Cemetery Commission is looking forward to meeting in November. The Municipal Building Design Committee has gotten good responses to the RFP and more meetings are scheduled with various town committees and boards. The Planning Board has received an inquiry from a developer regarding the affordable housing limit.  UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  November 12th Special Town Meeting at 7:00 PM in the Middle-High School Auditorium  PUBLIC COMMENT INTERIM TOWN MANAGER: None PUBLIC: John Bowen, 162 Highland St, via Zoom: Mr. Bowen presented his concerns with legal, management, and financial matters related to the Cemetery Commission.  Sue Doherty, Director of the Lunenburg Council on Aging, via Zoom: Ms. Doherty thanked Town management and the Select Board for bringing forward the issue of part-time employees’ benefits, saying “it’s a great start.”  BOARD: None.  ADJOURNMENT  Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Meeting adjourned at 10:13 P .M.  Respectfully Submitted, Sharon Jordan Minute Clerk  These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: Tuesday, September 29, 2026  