===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, January 16, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Member Tom Alonzo, 
and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-May Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
Chair Jeffreys stated that public comment for the agenda items regarding Public Access 
Committee concerns regarding H.R. 3557 and the Open Space Committee’s requests will occur 
following the presentations of those agenda items.  
 
Public Comment 
None. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None. 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux requested the Board’s ratification of the appointment of the 
Finance Director/Town Accountant Ezequiel Ayala Jr. Town Manager Lemieux stated that the 
position was advertised, and the Town received a total of 22 applications, and the Town 
requested 11 applicants to interview. Town Manager Lemieux stated that eight applicants 
responded to scheduling an interview. Town Manager Lemieux and the Assistant Town Manager 
conducted preliminary interviews, and if the interview went well, a second interview would 
occur with a Select Board member and the Interim Finance Director, Karen Brochu. Town 
Manager Lemieux stated that Mr. Ayala has 20 years of progressive experience in executive, 
administrative, and financial management in the fields of higher education, State government, 
and non-profit organizations. Town Manager Lemieux stated that he has a Bachelor of Science in 
Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting and a Master of Science in 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
Management with a concentration in Leadership. Town Manager Lemieux noted his prior work 
experience and municipal board and committee experience. 
 
Chair Jeffreys asked Mr. Ayala to speak regarding his candidacy for the position. Mr. Ayala 
reiterated his 20 years of progressive experience. Mr. Ayala stated that he currently works at the 
Central Massachusetts Housing Alliance and has dedicated his career to public service. Mr. Ayala 
stated that he currently serves on the Finance Committee and the Capital Budget Committee for 
the Town of Sterling. Chair Jeffreys stated that Member Alonzo attended the interview with Mr. 
Ayala. Member Tom Alonzo thanked the Town Manager and her staff regarding vetting 
candidates. Member Alonzo stated that he believes Mr. Ayala has significant experience for the 
position. Town Manager Lemieux stated that Interim Finance Director Karen Brochu stated she 
is available to be a contractor to onboard and be a resource to Mr. Ayala if necessary. 
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Ezequiel Ayala Jr. 
as the Finance Director and appoint Ezequiel Ayala Jr. as the Town Accountant under the 
authority of the Select Board.  Seconded by 
Chair Jeffreys.  Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco- Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that Mr. Ayala is expected to begin his position on February 5, 
2025. 
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to approve the contract for Ezequiel Ayala Jr. and his position as 
Finance Director/Town Accountant.  Seconded by Chair Jeffreys.  Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco- Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Steve Walker, Chair of the Public Access Cable Committee (PACC), stated that Mass Access 
notified the PACC that there is a proposed bill in the U.S. House of Representatives 3557 
American Broadband Deployment Act of 2023. He stated that the Bill would allow more Federal 
government control over wireless technology deployment, rather than local control. He described 
elements of the proposed Bill, including what he believes are unattainable timelines for local 
governments to respond. He said that the Bill includes languages that would allow providers to 
install facilities where they choose to, regardless of local zoning regulations. He said that the Bill 
would eliminate cable franchise renewals. He said that the Bill would grant cable operators the 
right to provide non-cable services while prohibiting localities from imposing fees on cable 
operators' revenue for non-cable services (i.e., internet). Mr. Walker requested that the Board call 
or write to the Town’s members of Congress. 
 
Chair Jeffreys asked for public comment regarding the item. No members of the public provided 
comments. 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to authorize Chair Jeffreys to sign a letter in opposition to H.R. 
3557 American Broadband Deployment Act of 2023 and send a letter to the Town’s State 
delegation and federal delegation.  Seconded by Chair Jeffreys.  Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco- Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
APPOINTMENTS 
Meeting with Open Space Committee re: Open Space recommendations for transferring 51 
Parmenter Road (Parcel 136-0006) and 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake (Parcel 137-0012) to the 
Parks Commission 
 
Mike Toohill, Chair of the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee stated that 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake 
is a parcel that is on an area also known as Stump Cove, he said it is currently being used for 
kayak and canoe launching. Mr. Toohill stated that 51 Parmenter Road is not being used for that 
purpose, but it has direct access to the lake. Mr. Toohill said that the parcels are Town-owned and 
the Open Space Committee has formally recommended that the two parcels be transferred to the 
Parks Commission. 
 
Parks Commission Chair Ana Lockwood called the Parks Commission meeting to order at 7:31 
PM. Parks Commission Chair Lockwood informed attendees that the meeting was being 
recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained 
that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other 
items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
Members Present: Chair Ana Lockwood, Commissioner Christopher Sullivan, Commissioner 
Colleen Shapiro, Commissioner Anita Schiepers, Commissioner Karin Menard 
 
Parks Commission Chair Lockwood stated that the parcels have been in discussion since 2019. 
She stated that Stump Cove was a parcel given to the Town in the late 1980s with a stipulation 
that required public access because the State agreed to fund the rebuilt dam for Lake Shirley. She 
stated that the request is to create more formal access for Town residents to access Lake Shirley 
and to transfer care and control to the Parks Commission.  
 
She said that the current use of the 51 Parmenter Road parcel is not being used safely or 
environmentally, due to erosion. She said that 0 Shirley Reservoir Lake parcel is being used by 
residents for canoe/kayak launch access, but it is not officially defined with the current use. She 
noted that parking is not well defined on the side of Reservoir Road. She said that the parcel 
could be improved to include parking and a picnic area eventually. She stated that if approved, 
the Parks Commission would formulate a plan for the development and usage of the parcels. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated to that the public already has access to the lake because it is Town owned, 
under the care and control of the Select Board. Chair Jeffreys asked her why the Parks 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
Commission is requesting a transfer of ownership. Ms. Lockwood stated that the Parks 
Commission, is better equipped to maintain the parcels. 
 
Member Emkey asked about the name of Stump Cove and the tax title search. Mr. Toohill stated 
that a light tax title search occurred, and the parcel was a part of a tax taking in 1957 and 1974 
when the property was foreclosed on. Mr. Toohill stated that in 1957 and 1974 when the property 
was foreclosed on, the deed was not recorded with the parcels that were underwater or not. 
Member Emkey asked if there has been community outreach with abutters regarding the Parks 
Commission proposal. Mr. Toohill stated that several ad hoc meetings occurred with abutters. 
 
Member Alonzo asked about the acreage of the parcels. Town Manager Lemieux stated that 51 
Parmenter Road has an encroachment occurring; she said that the Town is aware and is handling 
it. 
 
Vice-Chair Lou Franco asked Ms. Lockwood if Lunenburg residents would only be allowed to 
access the parcels if development occurred. Ms. Lockwood stated that she does not know the 
answer to that question. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Parks Commission and the Select Board may need to meet for an 
additional meeting for discussion. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board will need to review the 
agreement the Town entered into with the State. Chair Jeffreys stated that GIS visualization may 
be necessary for the parcels. Chair Jeffreys asked if the Parks Commission has considered ADA 
accessibility. Ms. Lockwood stated that the Parks Commission does not have the care and 
ownership of the property and is not able to make design or future considerations for the 
property.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board received a letter signed by several residents on Parmenter 
Road, Round Road, and Ruth Street who are against the transfer of ownership. Ms. Lockwood 
said that the State required the Town to provide public access 35 years ago, and she said the 
Town has not provided access. Chair Jeffreys stated that the public is utilizing the lake access. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that the Parks Commission doesn’t need care and control of a parcel to 
make plans for the property. Member Alonzo stated that the Board could provide authorization 
for the Parks Commission to explore options for the parcel. Town Manager Lemieux agreed with 
Member Alonzo’s sentiments.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board received a letter from residents and a letter from Virginia 
Wolfram stating their support of the parcels to continue to be under the care and control of the 
Select Board 
 
Public Comment 
John Dombrowski, stated that he is representing Virginia Wolfram, 251 Parmenter Road: He 
stated that the roads are narrow and would make boat launch access and parking impossible. He 
said he believes there are ADA compliance issues due to the slope of the bank. He said that there 
is a potential housing development across the street from the Parmenter Road parcel, and he is 
concerned about stormwater issues due to the development. 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
 
Michael Lovelow, 579 Reservoir Road: stated that he is against the transfer of ownership to the 
Parks Commission. Mr. Lovelow said that he believes the parcels are not suitable for 
development for a boat ramp. 
 
Gerry Brown, 5 Johnson Street: stated that he is a direct abutter to the Parmenter Road parcel, 
and he agrees with what Mr. Dombrowski stated in his public comment. 
 
Gary Spence, 7 Ruth Street (Via Zoom): stated that he lives across from the Parmenter Road 
parcel and is in opposition to the transfer of ownership to the Parks Commission. Mr. Spence 
stated that Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation is the entity that maintains the lake, and 
homeowners pay to maintain the lake. Mr. Spence stated that if the Town was willing to pay to 
maintain the lake, he would be more receptive to this transfer of ownership. 
 
Virginia Wolfram, 251 Parmenter Road: stated that she is a direct abutter to the Parmenter Road 
parcel. Ms. Wolfram stated that she purchased the property and was not aware that the shed was 
encroaching on Town-owned property. Ms. Wolfram stated that a proposed dock on the 
Parmenter Road property would not allow for much room for her dock. Ms. Wolfram stated that 
she is concerned about ADA accessibility, public safety, enforcement, and parking. 
 
Joanna Bilotta, 362 Sunset Lane (Via Zoom): stated that she is against the transfer of ownership 
to the Parks Commission.  
 
Karin Menard, 672 Page Street (Via Zoom): stated that when she moved to the Town in 2004, 
she was interested in learning more about public access to Lake Shirley. Ms. Menard stated that 
she does not believe that the public has adequate access to the lake. 
 
George Yapp, 28 Oak Ridge Road: stated that the Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation 
provides invasive species management services for the lake. Mr. Yapp said that the lake may 
need to be dredged if the Town wants to develop boat ramp access.  
 
Renee Raboin & David Osoff, 46 Fire Road 12: stated that they are abutters of one of the parcels. 
Ms. Raboin stated that the riverbank is marshland. Ms. Raboin stated that they are against the 
transfer of ownership to the Parks Commission. 
 
Alex Yawer, 226 Sunset Lane: stated that he is against the transfer of ownership to the Parks 
Commission. 
 
Ms. Lockwood stated that the Parks Commission has no plans to develop the parcels.  
 
Karin Menard, Parks Commission Member, stated that the Parks Commission has worked on 
these parcels for years. Ms. Menard stated that the Parks Commission’s focus is on providing 
public access to Town-owned lands. Ms. Menard stated that she believes the parcels could be 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
developed for canoe and kayak access. Ms. Menard stated that the Parks Commission may find, 
based on their research, that there is no public access available on these two parcels. 
 
Member Emkey stated that the Board should not transfer ownership if there are no clear tax titles 
in hand. Member Emkey stated that she is not in favor of the transfer of ownership to the Parks 
Commission. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that he doesn’t have enough information to decide on the transfer of 
ownership to the Parks Commission. Member Alonzo stated that he is not willing to transfer 
ownership prematurely if there is not an outline of a plan. 
 
Vice-Chair Franco stated that a site walk of the parcels would be needed. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that he is in favor of the Parks Commission’s request. Chair Jeffreys said 
that the Parks Commission can review the site more in-depth without the transfer of the care and 
custody of the parcels. Chair Jeffreys stated that for the Parks Commission’s request to be passed 
at a town meeting, supporters of the request must get the support of the residents of Lake Shirley. 
Chair Jeffreys stated that all involved should have a sense of open-mindedness and participation. 
 
Ms. Lockwood stated that the Parks Commission and Open Space Committee have had multiple 
meetings for members of the public to participate and welcomes more input. 
 
Parks Commissioner Menard moved to adjourn. Seconded by Parks Commissioner Sullivan. 
Roll Call Vote: Member Menard-aye; Member Sullivan-Aye; Member Shapiro-Aye; Member 
Schiepers-aye; Chair Lockwood-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER PRESENTATION OF THE CAPITAL PLAN 
 
Town Manager Lemieux describes what qualifies as a Capital Project and the capital plan 
process. She said that the first meeting of the Capital Planning Committee was August 3, 2023, 
and capital planning documents were sent to departments in September 2023. She said that 
members of the CPC met with departments in late October until the beginning of December. She 
said that the CPC prioritized 35 capital project requests, and the prioritized list was submitted to 
the Town Manager on December 24, 2025. She said that she could modify the list of capital 
projects as part of the proposed budget. She said the total amount of the 35 Capital Project 
requests is $3,474,767.98 for FY2025. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux described the top ten priority capital projects individually. The first 
priority is Public Safety Radio System Phase 2 ($315,263); the second priority is Town-wide 
Keying, Card Access, & Alarm System Upgrades ($185,000); the third priority is Northfield 
Culvert (Kelly’s Pond) Construction ($200,000); the fourth priority is Turkey Hill Elementary 
School ADA Study for Renovations and Assessment and Schematic Design ($275,000); the fifth 
priority is Police Department Marked Replacement K9 Cruiser ($92,211); the sixth priority is 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
Library Security Cameras Phase 1 ($36,000); the seven priority is Police Department Marked 
Replacement for Traffic Cruiser ($73,627); the eighth priority is Turkey Hill Elementary School 
Installation of 3M of Window Safety Film ($33,569); the ninth priority is Security Camera 
Upgrades at Town Buildings ($36,450); the tenth priority is Wallis Park Basketball and Tennis 
Courts resurfacing ($70,000).  
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that she created a FY2025-FY2034 Capital Requests document 
that is available on the Town’s website. She said that the Town has over $39 million in capital 
project requests over the next ten years, including $14.8 million for Turkey Hill Elementary 
School renovations. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the next steps include fine-tuning the amount of funds that 
can be put toward capital projects in advance of May Town Meeting. She said that she 
recommends continuing to use the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund in future years, if there are 
large vehicle/equipment needs, unless there are sufficient funds through regular sources. 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the report will be tabled until the next meeting. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Update on FY24 Town Manager Goals 
Town Manager Lemieux described her four FY24 Goals. She said that significant progress 
occurred at 925 Massachusetts Avenue by applying for a MassDevelopment Real Estate and 
Technical Assistance grant. She said that she is working with the Director of Site Planning on 
defining the scope of the projects, and they received a quote from BSC Group. She said that a 
kickoff meeting will occur in February, and conceptual design plans. She said that she worked 
with the EPA to receive additional funding to remove the hydraulic lift floor drains inside the 
building and the floor drain holding tank. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that her second goal was financial policies and procedures and 
long-term planning. She said the first action that is being addressed is to review and make 
recommendations to the Select Board on financial policies and create a written financial 
administration procedure manual for employees that will formalize unwritten processes. She said 
that the Town received a Division of Local Services Community Compact Grant that will 
provide updated financial policies that will be voted on by the Select Board. Town Manager 
Lemieux stated that an additional item was to create a culvert and bridge management plan. She 
said that the Town applied for a Community Compact Grant and received $25,000 to create the 
management plan.  
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that her third goal was to improve employee retention and 
recruitment efforts. She said that she signed a letter sent to Governor Healey to advocate for 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
pathways for municipal positions. She said that a new standard training program for new 
employees has been implemented. 
 
2. Discussion of Draft Board-Commission Handbook 
Chair Jeffreys stated that this item will be tabled until the next Board meeting.  
 
3. Review & Discuss Bylaws that Pertain to the Select Board 
• Chapter C. § 3.1 General Provisions & § 3.2 Select Board 
• Chapter 305 Board of Selectmen Policies 
• Chapter 184 Pawnbrokers and Dealers in Metal Article 1 §184-1 Licensing Authority and 
requirements 
• Chapter 74 Select Board 
• Chapter 5 Administration of Government 
Chair Jeffreys stated that this item will be tabled until the next Board meeting. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. Update on Distribution of ARPA Funds for Committed Project Requests 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that she recommends that projects be reimbursed. She said that 
two non-profit organizations were not able to be reimbursed, so she created a grant agreement for 
those organizations. Chair Jeffreys thanked the Town Manager for her efforts. Member Emkey 
and Chair Jeffreys stated that departments need to spend down funds quickly to meet the proper 
deadlines. 
 
2. Approval for Chair to Sign FY2024 Survey and Planning Grant for Historical 
Commission 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to approve the request for the Chair to sign the FY2024 Survey 
and Planning Grant for the Historical Commission. Seconded by Vice-Chair Franco. Roll 
Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- 
Aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
3. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
Member Alonzo requested that the new Town website be reviewed to make sure there are basic 
documents listed on the website, including budget documentation. Chair Jeffreys stated that he 
will consider adding the item to a future agenda for the Board to decide which documents should 
be included on the website. Chair Jeffreys stated that Town staff should consider reviewing 
websites from nearby towns. 
 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $852,071.46. Payroll warrant in the amount of 
$961,855.94. Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $221,282.17. 
 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
None. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
Member Alonzo stated that he is on vacation from February 5
th through the 9th. 
 
Chair Jeffreys asked the Board if they didn’t have any conflicts to have a meeting on January 30
th 
and not February 6th. The Board did not see any issues with the new Board meeting date. Chair 
Jeffreys stated that he will contact Clerk Nuzzolo to make sure he is able to attend.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
Town Manager Lemieux sends her condolences to the Ruth family. She stated that Chris Ruth’s 
father passed away this weekend.  
 
Public Comment 
Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road (Via Zoom): Ms. Richard asked if all the capital project 
requests could be added to the website. Town Manager Lemieux stated that all the capital project 
requests have been added to the website.  
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Franco. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco- Aye; Member Alonzo-Aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 10:28 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 16, 2024 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from January 16, 2024. Seconded 
by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed 
(4-0-1). 
 