===PAGE 1===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 1 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Lunenburg Town Hall and via ZOOM 
Tuesday, June 4, 2024     7:00 PM 
 
Members Present:  Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda 
Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, Member Renee Emkey 
Also Present:  Heather Lemieux, Town Manager. Public Comment Participants are listed 
in the minutes. 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
I. ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys made a motion to enter into Executive Session and to re-enter Open 
Session after exiting Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30, Section 21, Paragraph 3, to 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if any open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the Chair so declares.  The motion was 
seconded. Call for the vote: Chair Jeffreys, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, 
Aye; Member Moore, Aye; Member Nuzzolo, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
II. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
 
Member Tom Alonzo welcomed Member Amanda Moore to the Board.  
 
Chair Jeffreys noted that he has been Chair for two years and looks forward supporting a new 
Chair, thanking his colleagues and the public for help during his tenure. 
 
Public Comment 
 
Chair Jeffreys recognized George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle. He welcomed Member Moore to 
the Board. Mr. Burden accused Chair Jeffreys, Member Alonzo, and others of a variety of illegal 
actions. Mr. Jeffreys responded, rebutting Mr. Burden’s accusations toward him. 
 
 
III. REORGANIZATION 
 
===PAGE 2===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 2 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
Member Moore nominated Member Caesar Nuzzolo as Chair. Seconded by Chair Jeffreys. 
Chair Jeffreys nominated Member Alonzo as Chair; seconded by Member Emkey. Both 
Member Alonzo and Member Nuzzolo accepted the nomination. Call for the vote on 
Member Nuzzolo’s nomination: Three-Aye; Two-Nay (Members Alonzo and Emkey). The 
motion passed (3-2-0). 
 
Chair Nuzzolo nominated Member Alonzo as Vice-Chair; Member Alonzo refused the 
nomination. Chair Nuzzolo nominated Member Emkey as Vice-Chair; Member Emkey 
refused the nomination. Chair Nuzzolo nominated Member Jeffreys as Vice-Chair, and a 
second was heard; Member Jeffreys stated that he did not want the position but that he 
would accept. Call for the vote: Three-Aye; One-Nay (Member Emkey); One-Abstain 
(Member Alonzo). The motion passed (3-1-1). 
 
Member Jeffreys nominated Member Emkey as Clerk. Member Emkey refused the 
nomination. Member Alonzo nominated Member Amanda Moore as Clerk. Member 
Jeffreys seconded. Call for the vote: Four-Aye; One Abstention (Member Emkey). The 
motion passed (4-0-1). 
 
IV. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
** Taken out of order, following Town Manager’s Report ** 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux announced that she has submitted her resignation to the Board 
via email prior to this meeting. She read the letter aloud. Board members responded with thanks 
to Town Manager Lemieux for her work in Lunenburg. 
 
V. COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS - NONE 
 
VI. APPOINTMENTS 
 
7:10 PM Hearing to discuss and review Restaurant All Alcohol License #07338-RS-
0636 for La Balena LLC, d/b/a The Re Boot located at 50 Massachusetts Ave. 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo reviewed the procedure. Attorney Costa had notified the Board that he was 
unable to attend this meeting. The Public Hearing was opened at 7:44 PM.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo recognized John Reynolds, 91 Lancaster Ave., Chair of the Sewer Commission. 
Mr. Reynolds said that La Balena has not been paying their sewer bill. In December they met 
with the Sewer Commission and set up a weekly payment plan to become current. Some 
payments were received in January, then payments were late, and one check had insufficient 
funds. When the Agreement was signed, they were $13,299 in arrears; today they owe 
$13,689.08. Chair Nuzzolo swore in Mr. Reynolds; Mr. Reynolds then had to restate his previous 
statements. At the April 9 meeting Re Boot agreed to pay $2,000 but as of May 28 this obligation 
has not been met. They have had no contact with the Sewer Commission. The Sewer 
Commission asks that the Select Board revoke their liquor license. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 3 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
No one was present to represent La Balena, LLC.  The Board had no questions.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo moved to revoke the license of The Re Boot under their failure to pay 
according to the agreement reached with the Sewer Commission signed December 13, 2023. 
Seconded by Member Emkey. Discussion was held as to which license was being revoked, the 
All Liquor or the Common Victualer or both. Town Manager Heather Lemieux suggested that the 
different licenses might be broken out into different motions, citing Chapter 40 Section 57, and 
then the violation as well.  
 
Member Alonzo moved that the Board finds that Re Boot is in violation of their agreement of 
paying their back taxes as agreed to on December 13, 2023. Seconded by Member Jeffreys. No 
discussion was heard. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously. (5-0-0). 
 
Member Alonzo moved to rescind the Alcohol License from Re Boot due to the violation. 
Seconded by Member Jeffreys. No discussion was heard. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair 
Jeffreys, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Clerk Moore, Aye; Chair 
Nuzzolo, Aye. The motion passed unanimously. (5-0-0). 
 
7:30 PM
 Hearing with request from Thomas L. Gammel, Chief of Police, to Hear and 
Discuss the Revocation of Class II Auto Dealer License #745 for Jose Iris De Oliviera Jr. 
d/b/a Maxi Auto Inc., and Lunenburg Auto Center located at 36 & 40 Summer St. 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzzolo asked all parties who intended to give testimony to rise, and swore them 
in. Chair Nuzzolo then invited Police Chief Gammel to present his testimony. Chief Gammel 
stated that in the last month there have been multiple complaints against Maxi Auto, including 
vehicles being sold without titles, fraudulent documents for vehicles that were sold, and misuse 
of dealer plates. On May 20, Officer Hill with the assistance of Massachusetts State Police, 
inspected the business. They reviewed the license, which created confusion about the owner’s 
name, and the conditions issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals, including “the granting of the 
special authorization shall inure to the benefit of the applicant and shall cease in the event the 
business is sold or sublet.”   
 
Officer Hill presented testimony and explained why the Police Department is seeking a Criminal 
Complaint in court. Officer Hill related a complaint from an elderly man who had purchased a 
car some months ago, and in an effort to circumvent the lack of title, had been given a repair 
plate. Officer Jeffrey Hill, with State Trooper Gene Lawrence, observed 18 cars for sale, some 
missing “Lemon Law” required stickers. The proclaimed owner, Sidney Fernandez deSouza, not 
Jose Iris De Oliviera as per their license, said that he had purchased the business. Other 
violations were described. Of the 18 cars for sale, title was only available for nine; four were 
provided later in the day. Mr. deSouza was charged with a variety of violations including one 
felony for forging RMV documents. Over 15 complaints have been received in the last month.  
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys asked Officer Hill what law entitled them to go into the property and inspect 
books and documents. Officer Hill explained. State Trooper Lawrence also testified to the same 
===PAGE 4===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 4 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
information, adding that all dealer and repair plates initially assigned to these businesses, were 
expired. Board members asked a variety of questions.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo invited Sidney Fernandez deSouza, with translator Kyo, to respond. Mr. Oliviera, 
the owner of record, was also present. Mr. deSouza stated that he and Mr. Oliviera had always 
been in business together as partners, but for some reason it was only Mr. Oliviera’s name on the 
license. He explained a lengthy process of the business becoming his just in April. Chair Nuzzolo 
invited board members to ask questions. Many questions involved expired dealer plates or cars 
without titles. Member Emkey asked about the difference in names on the ownership 
documentation and the license.  
 
Member Jeffreys asked Mr. deSouza who was the owner of the property. Mr. deSouza said that 
he is not the property owner, but that he rents. He is buying the business from Mr. Oliviera. He 
has worked at the business under Mr. Olivierafor a couple of years. Conversation about 
ownership and roles went back and forth. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo opened discussion to the Board. Vice-Chair Jeffreys believes the license should 
be revoked, and it appeared that Mr. De Olivera improperly sold this business to Mr. deSouza 
without following correct process, and engaging in fraudulent practices.  Member Moore echoed 
Member Jeffrey’s statements, calling this a predatory enterprise. Member Alonzo agreed that the 
company should not have a license in Lunenburg, as did Member Emkey. The Police Chief 
recommended issuing an immediate Cease and Desist Order and requiring that all vehicles be 
removed from the lot within seven (7) days.  
 
Member Alonzo moved that the Board find that the defendants, Maxi Auto Inc., and 
Lunenburg Auto Center, are guilty of the violations presented at this meeting by law 
enforcement. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Aye; 
Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Clerk Moore, Aye; Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys moved that the Board revoke all licenses issued to Maxi Auto Inc., and 
Lunenburg Auto Center, for them to remove all vehicles from the property within seven 
days, remove all signage that indicates that they are open for business, and to cease all 
activities related to the sale or repair of vehicles. Seconded by Member Alonzo was heard. 
Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; 
Clerk Moore, Aye; Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
8:00 PM Meeting with Auditors Powers & Sullivan (Marcum Accountants & 
Advisors) re. FY 2023 Audit 
 
The Auditor (unnamed) thanked the Town Manager, current and former Finance Directors, and 
staff, for their assistance in making this audit go smoothly. He reviewed required communication 
and the annual management letter. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo opened the floor to questions from the Board. Member Alonzo credited the Town 
Manager for helping with the Audit project and for working to have no internal deficiencies. Mr. 
===PAGE 5===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 5 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
Alonzo asked what percentage of communities had an audit this clean; the Auditor stated that 70-
80% of audits that they do are good audits, in communities that do a good job. Member Emkey 
echoed Member Alonzo’s comments.  
 
VII. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Planning Board Administrative Assistant 
Logan O’Connell 
 
Member Emkey moved to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Logan O’Connell as 
Planning Board Administrative Assistant. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Clerk Moore, Aye; 
Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager's Appointment of Seasonal Lifeguard Jamieson Snape 
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys moved to ratify the Town Manager’s appointment of Jamieson Snape 
as Seasonal Lifeguard. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Jeffreys, 
Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Clerk Moore, Aye; Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
VIII. TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux reviewed Board/Committee/Commission Vacancies and 
Employment Opportunities within the Town. She reported that Building Commissioner Brian 
Gingras has offered to assume the managerial portion of the Land Use Director’s job until a 
permanent solution is found. Interim Planner Richard Harris has offered to extend his services 
through the summer. 
 
The Marshall Park Owner’s Project Manager (OPM) contract is ready to finalize; the fee will be 
a not-to-exceed $250,000 and will cover OPM services through the selection of a designer and 
engineer and the completion of construction related to the PARC Grant, which needs to be 
complete by June 2025. Town Counsel is working on the Right to Entry Agreement regarding 
Insurance thresholds. 
 
FEMA has approved an appeal request for individual assistance to residents and businesses with 
storm damage from the September 2023 storm. Public assistance was denied; Lunenburg will be 
receiving $30,000 from the $5 million State distribution. December storm damage to siding at 
the Public Safety Building complex has been paid through insurance. 
 
Representative Scarsdale’s office has notified Lunenburg that the MILO Advanced Training 
Simulation System (Use of Force, Critical Incident Training, De-escalation) for the Police 
Department in the amount of $33,910 was submitted as part of the House budget. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux announced her resignation effective August 4, 2024 and read her 
resignation letter into the record. 
===PAGE 6===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 6 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
 
IX. OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Tax Investigation Report - tabled 
 
2. Discuss use of Information Technology Resources Policy - tabled 
 
3. Discuss Outdoor Dining Policy - tabled 
 
X. CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. Review of remaining ARPA funding and committed funds - tabled 
 
2. Discussion on Budget Task Force - tabled 
 
3. Select Board Liaison & Committee Assignments - tabled 
 
4. Committee Reports 
 
Member Alonzo reported that it has been difficult to arrange a meeting of the Capital 
Planning Committee but he will try to schedule one for Monday.  
 
Member Emkey reported on a recent School Committee meeting. The “BMP” scheduled 
to go in front of the Lunenburg Middle/High School was voted down by the School 
Committee. They have hired a Finance Director, Dr. Susan Gilson, who starts July 1. The 
Facility Director’s updates are now available online.  
 
Member Jeffreys reported on a recent Agricultural Committee (AgCom) meeting. Future 
plans were discussed; one or two members will be resigning and they have asked the 
Select Board for a liaison. 
 
5. Minutes/Warrants 
 
No minutes were presented for approval. The Board signed Accounts Payable Warrant in 
the amount of $668,140 and a Payroll Warrant in the amount of $1,149,805.03. 
 
XI. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
June 11 and June 18 
 
  
===PAGE 7===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 7 of 7 
June 4, 2024 
PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
 
TOWN MANAGER - None 
 
PUBLIC 
 
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street – Thanked Town Manager Lemieux for her service and wished 
her well. He said that he hopes that this Board can get their act together because the citizens of 
Lunenburg need them to be active. 
 
Mr. John Bowen (via Zoom) – Offered his analysis of the reorganization of the Board. Stated 
that Town Manager Lemieux had neglected to inform the Auditor of the creation of a written 
turnover policy. Mr. Bowen continued, stating that a Cemetery Commissioner was the cause of 
the creation of this policy.  
 
Town Manager Lemieux commented that the policy Mr. Bowen is referencing (actually named 
the Revenue Turnover Policy) was created in FY24, whereas the Audit was concerned with 
FY23. She stated that she has repeatedly said that this was going to be part of a series of financial 
policies from DLS (Division of Local Services) that they would be looking for the town to adopt. 
It was not created in response to the Cemetery Commission and is a common policy in towns. 
 
BOARD 
 
Member Alonzo announced that this Sunday, at 8:30, is the Annual Police and Fire Memorial at 
the Public Safety Building, commemorating and memorializing the former members.  
 
ADJOURN 
 
Vice-Chair Jeffreys moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Vice-
Chair Jeffreys, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Clerk Moore, Aye; Chair 
Nuzzolo, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). Meeting adjourned at 9:55PM. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Ellen McKenna Doiron 
Minute Clerk 
 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday, February 10, 2026. 
 
Clerk Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes of June 4, 2024. Seconded by 
Member Lehtinen. Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per 
speaker except at the discretion of the Chairperson 