===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, April 2, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo, 
Member Tom Alonzo, Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None. 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street: commented that he hopes that the Board supports the Town 
Counsel's amended language for Historical Commission alternate positions.  
 
Laura Brzozoski, 21 Francis Avenue: stated that she is speaking as a resident, not as a member of 
the School Committee. She stated that the proposed School override is $948,136.00. She stated 
that amount would be to level fund the School district. She stated that she appreciates ARPA 
funding being allocated to minimize the School override request. She thanked Member Renee 
Emkey for her advocacy. She stated that the School Committee will discuss the ARPA funding if 
the override passes the School Committee meeting tomorrow night. She stated that ARPA funds 
were allocated as an emergency ‘band-aid’ to get through FY2025.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Jeffreys stated that Member Tom Alonzo is hosting an ‘Are You Smarter than a Sixth 
Grader’ event at the Boys and Girls Club on Friday, April 26, 2024, from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Parks Commission has announced a series of clean-up events in the 
month of April. He stated that interested volunteers can access the information by visiting the 
Town website. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux stated that due to technical errors while generating the 4th 
Quarter Real Estate Tax bills have caused a mailing delay. She stated that the bills did not get 
mailed out by March 31, 2024. She stated that bills will begin to be mailed out at the beginning 
of next week and will be due 30 days after the date of mailing. She stated that as of today, the 
estimated time frame the tax bill will be due is May 13, 2024. She stated that the day to request 
an abatement begins on the estimated tax bill due date on May 13, 2024.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
APPOINTMENTS 
Tollbooth Fundraiser request for May 18th by the Turkey Hill Family Lions Club 
Corinne Scouten, 116 Island Road & Dawn Johnson, 357 Lancaster Avenue: stated that the 
Turkey Hill Family Lions Club requests a temporary roadblock for a voluntary toll. Ms. Scouten 
stated that she has been in contact with the relevant departments regarding the request. 
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to approve the tollbooth fundraiser request for May 18, 2024, 
organized by the Turkey Hill Family Lions Club. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the 
vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Conservation Administrative 
Assistant, Stephanie Dondero 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that Ms. Dondero has 10 years of administrative experience with 
experience in MUNIS and OpenGov. Ms. Lemieux stated that the Chair and Vice Chair of the 
Conservation Commission were notified. 
 
Motion by 
Clerk Nuzzolo to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Conservation 
Administrative Assistant, Stephanie Dondero. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the 
vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
The Town Manager stated that the Annual Town Meeting is Saturday, May 4, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. 
at the Middle School/High School Auditorium. The Town Manager stated that the Annual Town 
Election is Saturday, May 18, 2024, from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the TC Passios Building. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there is one vacancy in the Architectural Preservation District 
Commission, one vacancy until Annual Town Election for the Cemetery Commission, one 
vacancy on the Council on Aging, two associate member vacancies in the Green Communities 
Committee, one Member-At-Large vacancy for the Open Space Committee, and one vacancy on 
the Personnel Committee.  
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
 
The Town Manager described the available employment opportunities with the Town. The Town 
Manager stated that there is a Facilities Custodian for 40 hours a week, Land Use Director for 40 
hours a week, Planning Board Administrative Assistant for 36 hours a week, seasonal Cemetery 
Laborers and Seasonal Lifeguards, and a temporary Administrative Assessing Assistant for 32 
hours a week.  
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town received eight bids for the IFB for Flat Hill Culvert 
Project on March 27, 2024. She stated that the bids are currently being reviewed. The Town 
Manager stated that the IFB for cleaning services for Town buildings is being withdrawn due to 
the Town extending contract terms with the current cleaning company until April 2025. The 
Town Manager stated that the RFP for Data Collection Services for the Assessing Department for 
cyclical inspections for FY25 through FY27 is due April 8, 2024.  
 
The Town Manager stated that she has worked with the Town’s energy broker regarding the 
Town’s municipal aggregation contract. The Town Manager stated that the rate for the 
aggregation electricity supply will be $0.1239 per kilowatt hour. She stated that there were two 
bidders in November 2024. She stated that First Point’s pricing was the lowest across all possible 
terms of 12, 18, and 24 months. She stated that the other bidder was Constellation Energy.  
 
The Town Manager stated that as part of her annual goals, she had a meeting with 
MassDevelopment and BSC Group last Thursday to review possible conceptual plans for 925 
Massachusetts Avenue. She stated that two options were identified, one being maintaining the 
same footprint of the building with renovations and the other being a new construction building. 
She stated that there are limitations of this parcel, including space for parking, and that due to the 
property being in the Village District, a two- to three-story building would be required. She said 
that the next step will be for MassDevelopment, BSC Group and the internal Town working 
group to review any items that may need to be addressed regarding the permitting process. She 
stated that the EPA has approved additional work at the property, which includes installing one or 
more monitoring wells and additional rounds of groundwater sampling.  
 
7:20 PM Public Hearing to Vote to Opt Out of Early Voting by Mail per M.G.L. c. 54, s. 
25B, as amended by the so-called VOTES Act 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board of Registrars has requested that the Board opt out of early 
voting by mail. Chair Jeffreys stated that the majority of the Board of Registrars did not 
recommend opting into in-person early voting. Chair Jeffreys stated that is more of an advisory 
because the Board cannot vote to approve in-person early voting if the Board of Registrars does 
not vote to recommend it originally. 
 
Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo asked for clarification as to why the Board of Registrars is not allowing 
in-person early voting. Town Manager Lemieux stated that the Board of Registrars did not give 
an explanation. Clerk Nuzzolo stated that voters appreciate early voting. Vice-Chair Lou Franco 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
stated that his initial inclination is to offer as many opportunities as possible to vote for the Town 
Election. Clerk Nuzzolo stated that absentee voting will still be allowed.  
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to opt-out of early voting by mail for local elections and early 
voting in-person for local elections as requested by the Board of Registrars. Seconded by 
Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Franco-Nay; Clerk Nuzzolo-Nay; Member Alonzo-
Aye; Member Emkey- Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion passed (3-2-0).  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
2. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
None. 
 
3. Committee Reports 
Member Alonzo stated that the Finance Committee held their public hearing regarding warrant 
articles last Thursday. Member Alonzo stated that they have an additional meeting this Thursday, 
where the Finance Committee will discuss their report for the Town warrant. Member Alonzo 
stated that the Board of Assessors met last night and discussed the delay in mailing tax bills and 
the warrant article regarding reducing the age requirement and increasing the incentives for the 
senior tax exemption program. Member Alonzo stated that if the parameters are not approved, 
the articles may have to be delayed until Fall Special Town Meeting. 
 
Clerk Nuzzolo stated that the Planning Board didn’t meet yesterday. He stated that he will begin 
attending the Montachusett Metropolitan Planning Organization (MMPO). He stated that he was 
invited to participate in a task force related to road fatalities and transit-related safety. 
 
Member Emkey stated that the Stormwater Task Force met last week. She stated that there was a 
presentation about setting up a stormwater utility. Member Emkey stated that the School 
Committee met last week and they voted on the override number. 
 
7:30 PM Change of Manager to Robert Scott Bilodeau for Alcohol License 00016-PK-0636, 
Victory Distributers, LLC. d/b/a Hannaford’s Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388, 333 
Massachusetts Avenue 
 
Attorney Sam Richard represents Hannaford’s Supermarket & Pharmacy in the Public Hearing. 
Attorney Richard stated that Mr. Bilodeau is a resident of Leominster and is a U.S. Citizen and is 
familiar with the rules and regulations related to alcoholic beverages and has worked in this field 
for over 40 years. Attorney Richard stated that Mr. Bilodeau has extensive managerial 
experience.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Lunenburg property has an outstanding 3
rd Quarter sewer bill for 
$3,000. He stated that with late fees, the total was $3,434.09. Mr. Bilodeau stated that he was not 
aware of the outstanding bill, and it had not been paid today or yesterday. 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to accept the Change of Manager request to Robert Scott 
Bilodeau for Alcohol License 00016-PK-0636, Victory Distributers, LLC. d/b/a 
Hannaford’s Supermarket & Pharmacy #8388, 333 Massachusetts Avenue, contingent upon 
paying any outstanding water/sewer bills by the end of the week. Seconded by Member 
Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and 
Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles 
 
Clerk Nuzzolo stated that he supports the school override because he believes the Town needs to 
continue to invest in future generations. He said that he supports forming a Budget Task Force to 
identify solutions to rising costs. He said that a large override next year could occur if rising 
costs are not addressed regarding long-term planning. He said that the average homeowner in 
Lunenburg would increase by $3.88 a week if the override passes. He said he is willing to chip in 
to invest in the future generations. 
 
Vice-Chair Franco stated that this process requires careful consideration. He stated that he 
supports the school override; however, he has reservations regarding how hastily the override 
was proposed and how this may affect other Town departments. Vice-Chair Franco stated that he 
has been a long-time supporter of the school district. He said that those who are in support most 
speak to a broader audience to garner enough support. He said that pragmatic appeals must be 
made to a larger audience of residents. 
 
Member Emkey stated that there may be an additional override next year, and she stated that 
overrides are not a sustainable solution to budgetary constraints at the school district. Member 
Emkey described budgetary constraints with other town departments. Member Emkey stated that 
she supports the formation of the budget task force.  
 
Member Alonzo stated that proposition 2 ½ provides a structural unsustainability in every 
municipal budget. Member Alonzo stated that override proposals have to be carefully planned 
with a needs assessment across every department. Member Alonzo stated that he is in full 
support of Member Emkey’s budget task force formation. Member Alonzo stated that residents 
may not support the override because there is an absence of data and long-term budgetary 
planning. Member Alonzo stated that the need for the override and additional funding is critical. 
Member Alonzo stated that he will support the School district override. 
 
Vice-Chair Franco stated that he is concerned about how quickly the override proposal was 
formed and that it may cause an additional override to be needed next year. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
Chair Jeffreys stated that he will vote to recommend disapproval of the School override. He said 
he will vote against this at the ballot. Chair Jeffrey stated that he believes the School Committee, 
educators, and parents have clearly articulated the need for additional funding and the impacts on 
the school system if the override were to fail. Chair Jeffreys stated that there are significant 
budgetary constraints with other departments. 
 
2. Select Board Final Votes/Signatures on Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
 
At this time, the Board went through all warrant articles in the draft booklet that have not yet 
been recommended by the Board. 
 
Warrant Article D: to see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate sum of money for 
payment of prior year expenses or take any action relative thereto. 
 
Chair Jeffreys asked the Town Manager if there was a dollar amount available for this article. 
The Town Manager stated that there is no dollar amount available. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to defer the article to Town Meeting. Seconded by Member Emkey. 
Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article E: to see if the Town will vote to transfer available funds all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town FY2024 budget under Article 7 of the 
May 6, 2023, Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 14, 2023 Special Town 
Meeting or take any action relative thereto.  
 
Chair Jeffreys asked the Town Manager if there was a dollar amount available for this article. 
The Town Manager stated that there is no dollar amount available. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to defer the article to Town Meeting. Seconded by Member 
Emkey. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article F: to see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer 
from available funds a sum of money for the FY2025 Capital Plan is appearing in the 
Capital Planning Committee report, or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the sum is $1,317,119.98. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article G: to see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from 
available funds a sum of money to defray the charge or expenses of the Town for FY2025 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
and to fix salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other item 
included in the budget of the Town Manager or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the sum is $44,024,349.19. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article H: to see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate $948,136.00 to 
supplement the Lunenburg Public Schools budget for FY2025, contingent upon the passage 
of a Proposition 2 ½ ballot question or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Clerk Nuzzolo- Aye; Member 
Alonzo- Aye; Member Emkey-No; Chair Jeffreys-No. The motion passed (3-2-0). 
 
Warrant Article J:  
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the total cost, including enterprise employees for FY2024, 
was $101,458.69; excluding enterprise employees for FY2024 is $89,771.61. Town Manager 
Lemieux stated that the total cost, including enterprise employees for FY2025, is $125,764.36; 
excluding enterprise employees for FY2025 is $110,948.87.  
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded by 
Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article K: Modification of Sick Leave Policy 
Chair Jeffreys described the modification of the Policy. The addition is italicized. “If an 
employee becomes a parent with or without giving birth, such as, for example, a spouse gives 
birth to a baby, or the employee adopts a child, employees may access up to eight weeks (40 
days) of sick leave. All other available accrued time such as vacation or personal time must be 
exhausted first, however, employees are able to retain up to one week of vacation or personal 
time for use during the fiscal year. 
 
Chair Jeffreys spoke with the Assistant Town Manager regarding a question the Board had last 
week. Chair Jeffreys said that he confirmed that time accumulates monthly; however, it is 
deposited annually. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that he would like to learn more about the financial implications of this 
change.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to defer the article to Town Meeting. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. 
Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
Warrant Article O: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY2025 or 
to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the amount is $1,712,419.87. 
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded by 
Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article Q: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program 
Enterprise fund for FY2025 or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the amount is $500,000. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded by 
Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article R: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Water Enterprise fund for FY2025 or 
to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the amount is $45,000. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article S: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to fund the FY2025 Public Educational Government 
Access Enterprise Operating and Capital Budgets or to take any other action relative 
thereto. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the amount is $180,843.03. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article U:  
Town Manager Lemieux recommends the removal of the article. 
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Franco to remove Article U from the warrant. Seconded by Clerk 
Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
Warrant Article V: to see if the Town will vote to amend the vote of Article 33 of the May 6, 
2006 Annual Town Meeting to decrease the age of the exemption allowed by Mass General 
Law Chapter 59 Section 541C from age 70 to age 65 and to amend the reimbursement 
amount up to 100% of the exemption and further to adjust the income and asset limits to 
the statute or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to recommend approval of the article as described. Seconded 
by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Warrant Article X: Historical Commission Powers and Duties 
Chair Jeffreys stated that alternate members are not included in the Historical Commission 
article. Chair Jeffreys asked the Board if they would like to remove the article and modify it for 
Fall Town Meeting. The Board unofficially disagreed. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of the article x. Seconded by Clerk 
Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Clerk Nuzzolo- Aye; Member Alonzo- Aye; 
Member Emkey- Aye; Chair Jeffreys-Nay. The motion passed (4-1-0). 
 
3. Discuss Environmental Policies & Select Board By-laws 
The item was tabled.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS CONTINUED 
1. Vote on Override Ballot Question to be submitted to the Town Clerk for May 18th 
Annual Town Election 
Clerk Nuzzolo stated that Override Ballot Question language: Shall the Town of Lunenburg be 
allowed to assess an additional $948,136.00 in real estate and property taxes for the purpose of 
funding the Lunenburg Public School Department for the Fiscal Year 2025 beginning on July 1, 
2024 (Yes or No).  
 
Motion by 
Chair Jeffreys to add the Override Ballot Question to the May 18, 2024, Annual 
Town Election. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Vice-Chair Franco- Aye; Clerk 
Nuzzolo- Aye; Member Alonzo- Aye; Member Emkey- Aye; Chair Jeffreys- Aye. The motion 
passed (5-0-0). 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board is meeting April 9
th, April 23rd, and April 30th. Member 
Alonzo stated that he is uncertain if he will be able to attend on April 9th. Member Emkey stated 
that she will not be able to attend on April 23rd. Chair Jeffreys stated that he will not be able to 
attend the first week of May.  
 
 
 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 2, 2024 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street: stated that he is disappointed with the Board for not including 
the language to add alternate members to this Historical Commission. He noted concerns with 
the Town Charter.  
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five- Aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:55 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from April 2, 2024. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 
 
 
 