===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 4 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
5/21/2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, May 21, 2024 
 
Members Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice Chair-Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo, 
and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: Member Tom Alonzo 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
Chair Michael -Ray Jeffreys  called the meeting to order  at 7:00 PM  and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded 
and broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the 
agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not 
listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Board Comment 
 
Public Comment 
Ms. Paula Bertram Sewer Business Manager  was present and expressed concerns regarding the 
MUNIS software purchased by the Town. She believes there has been a breach of contract, as the 
software does not function as expected, and stated that the Town should be compensated. She 
indicated that, at this point, she would like to involve Town Counsel, as she believes contractual 
obligations have not been honored.  
Mr. John Reynolds Chair of the Sewer Commission was also present and stated that he had asked 
Ms. Bertram to provide the presentation and confirm the concerns. He expressed his desire to 
escalate the issue with MUNIS.  Town Manager Heather Lemieux  acknowledged the ongoing 
problems with the software and stated that she has contacted MUNIS directly, demanding 
resolution of the issues. Chair Jeffreys then opened the discussion for Board comments.  Board 
Member Amanda Moore asked whether the specific issues have been identified. Town Manager . 
Lemieux responded that there are multiple challenges related to testing, training, and the live 
version of the software, with issues arising at each stage. Member Renee Emkey stated that this is 
a poor level of support by MUNIS, and the whole platform does not seem stable. Clerk Caesar 
Nuzzolo stated that it may be a software and server issue. Town Manager Lemieux stated that she 
has spoken to Town Council. Chair Jeffreys stated he would like an update in an Executive Session 
meeting and would like to invite the Sewer Commission as well as the Sewer Business Manager. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
None 
 
COMMUNICATION FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 4 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
5/21/2024 
APPOINTMENTS 
 
Application for Common Victualler License from BKK Group, LLC d/b/a White Thai 
Cuisine located at 177 Massachusetts Ave 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board is in receipt of an application for Common Victualler License 
from BKK Group, LLC d/b/a White Thai Cuisine located at 177 Massachusetts Ave . Applicant 
Nisha was present, she stated that they are going to change the name of the restaurant to White 
Thai Cuisine, renovating and updating the menu. Chair Jeffreys stated that all paperwork is in 
order.  
 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to approve the Common Victualler License from BKK Group, LLC 
d/b/a White Thai Cuisine located at 177 Massachusetts Ave. Seconded by Member Emkey .  
Call for the vote: Four-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
Town Manager Lemieux asked the Board to ratify the appointment of a Seasonal Lifeguard and, 
Seasonal Cemetery Laborer. 
 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to approve to ratify the Town Manager's appointment of Seasonal 
Lifeguard Jarrod Bowser, Seasonal Cemetery Laborer Peter Schmidt  and Seasonal 
Cemetery Laborer Charles Poole. Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four -
 
Bertram. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
Review Disposal of Surplus Property Policy 
Chair Jefferys stated that the Board has been given the Disposal of Surplus Property Policy to 
review.  
 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to approve the Disposal of Surplus Property Policy . Seconded by 
Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four- Aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
Review Draft Tax Investigation Report 
Chair Jeffreys read the executive summary of  the draft Tax Investigation Report  regarding the 
majority of property owners with Homes that abut Lake Whalom, Hickory Hills and Lake Shirley. 
He stated that during the investigation, they sought to answer ten core questions. He asked if that 
once the compilation is received tomorrow, the members will take the time to review and respond 
with any feedback and comments. He stated that the executive summary will be added to the annual 
report. Chair Jeffreys stated that facts that were identified as well as the core questions that were 
identified early on in the process and further discussion will take place at a future meeting.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 4 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
5/21/2024 
 
 
Identify In-Person Interviews for upcoming appointments/reappointments 
Chair Jeffreys stated that each year the Board goes through upcoming  
appointments/reappointments. He asked if any Board or Committee  would like for the applicant 
to come in front of the Board to please advise. He reviewed the Boards and Committees  and the 
Board discussed whether to have them meet in person. 
 
 
Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
Chair Jeffreys stated that they are in receipt of the Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of 
$214,941.72, Payroll warrant in the amount of   $ 1,077,545.40 and an Accounts Payable Warrant 
in the amount of $545,761.57. 
 
Committee Reports 
Member Emkey stated that she would like to discuss the Budget Task Force and ARPA  funding. 
She stated that with the override passing, will they be getting funds back from the school. Chair 
Jeffreys asked if Member Emkey could draft a scope of what the Budget Task Force would look 
like.  
 
Select Board Policy Review 
Chair Jeffreys discussed the Select Board Policy Review. He stated that this is a reminder that just 
coming out of an election that if there are policies that they would like to review.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Jeffreys stated that a student reached out regarding a Civic project / election and that he and 
Member Nuzzolo will be meeting with him on Thursday afternoon with the intent to walk through 
their concept to better understand the objectives. 
 
UPCOMING MEETINGS/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
Chair Jeffreys stated that they will be meeting on June 4, 2024, and the Board will reorganize. 
The regular June meetings will take place on June 11, 2024, and June 18, 2024 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Town Manager Comment 
Town Manager Lemieux asked about cruise night. Member Nuzzolo stated that they are on board 
and that the Board agreed to do something along the lines of a brief summary or bullet points of 
what they came to as a Board.  
 
Public Comment 
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street was present. He stated he was speaking to a neighbor of his that 
is concerned because he no longer has a mortgage and that the mortgage company is no longer 
sending his tax bill directly to the town. Because he mails the check in, it has not been cashed, 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 4 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
5/21/2024 
and the town is showing it is delinquent. He also has concern regarding Tax Investigation, and 
desperation hiring. 
 
John Bowen 162 Highland Street (via Zoom), he commented on a statement that Mr. Rogers 
made about looking for people in the community to provide for the cemeteries.  He stated that 
the cemetery is a 501c3 and that there is actual value in having a cemetery corporation. He stated 
that he believes the Cemetery Board is interested in control. 
 
Board Comment  
Chair Jeffreys stated that the override passed by eighty-five votes. 
Chair Jeffreys thanked everyone for their Civic participation over the month with the Town 
Meeting and the election.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Motion by Clerk Nuzzolo to adjourn the meeting at 8:12 pm.  Seconded by Member Emkey. 
Call for the vote: Four-
 Aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:12 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Rebecca Johnson, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from May 21, 2024. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 
 
 
 