===PAGE 1===
    
1 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
Town of Lunenburg Select Board Meeting Minutes Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom Tuesday, November 5, 2024  Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey Members Absent: None Also Present: Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini  CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to Y ouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  PUBLIC COMMENT Board Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys commented a public service announcement for those at home to check their smoke and carbon monoxide detectors to ensure they are working. Public  George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle thanked and acknowledged the Zoning Board of Appeals for dealing with an appeal from an individual from his HOA.  ANNOUNCEMENTS Chair Nuzzolo announced that polls are still open and close at 8:00 PM. He also announced that the warrant that was sent out for the Special Town Meeting contained some votes that were captured incorrectly. He stated that he will go through the ones that were incorrect in the booklet and provide the correct votes and he added that they will be communicating this at Town Meeting and will have print outs for everyone so that they can reference the correct votes. Chair Nuzzolo stated the following:  
===PAGE 2===
    
2 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
• Article 5 in the warrant stated that the Finance Committee voted 4-1 but the correct vote was 4-0-1.  • Article 6 in the warrant recorded that the Finance Committee voted 4-1 but the correct vote was 4-0-1.  • Article 9 in the warrant recorded that the Finance Committee voted 4-1 but the correct vote was 4-0-1. • Article 11 in the warrant stated that the Select Board voted 4-1 but the correct vote was 3-1-1.   COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS Kate Burnham, Superintendent of Schools, approached the Select Board on behalf of the School Committee. She stated that she shared a list of projects that largely came from their 10-year capital plan with the Interim Town Manager and the Chair. The projects would not require bid, and she stated that as the Board deliberates over what to do with remaining ARPA money, that they can consider this list of projects. The School Committee will discuss the list at tomorrow’s meeting so there may be more feedback for the Board after the committee’s discussion. Chair Nuzzolo stated that they will be discussing this when they get to the ARPA discussion later in the meeting and that the Board has a bit that they need to reallocate and that they have their list of emergency easy purchases from department heads such as the school department requests.   SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS There was no discussion on this agenda item.  APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNMENTS  1. Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Robin Nano as Administrative Assistant for Board of Assessors Chair Nuzzolo read the introduction of Robin Nano, written by the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Julie Belliveau. The introduction stated that they are pleased to announce for ratification the appointment of Robin Nano. Robin has an extensive background in home and auto insurance as well as a banking background. Her knowledge of the registry process will be helpful with motor vehicle excise abatements as well as her financial background. Robin is eager to join the team and will be doing so on Tuesday November 11th pending the Board’s ratification. Robin’s references described her as someone they can count on, reliable, supportive, honest, and 
===PAGE 3===
    
3 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
a people person. These attributes were noticeable during Robin’s interview with the Principal Assessor and Assistant Town Manager/HR Director. Motion by Member Tom Alonzo to ratify the Interim Town Manager appointment of Robin Nano as the Administrative Assistant for the Board of Assessors. Seconded by Vice Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  INTERIM TOWN MANAGER REPORT Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini provided his report to the Select Board. Key points included: • The library exterior paint project was completed and on budget. Awaiting the final punch list from the Director of Facilities. • They issued a notice of award for the DPW garage flooring. Expects to be able to execute that at the beginning of next week.  • Issued a notice of award for the DPW partial roof replacement project. Expects to be able to execute that contract this week. • Sewer Manhole Rehabilitation: paperwork is completed. V endor has been in contact with the DPW director to begin to identify manholes. Hopefully they can identify manholes before winter sets in and then pick it up in the spring. • Data Collection Services contract was executed. The Principal Assessor is preparing to give them a list of properties for their inspection. • Library Teen Room: Four bids received, all within budget. The budget was $120,000 and the bid was $85,000. Add alternate for $11,000 so they are checking references and concluding the paperwork on that. • The Municipal Building Design received their proposals, but he is unsure of what happened last night but once they receive that report, they can open the price proposal tomorrow.  • Town Hall roof replacement and chimney restoration: Project came in roughly $25,000 above budget. They initially thought they could cover it within the capital funds, but they are from two different years and are two different items. There is an underrun there and he stated that they never quite know what’s going to happen once you start opening a roof up until it's done. • Interim Town Manager Terenzini spoke with Adam Costa on Mass Avenue, and he hopes they can get that out in the next week or so. • Interim Town Manager Terenzini reported that the PAC Manager is finishing up the audio updates on this building. • Ritter Building: The roof/trim and window projects are going out to bid tomorrow.  
===PAGE 4===
    
4 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
• V acancies / Recruitments:  o Police Department: One Police Officer is relocating to V ermont. A candidate pool is being formed for the next 6 months to cover potential future vacancies. They hope for lateral transfers but will send individuals to the academy should they need to.  • PAC: PAC Videographer positions remains open.  • Interviews this week to fill the DPW Labor Driver, Sewer Business Manager, and Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager positions. • Board and Commission V acancies (15:30) • Chair Nuzzolo joined Interim Town Manager Terenzini to tape a Talk of the Town where they walked through each of the warrant articles for PAC.  • Marshall Park: Participated in a team meeting on Marshall Park and will discuss further when they discuss the ARPA agenda item. • Worked with MIIA, the Town’s health insurance carrier, and received quotes for two additional high deductible insurance plans. Plans will be reviewed in a team meeting next week. • Interim Town Manager Terenzini was pleased to report that Ms. Belliveau achieved her recertification for MCPPO designation. • Interim Town Manager Terenzini reported that he attended a portion of the Capital Planning meeting last night via Zoom and observed the IT presentation • Interim Town Manager Terenzini reported that he sat in on the balance of the Budget Task Force.  OLD BUSINESS 1. Status Update, Discussion, and Possible Action Re: ARPA Funds Chair Nuzzolo reported that Parks is returning approximately $750,000 of ARPA funding. Interim Town Manager Terenzini put together a list of emergency items for possible reallocation of funds: • Police:  o $45,000 - Body cameras • Fire Department:  o $74,000 - Power stretcher and loader o $50,000 - replace 15 portable radios o $23,000 - Stair chair • DPW:  o $4,720 - Gas-powered cement mixer 
===PAGE 5===
    
5 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
o $10,800 - 2.5 CY loader bucket o $11,500 - Tailgate cross conveyor o $72,500 - Mini excavator o $14,700 - Mini excavator trailer o $111,452 - JCB 3CX compact backhoe o $194,000 - Catch basin cleaner truck o $275,000 - John Deere 544-wheel loader o $198,500 - John Deere 410 backhoe • School: o $59,920 - 911 cabling o 154,000 - Primary School generator o $64,780 - pickup truck with plow o 33,250 - Middle-Highschool window safety film o $483,000 - Primary School mini splits o $81,710 - Turkey Hill Elementary School vestibule o $384,000 - fire alarm project Interim Town Manager Terenzini stated that he will be attending the Parks Commission meeting tomorrow night to get a better handle on the turn back number. He stated it's safe at this point to say that the Board is looking at a $700,000 +/- turn back. Interim Town Manager Terenzini requested Board input on reallocating ARPA funds to underfunded capital projects. He added that he is uncomfortable using ARPA funding to pay for a project that has already been completed. Chair Nuzzolo invited Finance Director, Ezequiel Ayala, to approach the board and speak about the payroll project.  On behalf of the users, Finance Director Ayala asked the Board to consider reallocating the $100,000 previously allocated for payroll services to instead fund: • Munis cloud upgrade • Cost estimate: o $120,000 (annual cost) o $6,000 (support of transition) Interim Town Manager Terenzini supported the Finance Director’s recommendations on the basis of having to take stakeholders and users seriously. Chair Nuzzolo opened the discussion up to the board: • Member Renee Emkey asked if they are moving all of Munis to the cloud as she has only heard payroll being moved to the cloud. Finance Director Ayala stated that is correct.  • Member Alonzo stated that the decision to transfer would not be a cost decision alone, although it plays a factor, but for at least the last 9 months he has heard how hard Tyler 
===PAGE 6===
    
6 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
Technologies has been to deal with. He emphasized that no matter where the software is housed (on site server or on a cloud), it is still the Tyler software.  • Chair Nuzzolo stated that the issue is the setup of the software on our own server. He added that running it in the cloud on a set up that is normal then we wouldn’t run into the issues presented but it needs to be properly managed.  • Clerk Amanda Moore: majority of complaints she has heard from users were from those doing billing. She stated that she is in support of what is being proposed. Brought up that there is no internal staff or support to properly maintain server.  • Member Emkey: Brought up concerns over migration to implementing the cloud. Finance Director Ayala stated that the quote he received provided him with an implementation plan that includes a checklist of who is responsible for what in the timelines. • Vice-Chair Jeffreys: Frustrated with prior management of the system, but he is grateful that Finance Director Ayala is taking a lead on this issue. • Finance Director Ayala clarified that they currently pay $60,000 for services and this transition would increase it to $120,000 plus $6,000 for support of the change. • Discussion about possible multi-year contract discounts. Finance Director Ezequiel stated that he will ask.  Action: Meeting next Wednesday at 6:00 PM to discuss ARPA and reallocating Funds. Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to authorize the Town Manager to move around in one transaction up to $25,000 for a total not to exceed $50,000 to ensure that that the projects already previously approved by the Board and the Capital Plan can move forward. Seconded by Member Emkey. Interim Town Manager Terenzini clarified that this motion is for internal reallocations. Vice-Chair Jeffreys amended the motion to remove the $50,000 cap. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Five-Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Vice-Chair Jeffreys and Chair Nuzzolo expressed support for using ARPA funds for one-time staff payments. Chair Nuzzolo explained the eligibility as being if you were under the employment of the Town while there was the emergency declaration for COVID, and you’re still under the employment of the Town then you would qualify for a one-time payment.  2. Discussion on Special Town Meeting Chair Nuzzolo informed the Board that they needed to review the language of Article 1.  • Chair Nuzzolo read the motion.  • The Board identified that the line item for group health insurance must be revised to reflect a total of $17,500.  
===PAGE 7===
    
7 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
• Member Alonzo clarified that the total allocation of $125,000 will be divided by putting $17,500 in one line item and $107,500 in another line item.  Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the language of the article as read. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the Vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  CURRENT BUSINESS 1. Review & Discussion Re: Draft of Proposed Purchasing Credit Card Policy Chair Nuzzolo invited Finance Director Ayala to discuss the draft policy regarding supplemental expense reimbursements and the introduction of the credit card policy. Interim Town Manager Terenzini added that this addresses issues that they heard in listening sessions with respect to being able to pay for items and then getting reimbursed in a timely manner.  Finance Director Ayala provided the following details: • The proposed policy supports supplemental expenses such as travel, lodging, and trainings.  • Spending limits have been aligned to departments with Town Manager’s approval as well as Select Board oversight. •  Only be one credit card will be issued for the whole town, and it would be centralized in the Town Manager’s office.  • Departments will submit requests for approval to ensure there is funding in their budget • After purchases, receipts must be submitted, and Finance will reconcile and pay the credit card bill monthly.  • The existing reimbursement policy will remain for certain items such as mileage • Draft also includes a proposal to shift reimbursements from accounts payable warrants to payroll, allowing employees to receive reimbursements in their next paycheck. 2. Discussion on Annual Climate Survey Policy There was no discussion on this agenda item. 3. Discussion on Select Board and Town Manager Goal-Setting Process There was no discussion on this agenda item.  MINUTES/W ARRANTS There was no discussion on this agenda item. 
===PAGE 8===
    
8 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
 ACTION ITEMS Member Alonzo provided an action item of a revised timeline for the status of departments from the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director.   COMMITTEE REPORTS Budget Task Force: Member Emkey reported that they met last night, and the Principal Assessor and Chair of Board of Assessors were present to discuss split tax rate and single tax rate. School Committee: Member Emkey reported that they are meeting tomorrow night. Capital Planning: Member Alonzo reported that they met last night and heard presentations from IT, Fire, and DPW regarding projects. The Committee has heard from all the departments, and they will start prioritizing and discussing them next.  Municipal Building Design Committee: Vice-Chair Jeffreys reported that they met last night, and they had four companies provide site walks. They have received one proposal prior to the deadline and one after the deadline which couldn’t be considered. The proposal was reviewed and evaluated based on the minimum qualifications outlined in the RFP .  The proposal was rated acceptable and advantageous. They are looking to conduct an interview on the 18th. The proposal indicated that they could comply with the schedule of presenting to the Select Board on February 4th.   UPCOMING MEEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE • November 12th (Special Town Meeting, 7:00 PM Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium) • November 13th at 6:00 PM • November 19th  PUBLIC COMMENT Interim Town Manager There was no discussion on this agenda item. Public 
===PAGE 9===
    
9 Select Board Meeting Minutes November 5, 2024   
There was no discussion on this agenda item. Board There was no discussion on this agenda item.  ADJOURNMENT Member Alonzo moved to Adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Meeting adjourned at 8:52 PM.  Respectfully Submitted,  Lauren Menard Minute Clerk  These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: Tuesday, September 29, 2026 