===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, October 8, 2024 
Mem
bers Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys and Clerk Amanda Moore  
Also Present: Carter Terenzini, Interim Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
CAL
L TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
C
hair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
P
UBLIC COMMENT 
B
oard Comment 
Chair Nuzzolo thanked the Agricultural Commission for their efforts in organizing the 
Agricultural Fair.  
P
ublic Comment 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle (via Zoom): commented that he filed multiple public records 
requests for information. He stated that the documents are related to “an abusive Zoning Board 
of Appeals”. He said that he has concerns regarding a shared septic system that is on his property 
and that he is concerned it is polluted because of the septic system service provider.  He said that 
the provider was sued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He said that he had been ignored 
by the Town. He stated the Town is protecting abusive HOA Trustees.  He stated he went to the 
Town Manager two years ago and then he went to Mr. Jeffreys.  He said the Town should meet 
with him and his family.  He stated he was attacked on the street.  
ANNO
UNCEMENTS 
C
hair Nuzzolo stated that Yard Waste Disposal dates are October 26th through December 14th, 
and excluding Thanksgiving weekend. 
C
hair Nuzzolo stated that trick-or-treating hours will be Thursday, October 31, from 6:00 p.m. to 
8:00 p.m. 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
Member Tom Alonzo stated that there was a time error on a Fall Special Town Meeting website 
post. He stated that the Fall Special Town Meeting is occurring at 7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 
November 12, 2024.  
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Tim Murphy, 97 Island Road, Chair of the Town Manager Screening Committee, described the 
status of determining a new Town Manager. Mr. Murphy stated that the Screening Committee 
had to be appointed by a member of each designated Board. Mr. Murphy stated that the Town 
Manager Screening Committee then met to discuss what qualities they would like for the next 
Town Manager. Mr. Murphy stated that the Screening Committee met with a recruiting firm to 
determine if working with a firm would make sense. Mr. Murphy stated that the Screen 
Committee approved working with a recruiting firm and instructed the Assistant Town Manager 
to go through the procurement process to find a recruitment firm. Mr. Murphy stated that it was 
then advertised. Mr. Murphy stated that the Town began a contract with Community Paradigm to 
search for the next Town Manager. Mr. Murphy stated that it would be a 14–16-week process 
before bringing in candidates to interview. Mr. Murphy stated that Community Paradigm has 
been meeting with several stakeholders in the Town. Mr. Murphy stated that Community 
Paradigm then created a Community Profile, which was uploaded to the Massachusetts 
Municipal Association (MMA) website. Mr. Murphy stated that the candidates must apply by 
November 18, 2024. He stated that interviews will occur December 11-12, 2024.  
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
 
Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Lieutenant Jeffrey Thibodeau as 
Interim Chief of Police 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that ratification will occur at next week’s Select Board meeting.  
 
INTERIM TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Interim Town Manager Carter Terenzini provided his Town Manager report to the Board. 
 
The Interim Town Manager stated that open positions include the Assessing Administrative 
Assistant, Council on Aging Director, and Assistant Sewer Business Manager. He stated that 
interviews are being conducted for the Network Administrator position. He stated that the Sewer 
Business Manager candidate is being ratified by the Sewer Commission tomorrow. He stated that 
he is preparing the process and schedule for posting the Police Chief position within the next two 
weeks. 
 
The Interim Town Manager thanked Dave Passios for his service on the Finance Committee. He 
stated that Mr. Passios’ term was through September 30, 2024. He thanked Evan Watters for his 
service on the Finance Committee. He stated that the Finance Appointing Committee will meet 
next Tuesday to consider candidates for appointments to the Finance Committee. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
The Interim Town Manager announced that there were vacancies on the following Boards, 
Committees, and Commissions: Agricultural Commission, Architectural Preservation District 
Commission, Board of Health, Conservation Commission, Cultural Council, Green Communities 
Committee, Historical Commission, Library Board of Trustees, Master Plan Steering Committee, 
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC), Stormwater Task Force, Zoning Board of Appeals. 
 
The Interim Town Manager stated that the Historical Commission will award the contract for the 
Lunenburg Historic Properties Survey. The Interim Town Manager stated that a vendor has been 
awarded for the library exterior paint project. The Interim Town Manager stated that one DPW 
salt contract has been executed, and the other contract is awaiting vendor information. He stated 
that proposals for tree-cutting services are due this week, and the Town has not received any 
questions on the scope of work. The Interim Town Manager stated that there were multiple walk-
throughs today for bids that are due on October 23
rd. The Interim Town Manager stated that the 
Municipal Building Design Committee went live today and proposals are due November 4, 2024. 
The Interim Town Manager stated that the Library Teen Room and the Town Hall roof and 
chimney bid are going out to procurement tomorrow. The Interim Town Manager stated that the 
Ritter Memorial Building gutters and trim are in the process of being finalized to go out to 
procurement soon. The Interim Town Manager stated that the Ritter Memorial Building bids will 
be considered based on available ARPA funding. The Interim Town Manager stated that he met 
with Town staff to discuss the payroll services RFP. The Interim Town Manager stated that the 
new payroll services may now have to be rolled out in April, rather than January 1, 2025. 
 
The Interim Town Manager said that Governor Maura Healey announced the formation of the 
Nashoba Valley Medical Center Working Group. He stated that Representative Scarsdale has 
been active with stakeholders regarding the future of the medical center. 
 
The Interim Town Manager said that the proposed amendments to SAP were circulated to all 
relevant parties. He stated that comments were sent to him and the Assistant Town Manager. 
 
The Interim Town Manager stated that the Board received a draft warrant, which may require 
more time to finalize. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Status Update and Discuss ARPA 
 
The Interim Town Manager stated that it is the status quo regarding ARPA distribution. He stated 
that bids are coming in the next two weeks for ARPA projects. The Interim Town Manager stated 
that once the bids come back, there may have to be distribution adjustments in regard to the 
MILO system and the Adult Activity Center roof.  
 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. Proposed Amendments to Policies and Procedures s. 3.08 Tax Title Policy and Procedure 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
The Interim Town Manager stated that while discussing with finance staff about 925 
Massachusetts Avenue, he asked if there were other properties that had gone through the 
foreclosure process and were outside of the one-year redemption period. The Interim Town 
Manager asked the Treasurer to provide a list and the current process for properties in this 
situation. 
 
The Interim Town Manager stated that there are changes in the auction process because of recent 
State legislation. He stated that it is now required that if the property is sold for more than what 
they owe in taxes, the municipality must find the owner and remit access to them, and if the 
owner is not found, the funds must be given to the State’s unclaimed property division. The 
Interim Town Manager stated that this is not currently within the Town’s policies and procedures. 
 
The Interim Town Manager proposed two changes to s. 3.08 Tax Title Policy and Procedure. He 
stated that the changes outline that if a board or committee has an interest in the Town taking 
ownership of a property, there would now be a more formal process for that entity to express 
interest and describe the potential use of the property. He stated that the second change would be 
to formalize the current procedure by which the Treasurer notifies all departments of the 
property. 
 
Member Renee Emkey asked if the Treasurer has a draft form for boards and committees to fill 
out if they have any interest in a property. The Interim Town Manager stated that he will get the 
form from the Treasurer for the Board to review. The Board provided the Interim Town Manager 
with some ministerial changes for the amended policy. The Interim Town Manager stated that he 
will provide the Board with a red-lined copy of the policy for the Board’s official vote at the next 
meeting.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Regular Session Minutes November 28, 2023 and December 5, 2023. 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the Minutes of November 28, 2023 and December 5, 
2023.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $115,843.64.  
 
Action Items 
Member Emkey requested that the Interim Town Manager determine next steps for the high-
deductible health insurance plan for employees. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Member Emkey stated that the School Department’s Director of Facilities and Grounds, Eric 
Hevy has resigned from his position, and the open position is now being advertised. Member 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
Emkey stated that the School Committee approved the second Community Resource Officer, 
Cameron Monroe, who will be at Turkey Hill Primary School. Member Emkey stated that the 
School Committee is reviewing alternatives for the School Department to leave TC Passios. 
Member Emkey stated that the 911 Upgrades at Turkey Hill Primary School will be complete in 
four weeks. Member Emkey stated that the site visit for the Turkey Hill Primary School ADA 
Study was last week, with a lot of interest from bidders. Member Emkey stated that the School 
Committee approved their FY25 goals and priorities and their budget goals.  
 
Member Emkey stated that the Budget Task Force met last night and talked about the idea of a 
forensic accounting study done for the Town. Member Emkey stated that the Chair of the Task 
Force is going to investigate it. Member Emkey noted that Town and School staff have lost a lot 
of institutional knowledge. Member Emkey stated that the Task Force described the 
consolidation of IT services with the Town and the School District. Member Emkey stated that 
there will be a short presentation at the Fall Special Town Meeting. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Council on Aging met this morning. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the 
list of Boston Post Cane Recipients is missing, and the Council on Aging is looking into 
investigating. Chair Nuzzolo stated that there will be two Council on Aging-related warrant 
articles for MART Connect and the revolving fund for the meals site. Chair Nuzzolo stated that 
the Council on Aging may request additional hours for the Meal Site Manager position from 19.5 
hours to 26 hours and an increase for the program line item to provide more services. Chair 
Nuzzolo stated that the Eagle House Supporters non-profit is being dissolved into the Council on 
Aging Gift Fund. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on October 15, 2024, and 
October 22, 2024. Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on October 
29, 2024, to discuss the Select Board Goals and Priorities for FY25. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle (via Zoom): commented that on January 9, 2024, the Board 
persecuted his family regarding an audit. Mr. Burden stated that he has concerns with funds 
being transferred to the Public Access fund. Mr. Burden stated that he supports a forensic 
accounting investigation for the Town.  
 
 
Board Comment 
None. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 6 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
ADJOURNMENT 
Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Member Emkey. Call for the vote: Three-
aye. The motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 7:48 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday, January 6, 2026 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes of October 8, 2024. 
Seconded by Clerk Renee Emkey. Call for the Vote: Four-aye. One abstention (Member 
McLeod). Motion Passed (4-0-1). 