===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, March 19, 2024 
Mem
bers Present: Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo 
(via Zoom), Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Heather Lemieux Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
CAL
L TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
C
hair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded 
and broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the 
agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items 
not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
P
UBLIC COMMENT 
B
oard Comment 
Member Tom Alonzo thanked the Board of Assessors for their efforts to bring forward a warrant 
article. He stated that there has been a significant change in a year with the Board of Assessors.  
P
ublic Comment 
Mary Wilson, Chair of the Conservation Commission: stated that the Conservation Commission 
and Parks Commission are partnering for Earth Day events throughout April. She stated that if a 
resident is interested in sponsoring a project, they can reach out to her directly. She stated that 
the tentative dates for clean-ups are April 20
th for the Town Center and April 13th for the Town 
beach. 
D
ebbie Lincoln, 46 Hemlock Drive: thanked the Board of Assessors for their efforts regarding 
the Town warrant article.  
J
eff Bingham, 150 Peninsula Drive: stated that the Town Caucus is on March 25th at 7:00 p.m. at 
Lunenburg High School Auditorium. He stated that he is retiring from the Town committee that 
organizes the Town Caucus after 41 years. He stated that John Fortune and Wendy Bertrand will 
be stepping down from their positions on the committee. He stated that he is seeking applicants 
to fill the positions at the Town Caucus. 
Jack Rabbit, Board of Assessors: stated that there will be a conference regarding the upcoming 
Town warrant article that changes some 41c exemptions. He said that the conference will be held 
on March 25
th at 3:00 p.m. at the Senior Center. 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
William Tyler, 5 Grand Street: Mr. Tyler thanked Member Franco for his service in the Town. 
Mr. Tyler stated that he was the Cemetery Commission Chair for six years. He stated that the 
Town Charter has caused challenges with the DPW and the Cemetery Commission’s 
responsibilities and roles. He stated that members of the public should join a board/committee if 
they want to make a change in the community.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Mark Bursch, Chair of the Board of Water Commissioners: stated that the Commissioners are 
working on a PFAS Master Plan which is a forever chemical. Mr. Bursch stated that one 
Lunenburg well has over the maximum contamination of 20 parts per trillion. He stated it was 
the Hickory Hills well. He stated that the Commissioners heard a presentation from Tighe and 
Bond regarding the PFAS Master Plan yesterday. He stated that the Commissioners are 
reviewing the plan and will be providing feedback at the next meeting. Mr. Bursch stated that the 
Massachusetts Avenue water main replacement from Northfield to Connell Drive has been 
running into issues. Mr. Bursch stated that billing practices will be updated and will cause an 
increase in fees for this update. Mr. Bursch stated that there are efforts to work on community 
outreach and engagement with the assistance of Capital Strategic Solutions. Mr. Busch stated 
that a PFAS webpage has been added to the Lunenburg Water website. He stated that social 
media engagement has grown. He stated that a PFAS informational mailer will be sent to all 
water users. He stated that the Lunenburg Water District’s Annual Meeting is being held on 
March 30
th. He stated that on April 4th there will be an open house for other boards and 
committees to meet to review the PFAS Master Plan. He stated that on May 16th there will be a 
vote to pass the PFAS Master Plan and PFAS remediation efforts.  
 
APPOINTMENTS 
7:05 PM - Flammables Storage License Amendment for 998 Reservoir Road (P J Keating) 
to update the existing tanks’ list of materials 
 
Jacob Bremmer, Assistant Environmental Compliance Manager for PJ Keating, stated that he 
grew up in the Town of Lunenburg. Dave Le Comte, Site Manager for PJ Keating stated that the 
company is complying with State regulations and is not updating the amount of gasoline stored 
on site, but they are updating how the gasoline is being stored. Mr. Le Comte stated that PJ 
Keating wanted to provide the Town with updated, transparent records. Mr. Le Comte described 
the types of materials, their quantities, and how they are stored on the property. Mr. Le Comte 
stated that he cannot speak to specifics about how the quantities are stored; he did state that most 
of the storage tanks are double-skinned with environmental protection surrounding them.  
 
Member Tom Alonzo noted that the Fire Chief provided a letter articulating support for this. 
Member Alonzo asked Mr. Le Comte if the tanks are inspected every year by the Lunenburg Fire 
Department. Mr. Le Comte stated that he believed that the tanks do get inspected every year. 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
 
Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the Flammables Storage License Amendment for 998 
Reservoir Road (P J Keating) to update the existing tanks’ list of materials. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Franco.  Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco-aye; Clerk Nuzzolo-aye; Member Alonzo-
aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
7:15 PM Joint Appointment of Cemetery Commissioner by the Cemetery Commission & 
Select Board to the vacancy with the term to expire at the next annual election; Mike 
Clark, 275 Cross Road. 
 
Cemetery Commission Chair Nancy Foss Yasko called the Cemetery Commission meeting to 
order at 7:33 PM 
 
Members Present: Chair Nancy Foss Yasko, Member David Dorren 
 
Ms. Yasko stated that Michael Clark went to a Cemetery Commission meeting last week. She 
stated that he has a wealth of knowledge professionally, and he’s been an engineering manager 
for 40 years. She stated that he has been involved in Lunenburg with youth soccer, the School 
Health Advisory Council, the School Committee, and the Boy Scouts. 
 
Michael Clark described his volunteer work in Lunenburg. He described the Boy Scout service 
projects that involved the Cemetery Commission. He stated that he was on the School 
Committee for three years.  
 
Member Renee Emkey asked if Mr. Clark will be running for the Cemetery Commission position 
in two months, because the current term is set to expire then. Mr. Clark stated that he will be 
attending the Town Caucus. 
 
Mr. Alonzo stated that he has known Mr. Clark for several years regarding his service to the 
Town of Lunenburg. Mr. Alonzo stated that he supports his appointment to the Cemetery 
Commission.  
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to appoint Michael Clark, 275 Cross Road to the Cemetery 
Commission with his term set to expire at the Annual Town Election, May 2024. Seconded 
by Vice-Chair Franco.  Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco-aye; Clerk Nuzzolo-aye; Member 
Alonzo-aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys-aye; Commissioner Dorren-aye; Commissioner 
Yasko-aye. The motion passed unanimously (7-0-0). 
 
Ms. Yasko moved to adjourn the Cemetery Commission Meeting at 7:40 PM. Seconded by 
Mr. Dorren. Call for the vote: Two-aye. The motion passed unanimously (2-0-0). 
 
7:30 PM Meeting with Conservation Commission Chair regarding Proposals including Use 
of Consultants 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
Mary Wilson, 138 Whiting Street, Chair of the Conservation Commission, stated that the Town 
hired a Conservation Administrator in November. She stated that there is a vacancy with the part-
time Conservation Administrative Assistant. She described the backlog of projects due to 
vacancy issues over the past few months. Town Manager Heather Lemieux stated that interviews 
have been ongoing to fill the part-time position, and an offer will be given to a candidate. Ms. 
Wilson stated that the Commission is looking forward to staff using OpenGov for online e-permit 
applications. Ms. Wilson stated that the Commission needs to start using application fees to 
generate a budget for technical consultants. She stated that the Commission has estimated that 
250 hours per year of consulting expertise is needed. She stated that the current fee structure only 
provides 60 hours of consulting services per year. She said that the Conservation Commission 
will have to review the fee structure. She stated that the Town has a lower fee cost structure 
compared to other communities. 
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that she worked with Town Counsel to bring forth a warrant 
article to create a revolving account for the Conservation Commission to access funds for 
consulting services.  
 
INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Appointment to Cultural Council- Chriztine Foltz, 284 Lancaster Ave. –term to expire June 
30, 2027 
 
At this time, Member Alonzo recused himself and left the meeting because the applicant is his 
wife. 
 
Ms. Foltz described her artistic experience, including her education at the Royal College of Fine 
Arts in Copenhagen. She stated that she was the Chair of the Cultural Council 15 years ago. She 
stated that she designs prototype textiles for engineering companies.  
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Franco to appoint Chriztine Foltz, 284 Lancaster Ave to the Cultural 
Council to a term set to expire on June 30, 2027. Seconded by Member Emkey.  Roll Call 
Vote: Vice-Chair Franco-aye; Clerk Nuzzolo-aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
At this time, Member Alonzo rejoined the Board meeting.  
 
Appointment of Alternate Historical Commission Member-David Passios, 56 Whiting 
Street 
 
Mr. Passios described his interest in the Historical Commission. Mr. Passios stated that the 
Historical Commission Chair has concerns about the Commission reaching a quorum 
consistently. Mr. Passios stated that the Historical Commission Chair, after an application was 
submitted, reached out to Mr. Passios to ask if he would consider being an alternate. 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
 
Member Alonzo noted that there will be a warrant article for May Town Meeting to outline the 
roles and responsibilities of the Historical Commission. He stated that he cannot support 
appointing Mr. Passios if the alternate position does not exist currently in the Town Bylaws. 
Member Alonzo stated that he supports appointing associate members who attend meetings but 
do not vote. Member Alonzo stated that he does not support alternate members who vote when 
there is a full-voting member who is not present. Vice-Chair Franco states that he agrees with 
Member Alonzo.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that he does support the appointment of the alternate, but he says that the 
roles have to be more defined. Vice-Chair Franco stated that the position is not defined and 
should not be appointed. Member Emkey noted that the Chair of the Historical Commission 
wrote to the Board that the Commission is having significant issues attaining a quorum with a 
seven-member commission. Member Emkey stated that she does not feel comfortable appointing 
a position that is not defined. 
 
Member Alonzo stated that the Board dismisses the non-appointment request without prejudice. 
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that the Annual Town Meeting is Saturday, May 4, 2024, at 9:00 
a.m. at the Middle School/High School Auditorium. The Town Manager stated that Annual Town 
Election is Saturday, May 18, 2024 from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the TC Passios Building. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there is one vacancy in the Architectural Preservation District 
Commission, one vacancy until Annual Town Election for the Cemetery Commission, one 
vacancy on the Council on Aging, two associate member vacancies in the Green Communities 
Committee, one Member-At-Large vacancy for the Open Space Committee, and one vacancy on 
the Personnel Committee.  
 
The Town Manager described the available employment opportunities with the Town. The Town 
Manager stated that there is a Conservation Administrative Assistant position for 10 hours a 
week, Facilities Custodian for 40 hours a week, Land Use Director for 40 hours a week, Planning 
Board Administrative Assistant for 36 hours a week, seasonal Cemetery Laborers and Seasonal 
Lifeguards, and a temporary Administrative Assessing Assistant for 32 hours a week. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town received four responses for the RFQ for the 
Owners/Project Managers Services for Marshall Park and they are currently being reviewed and 
will be discussed at the next Parks Commission meeting. The Town Manager stated that the IFB 
for the Flat Hill Culvert Project is due March 27, 2024. The Town Manager stated that the IFB 
for cleaning services in Town building is due April 4, 2024. The Town Manager stated that data 
collection services for the Assessing Department for Cyclical Inspections for FY2025 through 
FY2027 are due April 8, 2024. 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
The Town Manager stated that she worked with the Town’s energy broker to secure a new natural 
gas rate. She stated that the current rate expires in November 2025. She stated that the new rate 
will be $5.668 per dekatherm for a three-year period from December 2025 until November 2028. 
She stated that the current rate is $4.39 per dekatherm. She stated that knowing the prices now 
will assist the Town and School in planning these related costs when developing future budgets.  
 
The Town Manager stated that the solid waste and recycling contract ends this year. She stated 
that she requested a meeting with E.L. Harvey to negotiate an extension. She stated that the 
meeting with the vendor was with the DPW Director. She stated that if the Town wanted to 
extend the contract under the same conditions, the cost would increase 70%. She stated that the 
current contract assumes 80 hours of labor a week and it is currently taking them 120 hours of 
labor a week to finish the routes. She stated that in order to finish routes, for the next contract 
they would need to purchase new trucks. She stated that she has been in discussions with other 
trash and recycling haulers. She stated that most haulers are bidding on if the contract has a cart 
system in place due to it being less labor intensive and a more automated system. The Town 
Manager stated that in the event the contract was not renewed by June 30, 2024, the Town 
requested a 90-day extension until the end of September 2024. The Town Manager described the 
cart model which includes bins and totes for trash and recycling. The Town Manager stated that 
the pay-as-you-throw model will be monitored in the truck by cameras to ensure compliance 
with the bins and totes. Member Emkey stated that the Town Manager should consider weekly 
trash pick-up with recycling pick-up every other week.  
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discuss Composition of Historical Commission 
Member Alonzo stated that the proposed May Town Meeting article takes the two existing votes 
of the 1979 May Town Meeting and the 2008 May Town Meeting and incorporates them into the 
bylaws under the proper chapter. He stated that the 1979 May Town Meeting vote formed the 
Historical Commission as a six-member entity, and the 2008 May Town Meeting made it a five-
member entity. 
 
2. Discuss Committed and Uncommitted ARPA Funds 
Dr. Kathleen Burnham, Superintendent of Schools, and Carol Archambault, School Committee 
Chair, were present during the discussion. 
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the Town Manager, Superintendent, Ms. Archambault, and he met to 
discuss options to bridge the gap in the budget. Chair Jeffreys stated that there is a proposal to 
review previously allocated funds for sidewalks from Turkey Hill Middle School down to Turkey 
Hill Road and the surrounding streets. Chair Jeffreys stated that the Board previously allocated 
$101,640 for sidewalk additions using APRA funds. Chair Jeffreys stated that the DPW Director 
confirmed that Chapter 90 funds can be utilized for these sidewalk improvements instead of 
ARPA funds. Chair Jeffreys stated that the School Committee requests that the $101,640 be 
reallocated with an additional $120,000 towards the Schools. The Town Manager stated that 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
pausing the Pavement Management Program for a year and reallocating those funds towards the 
School District to further bridge the gap in funding.  
 
Ms. Archambault thanked Chair Jeffreys, the Town Manager, and Member Emkey for their 
collaboration and innovative ideas. Ms. Archambault noted that some projects that they have 
requested for ARPA funds includes enhancing 911 compliance and security capabilities 
($63,676) of all Schools, network security upgrades ($82,119), and purchasing annual 
Chromebooks for 6
th graders ($102,000). Dr. Burnham stated that the Chromebook purchase 
would not be entirely covered this year by the requested ARPA funds.  
 
Chair Jeffreys stated that the proposed ARPA allocations to the Schools, would leave $45,894 
unallocated. Dr. Burnham stated that there may be a small gap even with ARPA funds, but she 
said that her Department Heads are working closely to tighten up their budgets and applying for 
grant funding. Chair Jeffreys stated that local receipts projections are always conservative, but 
there may be additional funding to close the gap. 
 
Member Alonzo asked the School Committee Chair and the Superintendent if a School budget 
override would occur. Ms. Archambault stated that a Citizens’ Petition is being formed to add a 
School budget override to the Town warrant and as a ballot question. Ms. Archambault stated 
that her recommendation would be to work with the Town to slowly build a case for an override 
next year, but she noted that she is one person on the School Committee.  
 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that a needs-based budget warrant article will be voted on by the 
School Committee tomorrow and will be presented under the omnibus balanced budgeted article. 
She stated that the next article after that will be the difference between the level-service funded 
budget and the needs-based budget. 
 
Member Emkey stated that Westford formed a budget task force and identified funding solutions.  
 
Motion by 
Member Alonzo to reallocate the $101,640 previously designated for sidewalks to 
repurpose it to the School Department with an additional $120,000 of uncommitted ARPA 
funds for the purpose of 911 emergency service upgrades, network security upgrades, and a 
portion of the Chromebook purchase for incoming 6
th graders. Seconded by Chair Jeffreys.  
Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Franco-aye; Clerk Nuzzolo-aye; Member Alonzo-aye; Member Emkey-
aye; Chair Jeffreys-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
3. Review Annual Town Meeting Warrant Articles and Vote on Recommendations 
Chair Jeffreys stated that an email was sent today for a Citizens' Petition for a Town override in 
the amount of $265,000 from Jean Russell, a member of the Finance Committee. Chair Jeffreys 
stated that the request was sent past the deadline and is not actionable and does not have the 
required number of signatures. 
 
Warrant Article A: to hear regular written reports 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that there have been no changes since prior Board meetings.  
 
Warrant Article B: to reauthorize the spending limits for revolving funds 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that there have been no changes since prior Board meetings. 
 
Warrant Article C: to create a revolving fund for the Conservation Commission 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that she needs to work with the Conservation Commission on the 
spending limit and the maximum amount. 
 
Warrant Article D: to see if the Town will vote to raise an appropriate sum of money for 
payment of prior year expenses or take any action relative thereto. 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that there have been no changes since prior Board meetings. 
 
Warrant Article E: to see if the Town will vote to transfer available funds all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town FY2024 budget under Article 7 of the 
May 6, 2023 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 14, 2023 Special Town 
Meeting or take any action relative thererto.  
 
Warrant Article F: network security upgrades 
Town Manager Lemieux stated that this article can be removed because of the allocation of 
ARPA funds. Dr. Burnham stated that the School Committee will need to formally withdraw the 
request.  
 
Warrant Article G: to see if the Town will vote to raise an appropriate, borrow, or transfer 
from available funds a sum of money for the FY2025 Capital Plan is appearing in the 
Capital Planning Committee report, or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Warrant Article H: Omnibus Budget Article (Balanced Budget) 
 
Warrant Article I: School Budget Override 
 
Warrant Article J: Reclassifying Positions 
 
Warrant Article K: Market Adjustments for Positions within the Salary Administration 
Plan 
 
Warrant Article L: Modification of Sick Leave Policy 
 
Warrant Article M: Stabilization Fund 
 
Warrant Article N: Special Purpose Stabilization Fund 
 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
Warrant Article O: OPEB Trust Fund 
 
Warrant Article P: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY2025 or 
to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Warrant Article Q: Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund 
 
Warrant Article R: Sewer OPEB Trust Fund 
 
Warrant Article S: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program 
Enterprise fund for FY2025 or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Warrant Article T: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to operate the Water Enterprise fund for FY2025 or 
to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Warrant Article U: to see if the Town will vote to raise, appropriate, or transfer from 
available funds that amount of money to fund the FY2025 Public Educational Government 
Access Enterprise Operating and Capital Budgets or to take any other action relative 
thereto. 
 
Warrant Article V: Cemetery Lots 
 
Warrant Article W: Personal Exemptions 
 
Warrant Article X: to see if the Town will vote to amend the vote of Article 33 of the May 6, 
2006 Annual Town Meeting to decrease the age of the exemption allowed by Mass General 
Law Chapter 59 Section 541C from age 70 to age 65 and to amend the reimbursement 
amount up to 100% of the exemption and further to adjust the income and asset limits to 
the statute or to take any other action relative thereto. 
 
Warrant Article Y: Re-adopt OPEB Trust Fund Statute 
 
Warrant Article Z: To Codify Town Meeting Vote into a Bylaw for Historical Commission 
 
Warrant Article AA: Amend Code Regarding Battery Energy Storage Systems 
 
Warrant Article AB: Water Supply Protection District 
 
The Board did not vote to accept these articles as presented.  
 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
4. Discussion on Fiscal Year 2024 Budget, Fiscal Year 2025 Budget, Capital Plan, and
A
nnual Town Meeting Warrant articles
The Board tabled discussion of this item.
5.
Discuss Environmental Policies & Select Board By-Laws
The Board tabled discussion of this item.
6. R
eview List of Upcoming Vacancies in Boards/Committees for FY25
Chair Jeffreys informed the Board of the following Board/Committee vacancies for FY25:
• Agricultural Commission (1 Member)
• Architectural Preservation District Commission (2 Members)
• Conservation Commission (4 Members)
• Council on Aging (3 Members)
• Cultural Council (3 Members)
• Finance Committee (1 Member)
• Green Communities Committee (2 Members and 1 Associate)
• Historical Commission (2 Members)
• Personnel Committee (2 Members)
• Public Access Cable Committee (2 Members)
C
hair Jeffreys asked the Town Manager to review the cyclical nature of reappointments to make 
sure that reappointments for boards/committees are not all happening during one year. 
7. E
arly In-Person Voting
The Board tabled discussion of this item due to the vote needing to be officially listed as a Public
Hearing. The Board requested additional information and clarification regarding the motion from
the Board of Registrars.
CURRE
NT BUSINESS 
Mi
nutes/Warrants/Action Items 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $291,652.30. 
CO
MMITTEE REPORTS 
M
ember Alonzo stated that there was a Board of Assessors meeting last night.  
UP
COMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
C
hair Jeffreys stated that the Board will meet on March 26, April 2, April 9, April 23, and April 
30.
===PAGE 11===
Page 11 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 19, 2024 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
Public Comment 
David Passios, 56 Whiting 
Street: stated as a member of the Finance Committee, that the 
Committee will meet tomorrow to review Monty Tech, Sewer Department, Unclassified, and 
Debt Service. He stated that the Finance Committee will meet on Thursday to review the School 
Department and other monetary articles.  
Mandy Gilman, 186 Reservoir Road: stated that she and others are working to support a School 
override.  
Jack Rabbit, Board of Assessors: described the 41C proposed changes for May Town Meeting. 
Board Comment 
ADJOURNMENT 
Vice-Chair Franco moved to adjourn. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Franco-aye; Clerk Nuzzolo-aye; Member Alonzo-aye; Member Emkey-Aye; Chair Jeffreys-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 10:08 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday, January 6, 2026 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes of March 19, 2024. 
Seconded by Clerk Renee Emkey. Call for the Vote: Four-aye. One abstention (Member 
McLeod). Motion Passed (4-0-1). 