===PAGE 1===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 1 of 5 
May 8, 2024 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Lunenburg Middle School Collaborative Room D132 and via ZOOM 
Tuesday, May 8, 2024 
 
Members Present:  Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Vice-Chair Lou Franco, Clerk Caesar 
Nuzzolo, Member Tom Alonzo, Member Renee Emkey 
Also Present:  Heather Lemieux, Town Manager. Public Comment Participants are listed 
in the minutes. 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of 
Allegiance. Chair Jeffreys informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast 
live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed 
topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could 
be brought up as permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
It was noted that because this meeting was held at the Middle School, where the lights go out at 
9:15, all agenda topics might not be covered tonight. 
 
I. PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
None heard 
 
Public Comment 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffries recognized Perry Jewell, 20 Sunset Lane. Mr. Jewell is at the meeting 
on behalf of the Board of Health because one member has resigned and it is too late to have this 
opening on the ballot. He asked the Select Board’s help in seeking out a candidate. 
 
Chair Jeffries recognized John Bowen, 162 Highland Street. Mr. Bowen explained the “holds” 
that he had put on two articles at Town Meeting. He discussed cemetery funding and needs, and 
he would like to make a presentation at an upcoming meeting. 
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
No announcements were made. 
 
III. COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
 
Chair Jeffries recognized Sarah Cammer from the Board of Assessors. Ms. Cammer advised the 
Select Board that so far 28 abatement applications have been received; the deadline for 
abatement applications is May 16. The Assessors have conducted 6 inspections thus far and will 
===PAGE 2===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 2 of 5 
May 8, 2024 
continue to do so. The Assessors are involved in a project to best define neighborhood and site 
assignments. They are seeking help from an active realtor. 
 
IV. APPOINTMENTS 
 
7:10 PM Presentation from the Water District on PFAS Treatment Options and 
Financial Projections 
 
The Water Commissioners gave the presentation as described above and requested a vote of 
endorsement by the Select Board. Several audience members complained about difficulty 
hearing at this location. A representative from Tighe & Bond, as well as the Water District 
Superintendent, assisted the Commissioners in explaining what PFAS are, associated federal and 
state regulations, and a potential action plan. Their recommendation is to build a centralized 
treatment plant at Lancaster Ave., that would treat both Lancaster Ave. and Hickory Hills wells, 
and then, to maintain resiliency, to have a second stand-alone plant at the Keating well site. Zero 
percent funding may be available from the DEP (Department of Environmental Protection); 
Member Renee Emkey asked about the funding, stating that the letter from the DEP seems to say 
that the funding may be approved but not guaranteed.  
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffries gave Board Members the opportunity to ask questions about the 
Water District’s Plan. Member Emkey asked about PFAS test results and financing. Member 
Emkey referred to a letter she had received from DEP stating that one of the wells discussed is 
not out-of-compliance. She had many questions about financing the project. 
 
Member Lou Franco expressed concern about having enough time for the citizen’s group to do 
their presentation. 
 
Member Tom Alonzo asked how important the issue of redundancy is to this project. The 
commissioners talked about the need for redundancy for catastrophe, and in consideration of 
increased growth and demand for water.  
 
Clerk Caesar Nuzzolo asked about ongoing maintenance and costs for maintenance.  
 
Chair Jeffreys offered the public the opportunity to ask questions. 
 
Chair Jeffreys recognized Bill Emkey, 445 Townsend Harbor Road. Mr. Emkey asked the Water 
Commissioners to state exactly what they “have to do.” They responded, saying that the EPA 
(Environmental Protection Agency) is mandating treatment of any level of PFAS over 4 ppt 
(parts per trillion). Mr. Emkey asked how this was related to activating another well.  
 
Chair Jeffreys recognized Joseph Bancroft, 15 Hemlock Drive. Mr. Bancroft asked about the 
Water District’s Emergency Action Plan, and about how much this will cost the town.  
 
7:40 PM Presentation from citizen group (“Lunenburg Citizens for Affordable Clean 
Water”) on Water District PFAS Treatment Options 
 
===PAGE 3===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 3 of 5 
May 8, 2024 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys recognized from Lunenburg Citizens for Affordable Clean Water 
(Bill Emkey, Joan Pease, Andy Starvaski, John Fortune, Barbara Turkington), who gave a 
Powerpoint presentation. This group would like the Select Board to not support the proposal by 
the Water District on May 16. They concur that PFAS remediation need to, and will, happen, but 
state that the plan is flawed. They disagree with the Water District’s emphasis on redundancy, 
citing a recent DEP report (the Sanitary Survey) that stated that Lunenburg’s redundancy is 
sufficient.  
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys asked if the makeup of the Lunenburg Citizens for Affordable Clean 
Water represents one neighborhood or the entire town, and he asked member of the Committee if 
they currently drink unfiltered town water. They replied that they are from all over town and yes, 
they drink the water. Chair Jeffreys stated that he supported the Water District’s plan because he 
entirely supports access to clean water and that qualified people have worked hard to produce a 
good plan. Chair Jeffreys asked the Board members their opinions and whether or not they 
wanted to vote on this tonight. 
 
Vice-Chair Lou Franco said that he is not equipped to make this decision since so much of the 
information seems to be in flux.  
 
Motion by Vice-Chair Franco that the Board not make a recommendation in either 
direction. Clerk Nuzzolo seconded the motion. Member Tom Alonzo said that this was the 
greatest abrogation of responsibility that he has seen in town in a long time.  
 
Clerk Nuzzolo disagreed with comparing this vote to a recent override vote and does not feel like 
he has had enough information to recommend either way. 
 
Member Emkey stated that she agrees with Mr. Alonzo and that she has been following the issue 
for some time. She thinks that treating the Keating well should be the priority and that the Board 
should vote to support or not support the project. 
 
Mr. Franco said that if a vote is taken, because he does not feel that he has enough information, 
he will abstain.  
 
Vote taken to not make a recommendation, Vice-Chair Franco, Aye; Clerk Nuzzolo, Aye; 
Member Alonzo, No; Member Emkey, No; Chair Jeffreys, No. Motion failed. (2-3-0) 
 
Member Alonzo moved that the Board of Selectmen recommend a disapproval, or a “no” 
vote, on this issue at the May 18 meeting on the project as presented. Member Emkey 
seconded. Vice-Chair Franco, Abstain; Clerk Nuzzolo, Abstain; Member Alonzo, Aye; 
Member Emkey, Aye; Chair Jeffreys, No. Motion carries, (2-1-2), the Board votes to 
support disapproval.  
 
V. INTERVIEWS/APPOINTMENTS/REAPPOINTMENTS/RESIGNATIONS 
 
Resignation of Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager Camille Farrar 
Not addressed. 
===PAGE 4===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 4 of 5 
May 8, 2024 
 
VI. OLD BUSINESS 
 
Not addressed. 
 
VII. CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
1. Letter of Support for Governor’s Amendment to Means Tested Senior Citizen Property 
Tax Exemption Bill 
 
Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys asked if the Board was prepared to support this letter. Member 
Alonzo moved to do so. Vice-Chair Franco seconded the motion. Call for the vote: Five-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously. (5-0-0). 
 
2. Discussion on Follow-up Items from Annual Town Meeting 
 
Not addressed. 
 
3. Review Draft Right of Entry Agreement with Shady Point 
 
Not addressed. 
 
4. Review Town Manager Evaluation Timeline 
 
Not addressed. 
 
5. Review Draft Tax Investigation Report 
 
Not addressed. 
 
6. Minutes/Warrants/Action Items 
 
The Board approved Accounts Payable Warrants in the amount of $986,358.10; $61,139.40; 
$11,414.87 and Payroll Warrant in the amount of $1,200,113.12. 
 
7. Committee Reports 
 
Not addressed. 
 
VIII. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
May 14
th, May 21st 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
 
None heard 
===PAGE 5===
Select Board Meeting Minutes  Page 5 of 5 
May 8, 2024 
 
ADJOURN 
 
Chair Jeffreys moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Nuzzolo. Call for roll call vote: Clerk 
Nuzzolo, Aye; Member Emkey, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Vice-Chair Franco, Aye; Chair 
Jeffreys, Aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). Meeting adjourned at 9:23PM 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Ellen McKenna Doiron 
Minute Clerk 
 
These minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: 
Tuesday January 13, 2026 
 
Clerk Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes of May 14, 2024. Seconded by 
Member Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-
0). 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per 
speaker except at the discretion of the Chairperson 