===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, June 17, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Amanda Moore, Clerk Renee Emkey, and 
Member Glenn McLeod. 
Members Absent: Member Brian Lehtinen 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live 
and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics 
that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be 
brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
 
Clerk Renee Emkey thanked Matthew Brenner, who organized the prior information session on 
the MBTA Communities Act that occurred yesterday. She stated that the meeting was recorded 
and is available on PACC’s YouTube channel.  
 
Public Comment 
 
John Bowen Jr., 162 Highland Street: commented that he is preparing to dedicate his life to the 
service of the United States as a United States Marine. He commented that he admired the 
Army’s 250
th Anniversary Parade in Washington, D.C. He commented that he is opposed to the 
Town flying a progressive pride flag below the American flag. He commented that he is opposed 
to any flag that isn’t the United States of America flag being flown on Town property. He 
commented that other municipalities, such as Fitchburg, are flying the pride flag on public 
property. He stated that he believes that the blurring of free speech and political ideology is a 
cancer that must be addressed. 
 
Ana Lockwood, 91 Main Street: commented that the American flag was created centuries ago. 
She commented that the American flag has had many meanings. She says that she is serving on 
the Council on Aging. She stated that she would like to speak in support of Jack Rabbit and Lou 
Franco’s appointments. She described each of their qualifications and why she believes they 
should be appointed to the Council on Aging. 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
 
Anthony Sculimbrene, 5 Valley Road: commented that he is a member of the Master Plan 
Steering Committee. He stated that the Committee has been having issues obtaining a quorum. 
He stated that he recommends that the Select Board invite the Planning Board to discuss the 
quorum issues and the lack of expediency for the formation of the Master Plan. 
 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment stated that the Planning Board has given the Master 
Plan Steering Committee the ability to determine what the number for a quorum would be.  
 
Theodore (Teddy) Doucette, 318 Howard Street: commented that he does not believe the pride 
flag is a cancerous symbol. He states that the pride flag is a progressive symbol that shows 
people that they are included in a group that have marginalized and persecuted throughout 
history.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo announced that the Lunenburg Historical Society will be hosting a book 
launch and author signing for their new book, Images of America: Whalom Park, on Wednesday, 
July 2, 2025, from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public Library. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., there will be an MBTA Communities Act 
public information session. He stated that the public is welcome to learn more about potential 
paths forward. He stated that the Planning Board on July 23, 2025, will vote on which option to 
choose to bring to the Special Town Meeting.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Lunenburg Town Band Concerts will begin on July 7, 2025, 
from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at TC Passios. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Lunenburg Farmers’ Markets are taking place every month. 
He stated that the next market is July 11, 2025, at 4:00 p.m. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None.  
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
7:05 PM Hometown Heroes Banner Program, Richard McGrath, Chair, Historical 
Commission 
Richard McGrath, Chair of the Historical Commission, and Jennifer Sanderson member of the 
Historical Commission, introduced themselves.  
 
Mr. McGrath stated that he is proposing that the Town have a Hometown Heroes Banner 
Program installed on telephone poles. He stated that the Historical Commission voted 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
unanimously to support the endeavor and utilize funding from their account to fund the endeavor. 
He stated that the banners would be primarily installed in the Architectural Preservation District 
(ADP) in the center of town. He stated that the APD Commission voted unanimously to support 
this initiative. 
 
Ms. Sanderson stated that she needs permission from the utility companies to hang the banners 
and gather the hardware necessary for installation. Ms. Sanderson stated that some communities 
have families that are willing to donate a bucket or ladder truck for installation. She stated that 
the Historical Commission is willing to pay for the first 10 banners. 
 
Vice-Chair Amanda Moore asked the Town Manager if the Town owns the poles, and if the Town 
needs permission from the utility companies. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the 
Town needs permission from the electric company. Vice-Chair Moore asked for clarification 
regarding whether families are donating funds for the initiative. Town Manager Warren-Dyment 
stated that since the families are purchasing the equipment, it is not considered a monetary 
donation. She stated that it is allowed. Vice-Chair Moore stated that she supports it. Clerk Emkey 
stated that she supports it. 
 
Town Manager Warren Dyment asked Ms. Sanderson if she had reached out to the Fire 
Department regarding the use of the bucket truck. Ms. Sanderson stated that she will reach out to 
the Fire Department. She additionally stated that she would reach out to Unitil and forestry 
companies.  
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Moore to approve the Hometown Heroes Banner Program request. 
Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-
0). 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
 
Annual Select Board Appointments 
 
Conservation Commission 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Conservation Commission has three terms expiring on June 30, 
2025, and there are four candidates for the positions. Chair Nuzzolo stated that two new 
applicants have applied: Andrea Bernap and Teddy Doucette. Chair Nuzzolo stated that two 
current commissioners are seeking reappointment: Peter Stella and Mary Wilson. 
 
Andrea Bernap, 158 Northfield Road, stated that she grew up in Lunenburg and then moved to 
Florida in 1980. She stated that she moved back to Lunenburg last year. She stated that she has 
professional experience at a native plant nursery for 10 years. She stated that she has a lifelong 
interest in conservation, and she volunteered at a nature preserve. Member Emkey asked her if 
she was aware of the extensive laws and regulations. Ms. Bernap stated that she had a meeting 
with Jenny to discuss specifics. Member Emkey stressed the commitment of the Commission. 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
 
Teddy Doucette, 318 Howard Street: described his education in pre-veterinary sciences. He 
stated that during his undergraduate degree, he enjoyed studying sustainability and 
environmentalism. He stated that he wrote papers regarding water contamination and chemicals. 
He stated that he talked to Jenny regarding the time commitment.  
 
Peter Stella, 31 Chase Road: he stated that he has lived in the Town all his life. Mr. Stella 
described various properties in the Town about conservation. He described his work experience 
and travelling across the world. He stated that he was surprised by how many regulations there 
were for the Conservation Commission. He stated that a fellow Conservation Commission 
member believed that he is not a good fit for the Commission. Mr. Stella gave the Board an 
example of a project in Lowell, Massachusetts. Mr. Stella stated that in the Town, every water 
body is treated like it cannot be touched and must be preserved. He described elements he 
disagreed with regarding the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act. He stated that Conservation 
Commission members want to protect everything in everyone’s backyards. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo asked Mr. Stella if he believes that property owners should be allowed to fill in 
wetlands on their property. Mr. Stella said that the water body or wetland should be deemed 
significant. He stated that he believes that the Town is being too restrictive in personal property 
rights. Chair Nuzzolo asked Mr. Stella if there was a project brought out before the Conservation 
Commission, whether he would follow the regulations, or whether he would follow what he 
believes the regulations should be. Mr. Stella stated that he would enforce the ‘no-touch 
restrictions,’ but he believes the Town should consider altering regulations.  
 
Clerk Emkey asked Mr. Stella if he had completed the training courses. Mr. Stella stated that he 
completed a lot of the training, and he said that he had more training to complete. Mr. Stella 
stated that he doesn’t understand why someone would have to read the entire Wetland Protection 
Act. He stated that he completed half of the training and educational materials that were given to 
him. Member Emkey asked Mr. Stella about the number of wetlands the town has. Mr. Stella 
stated that he believes the Town has too many wetlands that need to be protected. Mr. Stella 
stated that he believes wetlands are not a benefit to the Town. Mr. Stella stated that he believes 
environmental activism is a religion. Mr. Stella stated that the bylaws should be altered. 
 
Mary Wilson, 138 Whiting Street: stated that she is currently a Conservation Commissioner and 
a former Chair of the Commission. She stated that she is an electrical engineer. She stated that 
she works for a Fortune 500 Company. She stated that she has taken several Massachusetts 
Association of Conservation Commissioners courses. She stated that she had a certificate in 
conservation commission fundamentals. 
 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to appoint Mary Wilson to the Conservation Commission for a 
term to expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
Clerk Emkey stated that she has concerns with Mr. Stella’s reappointment. She stated that she 
has received concerns from people not on the Conservation Commission. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo thanked Mr. Stella for his service to the Conservation Commission. Chair 
Nuzzolo stated that he believes that wetlands in the town are a cherished resource.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Andrea Bernap and Teddy Doucette to the 
Conservation Commission for a term to expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Vice-Chair 
Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Council on Aging 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Council on Aging has four available positions and five candidates 
for those positions.  
 
Jane Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road: stated that she has seen significant interest in the 
Lunenburg Adult Activity Center, and she has been happy to participate.  
 
Susan O’Sullivan, 34 Hemlock Drive: stated that she has lived in Lunenburg for 39 years and is a 
retired physical therapy professor. She stated that she has completed two terms with the Council 
on Aging. She stated that she has been proud to help organize workshops for seniors to help them 
with skills for caregiving, advocacy, and interacting with the healthcare system.  
 
John Silme, 4 Iris Court: stated that he has lived in Lunenburg for four years. He stated that he 
was an electrical engineer. He stated that he has owned several businesses and served on several 
boards in his career. Vice-Chair Moore stated that there are more candidates than available 
positions and she recommends that he apply to other boards or committees in the future. 
 
John Rabbitt, 314 Townsend Harbor Road: stated that he has been on several boards and 
committees. He stated that he has lived in town for over forty years. He described the services 
that the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center organizes. He said that he appreciated the leadership of 
the Adult Activity Center staff. 
 
Lou Franco, 250 Arbor Street: stated that he served on the Select Board in 2021 through 2024. 
He stated that he was on the Board of Assessors for 11 years in town.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to reappoint Susan O’Sullivan and Jane Rabbitt to the Council on 
Aging for terms to expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: 
Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Moore to appoint Lou Franco and John Rabbitt to the Council on 
Aging for terms to expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Four-
aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) 
Brian Vienneau, 570 Townsend Harbor Road: stated that he has reviewed prior meeting minutes 
from PACC. He stated that he has spoken to PACC members. He stated that he has lived in the 
town his entire life. He stated that he used to work at TJX Companies. 
 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to appoint Brian Vienneau to the Public Access Cable Committee 
(PACC) for terms to expire June 30, 2028.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: 
Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS (CONTINUED) 
 
FY2025 Quarter Three Financial Report, Presented by Ezequiel Ayala, Finance Director 
Finance Director Ayala stated that the total revenue collected was $39,160,000, which is 78% of 
the total projected revenue for the fiscal year. He stated that the total investment income 
collected was $430,640, which is 344% over the projected revenue for the fiscal year. Mr. Ayala 
stated that the diversity of the trust fund portfolio is a 60/40 allocation was changed at a prior 
town meeting. He stated that the prior diversification was much more conservative. Town 
Manager Warren-Dyment stated that this revenue source is very volatile, which is why it is 
budgeted conservatively.  
 
Finance Director Ayala stated that the state aid collected is at 75.3% of the estimated amount. He 
stated that State-owned land is 74.8% of the estimated amount. He stated that Chapter 70 School 
aid is 75% of the estimated amount. He stated that Charter tuition reimbursement is 35.5%. He 
stated that the Unrestricted General Government Aid is at 74.8%. He stated that almost 
everything is in line with Quarter 3.  
 
Finance Director Ayala stated that the total local receipts collected were 106.4% of the annual 
estimate. He stated that the departmental revenue for the Schools is 197%. He stated that the 
licenses and permits are 84%. He stated that motor vehicle excise is 97.5%. He stated that special 
assessments are 190%. He stated that penalties and interest are at 50%. He stated that 
miscellaneous non-recurring is at 92.5% 
 
Finance Director Ayala stated that the total expenditures for the fiscal year through quarter three 
were roughly $33 million, or 70.6% the estimated amount. He stated that he did not see any 
outliers in regard to the department budgets.  
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the MBTA Communities Act public information session is 
tomorrow. She stated that the Planning Board will decide between four zoning options. She 
stated that once the Planning Board decides upon one zoning option, Town Meeting votes will 
only have the option for an up or down vote at Special Town Meeting. 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
The Town Manager stated that Mulpus Road and Eastern Avenue have been paved. She stated 
that a small portion of Reservoir Road is being paved next week. 
 
The Town Manager stated that next week, departments are working to close out their FY25 
accounts and request any necessary encumbrances. She stated that the finance office is very busy 
in the Summer, closing out FY25.  
 
The Town Manager stated that at the last meeting, she informed the Board that the property 
owner of 222 West Townsend Road is planning to sell their property that is under Chapter 61B. 
She stated that the Town Counsel deemed the notice insufficient, so the owner will be 
resubmitting the notice in a couple of weeks. 
 
The Town Manager stated that she held a training course for staff on records retention and 
destruction. She stated that the training occurred because staff are cleaning out the records rooms 
at TC Passios. She stated that the Finance Director is holding an accounts payable training course 
for all staff who process payables.  
 
The Town Manager stated that the Fire Chief and the Adult Activity Center Director met last 
week to discuss the sand for seniors program. She stated that the program is not for able-bodied 
individuals who want a delivery of sand. 
 
The Town Manager stated that Town offices will be closed in observance of Juneteenth on June 
19, 2025.  
 
The Town Manager announced that the Planning Administrative Assistant candidate accepted the 
offer today. She stated that the Dietary Aide position is still vacant. She stated that there is a 
discussion about reconfiguring the Land Use Director position. She stated that she has been in 
contact with the Planning Board Chair, Zoning Board of Appeals Chair, Conservation 
Commission Chair, and the Building Commissioner. She stated that all stakeholders so far have 
been supportive of the proposal to reconfigure the position. She stated that an interim Land Use 
Director is working remotely. She stated that the internal posting for the Communications & IT 
Manager expired today. 
 
The Town Manager stated that there is one vacancy on the Board of Assessors and one vacancy 
on the Planning Board.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
License Agreement (21 Main Street) between the Town of Lunenburg and Henry and Jacob 
Realty, LLC, 21 Main Street Lunenburg 
Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that there is an encroachment of the Town Hall’s 
accessible ramp onto 21 Main Street. The Town Manager stated that the owners of 21 Main 
Street are looking to sell the property, and this is an issue that needs to be resolved. She stated 
that she anticipates there will be a Fall Special Town Meeting warrant article to grant the Town 
an easement. She stated that the proposed License Agreement for $1.00 for the purposes of 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
installing, maintaining, repairing, replacing, and anything incidental to the deck ramp and 
walkway in the licensed premises for access and egress to the Town Hall.  
 
Motion by 
Vice-Chair Moore to authorize the Chair to sign the License Agreement (21 Main 
Street) between the Town of Lunenburg and Henry and Jacob Realty, LLC, 21 Main Street 
Lunenburg.  Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. FY26 Select Board and Town Manager Goal Setting 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the item will be tabled for the entire Board will be in attendance.  
 
2. Discussion on Sick Leave Bank Policy 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Town Manager is collecting feedback from the unions. Chair 
Nuzzolo stated that there will need to be future discussions regarding the process for appeals. 
 
3. Tax Investigation Report 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that he is waiting to receive the report. 
 
3. 56 Carr Ave: Sell or Hold 
The Town Manager stated that she is working to find an appraiser.  
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Regular Session Minutes January 16, 2024, February 13, 2024, March 12, 2024, March 26, 
2024, April 2, 2024, April 9, 2024, April 30, 2024, May 21, 2024, June 11, 2024, March 19, 
2025, May 22, 2025. 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to approve the Minutes of January 16, 2024, February 13, 2024, 
March 12, 2024, March 26, 2024, April 2, 2024, April 9, 2024, April 30, 2024, May 21, 2024, 
June 11, 2024, March 19, 2025, May 22, 2025, with all revisions sent to the Town Manager. 
Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Chair Nuzzolo-aye, Vice-Chair Moore-aye, 
Clerk Emkey-aye, Member McLeod-abstain. The motion passed (3-0-1). 
 
The Town Manager stated that a team of minute clerks has made significant progress in drafting 
minutes. She stated that there are currently only 19 sets of minutes left to complete, most of them 
being Executive Session minutes.  
 
Warrants 
None. 
 
Action Items 
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
Clerk Emkey requested a site walk of 56 Carr Avenue. Chair Nuzzolo stated that it is in the 
process of being scheduled.  
 
Clerk Emkey requested an ARPA review from the Finance Director. The Town Manager stated 
that it is scheduled for July 1, 2025.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Clerk Emkey stated that the Finance Committee met on June 12
th. She stated that the Town 
Manager presented the tri-board proposed calendar. Clerk Emkey stated that Ms. Lockwood 
presented on the school staff and student enrollment data. 
 
Member McLeod stated that he has been in discussion with the Agricultural Commission Chair. 
 
Member McLeod stated that the Planning Board and the Open Space Committee met to discuss 
22 West Townsend Road. He stated that they did not express any interest. He stated that the 
Planning Board mentioned the MBTA Communities Act. He stated that the Planning Board is 
looking for a new member. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on July 1st, July 8th (Joint Budget 
Session with Finance Committee and School Committee), July 15th.    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
Dave Rogers, 82 Highland Street: commented regarding the Sewer Department. He stated that 
the Sewer Department was not able to send out bills, and he wanted to get an update on that. 
 
The Town Manager stated that she can provide him with cash flow amounts. She stated that the 
Town has not been through a billing cycle with the new cloud system (MUNIS).  
 
Board Comment 
Chair Nuzzolo thanked the Town Manager for her efforts. He noted that the Executive Assistant 
to the Town Manager departed recently.  
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) To 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body, and the Chair so declares 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 10 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
June 17, 2025 
(New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 353) and not to return to Open Session 
after exiting Executive Session.  Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore.  Roll Call Vote: Member 
McLeod-aye; Vice-Chair Moore-Aye; Clerk Emkey-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:36 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved for release by the Select Board on Tuesday July 7, 2026:  
 
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of May 19, 2026.  Seconded by Clerk 
McLeod.  Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
 
 
 