===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Tuesday, September 9, 2025 
7:00 PM 
AGENDA 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the 
Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI 
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI 
Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology 
may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting.
 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate  in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 
0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the  meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Vote s may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
7:00 PM CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
I. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Motion to Enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(2) to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for 
negotiations with nonunion personnel…or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel (Executive Assistant to the 
Town Manager and Select Board).   
 
II. ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
III. PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
• BOARD 
• PUBLIC 
 
IV. APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
• Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Melissa Richard as Executive Assistant to the Town 
Manager and Select Board 
• Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Susan Begley as Payroll and Benefits Coordinator 
• Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Jane Paszko as Videographer 
 
V. TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
VI. MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
===PAGE 2===
VII. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
VIII. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
•  September 23, 2025, September 30, 2025 (Tri-Board Meeting) 
 
IX. PUBLIC COMMENT*** 
• PUBLIC 
• TOWN MANAGER 
• BOARD 
 
X. ADJOURN 
 
*** Per Policy, Public comment is limited to 15 minutes, with no more than 3 minutes per speaker except at the 
discretion of the Chairperson 
 