===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, March 4, 2025 
 
Members Present: Caesar Nuzzolo, Amanda Moore, Renee Emkey (via Zoom) 
Members Absent: Michael Ray Jeffreys, Tom Alonzo 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes 
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 p.m. and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law.  
 
BOARD COMMENTS 
 
Member Moore wanted to thank Public Safety teams, both Police and Fire and several other 
agencies that were deployed. There was a missing juvenile that was found and recovered safely 
and wanted to thank all the teams and staff members involved in the rescue mission. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo wanted to thank all Public Safety Personnel. Also last week there was a large 
structural fire. He commended the professionalism and feels well-served by our First 
Responders. 
 
Member Emkey echoed the comments from the Board to thank the Public Safety personnel and 
is glad the juvenile was found safe.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
None 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Chair Nuzzolo gave a reminder the Citizen Party Caucus is next Monday, March 10
th at 7:00 PM 
at the Middle High School Auditorium. Attending the caucus is the easiest way to be put on the 
ballot with nomination otherwise, you will need to obtain signatures and submit nomination 
papers to the Town Clerk. Openings include the Select Board, School Committee and Sewer 
Commission. A complete list is available on the Town website and Facebook page.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced an Executive Session to be held at 8:00 P.M. at tonight’s meeting. The 
Board will return to Open Session only if there are agenda items remaining, otherwise the Board 
will adjourn following the Executive Session. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
 
COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS 
None. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
Application to transfer Common Victualler license for Sam Fam Inc D/B/A Lunenburg 
Diner located at 324 Electric Ave 
Applicant, Sam Somonita, was present for this hearing. Member Emkey inquired about the need 
for transfer and it was stated that the business sold to Sam Fam Inc. All necessary documentation 
for the transfer were included in the package except for the purchase and sale agreement of the 
business which the applicant agreed to submit as soon as possible. Ms. Somonita stated that she 
has no intention of making any changes to the business operations or building floor plan and will 
be conducting business in the same way as it was previously licensed including hours of 
operation. Member Moore made Motion to approve the transfer of the common victualler 
license to Sam Fam Inc. D/BA/ Lunenburg Diner located at 324 Electric Ave. Seconded by 
Member Emkey. Roll Call Vote: Member Emkey, Aye; Member Moore, aye. Chair Nuzzolo, 
Aye. Motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
Meeting with Principal Assessor to discuss Board of Assessors Town Meeting Warrant 
Article 
Lynda McQuade, Principal Assessor was present via Zoom and brought forward two Warrant 
Articles for the Boards review and discussion. The first proposed article is “To see if the Town 
will vote to amend M.G.L. Ch. 59 §5(17D)(17E)(17F) (Elderly, Surviving Spouses and Minors 
Exemptions), or take any other action relative thereto. For FY2026 they would like increase the 
asset level from $40,000 to $66,000 and the exemption amount from $185 to $332. COLA 
Provisions have been accepted by the Town Meeting would apply to both exemption amounts. 
 
Sarah Cammer, Vice-Chair on the Board of Assessors clarified (via Zoom) that this is something 
that the Town has not voted on for about 20 years and in order to adjust the rates and update the 
assets to appropriate levels.  
 
Member Emkey asked the Article references 17D, 17E and 17F but the modifications only 
reference 17E and 17F. Ms. McQuade explained that 17E allows the asset limit to increase per 
COLA, and 17F allows the exemption amount to increase per COLA and both 17E and 17F 
modify 17D. 
 
Ms. McQuade continued to the second proposed warrant article which amends Clauses 41C and 
41D relative to tax exemptions. “To see if the Town will vote to amend MGL Ch. 59, 
§5(41C)(41D) (Elderly Exemptions), or take any other action relative thereto. For FY2026 the 
income level for an individual would increase from $24,000 to $31,500 and married income level 
would increase from $30,000 to $39,600. The single asset amount for an individual would 
increase from $40,000 to $52,700; and married couples would increase from $55,000 to $72,700. 
COLA provisions were accepted at the last Town Meeting and would apply to these income and 
asset amounts.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
Member Emkey asked for clarification on the amounts and Ms. McQuade informed that the 
proposed rate would bring it current to 2022. And COLA rates would be effective July 1, 2025 
for FY2026 to make the rates current. Town Manager Warren-Dyment questioned whether or not 
language needed to be added to incorporate the COLA to be applied or if it gets applied by 
Statute automatically. Ms. McQuade mentioned that at the last Town Meeting that was approved 
but will check with Counsel. Ms. McQuade noted that they currently have 121 real estate 
exemptions, of these 41C (to become 41D) there are 20 people that have applied and 2 were over 
the current income levels and if they do not qualify for 41C they can qualify for 17D. Six 
applicants were approved. No further discussion or action was taken by the Board. 
 
Presentation by Joeci Gilchrest Re: Spring All Vendor Fair 
Joeci Gilchrest, President of the Lunenburg Business Association presented to the Board the 
efforts and plans for a 1
st Annual Fair in the Town of Lunenburg. Fair is to be held Saturday May 
10, 2025 from 11:00 AM to 6:00 PM held by the Lunenburg Business Association and the 
Lunenburg Parks Department. Activities to include local vendors, food trucks, live music, petting 
zoo, inflatable axe throwing, sword fighting (local professional swordsman Dan Burns), face 
painting, and a dunk tank. There will also be an entrepreneur section and interactive 
entertainment. So far there are 52 confirmed table vendors; each will have 10x10 and 10x12 
spaces placed through the TC Passios green space. The fair will go from the front of TC Passios 
to the Teen Center. The Teen Center will also be a touch-a-truck and a jail break fundraiser and 
outdoor games such as cornhole and ring toss. The Adult Activity Center has authorized the use 
of their pavilion and seating area for live entertainment including a jazz band, John Gerard, and a 
folk singer. Local non-profits and organizations have been in support as well; the Eagle House 
will be setting up a photo booth, the Story School will be providing a scavenger hunt, Hollis 
Hills Farm will be providing a hayride shuttle service to assist with parking (which will be at the 
High School). The same day as the event, the Lunenburg Food Pantry will be receiving donations 
via the Post Office which they have been working in conjunction with the Post Office and DPW 
regarding road closures. Ms. Gilchrest added the possibility of incorporating a live drop-off 
during the event for attendees to donate to the Food Pantry. Member Moore inquired about 
approvals from Public Safety and the schools – Ms. Gilchrest is planning on having in-person 
meetings with various departments to make sure all necessary requirements are met.  
 
Ms. Gilchrest added the need for volunteers. The Parks Department has a signup sheet on their 
Facebook page. Chair Nuzzolo mentioned the Town can help share the signup forms. Ms. 
Gilchrest asked about anything additional to be aware of for applications and approvals. Member 
Moore mentioned any raffles for any vendor will need approval. One day liquor licenses would 
go through the Select Board and Town Manager Warren encouraged to submit soon as the 
process takes a bit of time to complete.  
 
Member Emkey wanted to make note regarding the food drive that she is unsure about blocking 
off the circle in front of TC Passios because of the need for multiple trips people will take 
delivering and dropping off food. Ms. Gilchrest has been in communication with them and they 
have set up a system to handle the traffic. Member Moore explained the need to inform the 
Police Department to have a traffic safety officer helping with traffic. 
 
The fair will have a rain date of May 11, 2025.  
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS  
Acknowledge the resignation of Sewer Commissioner Michael Mackin 
Acknowledge the resignation of School Committee Member Peter Beardmore 
Chair Nuzzolo acknowledged both long-time volunteers; their contributions are greatly 
appreciated.  
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
 
Project Updates: Bridge work on Flat Hill Rd at Catacoonamug Brook is starting. A 
portion of the road will be closed on Friday March 7, 2025. Detour route is in place and 
posted. Anticipated reopening is April 25, 2025.  Library Teen Room expansion Phase 1 
is largely completed. Phase 2 starts later this week. The first chimney is completed on the 
Town Hall Roof Replacement and Chimney Restoration project and the 2nd chimney has 
started. Invitation to Bid is out for Municipal Building Cleaning Services; a site visit was 
held February 28, 2025 with 25+ attendees and the date for bids has been extended from 
March 6th to March 12, 2025 at 10:00 AM to allow questions to be answered. 
 
General Updates: Attorney General sent notification of the approval of Town Articles 7, 
8, and 9 from the November 12, 2024 Town Meeting were approved.  
 
Recruitment: A candidate has accepted an offer for Assistant to the Sewer Business 
Manager position and will be on the March 11, 2025 meeting. The Screening Committee 
for the Police Chief has reviewed applications and interviews start March 12, 2025. 
Open positions are a seasonal Lifeguard, Seasonal Beach Director and a Library Page. 
 
Board and Committee Vacancies: Openings for the Agricultural Commission, 
 
 Architectural Preservation District Commission, Board of Health, Cultural Council, 
 Green Communities Committee, Historical Commission, Master Plan Steering   
 Committee, Personnel Committee, Public Access Cable Committee (PACC), Sewer  
 Commission, Stormwater Task Force, Zoning Board of Appeals  
 
Member Emkey inquired about the Town Hall chimney restoration and if there were any 
unexpected costs or roadblocks. Town Manager Warren-Dyment responded that there have been 
no unexpected costs, except for the placement of scaffolding which has been resolved, and the 
neighboring business had been cooperative through the process. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
Workplace Climate Policy: Member Moore volunteered to begin drafting Policy. 
 
Discussion on Select Board and Town Manager Goal-Setting Process: Board discussed 
scheduling workshop in the near future. 
 
Review and Discussion on Budget Task Force Recommendations: Chair Nuzzolo passed over 
until there is a full Board in attendance.  
 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
Discussion on FY2025 Budget, FY2026 Budget, Capital Plan, and Annual Town Meeting 
Warrant Articles: Town Manager presented Preliminary Budget to the Finance Committee last 
week. The biggest change is reducing the pavement management line to zero. Residents are 
asking for more data and request a reduction and not an elimination. Chapter 90 apportionment, 
$690,000, helps to offset as it is significantly more than last year’s appropriation (increase from 
$418,000). Ms. Warren-Dyment is open for all feedback. Member Emkey noted the large 
increase in Chapter 90 funding and inquired about the reason behind the increase. Ms. Warren-
Dyment responded that the Governor is asking for bond authorization from the Legislature and 
the amount is contingent on the bond being approved.  
 
Ms. Warren-Dyment stated considering the feedback from last week’s presentation, she would 
like to request to add an additional warrant article as a placeholder to supplement the pavement 
management line as a standalone article if the decision is to supplement that line with one-time 
funds such as free cash. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
Notice of Right of First Refusal for 100 Townsend Harbor Road: Chair Nuzzolo requested to 
discuss in more detail with a full Board present. The Chair included recommendations from the 
Planning Board and Conservation Commission that they reviewed the notice and found no 
related use for the property. The Agricultural Commission provided a recommendation the Chair 
read aloud. The Agricultural Commission is for the Town to preserve the property for the 
agricultural aesthetic, the potential use for passive recreation or a community garden. Open 
Space Ad Hoc Committee met and discussed the property which the Chair attended, and the 
Committee had expressed interest but did not provide a formal recommendation.  
 
Chair Nuzzolo inquired about the process of whether the Town were to purchase the property. 
Town Manager Warran-Dyment explained in the hypothetical, there would need to be an 
adjustment in the current budget to offset the cost and would start FY27 with no Free Cash. 
Chair Nuzzolo did have interest in the property though the financial impact would need more 
consideration. This discussion was tabled to continue to the next meeting.  
 
Consider Approval of Revised Regional 911 Emergency Communication District 
Agreement with Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District: Ms. Warren-Dyment explained 
this would adding the Town of Hudson to this agreement. This would change the original 
assessment for $212,000 to $206,000. The district is applying for grants through the E911 
Program. Member Moore made Motion to Authorize the Town Manager to Execute the 
revised 911 Emergency Communications District Agreement. Seconded by Member Emkey. 
Roll Call Vote: Member Emkey, Aye; Member Moore, aye. Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. Motion 
passed (3-0-0). 
 
Potential Vote to declare approximately 100 cubic yards of sand (previously obtained by 
Town at no cost) as surplus. Chair Nuzzolo wanted to give a thank you to Jim Lattanzi, a past 
long-time Lunenburg resident now residing in Fitchburg, while on vacation, arranged to have 
buckets of sand delivered to seniors to help fill the gap. Member Moore made Motion to 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
declare 100 cubic yards of sand as surplus. Member Emkey Seconded. Roll Call Vote: 
Member Emkey, Aye; Member Moore, aye. Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. Motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made Motion to Enter into Executive Session and to re-enter into Open 
session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an 
open meeting may have detrimental effect on the litigating position of the Town, and the 
Chair of the Board so declares. Member Moore Seconded. Roll Call Vote: Member Emkey, 
Aye; Member Moore, aye. Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. Motion passed (3-0-0). 
Executive Session began at 8:08 P.M.  
 
The Board re-entered Open Session at 9:21 P.M. 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
Regular Session Minutes for January 15, 2025; February 4, 2025; February 11, 2025; 
February 18, 2025. Chair passed over this agenda topic. 
 
Accounts Payable Warrant: $962,530.75. Member Moore recused from signing. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Master Planning Steering Committee: Member Moore read aloud a prepared statement. 
Member Moore went into detail of the efforts she has put into understanding the Master Plan 
process including reviewing meeting minutes, completing public surveys however the 
information regarding the process on deliverables have not been made available to the Steering 
Committee. The Committee has not been able to meet since May 30, 2024. The most recent 
meeting of March 3, 2025 it was discovered that the Planning Board had been discussing 
adjustments to the Master Plan Steering Committee structure but no official request was ever 
made to the Committee. Member Moore additionally noted in the last two Planning Board 
meetings it was incorrectly stated that the Select Board did not have a representative despite 
Member Moore’s appointment in June 2024. Member Moore requested a tri-board meeting 
potentially with the Planning Board, the Select Board and the Master Plan Steering Committee 
along with the hired consultants to get a thorough update on deliverables and what is 
outstanding.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  
Chair Nuzzolo announced the Board is meeting on March 11, 2025 and March 18, 2025 
 
TOWN MANAGER COMMENT 
None.
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 7 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
March 4, 2025 
David Passios, as the Vice Chair of the Green Communities Committee (noted he missed the 
agenda item for Communications from other Boards), wanted to pass on the information from 
the Chair that they received notification of $225,000 in Green Communities dollars they applied 
for in October has been awarded to the Town of Lunenburg. Funds will go toward the primary 
school heat pump system installation, primary and high school refrigeration controls, police 
cruisers, Primary school weather stripping, and a couple thousand for the administration of the 
grants by Town employees.  
 
BOARD COMMENTS 
None.  
 
ADJOURN 
 
Member Moore moved to adjourn.  Member Emkey seconded the motion. Roll Call Vote: 
Member Emkey, Aye; Member Moore, aye. Chair Nuzzolo, Aye. Motion passed (3-0-0). 
 
The Board adjourned at 9:28 PM. 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
 
Annie Aubrey, 
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday March 11, 2025 
 
Member Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes from March 4, 2025. Seconded 
by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
 