===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday, August 19, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Clerk Renee Emkey, Member Glenn McLeod, and 
Member Brian Lehtinen 
Members Absent: Vice-Chair Amanda Moore 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 6:06 PM. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) To 
discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body, and the Chair so declares 
(New England Police Benevolent Association, Local 353) and to enter into Executive 
Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) To discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an 
open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body 
(National Prescription Opiate Litigation and other matters) and to return to Open Session 
after exiting Executive Session.  Seconded by
 Member Lehtinen.  Roll Call Vote: Clerk 
Emkey-Aye; Member McLeod-Aye; Member Lehtinen-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
After exiting Executive Session led the Pledge of Allegiance. Chair Caesar Nuzzolo informed 
attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to 
YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but 
not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by 
open meeting law. 
 
SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS 
 
7:00 PM  Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Sean Zrate to the position of 
Lieutenant of the Lunenburg Police Department, effective August 19, 2025 
 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment stated that she recommends acting Lieutenant Sean 
Zrate to the position of Lieutenant of the Lunenburg Police Department. The Town Manager 
stated that he is a lifelong resident and attended Lunenburg High School. The Town Manager 
stated that he has a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice administration from Columbia Southern 
University. The Town Manager stated that he was first hired by the Police Department in 2009 as 
a reserve officer and was later appointed full-time in 2011. The Town Manager stated that he has 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
been the acting Lieutenant for eight months, and she said that he goes above and beyond. The 
Town Manager stated that she wholeheartedly supports the Police Chief’s appointment 
recommendation. The Town Manager thanked Acting Lieutenant Zrate and his family for their 
sacrifice.   
 
Acting Lieutenant Zrate stated that he is grateful to be considered for the opportunity to continue 
to serve his hometown in this capacity. 
 
Member Glenn McLeod thanked and congratulated Acting Lieutenant Zrate for his service to the 
Town of Lunenburg. Member Brian Lehtinen and Clerk Renee Emkey echoed similar statements. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to ratify Town Manager’s Appointment of Sean Zrate to the 
position of Lieutenant of the Lunenburg Police Department, effective August 19, 2025.  
Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-
0). 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board will take a brief recess. Chair Nuzzolo, after recess, resumed 
the meeting.  
 
7:10 PM  Response to Select Board Tax Investigation Report by Lynda Cajka, Principal 
Assessor 
 
The Town Manager described what had occurred before the meeting. The Town Manager stated 
that the Board of Assessors has made positive changes to ensure that this issue doesn’t occur in 
the future. 
 
Principal Assessor Cajka stated that the Select Board Tax Investigation Report was received on 
May 20, 2025. Principal Assessor Lynda Cajka provided an update on the Assessing 
Department's response to the Select Board's Tax Investigation Report. She noted that most of the 
report's recommendations had already been addressed since she joined the Town in July 2024. 
The department is now fully staffed and has implemented new policies and procedures to comply 
with Department of Revenue certification directives, including cyclical property inspections, 
annual sales verification, neighborhood and land value reviews, income and expense data 
collection, interim valuation adjustments, and Chapter land inspections. Ms. Cajka emphasized 
that the current Assessing Department staff were not employed during the FY2023 lakefront 
assessment issues, that DOR-required corrective actions are underway and will become standard 
annual practice, and that property tax abatements have declined. The Town Manager, Member 
McLeod, and Member Lehtinen thanked Ms. Cajka and the Assessing Department for their work 
in implementing these improvements. 
 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS 
 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
Appointment of Paulette Beardmore and Jeanne Dupre to the Lunenburg 300th 
Anniversary Committee 
 
Ms. Beardmore stated that she was born in Lunenburg and described her experience living in 
Lunenburg and raising her family.  
 
Ms. Dupre stated that she moved to Lunenburg in the 1950’s and described her family’s 
involvement in Lunenburg. Ms. Dupre stated that she has been on the Economic Development 
Committee for three years.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Paulette Beardmore and Jeanne Dupre to the 
Lunenburg 300th Anniversary Committee.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the 
vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that there will be a Touch-a-Truck event this Friday, August 22, 2025, 
from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at the Department of Public Works at 520 Chase Road. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Historical Society’s event, 25 Years of Memory of a Local 
Treasure: Whalom Park, is Saturday, September 13, 2025, from 12:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. at the 
Historical Society. 
 
Member Lehtinen announced that the Library is holding a meet and greet event with Lunenburg 
Public Schools Superintendent, Dr. Jodi Fortuna, tomorrow, August 20, 2025, from 1:30 p.m. to 
2:30 p.m.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Board Comment 
 
None.  
 
Public Comment 
 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle (via Zoom): Mr. Burden commented that he is concerned 
regarding issues with his family and the Town of Lunenburg. Mr. Burden stated that he is 
concerned that the Town Manager and the Select Board are not doing anything to address his 
family’s issues. Mr. Burden commented that he believes Town officials are harassing him and 
making disparaging comments on social media. Mr. Burden asked the Select Board to respond to 
his concerns. Mr. Burden stated that he has submitted public records requests that have not been 
responded to. 
 
===PAGE 4===
Page 4 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS (CONTINUED) 
 
Ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Victoria Leger as Videographer, Grade 3, Step 
3, effective August 20, 2025 
 
The Town Manager described Ms. Leger’s educational background in media arts and video and 
photographic arts. The Town Manager stated that Ms. Leger has work experience creating video 
content for Anna Maria College. 
 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Victoria Leger as 
Videographer, Grade 3, Step 3, effective August 20, 2025.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  
Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Appointment of Election Workers (Terms to begin September 1 through August 31, 2026) 
 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to appoint the following Election Works for terms to begin 
September 1, 2025 through August 31, 2026: Glen Reinhardt (R), 53 Pearl St – Warden; 
Judith Halligan (R), 29 Elizabeth St – Deputy Warden; Kathleen Pliska (D), 337 Whalom 
Rd – Clerk; Judy Haley (D), 184 Highland St – Clerk; Susan Andrews (D), 81 Horizon 
Island Rd – Inspector; Joanne Bergeron (D), 306 W. Townsend Rd – Deputy Inspector; 
Jane Ranley (R), 450 Leominster Rd – Inspector; Donna May, 277 Highland Street – 
Deputy Inspector.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
The Board acknowledged the resignation of Max Anderson, Equipment Operator, effective 
August 8, 2025; Matthew Allison, Planning Board Member, effective July 30, 2025; and Joseph 
Hurley from the Sewer Commission, effective August 13, 2025.  
 
TOWN MANAGER REPORT 
Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town is working with National Grid on a Portfolio 
Prioritization Plan through MassSave. The Town Manager stated that the plan is a high-level 
analysis of the buildings within the portfolio, and from this list, the Town will receive a 
prioritized list for electrification. The Town Manager stated that the report will include Turkey 
Hill, Middle/High School, Primary School, Library, Public Safety Building, DPW, Town Hall, 
Ritter Building, and Eagle House. The Town Manager stated that TCP is being considered; 
however, it may not include TCP due to the current decommissioning work. The Town Manager 
stated that the Portfolio Prioritization Plan is at no cost to the Town. 
 
The Town Manager thanked the entire legislative delegation for their efforts in securing $5 
million in funding for the area’s fire and emergency medical services. The Town Manager stated 
that this funding is intended to address the costs associated with the closure of Nashoba Valley 
Medical Center. The Town Manager stated that she is not aware yet how the funds will be 
===PAGE 5===
Page 5 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
distributed. The Town Manager stated that since this funding is not guaranteed for future years, 
she does not believe it should be used for operational expenditure. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Lunenburg Open Space & Recreation Plan has been extended 
for three years. The Town Manager thanked the Open Space Committee for applying for the 
extension, which will continue to allow the plan to be extended until June 2029. 
 
The Town Manager stated that on August 13, 2025, the Board of Assessors presented the Senior 
Means-Tested Tax Exemption to the Select Board for the goal of providing property tax relief to 
older homeowners. The Town Manager stated that the deadline to apply is September 3, 2025, 
and any resident who has questions can contact the Assessing Department. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health nursing hours will 
remain on pause through September and October due to staffing issues. The Town Manager 
stated that a new nurse will soon be onboarded. The Town Manager stated that the Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health are distributing a Community Health Survey that will be on the 
Town’s website for anyone to complete. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the department heads will have the established goals and 
objectives embedded into their annual goal setting. The Town Manager stated that this is a new 
endeavor for department heads. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town of Lunenburg is the first municipality in the State that 
had an animal pass away from West Nile Virus. The Town Manager stated that it was a goat that 
resided on Goodrich Street. The Town Manager stated that the Central Massachusetts Mosquito 
Control has been testing and sampling in the area, and she stated that there have been no other 
positive test results in that direct vicinity. The Town Manager stated that the Town is advising all 
residents to take appropriate precautions.  
 
The Town Manager stated that the Town offices will be closed on August 21, 2025, from 1:00 
p.m. to 4:00 p.m. for the annual employee appreciation event, where the first special merit 
awards will be presented. 
 
The Town Manager stated that Representative Scarsdale notified the Lunenburg Public Schools 
that they are receiving $24,234 from the Mass Cyber Grant program to upgrade three end 
switches that will enable patches and more enhanced security protocols. 
 
The Town Manager stated that the final FY26 Chapter 90 Apportionment came in $883,172.18. 
The Town Manager stated that during Town Meeting, the estimated apportionment was 
$690,000. The Town Manager stated that there is work being done now to identify ways to 
properly use the increased amount of funds.  
 
The Town Manager stated that following the joint meeting with the Select Board and the 
Municipal Building Design Committee, Taylor & Burns estimated that it would cost roughly 
$120,000 to continue the design process with them, which includes the Town Hall, Ritter 
Building, and the Brooks House. The Town Manager stated that if the Town decides to 
===PAGE 6===
Page 6 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
discontinue work with the current designers, it will cost roughly $210,000 for all three buildings. 
The Town Manager recommends that the Select Board hold a joint meeting with the Municipal 
Building Design Committee regarding next steps. 
 
The Town Manager stated that on August 4, 2025, there was a bid opening for the Wallace Park 
court resurfacing project. The Town Manager stated that there was one bid, and it was under 
budget. She stated that the Town will enter into a contract in the next few weeks with the vendor. 
The Town Manager stated that the access control project is underway, and she stated that access 
reader systems will be installed in the next several weeks. The Town Manager stated that the 
Town opened bids for the cleaning of municipal buildings. The Town Manager stated that the 
lowest bidder declined to enter into a contract, and now a notice of award was sent to the second 
lowest bidder.  
 
The Town Manager gave a recruitment update to the Board. The Town Manager stated the 
vacancies are a Dietary Aide position of nine hours per week, a Meal Site Worker at 36 hours per 
week, a Payroll and Benefits Coordinator at 32 hours per week, an Executive Assistant to the 
Town Manager/Select Board at 36 hours per week, an Equipment Operator at 40 hours per week, 
and a Videographer at 2-10 hours per week. The Town Manager stated that the Land Use 
Director will be posted this week.  
 
The Town Manager announced that there were vacancies on the following Boards, Committees, 
and Commissions: Agricultural Commission (1), Architectural Preservation District Commission 
(1), Cultural Council (2), Green Communities Committee (2 Associates), Historical Commission 
(1), Personnel Committee (5), Public Access Cable Committee (PACC) (1), Zoning Board of 
Appeals (1 Associate). 
 
The Town Manager announced that there is a vacancy on the Middlesex Small Town 
Collaborative and vacancies on the Montachusett Regional V ocational Technical School 
Committee.  
 
The Town Manager announced there were vacancies on the following elected Boards, 
Committees, and Commissions: Planning Board (1), Sewer Commission (1), and Trust Fund 
Commission (1). 
Member Lehtinen requested that the Town Manager reach out to the Planning Board to see if 
they will appoint a member to the Municipal Building Design Committee.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
Example: 
1. Vote to Set Date for Fall Special Town Meeting and Opening and Closing Date of the 
Warrant (proposed date of Special Town Meeting: November 18, 2025, Warrant Opening: 
August 20, 2025, and Warrant Closing: October 2, 2025 at 5:00 p.m.) 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to call a Special Town Meeting for Tuesday, November 18, 2025, at 
7:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Middle School Auditorium and open the warrant on August 20, 
2025, and close the warrant on October 2, 2025, at 5:00 p.m.  Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey.  
Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
===PAGE 7===
Page 7 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
 
2. Discussion on Warrant Articles to be Sponsored by the Select Board 
The Town Manager presented a list of potential warrant articles that she has identified for the 
Board. The Town Manager stated that the first on the list is a ramp easement with the abutter at 
21 Main Street. The Town Manager stated that there has been discussion about the merger of the 
Historic Commission and the Architectural Preservation District Commission. The Town 
Manager stated that due to the design of the Eagle House parking lot, the playground may have 
to be moved, which would mean that Kid’s Kingdom may need to be transferred from the School 
Committee’s care, custody, and control to the Select Board’s care, custody, and control. The 
Town Manager stated that there may be a proposed article to move already allocated funding of 
the TC Passios roof to another portion of the building for decommissioning work. The Town 
Manager stated that there may be a proposed article to change the Town Meeting notification to a 
postcard. The Town Manager stated that there will be proposed updates to the SAP. The Town 
Manager stated that the MBTA Community Zoning Act will be brought before Town Meeting. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo supports changing the Town Meeting notification to a postcard, instead of mailing 
the warrant. Chair Nuzzolo stated that it is very cumbersome in its current practice. Member 
McLeod agrees with Chair Nuzzolo. Clerk Emkey stated that there should be paper copies made 
available in physical locations, and that residents should be able to request a mailed copy of the 
warrant. The Town Manager stated that it costs roughly $7,000 a year to mail the physical 
warrant to every registered voter for every Town Meeting. Chair Nuzzolo stated that if the 
warrant isn’t mailed to every registered voter, it would extend the warrant being open for three 
more weeks. The Town Manager stated that she will draft language with Town Counsel. 
 
3. Discussion: Bring Your Own Bottle Policy 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that a Lunenburg business owner owns a nail salon and would like to offer 
a BYOB option for their customers. Chair Nuzzolo stated that currently, the BYOB element is 
directly tied to businesses that can apply for a Common Victualler’s License, meaning that a nail 
salon, which doesn’t serve food, cannot apply for a BYOB. The Town Manager stated that 
BYOB is not regulated by the ABCC; it is regulated by the local licensing authority. The Town 
Manager stated that the Board can consider allowing all businesses or certain businesses the 
ability to have BYOB. 
 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that he is concerned that if the Board decides to allow BYOB for 
businesses that do not sell food, that could be a public safety issue in regard to driving. Member 
Lehtinen stated that he has reservations about this and needs more information. Member McLeod 
stated that he sees this as a business-friendly opportunity to allow businesses the option of 
BYOB. The Board unofficially decided to decline to do further research regarding this request. 
The Town Manager stated that she will reach out to the business owner to see if they can do 
some research regarding this endeavor.  
 
4. Ratification of the Collective Bargaining Agreement with New England Police 
Benevolent Association, Local 353, FY26-FY28 
===PAGE 8===
Page 8 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that this item is tabled until a future meeting. 
 
5. Recommendations to the Master Plan Steering Committee on Master Plan Update 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Master Plan Steering Committee sent a request to all boards and 
committees to review the draft master plan. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Master Plan Steering 
Committee is looking to have the feedback back by October 1, 2025.  
 
6. Authorize the Town Manager to file Applications, Execute Agreements, and Other 
Necessary Documents Associated with the Clean Water State Revolving Fund Grant to the 
Town of Lunenburg for the Asset Management Inventory and Planning Project 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to whereas the Town of Lunenburg, after thorough investigation, 
has determined that the work activity consisting of asset management, inventory, and 
planning is both in the public interest and that to undertake this activity, it is necessary to 
apply for assistance. Whereas the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection 
and the Massachusetts Clean Water Trust of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts 
pursuant to Chapter 21 and Chapter 29C of the General Laws of the Commonwealth, 
Chapter 21 and Chapter 29C are authorized to provide financial assistance to 
municipalities for th purpose of funding, planning and construction activities relative to 
water pollution abatement projects and drinking water projects, and whereas the applicant 
has examined the provisions of the Act of Chapter 21 and Chapter 29C and believes it to be 
the public interest to file a loan application, now therefore, be it resolved by the Lunenburg 
Select Board as follows. One, that the Lunenburg Town Manager, is hereby authorized on 
behalf of the applicant to file applications and execute agreements for grant and or loan 
assistance, as well as furnishing such information, data, and documents pertaining to the 
applicant for a grant and/or a loan as may be required and otherwise to act as the 
authorized representative of the applicant in connection with this application; two that the 
purpose of said loans, if awarded, shall be to fund planning activities; and three that a set 
award is made the applicant agrees to pay those costs which constitute the required 
applicant share of the project cost.  Seconded by 
Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
7. Letter of Support to Legislative Delegation in Relation to the Nashoba Associated Boards 
of Health Retirement System 
The Town Manager stated that the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health were formed in 1918 
and have been officially in the State’s retirement pension system since 1967. The Town Manager 
stated that the employer contribution portion for the Nashoba Associated Boards of Health was 
never billed. The Town Manager stated that in 2014, the State Retirement System forgave the 
employer contribution portion before 2014; however, they currently have a growing liability 
since 2014. 
 
Member McLeod asked if it is financially viable for the Town of Lunenburg to be in the Nashoba 
Associated Boards of Health. The Town Manager stated that due to funding from the state-level 
for regional public health partnerships, the Town receives more enhanced services if the Town 
were not part of the Association.  
===PAGE 9===
Page 9 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
 
Motion by Clerk Emkey to approve the letter of support to the legislative delegation in 
relation to the Nashoba Associated Board of Health Retirement System.  Seconded by 
Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
8. Acceptance of Gifts (Monetary Donations) 
Motion by 
Clerk Emkey to approve the gift of $500.00 to the Council on Aging from the 
Lunenburg Friendly Senior.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
1. Discussion on Tri-Board Meeting of the Select Board, Finance Committee, and School 
Committee 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the next Tri-Board Meeting will occur next Tuesday at Town Hall and 
will be broadcast live. Chair Nuzzolo confirmed that there will be a quorum of the Board at the 
upcoming meeting.  
 
2. Discussion on Sick Leave Bank Policy 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that this item will be tabled until a future meeting.  
 
3. Accept Tax Investigation Report as Submitted 
The Board shared sentiments to remove the item from the agenda. 
 
4. Amend Use Agreement for the temporary use of classrooms at TC Passios by the Shapiro 
Educational and Behavioral Consultants 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the proposed amendment would allow the tenant to use the classrooms 
through December 31, 2025. Member McLeod asked if there will be additional use of TC 
Passios. The Town Manager stated that once the decommissioning is complete, there will be the 
ability to handle increases in usage of the facility. 
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to amend the use agreement for the temporary use of classrooms 
in TC Passios by the Shapiro Educational and Behavioral Consultants as described in the 
memo that lays out the amendments
.  Seconded by Member Lehtinen.  Call for the vote: 
Four-aye. The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
MINUTES/WARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS 
 
Warrants 
Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $454,861.77. Accounts Payable warrant in the 
amount of $21,046.31. 
 
Action Items 
===PAGE 10===
Page 10 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
The Town Manager stated that the Economic Development Committee would like a Select Board 
member appointed as a liaison for the Committee. Member McLeod volunteered to be the 
liaison.  
 
Motion by 
Chair Nuzzolo to appoint Glenn McLeod as the Select Board representative to the 
Economic Development Committee.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey.  Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
The Town Manager stated that this vote will be added to a future agenda item, where the Board 
will vote again to comply with best practices.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
 
Member McLeod stated that the Agricultural Commission’s farmer market is on Friday, 
September 12, 2025, from 4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at TC Passios. Member McLeod stated that the 
Agricultural Fair is scheduled for September 27, 2025, from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Member 
McLeod stated that the Zoning Board of Appeals, on July 23, 2025, approved a special permit 
request for relief to allow the use of townhouses on New West Townsend Road. Member 
McLeod stated that the planning board has a new administrative assistant. Member McLeod 
thanked Matt Allison for his service to the Planning Board. 
 
Member Lehtinen stated that the School Committee met on August 6, 2025, and they announced 
that Chris McNamara is Lunenburg Public School’s Business Administrator. Member Lehtinen 
stated that the Board of Assessors met on July 16, 2025. Member Lehtinen stated that the growth 
for FY26 assessed value dollars was $27,758.770; he stated that the assessed values were 
$398,615. 
 
Clerk Emkey stated that the Finance Committee met on August 15, 2025, and they are currently 
reviewing Town finance policies. Clerk Emkey stated that the Stormwater Task Force met on 
August 7, 2025. She stated that the Task Force has been meeting with CEI to form a fee structure 
based on impervious area. Clerk Emkey stated that the State has not released impervious data 
since 2016. Clerk Emkey stated that there have been several homes that have been built since 
2016, making the data obsolete. Clerk Emkey stated that finding accurate data may delay 
bringing forth the fee structure past May Town Meeting.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on Tuesday, August 26, 2025 
(Tri-Board). Chair Nuzzolo stated that he will not be able to attend on September 9, 2025, and 
September 16, 2025. Member Emkey stated that she will be unavailable during the week of 
September 16, 2025. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board will not reach quorum on the week of 
September 16, 2025.  
 
===PAGE 11===
Page 11 of 11 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
August 19, 2025 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Town Manager Comment 
None. 
 
Public Comment 
George Burden, 39 Cortland Circle (via Zoom): Mr. Burden stated that instead of individuals 
posting on social media about his family, they should reach out to him directly. 
 
Dave Rodgers (via Zoom): Mr. Rodgers asked for clarification about what may happen to Kids’ 
Kingdom, and he provided some background information regarding how the playground was 
formed. Mr. Rodgers stated that he is concerned with the proposed relocation of Kids’ Kingdom. 
 
Board Comment 
Member Emkey enjoyed the final Town Band Concert and thanked the organizers of the series.  
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Lehtinen moved to adjourn. Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Call for the vote: Four-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 9:13 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Anthony Senesi, 
Minute Clerk 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday July 21, 2026: 
 
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of April 30, 2026. Seconded 
by Clerk McLeod. Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
 
 
 