===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 3 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 15, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom 
Tuesday January 15, 2025 
 
Members Present: Caesar Nuzzolo, Michael Ray Jeffreys, Amanda Moore, Tom Alonzo, Renee 
Emkey 
Also Present: Carter Terenzini, Interim Town Manager 
Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes  
 
CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. 
Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and 
would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that 
may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought 
up as permitted by open meeting law. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
Dave Rodgers asked for clarification on the process used for selecting candidates and if Board 
Members would share their thoughts on the candidates who impressed them most. Caesar 
Nuzzolo confirmed there would be an open discussion. 
 
Dave Passios, formerly of Lunenburg and now a resident of Jefferson, New Hampshire, 
reiterated his previous comments that the Town Manager selection process should not be rushed. 
He expressed his personal opinion that the search should go back to the Committee. 
 
NAME A PREFERRED CANDIDATE FOR THE TOWN MANAGER POSITION 
 
Chair Nuzzolo provided background on the Town Manager search process, thanking the 
Screening Committee and Community Paradigm for their work. He noted that three highly 
qualified candidates were interviewed the previous night. 
 
Tom Alonzo suggested that each Board Member should speak about all candidates before any 
decisions are made. He then provided his assessment of the three candidates: 
• John Woods: Praised his leadership experience as DPW Director, focus on collaboration 
and communication. Noted his limited experience managing an entire town but viewed 
the position as a logical next step. 
• Angie Ellison: Highlighted her extensive Town Manager experience, financial 
background, and collaborative approach. 
• Jennifer Warren: Described her as energetic, data-driven, and having some Town 
Manager experience. Noted she would be new to full budget creation. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 3 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 15, 2025 
 
Member Moore: 
• Angie Ellison: Noted her significant infrastructure and project experience, DEI focus, and 
ability to reorganize operations. 
• Jennifer Warren: Praised her exceptional preparation and research on Lunenburg, focus 
on morale building and public engagement. 
• John Woods: Highlighted his extensive infrastructure and project management 
experience. 
 
Member Emkey: 
• Angie Ellison: Noted her experience as Town Administrator, focus on staff development 
and budget management. 
• Jennifer Warren: Highlighted her recent Town Administrator experience and honesty 
about challenges. 
• John Woods: Praised his municipal experience and project management skills. 
 
Member Jeffreys: 
• Angie Ellison: Praised her organizational management skills and education background. 
• Jennifer Warren: Noted her strong presentation skills but expressed concerns about 
resume accuracy. 
• John Woods: Highlighted his experience as a department head and perspective on 
supporting departments. 
 
Caesar Nuzzolo provided his assessment: 
• Angie Ellison: Praised her integrity, collaborative leadership style, and experience. 
• Jennifer Warren: Noted her extensive research on Lunenburg and strong communication 
skills. 
• John Woods: Highlighted his unique perspective as a department head and project 
management experience. 
 
The Board Members then discussed their preferred candidates.  
 
Renee Emkey moved to appoint Jennifer Warren-Dyment as Town Manager pending 
successful negotiation. Amanda Moore seconded the motion. Call for vote: Four-Yes. One-
No (Jeffreys).  Motion passed (4-1-0). 
 
OPEN THE ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT Caesar Nuzzolo introduced the vote to 
open the annual town meeting warrant and set deadlines. Carter Terenzini explained the request 
for an internal deadline of January 31 for non-citizen petition warrant articles. 
 
Member Alonzo moved to open the warrant on Wednesday, January 15 and close the 
warrant on Monday, March 17 with the internal deadline as described by the Interim Town 
===PAGE 3===
Page 3 of 3 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
January 15, 2025 
Manager. Member Jeffreys seconded the motion. Call for vote: Five- Yes.  Motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Carter Terenzini suggested scheduling a potential meeting for January 28th to discuss contract 
negotiations if needed. The Board agreed to add this meeting to the calendar. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to enter into executive session at 7:04 P.M. pursuant to MGL chapter 
30, subsection 21(a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and 
the chair so declares. Member Alonzo seconded the motion. The motion passed 
unanimously by roll call vote: Member Emkey, Aye; Member Alonzo, Aye; Member Moore, 
Aye; Member Jeffreys, Aye; Chair Nuzzolo, Aye (5-0-0). 
 
Adjourn 
The meeting entered executive session and did not reconvene in open session. 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Annie Aubrey 
Executive Assistant to the Town Manager 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday March 11, 2025 
 
Member Emkey made the Motion to Approve the minutes from January 15, 2025. 
Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. Motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 