===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Monday, September 15, 2025 
5:00 PM 
AGENDA 
Virtual Meeting Only- Zoom 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) and will be uploaded to the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting.  Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the 
Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI 
Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI 
Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application.  You are hereby notified that this AI technology 
may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting.  This meeting will be held 
virtually on Zoom.  
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate  in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:  
https://zoom.us/j/9091740347 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 909-174- 
0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e -mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the  meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Vote s may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
5:00 PM CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE 
 
I. APPOINTMENTS 
Bicycles Battling Cancer Ride Request to Pass through Lunenburg on September 21, 2025 
 
II. EXECUTIVE SESSION 
Motion to Enter into Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to conduct strategy with respect to litigation if 
an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.   
 
III. UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
•  September 23, 2025, September 30, 2025 (Tri-Board Meeting) 
 
 