===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 2 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 22, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Remote Meeting by Zoom 
Tuesday, May 22, 2025 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Amanda Moore, Clerk Renee Emkey, 
Member Brian Lehtinen 
Members Absent: Member Glenn McLeod 
Also Present: Joint Meeting with the Sewer Commissioners: Vice-Chair Brett Ramsden and 
Clerk Scott Dall, Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment, and Sewer Business Manager Andrew 
Valliere 
 
CALL TO ORDER  
 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:03 PM. Vice-Chair Brett Ramsden of the 
Sewer Commissioners called meeting of the Sewer Commissioners to order at 7:07 PM.  Roll 
Call: Caesar Nuzzolo: Present, Amanda Moore: Present, Renee Emkey: Present, Brian Lehtinen: 
Present, and Glenn McLeod: Present.  For the Sewer Commissions, Brett Ramsden: Present and  
Scott Dall: Present 
 
JOINT MEETING WITH SEWER COMMISSION TO APPOINT SEWER 
COMMISSIONERS 
 
Daniel Proctor, Joseph Hurley, and Arthur Katsis were present on the Zoom, having submitted 
applications to serve on the Sewer Commission. 
 
Motion by Scott Dall, Seconded by Brett Ramsden to appoint Joseph Hurley to the Sewer 
Commission to serve until the next Town Election.  Roll Call Vote: Dall-aye, Ramsden- aye.  
The motion passed unanimously (2-0-0). Roll Call Vote: Moore-aye, Emkey- aye, Lehtinen- 
aye, and Nuzzolo-aye.  The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
Chair Nuzzolo and the Sewer Commissioners thanked Mr. Hurley for his contribution to the 
Sewer Commission and willingness to continue being a member. 
 
Daniel Proctor introduced himself as a local business owner of two car washes in town that 
utilizes the sewer system.  He stated he also owns a construction business in Lunenburg and 
looks forward to helping serve his community
. 
 
Motion by Scott Dall, Seconded by Brett Ramsden to appoint Daniel Proctor to the Sewer 
Commission to serve until the next Town Election.  Roll Call Vote: Dall-aye, Ramsden- aye.  
The motion passed unanimously (2-0-0). Roll Call Vote: Moore-aye, Emkey- aye, Lehtinen- 
aye, and Nuzzolo-aye.  The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 2 
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
May 22, 2025 
Arthur Katsis introduced himself as a resident of Lunenburg who is a veteran and is looking to 
serve the community.   
 
Motion by Scott Dall, Seconded by Brett Ramsden to appoint Arthur Katsis to the Sewer 
Commission to serve until the next Town Election.  Roll Call Vote: Dall-aye, Ramsden- aye.  
The motion passed unanimously (2-0-0). Roll Call Vote: Moore-aye, Emkey- aye, Lehtinen- 
aye, and Nuzzolo-aye.  The motion passed unanimously (4-0-0). 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Motion by Member Lehtinen, seconded by Vice-Chair Moore to adjourn at 7:26 PM.  Roll 
Call Vote: Vice-Chair Moore-aye; Clerk Emkey-aye; Member Lehtinen-aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. 
The motion passed (4-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:26 P.M. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
 
Jennifer Warren-Dyment 
Town Manager 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on:  
Tuesday June 17, 2025 
 
Chair Nuzzolo made the Motion to Approve the minutes from May 22, 2025. Seconded by 
Vice-Chair Moore. Call for the vote: Four-aye. One-abstain (McLeod).  Motion passed (4-0-
1). 
 