===PAGE 1===
 
Page 1 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Town of Lunenburg Select Board Meeting Minutes Town Hall, 17 Main Street and via Zoom Tuesday, April 1, 2025  Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Clerk Amanda Moore, Member Tom Alonzo, and Member Renee Emkey Members Absent: None Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment Town Manager Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes   CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and led the Pledge of Allegiance. Chair Nuzzolo informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to Y ouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  PUBLIC COMMENT  Board Comment None.  Public Comment Darrye Plante, 490 Lancaster Avenue: commented that he opposes the School override. He stated that he believed that the Superintendent was a diversity, equity, and inclusion and critical race theory supporter. He commented that he has a son in Lunenburg Public Schools. He commented that all students should be challenged equally and that giving low-performing students more resources than high-performing students is ruining Lunenburg Public Schools.   John Bowen, 162 Highland Street: commented regarding how he believes the Cemetery Commission stifled public comment at their meeting on March 27, 2025. He commented that the First Amendment does not allow government officials to silence the public. He commented that he believes the Cemetery Commission is engaging in viewpoint discrimination. He commented that he believes he conducted himself in the same fashion as the Cemetery Commission did at a prior meeting. He commented that he believes that confidential information has been leaked to the public.   ANNOUNCEMENTS  Chair Nuzzolo announced that Dog License applications were due today, April 1, 2025. Chair Nuzzolo stated that dog tags are available to be picked up at the Town Clerk’s Office if an application has been submitted. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Page 2 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Chair Nuzzolo announced that changes in trash collection pick-up routes will be in effect next week. He stated that some Monday pick-up roads have been moved to Wednesday, and some Thursday pick-up roads have been moved to Friday. He stated that he recommended residents review the schedule on the Town’s website or social media.  Chair Nuzzolo announced that the All-V endor Fair is May 10, 2025, from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. at TC Passios.  COMMUNICATIONS FROM OTHER BOARDS None.   SCHEDULED MEETINGS AND HEARINGS  7:05 PM Public Hearing for a Flammable Storage License for Keeping and Storing of Four (4) 1,000 Gallon Propane Tanks for DiLeo Gas Co. on behalf of Owner Sunshine Nominee Trust at 181 Kilburn Street Clerk Amanda Moore read the public hearing notice.  Brian Sora, DiLeo Gas Co., stated that the four 1,000-gallon propane tanks will be used for a greenhouse and a family farm. Mr. Sora stated that the proposal will increase capacity for a separate greenhouse. Mr. Sora stated that there is an existing tank that is away from the proposed tank placement. Mr. Sora stated that his company has communicated with the Fire Department, and he said he believes they are okay with the plan. Mr. Sora stated that the Fire Department would do a final inspection, and all NFPA codes would be followed. Mr. Sora stated that the Fire Department requests crash protection surrounding the proposed storage tanks.  Member Renee Emkey asked how close the proposed tank is to the existing tanks. Mr. Sora stated that he doesn’t have the exact distance, but he estimates the tanks to be a few hundred feet away. Stephen Violet, 677 Northfield Road, stated that the existing tanks are on other properties a few miles away.  Vice-Chair Michael-Ray Jeffreys asked where the septic system was on the property. Mr. Violet stated that it is an APR site and there are no septic systems on site. Mr. Violet stated that there is one diesel tank on site that is at least 4,000 feet away from the proposed tank and is located at 554 Lancaster Avenue.   Vice-Chair Jeffreys asked where the nearest abutter/residential property to the proposed tank would be. Mr. Violet stated that the closest abutting residence would be at the corner of Lancaster Avenue and Kilburn Street. Mr. Violet stated that the nearest abutting residence is at least 3,000 feet away. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he would have appreciated that the requestors provide a more comprehensive map that outlines where abutters are located.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Page 3 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Devon Shea, 612 Lancaster Avenue (via Zoom): stated that she lives on the property that has been referenced at the corner of Lancaster Avenue and Kilburn Street. Ms. Shea asked if the tanks would be above ground or below ground. Mr. Sora stated that the proposed tank will be above ground. Ms. Shea asked where the new tank and greenhouse would be in relation to her property. The Select Board shared the map with the audience.  Darryl Plante, 490 Lancaster Avenue: stated that he is a neighbor and an abutter. He asked that, now that the water protection districts have been redrawn, how does this affect the property since it is now in Zone 2. Mr. Sora stated that since the propane tank is above ground, this does not affect the water. Mr. Sora stated that propane is non-toxic when it is in contact with water. Mr. Sora stated that his company is requesting this on behalf of the owner because the storage capacity is above the by-right maximum. Mr. Sora stated that the increased capacity would be to eliminate the need for diesel vehicles to be constantly commuting in and out of the area. Mr. Sora stated that he does not have any indication that the proposed storage tank is conflicting with the new Zone 2 regulations.   Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that the proposed greenhouse is close to the nearby brook. Mr. Violet stated that in consultation with his hired consultant and the Conservation Commission, the greenhouse was moved 200 feet away.  Rhonda Lisio, 181 Reservoir Road: commented that she was under the impression that the water district protection area falls under the purview of MassDEP .  Clerk Moore stated that she reviewed the bylaws, and it states that in Zone 2 of the water protection district regulations, liquified petroleum gas is allowed.  Motion by Member Alonzo to close the public hearing. Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Motion by Member Alonzo to approve the Flammable Storage License for Keeping and Storing of Four (4) 1,000 Gallon Propane Tanks for DiLeo Gas Co. on behalf of Owner Sunshine Nominee Trust at 181 Kilburn Street, with the condition that the Conservation Agent approves the request. Seconded by Clerk Moore.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  7:15 PM Ambulance Write-Off Request by Patrick Sullivan, Fire Chief and Ezequiel Ayala, Finance Director Ezequiel Ayala, Finance Director, stated that the quarterly Ambulance Write-Off request is $19,546.36. Patrick Sullivan, Fire Chief, stated that in the future, this would occur every six months, rather than quarterly.  Motion by Member Alonzo to approve and accept ambulance write-off request of $19,546.36 as presented by Patrick Sullivan, Fire Chief, and Ezequiel Ayala, Finance Director. 
===PAGE 4===
 
Page 4 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  7:20 PM State of the Organization Presentation (Review of Recent Employee Separations and Exit Interviews) by Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director stated that the State of the Organization includes vacancy data including reasons for employee departures, the duration of open positions, and other contributing factors. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that compiling this information required extensive time and effort to complete. She stated that an extensive review of exit interviews and employee records had to be completed to ensure what information could be shared publicly. She described the former Town Manager’s departure, and the Interim Town Manager’s arrival, as well as revisions to the SAP and over three dozen procurement projects that caused the delay in completing the requested information.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that she polled other municipalities in North Central Massachusetts in regard to higher than usual turnover, employee morale issues, and recruitment challenges. She stated that she received a limited number of responses. She stated that the responses regarding higher than turnover are due to higher increased workloads, competition with private sector jobs, and employees seeking better pay flexibility, and/or less public abuse. She stated that the poll results stated that morale declined with the rise in public hostility. She stated that other responses included that turnover was not higher than normal, and that morale had become stronger after the COVID-19 pandemic. She stated that the responses included reviewing compensation as an important element.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that there were 38 total Town employee departures in the past two years. She stated that of those 38, five were on-call fire positions, 21 full-time positions (including six retirements), and 12 part-time positions (including two retirements). She stated that the primary reasons for departure include eight retirements, two career changes, one termination, one was not a good fit for them, two moved, two were non-responsive (on-call Fire positions), and 22 were due to a new job/personal reasons.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that comments shared through exit interviews included commission expectations, other summer commitments, second job leading to long days, conflict with supervisor, lack of communication with upper management, lack of tools, Town politics, wages, external working conditions, focus on education, influences from boards or committees resulting town management decisions that were not necessarily in the best interest of the Town, need for more hours, MUNIS issues, health issues, lack of understanding from boards and committees.   Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau described responses from each exit interview question. The first question asks the employees what influenced their decision to leave. She stated that most said that a new job is why they are leaving. She stated that the most common responses include a need for more hours or career changes/growth, and wages. 
===PAGE 5===
 
Page 5 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that most respondents enjoyed working in Lunenburg because of the people, but they believed the wages were low. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that she will share the information with the Town Manager and if appropriate, the department head.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that vacancies are posted on internal bulletin boards in each building, Town website, social media, Lunenburg Ledger, association pages (ex. Massachusetts Municipal Association), Handshake, Chamber of Commerce, and Central Mass Hire. She stated the Town started a LinkedIn page.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that the pool of candidates is slim for more specialized positions, causing the position to be vacant for months. She stated that the Town is competing against other nearby municipalities. She stated that the Director of Land Use was the longest vacant position due to candidates not having experience in overseeing building or conservation divisions. She stated that other nearby positions were offering similar rates in pay without the responsibility of managing the building and conservation aspects. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that vacant positions are not due to a lack of effort by her or department heads in finding qualified candidates. She stated that she reaches out directly to her network and connections to try and identify qualified candidates.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that the Town will be implementing strategies, the first being retention and engagement initiatives, including salary reviews, in-house training, professional development, employee listening sessions, employee luncheons, goal setting, and employee service awards. She stated that the second strategy is recruitment and hiring initiatives, including adjustments to the SAP , adding part-time employee benefits such as holiday, vacation, and sick pay benefits. She said additionally, a wider competitive salary range for positions would improve the recruitment and quality of candidates and retain the quality employees the Town already employs. She stated that the third strategy is workplace enhancements. She described the hours of operation as a good work-life balance and focused more on succession planning, providing employees opportunities for career growth, employee listening sessions, and continuing the employee newsletter.  Clerk Moore stated that she appreciates her efforts and has noticed changes in morale. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau provided the Board with a presentation and an overview of the FY26 Salary Schedule and Process for the Salary Administration Plan. She stated that the Board approved a salary schedule review of 23 competitive municipalities, and 14 responded after several attempts.  She stated that in the past, two attempts were made for a comprehensive SAP review, but both times, it failed. She stated that after the March 19, 2025, Select Board meeting, several SAP employees reached out to the Town Manager on the proposed FY26 2 ½ COLA. She stated that she and the Town Manager had a meeting with SAP employees. She stated that SAP employees believed that there was a lack of parity between the SAP employees and the clerical union who 
===PAGE 6===
 
Page 6 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
will be receiving a 5 ½ % increase. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that the Town Manager said to SAP employees that adjusting the COLA is not likely a long-term fix but an intermediary measure until a classification and compensation study is conducted and implemented through the Town Meeting process. She stated that the SAP employees expressed a strong desire for a 3% instead of a 2 ½ & COLA. She stated that the Town Manager described to SAP employees the process by which, if the Personnel Board is absent. She stated that the Town Manager would organize an employee working group to bring forth recommendations to the Board in the coming months. She stated that SAP employees were in favor of having a professional classification and compensation study completed in FY27 and agreed that the current classifications need to be revised.  Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that she recommends to the Board a 3% COLA for SAP employees for FY26. She stated that it is roughly $43,406, which is a $7,300 increase compared to the cost of a 2 ½ COLA. She stated that this affects 44 employees. She recommends that the Town continue to conduct regular salary surveys to ensure competitiveness, hire a consultant to reform the Town classification and compensation plan for FY27, and allocate budgetary provisions to accommodate necessary salary adjustments for FY27 while ensuring fiscal sustainability. She stated that a separate town meeting article to reclassify the DPW Director from grade 16 to grade 17 will be brought forth. She stated that creating a new position titled Communications & IT Manager will take on more outreach and communications and serve as the liaison between the IT consultant and the Town. She stated that in the coming months, she will begin the process to conduct a classification and compensation study through an external consultant.  Member Alonzo stated that he supports the 3% COLA. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that the current IT Administrative Assistant will be reclassified as the Communications & IT Manager. Member Alonzo stated that the DPW Director is below benchmark.  Clerk Moore stated that she would like to review all 14 municipality responses. Clerk Moore stated that she will be reviewing to see if the SAP employees should receive a higher than 3% COLA.  Vice-Chair Jeffreys recommends a standard all-employee benefit package that would span all employees. Vice-Chair Jeffreys recommends an internship program and a high school pipeline program. Vice-Chair Jeffreys recommends working with Fitchburg State University. Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment stated that she is working with Town Counsel on determining municipal internship guidelines.  Member Emkey asked what occurred with the past external consultant who did a comprehensive review. Assistant Town Manager/HR Director Belliveau stated that the review didn’t appropriately consider comparable municipalities. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the 
===PAGE 7===
 
Page 7 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
new search for a consultant will include more specific stipulations for the winning candidate to follow.  APPOINTMENTS, RATIFICATIONS, AND RESIGNATIONS  Ratification of the Town Manager’s Appointment of Inspector of Animals, Kathy Comeau, 806 West Street (term May 1, 2025 – April 30, 2026) Chair Nuzzolo stated that the State wanted to have the appointment occur earlier than what normally occurs for all other appointments.  Motion by Member Alonzo to ratify the Town Manager’s Appointment of Inspector of Animals, Kathy Comeau, 806 West Street for a term from May 1, 2025 to April 30, 2026.  Seconded by Member Emkey.  Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  TOWN MANAGER REPORT Town Manager Warren-Dyment provided her Town Manager report to the Board. The Town Manager stated that yesterday, the Governor of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts signed legislation to extend remote meeting participation through June 30, 2027.  The Town Manager stated that the third quarter of FY25 was completed yesterday. She stated that the Finance Director ran a report for local receipts. She stated that the Town has collected $2,018,976.67. She stated that the projected amount is $3,361,988.50. She stated that this is similar to the trend compared to last year. She stated that the Town is on target in regard to motor vehicle excise taxes.  The Town Manager stated that the Town received notice that UMass Memorial Health has applied for a satellite emergency facility to the Massachusetts Department of Public Health to address the closure of Nashoba. She stated that the proposed site is in the Town of Groton. She stated that this would also provide radiology, imaging, and laboratory services.  Last week, the Town Manager attended the Joint Committee on Ways and Means for the FY26 Budget Hearing, focusing on local aid. She stated that the Superintendent and members of the School Committee were in attendance as well. Representative Scarsdale has reached out to her regarding requests for local earmarks. She stated that she provided Representative Scarsdale with four projects under $50,000, including security system upgrades for the School District, management and eradication of invasive weeds at Marshall Pond, design and engineering for the Lunenburg Primary School, and interior improvements at the adult activity center. The Town Manager stated that Representative Scarsdale has moved forward with the request for security system upgrades for the School District. Vice-Chair Jeffreys recommended that in the future, the Select Board should solicit earmark requests in the month of January as it traditionally does. The Town Manager agreed.  
===PAGE 8===
 
Page 8 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
The Town Manager stated that the Finance Committee Public Hearing is meeting Thursday, April 3, 2025, at 7:00 p.m.  The Town Manager stated that the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission has applied to the Municipal Vulnerability Preparedness (MVP) grant program to fund a project that will survey small local farmers to understand the impact of climate change on their operations and allow for examination of zoning and general bylaws to evaluate potential changes that would support regional agriculture. She stated that the Lunenburg Agricultural Commission signed a letter of support in favor of the application.  The Town Manager provided an update regarding the Flat Hill Bridge project. She stated that the Kenefick Corporation, which was doing work on the bridge, had to pause construction due to the water level rising three feet. She stated that Kenefick requested a one-year extension, citing their ability to control the water. She stated that the DPW Director responded formally to the request, denying the extension. She stated that the DPW Director has been consulting with Town Counsel. She stated that Kenefick has removed most of their equipment, and the DPW Director has asked MassDOT to inspect the bridge to open it to vehicular traffic.  The Town Manager stated that the cleaning contract for municipal buildings is now under contract as of today. She stated that the Town is putting out an IFB for roadway maintenance, fog seal, and crack seal, and the due date will be April 23, 2025, with an anticipated start date of June 2, 2025. She stated that the estimated cost is $233,000, and it is 9.52 miles of fog seal and 6.99 miles of crack seal. She stated that the Town Hall roof project is expected to be completed soon and is proceeding as expected. She stated that the ongoing work at the adult activity center is proceeding as expected. She stated that landscaping contractors have completed Spring cleanups at Marshall Park.  The Town Manager described the current vacancies, including the Executive Assistant to the Town Manager, at 36 hours per week. She stated that there is an offer pending for the part-time sewer business manager position. She stated that there are pending seasonal lifeguards and cemetery laborers. She stated that there is an offer pending for the 10-hour a week Conservation Administrative Assistant. She stated that the Library Paige position has been filled.  The Town Manager described all board and committee vacancies, including the Agricultural Commission (1 Member), Architectural Preservation District Commission (1 Member), Board of Health (1 Member), Green Communities (2 Associate Members), Historical Commission (2 Members), Personnel Committee (5 Members), PACC (1 Member), Sewer Commission (1 Member), Stormwater Task Force (1 Member), Zoning Board of Appeals (1 Member).  Clerk Moore asked about the Flat Hill Bridge contractor’s water control plan. The Town Manager stated that it does not appear that the contractor considered this within their water control plan.   
===PAGE 9===
 
Page 9 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
OLD BUSINESS  1. Discussion and Potential Votes to Recommend Approval on Annual Town Meeting Articles Chair Nuzzolo went through each article in order as it was presented.  Warrant Article 1: authorization to hear or accept the reports of officers and committees of the Town. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 2: authorization to borrow in anticipation of revenue and to enter into a compensating balance agreement with the bank. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.  Warrant Article 3: authorization to expend funds in anticipation of reimbursements of State highway assistance aid Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 4: revolving funds Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 4 as described. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 5: authorization to pay expenses from a prior fiscal year Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to defer Article 5 to Town Meeting. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 6: FY25 Budget Adjustments Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to defer Article 6 to Town Meeting. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 7: FY25 Closeouts Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to defer Article 7 to Town Meeting. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 8: FY26 Capital Program Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she has removed the phrase with the Town Counsel’s guidance, “as generally illustrated below”. The Town Manager stated that Town Counsel recommended that the full grid be included in the warrant rather than being referenced in the Capital Planning Committee’s report.  Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 8 as described. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 9: Lunenburg Middle School Track and Field Complex 
===PAGE 10===
 
Page 10 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Motion by Member Alonzo to remove Article 9 from the May Town Meeting warrant. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 10: Authorization to Fund Special Projects Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the article hasn’t changed except for Item B for cemetery road network repair. She stated that at the Finance Committee meeting, they recommended that the pilot Grant Writer position be swapped out with the cemetery road network repair.   Member Alonzo stated that the total amount included currently for the article doesn’t add up with the items. He stated that the total amount is $152,500.  Motion by Member Alonzo to re-recommend approval for Article 10 to Town Meeting. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 11: FY26 Omnibus Budget Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board previously voted to include the article in the warrant, but has not yet recommended it.  Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 11 as described. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 12: Citizens’ Petition – Override Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that Town Counsel determined that the Board cannot modify the language of the Citizens’ Petition.  Clerk Moore stated that she supports the Lunenburg Public Schools. She stated that she has a responsibility to be mindful of the financial outlook. Clerk Moore stated that she will be voting no on placing the Citizens’ Petition on the ballot because it only addresses one element of the larger problem.  Chair Nuzzolo stated that it is difficult to recommend an override if the School Committee does not support it.   Member Alonzo stated that he agrees with Clerk Moore. Member Alonzo stated that proper financial planning is needed in the future to justify an override.   Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he would not support a Proposition 2 ½ Override Ballot Question and would not support the Citizens’ Petition override. Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he is concerned that there may be a $4-5 million override next year or a multi-year override. Chair Nuzzolo agreed with Vice-Chair Jeffreys. 
===PAGE 11===
 
Page 11 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Member Emkey stated that there needs to be proper planning and outreach, and engagement with voters for next year.   Motion by Member Alonzo to disapprove of Article 12. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 13: Supplement to the Lunenburg Public Schools FY26 Operating Budget Chair Nuzzolo stated that this article would transfer $500,000 from certified Free Cash to the Schools.   Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that if the override passes, this article will not move forward. She stated that language is included in the article to reflect that.  Motion by Member Alonzo to include Article 13 as described in the Town Meeting warrant. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 13 as described. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 14: Amendments to the Salary Administrative Plan (SAP) Position, Titles, Grades Clerk Moore stated that she supports the Board recommending the article; however, she would like the data that was gathered for the survey before making her decision.   Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board will vote to consider recommending the article at the next Board Meeting.  Warrant Article 15 Clerk Moore stated that she supports the Board recommending the article; however, she would like the data that was gathered for the survey before making her decision.   Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board will vote to consider recommending the article at the next Board Meeting.  Warrant Article 16: Holiday Pay for On-Call Firefighters Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 17 & 18: Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that she would like to keep this article on the warrant to convey what the Town is foregoing by using Free Cash to fund the School District.  
===PAGE 12===
 
Page 12 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend that the Town Meeting take no action on Article 17 and Article 18. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 19: Appropriate Free Cash to the OPEB Trust Fund Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 20: Establish a Reserve Fund for Future Payment of Accrued Liabilities for Compensated Absences Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 21: Appropriation to the Compensated Absence Reserve Fund Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 21 as described. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 22: Transfer Funds to the OPEB Sewer Trust Fund Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 23: FY26 Sewer Enterprise Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 24: Sewer Inflow and Filtration Stabilization Fund Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 25: Sewer Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 26: Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that the amount is $500,000. Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend approval of Article 26 as described. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 27: Water Enterprise Fund Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 27 as described. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 28: Public Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise Fund Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 28 as described. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 29: Flood Plain Map Update Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   
===PAGE 13===
 
Page 13 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Warrant Article 30: ADU Bylaw Update Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Board voted to recommend approval at a prior meeting.   Warrant Article 31: Amending Clauses 17 E, D, F Relative to Tax Exemptions Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that Town Counsel has questions and comments for the Board of Assessors as to what they are aiming to do with Articles 31 & 32. Town Manager Warren-Dyment stated that Brian Laffond and Town Counsel are meeting this week to go over the basis of the text.  Warrant Article 33: Citizens’ Petition – Cemeteries Member Alonzo stated that the format for the Petition is unclear to follow. He stated that he disagrees with the roles and responsibilities. He stated that the Board cannot modify the Petition.  Motion by Member Alonzo to recommend disapproval of Article 33 as described. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 34: Marshall Park Design Debt Exclusion Member Alonzo stated that the Park Design is planned and designed appropriately. Member Emkey stated that they have a clear and defined plan.   Motion by Vice-Chair Jeffreys to recommend approval of Article 34 as described. Seconded by Chair Nuzzolo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  Warrant Article 35: Municipal Building Design Chair Nuzzolo stated that this article will be tabled for discussion and vote until the next meeting.  2. Discussion and Potential Vote to Include Proposition 2 ½ Override Ballot Question on Annual Town Election Warrant Motion by Member Alonzo to not place a Proposition 2 ½ Override Ballot Question Annual Town Election Warrant. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  3. Discussion on FY2025 Budget, FY2026 Budget, Capital Plan, and Annual Town Meeting Warrant articles None  CURRENT BUSINESS 1. Approval of May 17, 2025 Annual Town Election Warrant Chair Nuzzolo stated that this will be tabled for a future Board meeting.  2. Select Board Report to Annual Town Meeting on the Brooks House 
===PAGE 14===
 
Page 14 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Municipal Building Design Committee will be meeting regarding making a presentation and report to the Board regarding the future of the Brooks House.   3. Letter to Congressional Delegation regarding funding for the Institute of Museum and Library Services Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Library Director requested that the Board approve submitting a letter to the Town’s Congressional Delegation regarding proposed funding cuts for the Institute of Museum and Library Sciences. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Mayor of the City of Worcester wrote the original letter.   Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that he does not want to comment on Federal issues and that the letter will not do anything. He stated that he supports the Public Library.  Member Alonzo stated that this affects Massachusetts and local communities and public libraries. Member Alonzo stated that this legislation may cause a decrease in funding for the Lunenburg Public Library. He stated that he will support the letter.  Motion by Member Alonzo to have the Board sign on to the Congressional Delegation letter regarding funding for the Institute of Museum and Library Sciences and authorize the Chair to sign the letter digitally as provided by the City of Worcester. Seconded by Clerk Moore. Call for the vote: Four – Aye. One – Nay (Vice-Chair Jeffreys). The motion passed (4-1-0).  MINUTES/W ARRANTS/ACTION ITEMS  Regular Session Minutes January 23, 2024; March 11, 2025. Clerk Moore stated that the March 11, 2025 minutes have Member Alonzo’s name misspelled. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the minutes will be approved at a future meeting with the appropriate corrections.  Action Items None.  Warrants Clerk Moore recused herself. Accounts Payable warrant in the amount of $717,386.23.  COMMITTEE REPORTS  Member Emkey stated that the School Committee is meeting tomorrow. She stated that they hired a Facilities Director and his first day is the next day.   
===PAGE 15===
 
Page 15 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
Member Alonzo stated that he met with the subcommittee of the Board of Assessors regarding finalizing the Senior Tax Write-Off. He said that they are finalizing the application form. He stated that the Finance Committee met last week.  Clerk Moore stated that the Economic Development Committee met on March 27th. She stated that the Master Plan Steering Committee is scheduled to meet on April 9th.  Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that the Municipal Building and Design Committee has a meeting coming up on Monday. He stated that there will be open houses scheduled for municipal buildings in coordination with the Town Manager.  Chair Nuzzolo stated that he attended meetings of the Superintendent Screening Committee all last week. Chair Nuzzolo stated that the Committee has screened and interviewed candidates who will be brought to the School Committee.   UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE  Chair Nuzzolo announced that the Select Board will be meeting on Tuesday, April 8th and Tuesday, April 15th.  PUBLIC COMMENT  Town Manager Comment None.  Public Comment  John Bowen, 162 Highland Street: he made a statement regarding the Citizens’ Petition warrant article he submitted. He stated that the purpose of the article was to reign in a public board and committee.  Glenn McCleod, 436 Reservoir Road: stated that he is looking forward to the UMass Memorial proposed expansion in Groton. He commented that the region is still without a fully functioning hospital. He stated that he commends the Board’s comments regarding the proposed override.   Board Comment  Vice-Chair Jeffreys stated that volunteers are needed to be part of vacant boards and committees.   ADJOURNMENT  Member Alonzo moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Jeffreys. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
===PAGE 16===
 
Page 16 of 16 Select Board Meeting Minutes April 1, 2025 
 Meeting adjourned at 10:04 P .M.  Respectfully Submitted,  Anthony Senesi, Minute Clerk  These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: Tuesday, September 29, 2026    