===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD AGENDA 
Tuesday, June 30, 2026, 7:00 PM 
Zoom Only 
*Revised Agenda 
 
This meeting will be  recorded and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube Channel after the meeting.   
The Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform to host hybrid and remote meetings;  which utilizes AI 
technology to create audio transcriptions of meetings; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon 
launching the Zoom application. T his AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or 
following the conclusion of the meeting. 
 
This meeting will be held in-person on Zoom only. Members of the public are welcome to attend this meeting. While 
an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will 
not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required 
by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-
person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
Join Zoom Meeting: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347?omn=84772421407 
Meeting ID: 909 174 0347                                                      Join by Phone: (888) 475-4499 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact  be discussed and other 
items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
7:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
• *Consider Discontinuing the Use of Electronic Voting Machines for the August 8, 2026 Special Town 
Election 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
• Annual Select Board Appointments  
o Animal Control Officer 
o Fence Viewer 
o Field Driver 
o Forest Warden 
o Municipal Hearing Officer 
o Parking Clerk 
 
• Ratification of the Town Manager’s Annual Appointments 
o Building Commissioner and Alternate Building Commissioner 
o Dam Keeper and Assistant Dam Keeper 
o Emergency Management Director 
o RACES (Radio amateur Civil Emergency Service) Control Officer, Assistant Officer, and Member 
o Hazardous Waste Coordinator 
o Inspector of Plumbing/Gas and Assistant Inspector of Plumbing/Gas 
o Public Weighers 
o Inspector of Wires and Assistant Inspector of Wires 
o Town Clock Winders 
o Veteran’s Service Officer 
o Police Officers/Reserve Police Officers/Licensing Commission Agents 
o Full Time Reserve Officers 
 
UPCOMING MEETINGS 
• July 7, 2026 