===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD AGENDA 
Monday, June 15, 2026, 7:00 PM 
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall 
 
This meeting will be recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on Facebook Live on 
the Lunenburg Public Access Facebook page, and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube Channel after 
the meeting.  The Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform to host hybrid and remote meetings; which utilizes 
AI technology to create audio transcriptions of meetings; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon 
launching the Zoom application. T his AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or 
following the conclusion of the meeting. 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to 
attend this  in-person meeting. While an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on 
this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
 
Join Zoom Meeting: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347?omn=81493412746 
Meeting ID: 909 174 0347                                                      Join by Phone: (888) 475-4499 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact  be discussed and other 
items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
7:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
• Interviews With New Applicants for Boards, Committees, and Commissions 
• David Bartlett, Tany Dall, Pauline Roy, Karla Velazquez, Mali Wagner, Richard Taylor, Vincent 
Acito, Heather Gleason, and Christopher Johnson 
• Interviews with Applicants Seeking Re-Appointment to Boards, Committees, and Commissions 
• Nathan Lockwood, Andrew Gillis, Elena Christopher and Richard Bursch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 