===PAGE 1===
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 30, 2026 
 
Page 1 of 2  
Town of Lunenburg  
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
Zoom Only 
Tuesday, April 30, 2026 
 
Members Present: Chair Caesar Nuzzolo, Vice-Chair Amanda Moore, Clerk Renee Emkey, 
Member Brian Lehtinen, and Member Glenn McLeod 
Members Absent: None 
Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager  
 
CALL TO ORDER 
Chair Caesar Nuzzolo called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM. Chair Nuzzolo informed 
attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to 
YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, 
but not all items may be addressed and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted 
by open meeting law. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
 
Executive Session and re-enter Open Session after exiting Executive Session pursuant to 
MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining position of the public body and the 
chair so declares. (Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM Local 5369, AFSCME, Counsel 
93 (Municipal Employees Union) and Teamsters Union Local 170 (DPW). 
 
Chair Nuzzolo moved to enter into Executive Session and re-enter Open Session after exiting 
Executive Session pursuant to MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining 
position of the public body and the chair so declares. Seconded by Vice-Chair Amanda Moore. 
Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Moore-aye; Clerk Renee Emkey-Aye; Member Brian Lehtinen-
Aye; Member Glenn McLeod-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-
0). 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 
Vote to ratify the Collective Bargaining Agreements for Lunenburg Professional Firefighters 
PFFM Local 5369, AFSCME, Counsel 93 (Municipal Employees Union) and Teamsters Union 
Local 170 (DPW). 
 
Vice-Chair Moore moved to ratify the Collective Bargaining Agreements for Lunenburg 
Professional Firefighters PFFM Local 5369, AFSCME, Counsel 93, and Teamsters Union 
Local 170.  Seconded by Clerk Emkey. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair Moore-aye; Clerk Emkey-
Aye; Member Lehtinen-Aye; Member McLeod-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye
. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
===PAGE 2===
Select Board Meeting Minutes 
April 30, 2026 
 
Page 2 of 2  
ADJOURNMENT 
 
Member Lehtinen moved to adjourn. Seconded by Vice-Chair Moore. Roll Call Vote: Vice-Chair 
Moore-aye; Clerk Emkey-Aye; Member Lehtinen-Aye; Member McLeod-Aye; Chair Nuzzolo-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0). 
 
Meeting adjourned at 6:24 P.M.  
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Renee Emkey, Select Board Chair 
 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: Tuesday, July 21, 2026.
  
 
Vice-Chair Lehtinen made the Motion to Approve the minutes of April 30, 2026. Seconded by 
Clerk McLeod. Call for the Vote: Three-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 