===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg Select Board Meeting Minutes Lower Ritter Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Avenue Monday August 10, 2026  Members Present: Chair Renee Emkey, Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen, Clerk Glenn McLeod, Member Damon McQuaid, and Tom Alonzo Members Absent: none Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager  Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes   CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  Chair Renee Emkey called the meeting to order at 7:02 PM. Chair Emkey informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  PUBLIC COMMENT  PUBLIC- None.   BOARD Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen congratulated Mr. Tom Alonzo and Mr. Damon McQuaid on their win in the       recent election. He also thanked them for volunteering.   Vice- Chair Lehtinen also wanted clarification on the newly received petition regarding school sports. Last meeting, Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment had stated that free cash had not yet been certified and could not be used if the article passed. The Town Manager stated she will address his questions in a later agenda item.   Member Tom Alonzo thanked voters who came out to vote and voted in support of Mr. Alonzo joining the Select Board once again. He also thanked the Clerk’s Office and all the volunteers that make elections happen.   Member Damon McQuaid echoed Member Alonzo’s comments thanking the public and stating he is happy to be back on the Select Board.   Chair Emkey thanked everyone involved with the election, especially the 454 voters that submitted ballots, and congratulated Tom Alonzo and Damon McQuaid on their election.   NEW BUSINESS  Vote to Approve the Warrant for the Thursday, September 3, 2026 Special Town Meeting  The Chair announced that two citizen petitioned articles had been received which must be added to the warrant. There was also one article submitted by the School Committee.   Article 1 (submitted by the School Department) is to raise and appropriate an additional sum of $418,056 for the FY27 operating budget for the School Department or take any other action relative thereto.  
===PAGE 2===
 Article 2 (submitted by citizen petition) is to see if the town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available funds a sum of money to supplement the School Department’s FY27 operating budget or take any other action relative thereto.   Article 3 (submitted by citizen petition) to see if the Town will vote to transfer a sum of money in the amount of 151,338.38 from certified free cash or available funds to the Lunenberg Public Schools FY27 operating budget for the purpose of supplementing the athletic department budget to reinstate middle school sports as well as provide transportation for student athletes or take any other action relative thereto.  Vice-Chair Lehtinen moved to include Article 1 submitted by the School Department’s article on the warrant. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0)  Vice-Chair Lehtinen moved to approve the Special Town Meeting warrant as presented. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0)  There was a discussion around Vice-Chair Lehtinen’s question during public comment regarding whether Article 3 is valid without free cash being certified. Town Manager Warren-Dyment explained that the article that was received stated certified free cash or available funds. While free cash will not be certified by the Special Town Meeting, she has asked Town Counsel about what funds may be in scope. Since Town Counsel has not yet replied Town Manager Warren-Dyment did not want to comment publicly but there may be other funding options.    UPCOMING MEETINGS/EVENTS SCHEDULE • August 11, 2026 4:00 pm at Brooks House and T.C. Passios • August 18, 2026 at 6:00 pm • September 1, 2026  PUBLIC COMMENT PUBLIC None. TOWN MANAGER None.  BOARD None.  Vice-Chair Lehtinen moved to adjourn at 7:13 pm. Seconded by Member Alonzo. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0)  The meeting adjourned at 7:13 pm.    Respectfully Submitted,   Melissa Richard,  Executive Assistant to the Select Board and Town Manager  These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on August 18, 2026.   