===PAGE 1===
SELECT BOARD 
Thursday, April 30, 2026 
6:00 PM 
AGENDA 
ZOOM ONLY 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded 
and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg Access YouTube Channel after the meeting. Additionally, please be advised 
that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that the Zoom 
platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the 
subsequent preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the 
Zoom application. You are hereby notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting 
and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate  in the meeting 
remotely: To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/9091740347?omn=84741204001 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 
and enter Webinar ID: 909-174-0347 # If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and 
an e-mail address. 
 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact  be discussed and other 
items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
I. 6:00 PM CALL TO ORDER  
 
II. EXECUTIVE SESSION  
Motion to Enter into Executive Session and re-enter Open Session after exiting Executive Session pursuant to 
MGL c. 30 §21 (a)(3) to discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining … if an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining … position of the public body and the chair so declares.  (Lunenburg 
Professional Firefighters PFFM Local 5369, AFSCME, Counsel 93 (Municipal Employees Union) and 
Teamsters Union Local 170 (DPW) 
  
 
III. NEW BUSINESS 
        Vote to ratify the Collective Bargaining Agreements for Lunenburg Professional Firefighters PFFM Local 5369 
and AFSCME, Counsel 93 (Municipal Employees Union) and Teamsters Union Local 170 (DPW) 
 
IV. ADJOURN 
 
 