===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg Select Board Meeting Minutes Lower Ritter Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Avenue Monday, July 27, 2026  Members Present: Chair Renee Emkey, Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen, and Member Glenn McLeod Members Absent: None Also Present: Jennifer Warren-Dyment, Town Manager  Public Comment Participants are listed in the minutes   CALL TO ORDER AND PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE  Chair Renee Emkey called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM. Chair Emkey informed attendees that the meeting was being recorded and broadcast live and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  ANNOUNCEMENTS  PUBLIC COMMENT  PUBLIC  Tim Murphy of 97 Island Road, and Lunenburg Town Moderator, announced he is available for Special Town Meeting on September 2nd, but not on September 3rd. Mr. Murphy discussed the protocol in the case the Moderator is not available, and the Deputy Moderator is able to moderate the meeting. Rob Bowen is the Town’s Deputy Moderator.   BOARD None.   NEW BUSINESS  Vote for Petitioned Special Town Meeting and Opening and Closing Date of the Warrant  Chair Emkey met with Town Counsel regarding the dates drafted for the Special Town Meeting. The Town has 45 days to hold the meeting once petitioned with day one of the petition being July 20th, and signatures certified by the Town Clerk on July 21st. A legal ad must be published in the newspaper 5 days prior to warrant closing and will be published in the Lunenburg Ledger on July 31st. The warrant will close on Friday August 7th at 5:00 p.m. On August 10th the Select Board will finalize and sign the warrant. Postcards must be placed in the mail by August 19th. Finance Committee needs to publish their public hearing notice in the newspaper 7-14 days before they hold their public hearing which means the public hearing can be held the week of August 24-27th.   Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen asked if it was possible to switch the Special Town Meeting to September 2nd since the Moderator is available. However, the auditorium has been booked for the 3rd and the timeline is already tight so Town Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment was not positive they could restrict the timeline further. The Town Manager also mentioned that Town Hall will have to be open on Friday, August 7th to receive any possible articles.   
===PAGE 2===
There was a discussion on whether the legal ad should be posted in the Lunenburg Ledger or the Sentinel and Enterprise since the Sentinel has a quicker turn over. It was determined the ads would be posted in the Lunenburg Ledger.   Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen moved in accordance with Massachusetts General Law, Chapter 39, Section 10, and Article 2, § 2-5 of the Town Charter, and upon the receipt of a written petition signed by the necessary number of registered voters of the Town of Lunenburg, the Select Board, at the meeting of July 27, 2026, voted to call a Special Town Meeting for Thursday, September 3, 2026 at 7:00 PM at the Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium, and further motioned that the warrant for the Special Town Meeting be opened on Tuesday, July 28, 2026 and that the warrant closes at 5:00 PM on Friday, August 7, 2026 with all articles to be submitted to the Office of the Select Board. Seconded by Clerk Glenn McLeod. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0)  Approve September 1, 2026 State Primary Election Warrant  Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen moved to approve the September 1, 2026 State Primary Election warrant. Seconded by Clerk Glenn McLeod. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0)  OLD BUSINESS Ratification of Teamsters Union Local 170 (DPW) Collective Bargaining Agreement The CBA was previously discussed and approved in Executive Session on June 2, 2026 and there have been no changes to the agreement.   Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen motioned to ratify the Teamsters Union Local 170 (DPW) Collective Bargaining Agreement. Seconded by Clerk Glenn McLeod. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0)  UPCOMING MEETINGS/EVENTS SCHEDULE • July 28, 2026 (Joint meeting workshop with LMBDC)  • August 4, 2026 PUBLIC COMMENT PUBLIC None. TOWN MANAGER None.  BOARD None.  Vice-Chair Brian Lehtinen motioned to adjourn at 6:18 pm. Seconded by Clerk Glenn McLeod. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion passed (3-0-0)  The meeting adjourned at 6:18 pm.   Respectfully Submitted, Melissa Richard, Executive Assistant to the Town Manager and Select Board   These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Select Board on: Tuesday, August 18, 2026    