===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
November 8, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL :  Vice Chair Joanna L. Bilotta  (acting as Chair) , Robert J. Saiia , Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, 
Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Signed 10-25-10, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia.  Request from Mr. Lockwood to go into 
Executive Session concerning the Exec utive Minutes of 10 -25-10.  Request granted from consensus to hold an executive 
session concerning these Minutes later in the meeting.  Executive Minutes 10-25-10 signed following Executive Session. 
 
PROJECT PLAN SIGNATURES: 325 Sunny Hill Road - Department comments as follows: Building Official - lot area, width and 
frontage okay for both lots; Board of Health - no issues; Conservation Commission - no issues; Board of Assessors - Map 79, 
Parcel 55, 6.34 acres, Book 6440, Page 75, Chapter land not applicable, sale  date 4 -25-2007, discrepancy in boundary 
measurements for Lot s 5 and 3A . Board’s consensus was they needed a fully correct ed copy to sign.  Motion, Ms. Bilotta , 
Second, Mr. Saiia  to approve the land division based on the corrected copy.  Motion passed 4-0.  Director will seek corrected 
copy and once received, will notify members corrected plan available in office for signing.   Mr. Bodkin Jr. recused himself. 
 
APPOINTMENT:  ANR, 1070 Northfield Road  Owner/Applicant - Camille LeBlanc, J., Engineer - Ed Bouche r- Plan 
accepted for review .  List of abutters and administrative fee submitted.  Plan is for Lots 1 and 2 and is subsequent to previous 
division, approved by the Board on September 27, 2010, which created Lot 4.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No report 
MRPC- Mr. Bodkin Jr. noted economic study done throughout MRPC region.  Study noted Pioneer Drive and Chase Road. 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee -  Director reported on new grant for further work on project.  Members of the Committee 
were asked to stay on.  Committee work will serve as “in-kind” payment. 
DPW Building Committee - Ms. Bilotta reported on progres s.  An architect has been hired ; Helene Karl from Groton.  New 
design ideas were presented, i.e., a steel structure that will go over the present structure.  The new structure will be totally 
encased with no windows.  Window s will exist on the base existing structure.  A heating design utilizing recycled oil will provide 
heat for the structure.  Reported that plans were being developed on the fast track so con struction time will be a short timeline.    
Capital Planning Committee - Director noted Committee has met with the Technology Department .  Technology Director is 
purchasing from funds unspent by previous Technology Director in order to bring tech nology to the level voted on a t previous 
Town Meeting.  Presented was list of need s to be submitted at the 2011 Town Meeting .  A meeting was held with the Fire Chief.  
The Fire Department is requesting 1) re -outfit of engine 2, and, 2) vehicle mounted radios for DPW and port ables for Police 
Department.  Two meetings have been held with the Police Department.  The primary issue concerns the cruisers.  The present 
Ford Interceptor Crown Victoria cruiser package will no longer be made after March 2011 .  The new packages are not ready for 
use or do not meet the expectations of the Department.  More complete packages will be available in 2012.  The Department has 
an Article on the Warrant for the November Town Meeting to purchase three Crown Vics while they are still available and not 
seek any more cruiser packages until 2013.  The cost is $105,000.00 with a ccessories.  Noted that the Capital Planning 
Committee supports this Article.   The next meeting will be the interview with the school’s request s on November 18th.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11-8-10 
Page 2 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
First Evangelical Congregational Church- Director reported on Tech meeting.  Parking was discussed , and as a result of the 
discussion, the Applicant has withdrawn the angled parking design.  Di rector noted the Reviewing Engineer ’s preliminary report.  
There is a difference of opinion between the Designing Engineer and the Reviewing Engineer that will have to be addressed.  
The Applicant is looking for a D evelopment Plan Review approval with the understanding that it will have to be conditioned with 
submittals of a fire suppression plan, building, landscaped plan, etc.  An approval will also be based on sewer, conservation, etc..  
Applicant is seeking a basic approval , with conditions to be added , so they can seek funding as approved by their parishioners.  
Plans are available for review in the Planning Office.   
Green Community Task Force - Director reported that the Task Force , through Mr. Marsden , is preparing an application for a 
solar field at the old Town dump.  
Open Space- Director reported on the Open Space Committee meeting.  Noted again was State Approv al of the Open Space 
Plan until 2014.   The State has listed nine issues involving further information to be presented. Finalization of these  issues will 
place the Town in a position to seek conservation funding.  Director noted that the work of the adhoc committee is outstandin g.  
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom -   Director noted that the villas are presently being assembled in Maine.  Applicant expects 
some to arrive by December 1 st.  Applicant noted that as of November 4 th seven of the ten townhouses have been leased and 
also two of the multi-units.  Work on the waterfront is being completed. 
Tri Town Landing- Tri-Town is preparing for occupancy.  Planning Board has two minor issue s that can be taken care of shortly, 
i.e., stripping and an as -built plan.  A lottery is being held this date in Town Hall .  Department of Housing And Community 
Development (D HCD) demands th e l ottery and has a list of firms that the Applicant can hire.  There is a local preference 
component.  Developer Mr. Caselden notified the office that the management company (one they use for all of their 
developments) is Stuart Property Managers.  More information will be forthcoming.  
Whalom Storage- Inquiries were made to the office concerning this project from a bank assessor.  
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
See above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports 
 
MASTER PLANNING: 11-22-10 Workshop reminder   
 
DATA INFORMATION & GENERAL DISCUSSION:   Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to 
members for viewing, consisting of various data information.  
 
MEMBER INFORMATION AND ISSUES:  Noted November 30 th Special Town Meeting,  November 15 Master Plan Workshop, 
and November 22 Information Meeting and Board Meeting .  Ms. Bilotta  suggested the Board hold one meeting in December ; 
December 13th.  Motion made, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed.  Further discussion wa s on the annual 
Planning Board Christmas gathering; proposed date of December 3rd.   
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:   Vice Chair called for vote to go into Executive Session at 8:00 PM to discuss Executive. Minutes of 10-
25-10, not to return to general session .  Moti on, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed, Roll Call Vote, Ms. 
Bilotta, aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Saiia, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye.   
 
ADJOURNMENT: General Session 8:00 PM , Motion to adjour n Executive Session 8:10 PM , Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second,  Mr. 
Lockwood. 
 
Minutes/2010/11-8-10 