===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
October 25, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:    Vice Chair Joanna L. Bilotta (acting as Chair), Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Signed 10-4-10, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Director noted the following - Zoning Board of Appeals hearing for 125 Howard Street for 
special permit from 4 dogs to 11 -15 dogs and relocation of kennel from inside home to barn.  Special Permit dimensional 
variance granted for 183 Elmwood Road for construction of screen house on existing deck and im provement of step down deck 
that previously surrounded a pool.  Special Permit granted for relocation of Fitchburg Marine from 27 to 30 Mass Ave.  
 
APPOINTMENTS:   
First Evangelical Congregational Church:  Application presented for a Development Plan Review for an addition to the church 
structure at 16 Main Street.  Present ing for the church were Building Committee Chair Jack White, Architect Patrick Slattery, and 
Designing Engineer Steven Marsden.  Peer Reviewing Engineer is Fred Hamwey.  Mr. White s tated the reason for enlarging the 
church was to consolidate all church activities in one building, thereby eliminating the Parish House.  He also spoke about safety, 
eliminating children crossing the street to go from one activity to another.  If the plan is acc eptable, the church will need to raise 
funds to accomplish its goal.  Mr. Slattery described the new layout plan of the building.  Included in h is presentation was a 
description of reconfiguration of the Main Street entrance, and a second floor addition which will include an assembly hall.   Other 
additions are noted on plan on file in  the Planning Office.  Mr. Marsden explained the required drainage system such as 
recharging of impervious area and underground chambers.  The drainage plan will have no impact  to the Town drainage system.  
Discussion was held on the angled parking off Memorial Drive into the church property.  As Memorial Drive is a Town roadway, 
the Director will notify the Board of Selectmen  of the proposed design.  The Board of Selectmen is t he entity to 
approve/disapprove the design.  The process is to hold a tech meeting of department heads, implement a peer review and hold 
an informational meeting as directed in the Town Zoning Bylaws.   Director noted that , in the past, the administratio n fee has 
been waived for churches and inquired as to the Board’s desire.   Motion to waive the fee, Mr. Lockwood, seconded by Mr. Saiia.  
Motion passed.  The church will set up a Tri Party Account with the Planning Office, which will include peer review fees.  
 
ANR, 325 Sunnyhill Road - Owner/Applicant- Melissa Cobb .  Plan prepared by Rose Land Survey, West Groton, MA.  P lan 
accepted for review. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Mr. Saiia reported attending , along with Federal and State officials,  the groundbreaking ceremony for the new rapid rail 
track at the Leominster rail station.   
MRPC- Noted October 26 th MRPC meeting, Draft Amendment to FFY 2011 Element of the FFY 2011 -2014 TIP (Transportation 
Improvement Plan), minutes of 9-28-10, agenda of 10-26-10. 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee- Director Benson reported that the final report on the study for emergency back -up system 
available during emergencies/crisis will be ready in November.  Direct or noted she attended a press conference announcing a 
new grant which will b e a continuation of the present study.  Energy Advisory Committee members have been asked to stay on 
to continue the work.  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 10-25-10 
Page 2 
 
DPW Building Committee- Ms. Bilotta (Vice Chair  of DPW Building Committee) reported on the hiring of the a rchitect. Helene 
Karl from Groton was hired.  Committee discussed contract and general discussion on design.  
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Green Community Task Force - Director reported that the Board of Selectm en supports a solar field at the  old dump site.  Task 
force will prepare grant.  The Task Force is still having problems with accepting the Stretch Code.  Chair will call meeting to get a 
consensus on the report done by VHB for acceptance of The Green Community Act.  
Eagle House- The Committee for the construction of the parking lot is working with Shelley Hatch from MRPC to submit a grant 
application for the funding.  Mark M cClusky from Hudson Design Group has been hired to design the lot.  Issue is the mound left 
over from the septic sy stem.  The engineer sought a dvice from DEP , but was unable to ga ther sufficient information as to the 
disposal of the mound .  The Committee inquired of Jim G arreffi for technical explanations as to the process.   Noted 10-21-10 
letter from the Board of Heal th regarding leaching area disposal  explaining that the Board of Health must be involved in the 
removal of the mound.  The Committee will work with the Board of Health if they are recip ients of the grant to proceed.  
Lunenburg Village- Noted 10-7-10 construction management plan from applicant Gary Lorden.  
Hollis Hills - Noted 10 -4-10 Building Department letter to applicant regarding sign -off by applicable boards/officials in the 
approval process before issuance of building permits.   
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Director noted that the Lakefront sidewalk was being constructed  this date.  Director noted the 
new financial policy of Emerald Place which is “Lease to Own”.  Information is being sought as to the timeline of the leases .  
Work is continuing on structure s.  The Fire Department specialist is closely supervising the fire protection.   Question posed by 
Ms. Bilotta concerning the number of ingress and egress.  
Tri Town Landin g- The Town Manager is working with the City of Fit chburg to clarify the responsibilities of Fitchburg and the 
Town of Lunenburg .  The water line from Fitchburg to the project was constructed by the developer.  The developer paid in full 
for two 2 inch connections at $20,000 each and two 6 inch fire connec tions at $482 each.  Fitchburg is responsible for reading 
the installed meters.  Lunenburg will be responsible for billing and collecting for water usage from the unit residents.  Fitchburg is 
responsible for quality to the town line.  Lunenburg is respons ible for maintain ing all water main s and valves, certification and 
annual compliance to all app licable laws, etc., from the Fitchburg city line to the development proper.  Further communication is 
being held between the Town Manager and the Lunenburg Water District.   
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
See above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports 
 
MASTER PLANNING:  Director reported that Chair Bakaysa, M r. Lockwood and herself attended a Master Planning seminar at 
MRPC on October 20th. 
 
DATA INFO RMATION & GENERAL DISCUSSION:   Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to 
members for viewing , consisting of  reminder  of  11-30-10 Special Town meeting,  5-year Financial Forecast  scheduled for 11 -4-
10, and various data information.  
 
MEMBER DATA AND ISSUES:  November schedule - November 8th- regular meeting ; November 15th- Master Planning ; 
November 22nd- regular meeting.    
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Litigation, O’Brien Homes: See separate minutes. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Motion, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed.  Adjourned  7:45 to go into Executive session. 
 
Minutes/2010/10-25-10 