===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
December 13, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Sa iia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr.  (arrived at 7:00 PM) , Nathan J. 
Lockwood, Marion M. Benson  
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 11-22-10 and First Evangelical Congregational Church Information Meeting 11 -22-10, Motion, 
Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   Conservation Commission- Noted Certificates of Compliance for 323 Leominster Road, 527 
Burrage Street, 30 May Street, Orders of Condition for MBTA Right of Way, 69 Island Road, .Determination of Applicability for 76 
Peninsula Drive.  Zoning Board of Appeals- granting of Special Permit for 125 Howard Street. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- no report 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee - Director noted presentation of the final Plan of the Energy Advisory Committee will be 
December 14 th at Four Points Sheraton, Leominster .  Invitees wi ll include State representatives and senators, members of the 
staff and committee plus Towns’ representatives such as Fire Chiefs.  
DPW Building Committee - Ms. Bilotta noted recent meeting.  Commi ttee is working to bring costs in line with the or iginal 
estimate. 
Capital Planning Committee - Director reported that a meeting regarding requests was held with the Library, Sewer 
Commission, and Council on Aging .  Director n oted department reviews are fin ished.  A January 6, 2011 Capital Planning 
Committee meeting with the Town Manager will begin the process of prioritization. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
CVS- Director has sent paperwork requesting release of Site Improvement Bond to the Town  Accountant. 
Green Community Task Force -  Green Task Force Chair, with the help of Director of Facilities and Grounds John Londa, is 
preparing a grant request for a solar field at the Town Landfill .  Director noted the Board of Health shall have to be invo lved at 
that site. 
Open Space - Director noted that the  December 19 th meeting should conclude the data being requested by the State .  The 
booklet will be prepared.  Copies will go to Board of Selectmen, Conservation Commission, Planning Board, MRPC 
(Montachusett Regional Planning Commission) and letters of support will be requested. 
Educational/Meeting-  Chair will research educational seminars for the Board and staff. 
Technology- Director noted that GIS (Geographic Information System) should be made available to all land use and would like it 
in the Planning Office .  There is a website project presently be ing created so all department s can address data and post 
agendas, minutes and relate project status on a user-friendly site.  Director further noted that t echnology was still lacking in the 
Planning Office. 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 12-13-10 
Page 2 
 
Signs- Chair noted the Zoning Officer was called to the  Select Board meeting to discuss a n issue of excessive temporary sign s 
on the land surrounding the Ritter Memorial Building .  The Zoning Officer went into detail that the sign bylaw needed to be 
reviewed.  The Chair spoke of his concern that the Planning  Board was not notified about this Select Board agenda item and felt 
that the bylaw is a p urview of the Planning Board .  The Planning Board should have been included in a ny discussion concerning 
changes in the bylaw .  The Director addressed the history of the bylaw and informed the Board that the bylaw needs updating .  
Members were given a copy of the bylaw for review.  The sign bylaw will be an item on the January 24, 2011 agenda.  
Lunenburg Scroll- Director has requested that the Public Hearing for the Modification of Emerald Place be taken off the scroll.  
This Hearing has been played many times and complaints have been regist ered as now having a negative impact. 
Nashua River Watershed Association  (NRWA) Workshops- Director has received a request to hold a workshop on Low 
Impact Development (LID).  The workshops will cover the landscape design and stormwater practices.  The Boa rd response was 
for the Director to work with the NRWA and set up the workshop. 
Massachusetts Municipal Association (MMA) -  The Director discussed her conversation with the Town Manager concerning 
the Planning Board and Director attending the MMA Annual Me eting in January 2011. The Board will be funded to attend via the 
entrance fees.  All members wish to attend except for one who is not able to.  There would be four member s and the Director.  It 
appears that Friday has the best selection of workshops.  A f ew members noted interest in Saturday afternoon.  There is no 
intent of funding for hotel accom modations.  Chair requested inquiry as to hotel cost.  The last day for the lower fee of $140.00 
for the two days is December 14 th.  The Director will register o n that date.  She will confer with the Town Manager for final 
approval for funding the workshops and will contact the Board.  
Extension- Director presented a letter from the Sewer Commission seeking an extension for Highfield Village.  The Sewer 
Commission had requested that the applicant revise their sewer plans to accommodate a needs area .  The applicant is working 
on the issue, but will not be finished in the timeline for the current extension.  The Sewer Commi ssion is requesting the 
extension.  The Boar d wants  a request from the applicant .  Discussion ensued concerning extension .  Mr. Bodkin Jr. spoke 
against an extension and desires a review of the policy , including a response from Town Counsel of the consequences if 
extensions are not granted.  Directo r suggested that they permit the extension with a letter from the applicant  for this request.  
Director will research further about the value of extensions. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom -  Director presented status report noting  the arrival of the villas on December 10th.  There will 
be a total of 14 trucks using the same route as before .  The schedule is to erect villas 1, 3, 5, and 7 on Great Pond Road starting 
December 13th , erect  the second multifamily building  at 32 Carousel  Lane starting January 31, 2011, and possibly st art the 
duplex units 5/7 and 9/11 on Carousel Lane in February 2011. 
Tri Town Landing-   Tri Town Landing is occupying Building 1 and Building 2 will be granted occupancy the week of December 
20th.  The work on these two buildings is complete. 
First Evangelical Congregational Church -  Received Board approval of the Development Plan Review and will seek a permit 
from the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA).  The project will be taken back before the church members to address their funding. 
Lunenburg Crossing - Director reported on the status of the work being done to bring the project up to date.  This includes 
landscaping, trimming, cleaning of retention basins, etc. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
See above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports 
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewing , consisting of  
various data information.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  December meeting date - December 13, 2010; no m eeting December 27, 2010.  January meeting 
dates- January 10 Board Meeting, January 12 Master Planning Workshop, and January 24, 2011 Board Meeting.   
 
MEMBER DATA AND ISSUES:   Ms. Bilotta noted concern over the Eagle House being closed without a backup pl an for Meals 
on Wheels; inquired if Board members were going to  do a walk -through of the Jones House ; and the status of the Planning 
Board’s meetings being televised.   
  
EXECUTIVE SESSION: Separate minutes. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Chair called for Motion to adjourn  for purpose of going into Executive Session, not to return to General 
Session.  Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Saiia, roll call vote- Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye, Mr. Lockwood, aye, Ms. Bilotta, aye, Mr. Saiia, 
aye, Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  Adjourned General Session at 8:45 PM.       Minutes/2010/12-13-10 