===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
Master Planning 
November 15, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:    Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson  
 
MINUTES:  Signed 10-18-10, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta, Motion passed.  
 
MASTER PLANNING SEMINAR: Chair not ed general discussion for consensus of direction in preparation of the Master Plan update.  Director 
noted there were copies for each member of the outline presented by the Citizen Planner Training Collaborative at its Master Planning Seminar 
hosted by MRPC.  Also presented was the Land Use portion of the Chelmsford Master Plan. 
 
PROCESS AND PROCEDURE: Mr. Saiia noted his concern for the Facility Element in regard to the schools.  His major concern was the high 
school.  H e felt the process of deciding the correct resolution to the problem of an old outdated building was taking too long.  He felt the Planning 
Board should be the impetus to get a decision for a plan t o take care of updating, building new , or joining an existing regional system.  Discussio n 
ensued that spoke to the issue that while the School Department’s forecast of solutions would be part of the Master Plan, the Schools present the 
avenue of solution to the Town. 
 
General discussion took place with different elements being presented as th e most important to review and update.  Land use, economics, open 
space, and housing were listed.  M r. Lockwood suggested the 2002 Master Plan and supplements be re -read by the Board , a list presented at the 
next meeting to be prioritized, and a process designed to include committees and input from the general public through envisioning.   
 
A time line was presented  with May 2011 as a possibility.  Mr. Lockwood felt it would be more advantage ous to complete a section , or sections, for 
May 2011 and set new t imelines for other elements.  Director noted that the new proposed legislation will play a part in the future Master Plan.  Also 
noted new census data that can be written into the Plan.  This can be handled by the Director.   Mr. Bodkin Jr. noted that the entire plan did not 
require updating. 
 
Further discussion touched on the importance of land use and economics.  Also mentioned was a method of utilizing open space trails, etc. that 
would benefit the community by presenting commercial opportunities.  
 
Ms. Bilotta spoke to the length of time that is being taken for the decision of processes and procedures.  She felt the Board sho uld get to the task of 
master planning. 
 
In summary, all members shall review the 2002 Master Plan and accompanying paperwork and make a report on the items and issues of importance 
to them.  Plans for updating will be made from those reports.  The next Master Planning workshop is scheduled for Wednesday, January 12, 2011. 
 
Motion to Adjourn at 8:15 PM, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr.  
 
Attachments: 
Creating a Master Plan, Citizen Planner Training Collaborative 
Land Use and Zoning, Chelmsford Master Plan 
 
Minutes/2010/11-15-10 MP workshop 