===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
October 4, 2010 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:    Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:   Signed 9-27-10, Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second,  Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
 
PLAN SIGNATURES: ANR - 615 West Townsend Road - Signed by Planning Board.  Department c omments as follo ws: 
Building Official- frontage and lot width okay, lot area required is 80,000 square feet; Assessor - land to be divided is Map 08, 
Parcel 14, 2.994 acres, Book 2818, Page 267,  existing 20 foot right -of-way for foot, machinery and vehicles conveyed in De ed; 
Board of Health- no issues; Conservation Commission- no issues.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Capital Planning Committee- Director noted that all requests except Technology have been submitted.  First meeting is 
October 12th, 8:30 AM, Ritter Memorial Building. 
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- Mr. Bodkin Jr. reported on the proposed legislation, Comprehensive Land Use Reform and Partnership Act (C LURPA). A 
presentation was made at the MRPC meeting.  The proposed legislation notes that there are less required elements in the  
Master Plan.  Proposed are Goals and Policies, Housing, Natural Resources and Energy, Land Use and Zoning, and 
Implementation.  Optional elements are Economic Development, Cultural Resources, Transportation and Partnership Planning.  
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee- no report 
DPW Building Committee -   Ms. Bilotta reported that the Committee received five bids and is interviewing all five applicants .  
Interviews will be held October, 6, 7, and 8, 2010.   An offer to assist from Wright Pierce is being considered.    
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Water Issue – workshop- The Town Manager has reported that a tentative workshop will be held on October  19th  pertaining to 
IMA (Inter Municipal Agreement ) negotiations  with the city of Fitchburg. Also dis cussion will ensue concerning ownership and 
management of the pipe line from the Fitchburg line and the Tri Town development.  
Sewer – Wright Pierce- The Sewer Commission has issued a Notice of Project Change for the Comprehensive Wastewater 
Management Plan.  The major changes are that Lake Shirley and Hickory Hills have been removed as infrastructure projects, 
recommending that both area s will need further study.  The proposed area entitled Commercial Growth Management Area has 
been reduce d to an area of n eed status up to 136 Chase Road.  Discussion ensued concerning a town meeting vote for the 
original plan and notice of project change following a binding vote. Noted that change is due to lack of funding and concern over 
growth in sewer areas.  Concern was  also expressed over restrictions on long term planning for new commercial enterprises. 
Director will respond by noting it is recommended that Chase Road be reviewed again in the future as a potential growth area.  
Green Community Task Force - Director reported that VHB (Vanasse Hangen Brustlin, Inc.) consultant has  completed the 
Green Communities Action Plan.  The final plan will be reviewed by the Task Force.  Th e Task Force’s recommendation will be 
forwarded to the Board of Selectmen.   The problem area in the report remains the “Stretch Code”. 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 10-4-10 
Page 2 
 
Eagle House- Director reported on the  October 4th meeting for the revi ew of the Plan by Hudson Design  Co. Bids and quotes 
were received for the removal of the “mound”.  Review of the cost es timates took place. It was stated that the cost s were written 
as high, but normally when bidded would be lower . The Board looked at the cost estimates and noted that they were high.  The 
Eagle House Committee voted to submit the cost as written through their grant writer, Shelley Hatch from MRPC. 
 United Parish- Director presented the concept of the Development Plan Review for an addition to the church building.  It is the 
intent of the Church to close and sell the Parish House and have all religious, educa tional, etc. activities at the church proper at 
16 Main Street.  The submission notes no new use.  Discussion ensued at the procedure .  The plan will be reviewed by a peer 
reviewer with finding s presented to the Planning Board.   It was noted that a Develop ment Plan Review is not a permit to build , 
but a review of siting, engineering, etc. to obtain the objectives in Zoning Bylaw Section 8.4.  The Director will contact engineer 
Fred Hamwey to act as peer reviewer.    
Lunenburg Crossing- Director reported on the procedure defined to pick up and proceed with the O & M (maintenance) pla n to 
correct issues at Lunenburg Crossing.  This issue has been difficult to conduct through the approved plan that is the 
responsibility of the owner of the development due t o the resale of the project.  The work will include the retention p ond, 
overgrowth, sewer line cleaning, etc.  
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  Director noted progress on Lakefront Avenue. A site visit clearly show s the plan as approved. 
One issue is the edge of road reconstruction as 200 feet from the Leominster city line.   
Tri Town Landin g- Director did a site visit with the Peer Engineer.  She presented clarification of the sidewalk issue.  The 
development is waiting for the electric company to make a correction.  Fire reports are being submitted.  The Fire Chief  still has 
unanswered questions concerning the water line. 
Stone Farm- Status report shows work continuing on buildings 1, 6, 38, and 40. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
 
See above Planning Director’s Reports and Development Status Reports 
 
MASTER PLANNING:   
Workshop- October 18, 2010, 6:30 to 9:00 PM.  
Funding- Director is requesting funding of $10,000.00 for Master Planning through Capital Planning upon direction from Town 
Manager.  Chair asked to make an inquiry as to why monies cannot be put in Planning Board Budget.  
Mapping- Director has requested a hold for Planning Board for entitled mapping through MRPC. 
GIS- This mapping will be used in the Master Plan. 
 
DATA INFORMATION & GE NERAL DISCUSSION:   Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to 
members for viewing, consisting of Special Town meeting reminder, and data information.  
 
MEMBER DATA AND ISSUES:  Ms. Bilotta inquired if the proposed roadway next to S cooters was an ingress and an egress to 
Lakefront Avenue. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Motion, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed.  Adjourned 8:30 PM. 
 
Minutes/2010/10-4-10 