===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
February 14, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Robert J. Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Joanne Bilotta 
INFORMATION MEETING:  See separate minutes. 
General Session Meeting called to order at 7:35 PM 
1263 Reservoir Road, P.J. Keating Co. - Development Plan Review Findings and Directives - Chair read the Find ings into 
record and requested comment from Board Members.  Questions concerning #12 and #13 arose (see attached copy of 
Findings).  Clarification was requested as to the effect the waivers would have on the project.  Concern was expressed that 
without a formal written Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) the Town records would not be complete.  It was suggested more 
verbiage be added to #12 and #13.  After the Chair read the Directives into record (see attached copy of Directives) , and more 
discussion ensued, no changes were made to #12 and #13.  Discussion on #1 of the Directives included a reading of the content 
of the EIS by the Peer Reviewing Engineer.  It was noted that all issues in the EIS were included on the Plan and a written EIS 
would be duplicat ion.  Mr. Marsden ’s response as to the value of the meth odology of EIS reporting on the Plan v ersus an 
individual document was that he preferred it on the Plan as the Plan w ould be  with the construction crew in the field.   The 
purpose of the requested waiv er for placing utilities underground was that the footprint for the new towers was the same and all 
utilities were presently underground.  It was further recommended that since Section 5.3 . allows the Planning Board to waive the 
height within the approval of a Development Plan Review and approval of the Fire Chief , that  the Dir ectives be modified to 
address that issue by placing the item as #3  (following the other two waivers). The new #3 Directive shall read as follows : The 
Applicant ______will, ______will not be granted a waiver from the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg, Amended through 
May 1, 2010 §5.3. Building Height, subsection 5.3.1.3 . “maximum height unless approved with a Development Plan Review and 
approval of the Fire Chief”.    
 
Chair as ked for a Motion to approve or disapprove Waiver #1 ( EIS report) .  Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia.  
Discussion ensued.  Mr. Lockwood  commented that he was not comfortable allowing the waiver as it was customary procedure 
and the Applicant did not offer any reason it would be det rimental to the project.  He felt the items listed in the EIS could be both 
on the Plan and submitted as a separate document.  Board concurred .  Vote was 4-0 not to grant Waiver #1 and the Applicant 
was instructed to submit a written EIS noted as Schedule J in the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land  and 
under Section 5.3. of the Zoning Bylaw. 
 
Chair asked for a Motion to approve or disapprove Waiver #2 (underground utilities) .  Motion to approve, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, 
Mr. Lockwood.  Roll call vote- Mr. Saiia, nay; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  The vote was 3-1. 
 
Chair asked for a Motion to approve or disapprove Waiver #3 (granting increased height) .  Motion to approve, Mr. Bo dkin Jr., 
Second, Mr. Saiia.  Roll call vote- Mr. Saiia, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  The vote was 4-0 to 
grant waiver #3. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
February 14, 2011 
Page 2 
 
Chair asked for a Motion to approve the Findings and Directive s as amended.  Motion  to approve, Mr. Bodkin Jr, Second, Mr. 
Saiia.  Roll call vote- Mr. Saiia, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  The vote was 4-0.  
 
CHAIR– Introduction to Duties of the Planning Board – Chair gave a brief intr oduction of th e goals and objective s of the 
Planning Board.  He noted the rights of the land - and home- owners as well as what is in the best interest of the Town as it 
related to zoning objectives.  He pointed out the goal of protecting the rural characte r of the Town as well as consideration of the 
tax base from commercial developments .  He stated that zoning is always fluid with changes and mandates and Planning must 
be looking at the vision set for today and looking for the vision of tomorrow.    
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed Executive 1 -10-11, Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Mr. Saiia.  Signed Executive 1 -24-11, 
Motion Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Mr. Saiia.  Signed Regular Session 1-24-11, Motion, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATION :   IMA Devens Household Hazardous Waste Facility - Board of Selectm en voted at its 
February meeting to be part of the Facility Plan with nine other communities.  SelectBoard also approved a Lunenburg 
Aggregation Plan.  Request for Proposal (RFP) will be sent out.  Copies available at SelectBoard’s office. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No report   
MRPC- Mr. Bodkin  Jr. reported on a presentation on “ In The Cloud” - a basic tracking system to which components can be 
added.  
DPW Building Committee-  No report  
Capital Planning Committee- Director reported that the Committee is ready to meet with the Town Manager on the priori tization 
list prepared by the Committee and funding process. 
Nashua River Workshop - Director noted that the workshop was centered on Low Impact Development (LID) and stormwater 
procedures.  Two other workshops are plan ned which appear to be more in depth on the topic.  Director will let members know 
upon receipt of notice.  
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
Bylaw Changes/Annual Town Meeti ng-  Director informed the Board that the Warrant for Town Meeting Article s was opened 
on February 8 th and will close on March 14th.  Chair asked members to bring forth concerns for the Board’s February 28 th 
meeting.   
CHAPA, Lunenburg Estates-  Director read CHAPA letter to Zoning Board of Appeals  (ZBA) Chair, Donald Bowen concerning 
status of 40B entitled Lunenburg Estates (1229 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg), and CHAPA (Citizen s’ Housing and 
Planning Assoc iation).  CHAPA  is the monitoring assoc iation for this project .  The applicant is Bovenzi  Inc., Leominster, MA.  
Report is available at the ZBA office in the Ritter Memorial Building.  
Summer Street- A brief discussion was held on proposal for three towns (Fitchburg, Lunenburg, and Leominster) to reconstruct 
Summer St.  Noted meeting of Board of Selectmen and the Planning Board.  Questioned was how the percentage of cost for the 
design was created.  Response was the length of roadway in each community.  Chair asked member s to take a visual look at 
Summer Street.  
Green Community Task  Force- Director noted RFP has been prepared  for a solar farm a t the old Town landfill.  John Londa 
gave a report to the Board of Selectmen .  Issue was brought forth  that portions of the landfill have already been designated f or 
other purposes.  Also noted was the portion of cost that could be pas sed on t o the ratepayers.  The Task Force will meet 
February 15th to discuss these issues. 
Open Space- Director reported all the work has been done.  She noted that the Committee had u ntil 2014 to address the issues.  
The Committee chose to address them immediately to ensure Lunenburg’s status for funding.   The report is being put together 
for submittal to the Planning Board, Conservation Commission, Board of Selectmen and MRPC. 
134 Leo minster Shirley Road Tradex Corp.  c/o Charles Gitto- Director notified the Board that Whitman & Bingham 
Associates, LLC will seek a  zoning change from Industrial to Commercial.  The Applicant wants the Planning Board to sponsor 
the Article on the Warrant.  Chair asked for members to view the area.  Director will try to reach Ecological Fibers to inquire as to 
their long range plan.  It will be important as to amount of land that could be considered for a zoning change. 
CLURPA  Tabled until next meeting. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 
February 14, 2011 
Page 3 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Highfield Village, 361 Mass Ave-  Project Engineer Kent Oldfield submitted a new sewer design to the Sewer Commission and 
the Planning Board.  The Sewer Manager has sent the design out for review  to Weston & Sampson, their reviewing engineer.  
The Board will have to do a quick review to ascertain whether the new design will affect the Planning Board’s review.  
 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom , 10 Lakefront - Director noted that the building report from  Jay Hoa g noted they will start 
setting the 2 nd multi-family on Feb ruary 15 th and the tower will be set one day each on February 15 th, 18 th, 23 rd and 25 th.  In 
addition, four trucks will arrive with modular boxes from February 14th – February 25th.  The status of occupancy is that nine out 
of ten townhouses are leased to own.   Further townhouses will not be constructed until spring.  Weather permitting , the multi-
family second unit will be constructed starting February 14 th.  The first multi has on e ownership and 27 units lea sed to own.  
Model is open.  The villa has one model up and completed and will be ready to show.  There are 20+ boxes on site and more will 
be delivered the week of February 20 th.  There was one issue concerning snow.  Once informed , the Applicant took care of it 
immediately. 
 
Tri Town Landing, 37 Youngs Rd- Director noted report on school children in the units rented presently ; 17 children in 30 units.  
The School Superintendent  also received the report and is checking if any of the stud ents were already register ed by being 
residents in other housing in Lunenburg.  So far only six students have entered the system.  Director has begun researching the 
40S connection to 40R developments.  Lunenburg students in the 40R would have to qualify.   Presently two towns have 
qualified, but have not been funded.  The process will not be addressed until the annual report to the State, July 1st.    
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
Lunenburg Crossing - Work was not completed before the recent snow.  The Conservation Agent has some concerns.  
Inspections and regrouping will start again when the weather permits. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 2011- 
February 16, Master Planning Workshop 
February 28, Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
March 2011- 
March 14, Planning Board Meeting –televised 
March 21, Master Planning Workshop 
March 28, Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewing, consisting of  
various data information.  
 
OFFICE. No issues 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Separate minutes  
 
ADJOURNMENT: Adjourned Regular Session 8:20 PM to enter Executive Session. 
 
Minutes/2011/02-14-11 