===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
January 10, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta, Robert J. Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. 
Benson  
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Litigation- Separate minutes. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 11-30-10, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Ms. Bilotta.  Signed 12-13-10, Motion, Mr. Saiia, 
Second, Mr. Lockwood.  Signing of Executive 12-13-10 minutes tabled until next meeting.  Mr. Bodkin noted that the minutes did 
not contain a recording of the actual vote for the approval of an extension granted to Highfield Village.  The vote was 4 -1 with Mr. 
Bodkin voting negatively.  Director will review minutes.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Tabled 
MRPC- Tabled 
MRPC Energy Advisory Committee-  Tabled 
DPW Building Committee- Ms. Bilotta reported that next meeting will be held on January 18, 2011.   
Capital Planning Committee-Director reported that the Committee is evaluating and prioritizing requests. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
FY12 Budget- Budget will be presented to Town Manager.  Noted was the lease of a new copier.  Leasing cost will be taken out 
of the Planning budget for the remaining five months of FY 2011, but will be part of the Technology budget in FY 2012. 
Zoning Bylaw - Request for Zoning Change - Director noted request of D. P. Higgen for zoning change from industrial to 
commercial on the corner of Leom inster-Shirley Road and Pioneer Drive.  The Building Official and  the Planning  Director 
informed Mr. Higgen that zoning change has to have a Town Meeting vote.  Mr. Higgen was also told that he could request th e 
Planning Board place an Article on the Town M eeting Warrant  or he could submit an Article to the Board of Selectmen  by 
petition.  Champa Realty represented Charles Gitto, owner of the property.  Also present was Jamie Rhea ult from Whitman and 
Bingham Associates LLC.  Mr.  Bodkin suggested the Planning Board review the industrial area as an overlay district that would 
be both commercial and industrial. 
Census- Director reported that all the data is not available as of this date. 
Summer Street- Work is being done on preparation for reconstruction of Summer Street in cooperation with the city of Fitchburg 
and the t own of Lunenburg.  The design must be prepared before the project can move forward.  Montachusett Regional 
Planning Commission ( MRPC) awarded the project ion of District Local Technical Assistance  to Lunenburg, Fitchburg and 
Leominster for assistance and service for scope of service for the Summer Street project.  
1263 Reservoir Road, Keating Trust -  Director notified the Planning Board that a Development Plan  Review will be filed for 
Keating in re gard to the placement of new towers.  The towers will be taller than the ones presently in place.  According to the 
Zoning Officer, the Planning Board has the right to allow increased height levels as long as the Fire Chie f approves the new 
height.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 1-10-11 
Page 2 
 
Eagle House- Director notified the Planning Board that the Grant for the parking lot, etc. has been filed. 
Green Community Task Force- Preparation for grant request on solar field on the landfill is continuing. 
Open Space- Next meeting is Friday, January 14, 2011, which should finalize all State requested data. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Highfield Village- Work is advancing with the Sewer Commission (see Minutes – Approval above). 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Noted placement of the first villas. 
Tri Town Landin g-  Director gave report of number of school -age children as of January 3 rd; 9 children of various ages have 
moved into the development.  School Superintendent is concerned that the number will exceed the anti cipated number according 
to the Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD) formula.   
First Evangelical Congregational Church - The Development Plan Review has been filed  with the Worcester Northern District 
Registry of Deeds.  The Church representative will file with the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) .  Before going further, the church 
congregation will internally decide whether or not to proceed.    
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: 
MMA Annual Meeting - Discussion on attendance to  MMA. Mr. Lockwood will not be able to attend.   Other members did not 
respond with final plans.  Chair Bakaysa and Mr. Saiia  may stay overnight.  Vice Chair Bilotta and Director Benson  will only 
attend the Friday Session.  Mr. Bodkin has no final plans at this date.   
Nashua River Watershed Association Workshops- Director is working with the Association on preparation of the workshop.   
Sign Bylaw- Director commented on the concern of the signage in the center facing 2A. Noted safety factor and unsightliness of 
numerous signs.   
CVS- Subdivision/Site Improvement Bond was released by Town Accountant after final report from Peer Reviewing Engineer. 
Lunenburg Crossing- Work is continuing, but more slowly than expected due to engineering firm hired by owner. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
January 2011- 
January 12 Master Planning Workshop 
January 24, 2011 Board Meeting 
February 2011- 
February 14, 2011 Board Meeting 
February 28, 2011 Board Meeting   
Noted that a date was not set for Master Planning in February.  Consensus was February 21.  
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewing, consisting of  
various data information.  
 
MEMBER INFORMATION AND ISSUES:   
  
OFFICE:  Technology (see FY 12 Budget above).  
 
ADJOURNMENT: Motion to adjourn, Ms. Bilotta, Second, Mr. Lockwood, adjourned 9:15 PM. 
 
Minutes/2011/01-10-11 