===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
Master Planning 
March 30, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL: 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Nathan J. Lockwood, Robert J. Saiia, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Joanne Bilotta, Thomas Bodkin Jr. 
 
Minutes:  Signed 1-19-11 and 2-16-11. 
 
Discussions: 
Overlay District: Director presented cut sheets on Overlay Districts from Massachusetts Land Use and Planning Law written by 
Mark Bobrowski.  Part of the discussion concerned a population shift to the Whalom area  and enhancements to the residents in 
that area.  
Summer Street: Director reported on meeting with MRPC.  Each community was given a set of maps entitled Summer Street 
Zoning Map, Summer Street Zoning Map Target Area, Summer Street Land Use Map, and Summer Street Land Use Map Target 
Area, along with a Scope of Servi ces & Schedule .  Director read Scope of Services & Schedule  and will e -mail material 
tomorrow.  Chair noted that clarification was needed of the Scope of Services & Schedule .  Board “brainstormed” ideas 
concerning the purposes and amenities that relate their vision for the Town .  Board envisions detailed planning  to encourage a 
center-like street scene that would include shops and services with possible second floor space for offices, etc.  Chair appointed 
a sub -committee consisting of Nathan Lockwood, Joanne Bilotta and himself to design area.  Director is to seek status of 
workshop meetings and locate local artist who has done past work in Town.   
Center Planning:  Board started their discussion on location of Center.  “Where is the ideal center and what should it include ?”  
Discussion ensued and included the following as part of the Center: educational hub, administrative services, church, historical 
society, library, teen center, Eagle House, proposed senior residential area, Parish House, Marshall Park, Harley House, gazebo, 
and retail commercial area.  Issu es noted as follows: future of high school (including re -use, if necessary), parking, walkability , 
accessibility, sidewalks, and bike paths.  A list to be generated by Mr. Lockwood will be an attachment to these minutes. 
 
Input:  Board discussed once the initial work is done and c ompiled into a report, the Town Boards and interested citizens will be 
invited for further input. 
   
Next Agenda:  Continuation of Summer Street and Center Planning.  
 
Motion to adjourn:  Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, adjournment 8:30 PM.  
 
 
Minutes/2011/3-30-11 MP workshop 
 