===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 12, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:   Joanna L. Bilotta, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Robert J. Saiia, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed 8-15-11, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed.   
Signed Executive 8-15-11, Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, Motion passed.   
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  The following were noted: 
 Zoning Board of Appeals Special Permit for Dee Bus Service Inc., to park eleven school buses at 39 Massachusetts 
Avenue. 
 Paving of Lancaster Avenue to commence September 13 th. 
 Land use law update from law offic es of Daniel C. Hill  regarding appeals court expanding options for grandfathered 
houses. 
 Board of Selectmen September 8 th meeting held for an Intermunicipal Agreement for Operation of a Regional 911 
Emergency Communications District.  No decision made as of this date. 
 Grant being sought by MRPC .  This would benefit Lunenburg as the grant could be used toward  Master Planning and 
to update Lunenburg’s Community Affordable Housing Strategy. 
 Verizon inquiring as to signage for possible siting at Lunenburg Crossing. 
 
ANR APPOINTMENTS: 
 Joe Russo, 493 West Street- Withdrawn without prejudice 
 Joe Russo, 357 Electric Avenue- Withdrawn without prejudice 
The following ANRs were presented to the Planning Board and will be distributed for review.  
 Rocco Lastella & Ron LaP ointe, 146 Elmwood Road - ANR originally presented at August 15 th Board meeting.  After 
being accepted for review, Applicant requested withdrawal without prejudice in order to revise one of the lot lines.   
Revised ANR submitted this date. 
 June & Frank Riddle, 291 West Street 
 Anders Rhodin, 168 Goodrich Street 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 9-12-11 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- No report 
MRPC- No report 
DPW Building Committee- Construction moving forward.  Minor conservation issue noted per Agent Matt Marro , which will be 
remedied via Conservation Commission procedure of a public hearing.   
Capital Planning Committee -  Noted meeting of September 7 th.  Form B’s, inventory sheets, and five year plan forms 
distributed to Department Heads for completion.  Mr. Saiia inquired if inve ntory form assists the Committee in identifying 
equipment that needs replacement; e.g., vehicle turnover.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
1263 Reservoir Road, P J Keating- As Built Plan received in office.   Mr. Lockwood inquired as to as built process. 
Open Space- Noted Ad Hoc Committee met September 9 th.  Open Space and Recreation Plan notes lack of public access for 
recreation to Lunenburg’s lakes and ponds.  There is a portion of Town owned land off of  Parmenter Road  adjacent to Lake 
Shirley.  Committee to discuss if it wants to pursue  public access through the technical expertise and funding from Department of 
Fish and Game.  Some Board members noted concern regarding boats coming from other lakes/ponds with Milfoil Weeds 
attached to bottom.  Committee requested Ms. Benson check current status of Woodruff property.  Committee would like a copy 
of MRPC’s recreation trail mapping.  Committee member Ms. Jordan to discuss with Assessor’s office the possibility of Assessor 
maps being put on web.    
Eagle House Parking Lot - Ms. Benson noted no senior center project grants were awarded by the State.   Mr. Saiia noted it 
might be advantageous for a news article noting same. 
Summer Street- MRPC has an appointment at the September 19 th Master Planning Workshop to present a Summer Street draft 
bylaw for discussion. 
Green Community Task Force -  Borrego Solar’s contract for the Town landfill reviewed by Town Counsel.  Two other possible 
applicants are EOSOLAMERICAS for Chase Road and EPG Solar on Electric Avenue.  
School Reconfiguration - The School Committee is expanding its membership of an Advisory Committee to the School 
Committee and is requesting inclusion of a  Planning Board  member.  Advisory Committee will identify long -term educational 
opportunities and challenges around the reconfiguration.  Chair Bakaysa had relayed to Vice Chair Bilotta -Simeone that he 
wished to appoint Mr. Lockwood to the Advisory Committee .  Mr. Lockwood has children in the Lunenburg schools  and presently 
is not a Planning Board representative to any other reporting committee.  Discussion ensued.  Mr. Saiia noted he would like to sit 
on the Committee with Mr. Lockwood, but it was noted that the School Committee requested one individual from the Planning 
Board.  If Mr. Lockwood was unable to attend, Chair Bakaysa would fill in.   Mr. Bodkin Jr. suggested that Mr. Saiia be the 
alternate when Mr. Lockwood is unavailable.   Motion made, Mr. Bodkin Jr., that Mr. Lockwood serve on the Advisory Committee 
with Mr. Saiia as an alternate, Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Motion passed. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
DPW Facility, Chase Road- Planning Board signed Development Plan Review Approval.  Applicant  (Lunenburg) to file Approval 
with Registry of Deeds. 
Asian Imperial, 332 Massachusetts Avenue -   Site Development Plan received.  MA DOT has granted ingress and egress on 
Electric Avenue. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront -     Update notes foundations being constructed for five villas.  The last multi 
should be completed by end February 20 12.  Determination of designated over -55 units not yet determined.  Per Town Counsel 
recommendation, minor verbiage changes needs to be made to the condominium documents.  Planning Board signed 
Addendum Approval for commercial office/management building  at 1 Carousel Lane.  Applicant to register with Registry of 
Deeds. 
Tri Town Landing, 37 Youngs Road -   Update notes developer’s opinion is that competition will be high for subsidy assistance 
applications.  Developer does not expect to be on October 2011 lis t and will apply again for the spring round  for construction of 
Building 3.  Ms. Benson presented to Board of Selectmen on current inventory status.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 9-12-11 
Page 3 
 
Highfield Village, Mass Ave/Northfield Road -   Ms. Benson reiterated that the Se wer Commission remains in support of the 
current conceptual plan as it provides improvements to the residents on Maple Parkway and a portion of White Street and allows 
for future expansion of the Town’s sewer system.  The Sewer Commission does not believe a workshop with the Planning Board 
is necessary.  Project timeline from initial application to present was provided to the Board.  Letter dated this date was received 
from the Developer’s Designing Engineer stating that they are working on a resubmission t o the Planning Board .  The Sewer 
Commission also requires a set of plans involving the design of the sewer for the connection to the municipal sewer system.  The 
Developer has submitted the Environmental Notification Form (ENF) to the Executive Office of E nvironmental Affairs (EOEA) and 
is awaiting its comments prior to final plan revisions to the Plannin g Board.  Upon approval from the Sewer Commission, plans 
will be submitted to the Planning Board.   Discussion ensued as to timeframe before plans would be submitted to the Sewer 
Commission.  Ms. Benson will request a more definite timeline from the Applicant.   It was also noted that Applicant enjoys the 
zoning that was in place at the time of the initial submission in 2004. 
Stone Farm Estates, Massachusetts Avenue-  Developer has requested amendments to the Master Deed and Declaration of 
Trust.  The documents have been sent to Town Counsel for review.    Board also requesting clarification as to whether or not 
Developer is requesting an increase in the number of units beyond the 58 originally approved.   
 
Note:  Board has requested supporting documentation pertaining to agenda items be sent to them the Thursday prior to a 
Planning Board meeting. 
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
925 Massachusetts Avenue - Board of Selectmen working in conjunction with Fire Department to have product drained from 
tanks. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
September 19, Master Planning/Bylaw Workshop, Ritter Building 
September 26, Planning Board Meeting, Ritter Building 
October 10, Holiday – meeting date needs to be changed 
October 17, Master Planning Workshop 
October 24, Planning Board Meeting 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  Mr. Bodkin Jr. noted that MRPC conducted a survey of the bylaws of the towns/cities in its service area  and 
Lunenburg was noted as not having a scenic road bylaw.  Ms. Benson noted that the scenic road bylaw is a State law.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn , Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., roll call vote, Mr. Saiia, aye, Mr. Lockwood, aye, Ms. 
Bilotta, aye, Motion passed.  Adjourned  8:45 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/09.12.11 