===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
April 25, 2011 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
ROLL CALL:   
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa,  Joanna L. Bilotta, Rober t J.  Saiia, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
PSG Realty 393 -435, LLC, 151 Leominster -Shirley Road- Jessie Johnson from David E. Ross Associates presented the site  
layout plan to the Planning Board for Powell Stone & Gravel Co. Inc.’s project.  The site is at 151 Leominster Shirley Road.  An 
ANR Plan was approved  in 2009  for this lot which was purchased from Padula/Shirley Road Realty Trust.   Powell Stone & 
Gravel will construct a n office and a building to house their trucks.  A Development Plan Review  has been submitted.  A Tech 
meeting will be held on May 11, 2011. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom - Gary Crossen, Jack Sullivan, and Jay Hoag , along with their Designing Engineer  Anthony 
Cleaves from Whitman & Bingham prese nted a new structure design which sho ws the villas in place of the townhouses.  The 
villa design is more in demand than the townhouses.  The villa placement leaves more green space.  It was determined and 
verified in conversation with Town Counsel that as neither the infrastructure nor the number  change in this design, ther e is no 
reason to hold a public hearing.  Mr. Bodkin  Jr. noted his discomfort as the Plan does not present enough of the visual in 
representing the change; he would like a site visit.  He will make arrangements with Mr. Hoag. 
 
MINUTES – APPROVAL:  Signed- 4-11-11, Motion, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Executive 3 -28-11, Motion , Mr. Saiia, 
Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Zoning Articles Public Hearing 4-11-11, Motion, Mr. Saiia, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Mr. Saiia reported on 3% increase in roadway in the region. 
MRPC- Mr. Bodkin Jr. reported on the Human Resource study for MRPC .  MRPC will vote on the report which will represent 
some salary increases. 
DPW Building Commit tee- Ms. Bilotta reported th e general bids came in at $ 1.287 million .  T his is over the $1.1 million 
awarded at Town Meeting.  Ms. Bilotta noted the increase in all construction products.  The Committee will have to review all  
aspects of the plan for cuts and/or go back to Town Meeting for additional funding. 
Capital Planning Committee -  There is no change.  Board of Selectmen noted displeasure on funding , but will consider their 
recommendation at Town Meeting. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS: 
332 Massachusetts Avenue, Cote, BC, Doyle, CC, Morrisey, S., Trustees - Director noted that a new plan for siting Asian 
Imperial Garden will be submitted shortly by Marsden Engineer on behalf of the applicant.  
925 Massachusetts Avenue, Trustee of L&M Svc Ctr,  Inc.- Mr. Bodkin Jr. reported that he did not have the summary 
completed of his findings of the situation and issues at this site. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 4-25-11 
Page 2 
 
Summer Street - Director reported t here are two active parts to Summer Street - 1) the Alternative Analysis funded by Town 
Meeting through an appropriation and , 2) an MRPC project funded through a grant.  The Alternative Analysis is generally geared 
toward roadway design and the MRPC project is geared toward land use.  The MRPC project is underway and th e Alternative 
Analysis project will get under way after Town Meeting.    
Green Community Task Force -  Director noted solar panels are being placed on the Middle School.  Also presented w as a list 
of companies requesting Bid Documents for the Solar Field at the landfill. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront- See above appointment.    
Tri Town Landin g, 37 Youngs Rd -  Director presented Mr. Caselden’s r eport noting the age and count of school children 
residing at Tri Town Landing.  It was noted that Representative Benson will need these figures as they relate to Chapter 40S.   
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS/OLD BUSINESS: 
Lunenburg Estates , 1229 Massachusetts Avenue - Director reported that the extended approval for this 40B project will run 
through September 20, 2011. 
Annual Town Meeting , Section 4.6.5., Design Standards -  The Chair opened the Board meeting for discussion due to a 
citizen request to be heard on the noted Section.  Mr. David Rodgers spoke on several issues with the propose d bylaw.  He 
noted 4.6.5.2.a) Occupied Lot Area, 2. - It was noted that the equation was in error and need ed to be fixed.  The next item was 
Flat Roofs 4.6.5.2 d) . which was noted that the demand that they be prohibited was a violation of rights.  Chair ex plained 
reasoning.  4.6.5.2.j) 1.  Parking in the rear was also a major issue brought forth , as well as sidewalks  from the street line, 
4.6.5.2.k).  Mr. Rodgers noted both were subjective and interfered with good performance of planning design.  The discus sion 
concerned fencing 4.6.5.2.n) 3 . resulted in deleting it from the proposed bylaw .  The meeting discussions were helpful with 
issues raised and explanation and purposes discussed.  The Chair thanked Mr. Rodger s for coming forth with concerns and 
noted that the exchange and discussions were of assistance to the Board. 
CLURPA- Tabled 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
April 2011- 
4-27-11, Master Planning Workshop – cancelled - will post cancellation in AM. 
May 2011- 
May 7, Planning Board Meeting, 8:30 AM, HS Cafeteria 
May 9, Planning Board Meeting, Town Hall 
May 18, Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building 
May 23, Public Hearing & Planning Board Meeting, Town Hall 
 
DATA INFORMATION:  Data folder containing items of interest not on agenda presented to members for viewing, consisting of  
various data information - Reviewed  
 
MEMBER INFORMATION & ISSUES:   
 
Director noted the memo on Take Back Day for discarded medications, etc.  
 
Director noted the breakdown of legal expenses has not yet been received from Town Counsel.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Saiia, all aye, adjourned 9:30 PM. 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2011/04.11.11 