===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 10, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood 
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia, Marion M. Benson, Planning Director  
 
PUBLIC HEARING, MASS PV1, LLC, 651 Chase Road-  See separate minutes.    
 
APPOINTMENT:  Aro Estates, Howard Street-  Jamie Rheault, Whitman and Bingham Associates, speaking on behalf of Kevin 
O’Brien, presented a set of plans to the Board.  He will also send a set to Town Counsel.  He recommended that the Applicant’s 
Counsel and Town C ounsel coordinate with each other as to the re -submittal to get the process moving forward.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. 
noted that plans are not typically sent to Town Counsel; there are bylaws in place to govern the process.  Mr. Rheault noted they 
started this process approximat ely two months and that the usual process would be  a “submittal meeting” in the Planning Office 
with Ms. Benson.  Due to Ms. Benson’s absence, this was put on hold.   Ms. Benson’s earlier recommendation was for Mr. 
Rheault to bring in a set which would be passed on to Town Counsel.  Mr. Bakaysa noted that following this process, the Board 
will be able to view a set of plans and discuss any issues with Town Counsel prior to the Applicant submitting  ten (10) sets of ten 
(10) subdivisions to the office.  The Board requested an overall plan showing the location of all ten subdivisions on one page. 
 
APPROVALS-  
Minutes:  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Motion to approve minutes of August 27, 2012, and Dippin ’ Donuts Information Meeting August 
27, 2012, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed. 
 
Dippin’ Donuts, Development Plan Review:  Chair Bakaysa read the below Development Plan Review Findings and Directives 
into record.  
 
FINDINGS: 
1. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds that an application for a development plan review was subm itted on August 27, 
2012 for 457 Massachusetts Avenue, Map 058, Parcel 0012. 
2. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds that the owner of the property is S & S Realty Trust, Diane Wright, c/o Showroom 
Sammy’s, 455 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462.  
3. The Lu nenburg Planning Board finds that the applicant is Paul Karapatsas, d/b/a Dippin’ Donuts, 122 Cross Street, 
Lunenburg, MA 01462.   
4. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds the Development Plan Review is for a donut and coffee shop. 
5. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds that the subject land, Map 058, Parcel 0012 is zoned Commercial. 
6. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds that the submittal, Proposed Soil Absorption System Plan No. 12 -21 was 
prepared by Whitman & Bingham Associates, 510 Mechanic Street, Leominster, MA, 01453.  
7. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds a Presby Environmental Type Soil Absorption System will be utilized. 
8. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds a septic system plan has been submitted to the Board of Health.  
9. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds the Applicant has applied to the Conservation Commission for a Determination of 
Applicability 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 09-10-12 
Page 2 
 
10. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds, in the event public sewer is installed on this portion of Massachusetts Avenue, 
the Applicant would be required to comply with the Lunenburg Grease Trap regulation. 
11. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds the Applicant plans to install a grease trap. 
12. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds there will be no pavement expansion. 
13. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds fifteen (15) parking spaces are requested, one (1) of them being handicapped.   
14. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds there will be drive-in service. 
15. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds anticipated hours of operation will be 5:00 AM to 10:00 PM, seven (7) days per 
week. 
16. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds there will be an on-site dumpster. 
17. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds that Marsden Engineering, Inc., P.O. Box 509, Lunenburg, MA will perform the 
site inspections for the Town. 
18. The Lunenburg Planning Board finds an Information Meeting was held and closed on August 27, 2012. 
19. The Lunenburg Planning Board, at the August 27, 2012 Information Meeting, voted to waive a peer review by a 3 -2 
vote. 
DIRECTIVES: 
1. The Applicant shall comply with Plan No. 12 -21 Proposed Soil Absorption S ystem prepared by Whitman & Bingham 
Associates, 510 Mechanic Street, Leominster, MA 01453.   
2. The Applicant shall apply for any sign permit through the Building Official. 
3. The Applicant shall submit a septic system design to the Board of Health. 
4. The Applicant shall apply to the Conservation Commission for a Determination of Applicability. 
5. The Applicant shall fill out the Weekly Progress Notification Form  (attached) on a weekly basis and submit each 
Monday to the Planning office.  Form may be hand -carried to the Planning Office, sent via facsimile to 978 -582-4353, 
or electronically to mbenson@lunenburgonline.com. 
6. Note: These Directives are subject to periodic review by the permit granting authority (Planning Bo ard), or zoning 
enforcement officer to ensure compliance with the enumerated conditions.  Non -compliance to these conditions may 
result in revocation of this Approval.  
Summary Report 
1.  Will not be injurious or dangerous to the public health or unduly hazar dous because of traffic congestion, danger of 
fire or explosion or other reasons. 
2. Will not have a material adverse effect on the value of land and buildings in the neighborhood or on the amenities of 
the neighborhood. 
3. Will be operated with reasonable regard for order and sightlines, if an open use. 
4. Will not produce noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat or glare observable at the lot lines in amounts clearly 
detrimental to the normal use of adjacent property. 
 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Motion to approve the D evelopment Plan Review Findings and Directives as read, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., 
Motion passed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-  No report.  
MRPC-   Alternate Rob Bowen attended on behalf of Planning Board representative, Mr. Bodkin Jr.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. will provi de 
report at next Board meeting. 
School Reconfiguration Committee - Project Manager interviews  are tentatively scheduled for beginning October.  Mr. Bodkin 
Jr. recommended that, if possible, the meetings be televised quarterly for the benefit of the citizens. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORT/NEW BUSINESS: 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue-  No report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront Avenue -  Weekly progress reports note landscaping will begin around the next 
villa – 40, 42, 44, 46 Carousel Lane.   
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road-  Progress reports note footings and half of the building foundation completed.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
September 17th- Master Planning Workshop, Ritter Memorial Building 
September 24th- Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 09-10-12 
Page 3 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, after reading the news article in the Lunenburg Ledger, apologized to Ms. Benson if 
Ms. Benson misconstrued her intent regarding the discussion that took place at the Augus t 27 th Board meeting, if the intent 
projected was to replace her as Planning Director.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone’s aim was  to ensure that the Administrative Assistant, 
Ms. Boggio, had the necessary tools to run the office during the absence of Ms. Benson.  Chai r Bakaysa agreed that was the 
intent of the August 27th discussion – that the office would continue to run in the absence of Ms. Benson.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Adjourned 8:30 PM. 
 
Minutes/2012/09.10.12 