===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Minutes 
June 25, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr. Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson  
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia 
 
APPROVAL- Minutes:  Motion to approve minutes of June 4, 2012 and June 13, 2012 , Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, Second, Mr. 
Bodkin Jr., minutes signed. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: 
Director noted the following: 
Town Hall and Ritter Memorial Building will be closed from July 2 nd through July 6th.  
Department of Public Safety Memorandum on Preemption of Municipal Action  
Board of Selectmen adopted Remote Participation Policy 
Annual Update of Chapter 40R Smart Growth Zoning District submitted to State  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Mr. Saiia not present to report 
MRPC-  Next meeting scheduled for June 26th.   
School Reconfiguration Committee- No report 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORT/NEW BUSINESS: 
Highfield Village, Northfield Road - Current Extension to expire June 30, 2012.  Office in receipt of extension request to 
December 1, 2012.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Motion, to extend to December 31, 2012, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr.  Motion passed. 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue -  Applicant has hired a construction company.  Water test done on site.  Sewer Commission 
has advised applicant of peer review cost for proposed grease trap. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, 10 Lakefront Avenue - Meeting held with Ms. Benson and principals.  The following items 
were discussed:  Relocation of a villa, installation of trash compactor, and installation of dog park area.  Plans in final s tage for a 
“professional park” on the commercial parcel.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone raised concern of an abundance of police calls for Emerald 
Place; Ms. Benson responded that Chief Bourgeois noted  via electronic mail that “Emerald Place does not have an issue with an 
overabundance of police calls”.  Mr. Bakaysa inquired as to status of “over-55”.  Ms. Benson to inquire. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road - Plan has been submitted for Building 3.  Plan has been reviewed by Marsden Engineering 
and okayed for construction.   
New England Farms- Awaiting Zoning Board of Appeals signage report.   
 
APPOINTMENTS: 
ANR, 357 Electric Avenue- Plan presented by Whitman & Bingham Associates.  Location is the old Whalom Drive In.  Sewer is 
available as a result of Sewer Commission rezoning within Sewer District at May 2011 Town Meeting.  Site wi ll be “mixed use”  
(mall, storage facility, professional office).  Original permit, which was for the site as a storage facility, cannot be util ized as plan 
has changed.  Plan accepted for review.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 6-25-12 
Page 2 
 
MRPC, District Local Technical As sistance Program  (DLTA)/Master Planning - Glenn Eaton, Executive Director  and John 
Hume, Planning and Development Director were present to discuss the DLTA program funded by the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts.  MRPC receives fund to provide technical assista nce to communities at no cost to the community.  MRPC could 
work with the Board to review Priority Development Areas (PDA’s) and Priority Preservation Areas (PPA’s) within the Town.  Th is 
would provide a solid foundation for future master planning efforts.   MRPC has sent Lunenburg’s application to DHCD.  If 
approved, then MRPC would work on a scope of services with the community.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
July 9th, Board meeting, Town Hall 
July 16th, Public Hearing, EPG Solar, Town Hall 
July 23rd, Board meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
EPG Solar, 265 Pleasant Street - Development Plan Review (DPR) under previous Zoning Bylaw Section 6.6. - The DPR 
was read into record at the June 4th Board meeting.  At this meeting Mr. Bakaysa read into record the changes since that date. 
 
Page 1- 
This application for Development Plan Review (DPR) was submitted and reviewed under the applicable provisions of the Zoning B ylaw existing 
at the time of its filing on November 29, 2011. 
NOTE:  Subsequent to that filing, the Zoning Bylaw  was amended by Town Meeting on May 5, 2012 to include new provisions applicable to all 
solar energy facilities, including this proposed facility.  Among other things, these provisions require a special permit fro m the Planning Board 
for all large -scale gr ound-mounted solar energy facilities proposed to be located outside of the Solar Overlay District.  As EPG Solar LLC’s 
proposed solar farm is not located within the Solar Overlay District it requires a special permit.  Accordingly, notwithstanding this DPR approval, 
no building permit may issue unless and until the applicant applies for and obtains a special permit. 
 
Page 11- 
NOTE:  This submittal was reviewed in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Zoning Bylaw at the time of its filing .  A new  Solar 
Bylaw, Section 4.15. was presented and passed at the Annual Town Meeting on May 5, 2012.  THE APPLICANT SHALL APPLY FOR A SPE CIAL 
PERMIT AND shall be required to adhere to the requirements of the Bylaw as written in Section 4.15.  The new submittal shall be made under 
the Special Permitting Process and presented to the Planning Board for its review and consideration and no building permit sh all be issued 
unless and until said special permit has been issued. 
 
Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, to approve th e Development Plan Review for EPG Solar as submitted, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., roll 
call vote- Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye. 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
 
Board members requested Ms. Benson pursue the implementatio n of lunenburgonline.com e-mail addresses for each of them 
through the Tech Director and the Town Manager.   
 
Board Reorganization – MJTC Representative – Tabled - Mr. Saiia not present. 
 
APPOINTMENT:  EPG Solar, 265 Pleasant Street - Special Permit applica tion presented to Board .  Application presented 
by principals Mr. Borkowski and Mr. Babcock.  Public Hearing scheduled for July 16, 2012.  Application will be reviewed under 
the new Solar Bylaw.  Use of the property is protected under an ANR that the Board  endorsed February 13, 2012.  Project size 
has been reduced  by approximately two -thirds.  Under the wholesale model the size of the project would not be reduced 
because it would not make economic sense to the Applicant.  Under a retail model  with net metering, the Applicant can make it 
much smaller  and renewable energy credits will go to Lunenburg amounting to approximately $100,000/yearly in electrical 
savings.  There are a limited number of net meter credits available, and if the Applicant doesn’t secure them in time, they will go 
back to the wholesale model.  Setbacks are between 125 feet and 250 feet.  Screening and landscaping has been en hanced 
from original proposal.    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Citizens in attendance urged the Board to stay with the 200 foot setbacks. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  8:45 PM. 
 
Minutes/2012/06.25.12 