===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
Public Hearing Minutes 
Citizen Petition Town Meeting Article 
April 30, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson  
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia  
 
Hearing opened with the Chair reading the public hearing notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on April 16 and Apri l 
23, 2012. 
 
The Hearing was to hear a citizens’ petition (listed as Article 18 on the Warrant) to amend the Zoning Bylaw by adding to the 
current bylaw Section 4.0. use Regulations, a new Section entitled Section 4.15. Solar Energy Systems.   
 
David Prokowiew, 733 Wes t Street, read Article 18 (attach ment 1) on behalf o f the citizens.  He then read a prepared statement 
into record (attachment 2).  
 
Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone to have Board discussion on Article 18. 
 
The Board voted unanimously to NOT accept the citizen petition article. 
 
Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, to close the Hearing and enter Board meeting to discuss the bylaw.  Roll 
Call Vote, Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  The Hearing closed at 7:15 PM. 
 
Board discussed amending the Planning Board Bylaw on Town Meeting floor with the incorporation of specific portions of the 
citizen petition bylaw agreed upon by the Board and the citizens.  The petition bylaw would then be passed over. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa felt as-of-right siting shouldn’t go back to town meeting .  The special permitting process in place provides suitable 
controls.  Going back to a town meeting is too restrictive and lengthens th e expedited permitting proces s for medium and 
industrial-scale solar. 
 
The citizens wanted 4.15.4.3. 1. Standards: Bullet 2 . to include the addition “and that a minimum of 2/3 of the abutting 
properties do not object to the proposed installation”.   Mr. Bakaysa noted that this could b e stacked either for/against  the 
abutting properties, depending on the neighborhood.  The Board has to look at what is in the best interest of  the community as a 
whole.  The Board and the citizens agreed that stronger wording would be placed in  4.15.4.3. 1. Standards: Bullet 2.  Board 
would obtain feedback from  Town Counsel as to appropriate wording  to strengthen Bullet 2 .  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted that 
there are four Bullets that applicant would have to meet, irrespective of whether or not the 2/3 was inc luded in the bylaw. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing 
04-30-12 
Pg 2 
 
Mr. Whalen, 526 West Townsend Road,  suggested that the following be added to 4.15.4.3. 1. Standards:  Bullet 2:   “Proposed 
installation shall not present an undue hardship upon an existing reside nce”. 
 
Ms. Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road,  inquired as to the criteria the Board will use to determine if project “adversely affects 
a neighborhood”.   
 
Ms. Benson to consult with Town counsel regarding the above two items. 
 
Board and citizens were in agreement with the following: 
4.15.4.9. A. Lighting and Security ; delete “placed as to not infringe on private citizens’ property” and insert “shielded from 
viewing abutting private property or invading the privacy of any abutting residential property owner ”. 
 
4.15.4.11. Abandonment and Removal; Insert first sentence to read “Absent notice of a proposed date of decommissioning the 
solar photovoltaic installation shall be considered abandoned when it fails to operate for more than one year without the wri tten 
consent of the Planning Board”.  Insert the words “or abandonment” at the end of the second sentence. 
 
Board felt something needed to be incorporated to fill gap in medium -scale projects  and less than 20 acres.  Mr. Bakaysa 
recommended leaving medium-scale out and coming back at next town meeting when a better way can be found to appropriately 
define setbacks and buffer strips for medium-scale.  Ms. Benson to consult with Town Counsel. 
 
Citizens and Board in agreement with keeping 4.15.1. Purpose and 4.15.2. Definitions of Planning Board bylaw. 
 
Mr. Whalen noted that small self -contained solar accessories are not addressed by this bylaw in the Definitions.  Ms. Benson to 
consult with Town Counsel for an exclusionary statement for typical household related appliances. 
 
Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., to close Board meeting.  Motion passed.  Adjourned 9: 30 PM. 
 
 
Minutes/town mtg citizen petition art 4-30-12 