===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Robert J. Saiia, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
March 8, 2012 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:00 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Robert J. Saiia 
 
SOLAR BYLAW: 
Proposed Solar Bylaw reviewed to address Town Counsel’s recommended requirements.    
 
Mr. Lockwood referred to Ms. Benson’s March 5, 2012 memorandum noting that Town Counsel recommends the Site Plan 
Review Authority may w aive documentary requirements as it deems appropriate.  What are documentary requirements?  Ms. 
Benson noted anything in the bylaw that says it has to be documented.   
 
4.15.1. Purpose 
No issues 
 
4.15.2. Definitions 
Why is there a definition of on -site photovoltaic installations when the solar bylaw makes no reference  to them?  Why 
recommended by Town Counsel?  Ms. Benson to follow -up.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone- possible example - on top of a muni cipality 
building?  Ms. Benson  received the following info rmation this date- “micro-scaled ground-mounted photovoltaic (PV) installation.  
A solar  system that is structurally mounted on the ground and has name plate capacity under 2 KW ”.  Mr. Bakaysa 
recommended Purpose be modified for power generation for all, whether home, commercial or industrial . 
 
4.15.3. Small Scale Solar Energy Systems 
4.15.3.1. Purpose 
No issues 
 
4.15.3.2. Small-Scale Roof-Mounted Solar Energy Equipment 
No issues 
 
4.15.3.3. Small-Scale Ground-Mounted Solar Equipment 
“25 feet from residential side-yard lines”.  Specify that this also refers to commercial property. 
“Small-scale ground -mounted equipment shall be adequately screened  from the neighboring lot line as determined by the 
Building/Zoning Official”.  Board felt screening should be same for both small -scale and large -scale.  Ms. Benson felt there 
should be height limit. 
Citizen comments: 
Concern with screening to cover height. 
Could specify height must comply with dimensional regulations. 
Mr. Bakaysa response- screening could impede functionality of solar panel. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 3-8-12 
Page 2 
 
Board wants height restriction for ground -mounted – already restriction on roof -mounted.  Get Town Counsel input on height 
restrictions.  Ten feet?  
 
4.15.3.4. Required Documents 
Board requested Building Official’s documentation requirements in writing .  Require landscape diagram of adequate screening  
from developers.   
 
4.15.3.5. Permitting 
Citizen feels it needs to be noted that in developing the setbacks for solar access, responsibility is on developer.   
 
“Ms. Benson - Change last sentence to read - “All other necessary permits, such as electrical, shall be obtained through the 
individual inspectors”.  Board notes needs to be a section in the bylaw for solar systems for hot water only.  Get input from Town 
Counsel. 
 
4.15.3.6. As Built Plans 
Specify to both the permitting authority and copied to the Planning Board.  
 
4.15.4. Large Scale Solar Energy Systems 
4.15.4.1. Purpose 
In first sentence change “Electric” to “photovoltaic” (change to agree with Definitions).    
 
4.15.4.2. Overlay District 
Ms. Benson- 680 West Street is changed to 265 Pleasant Street per Assessor’s Office.  
Affidavit will be received that Lancaster Ave and Leominster-Shirley Rd are proper locations for solar under criteria.   
 
Citizen requested that 651 Chase Road and 265 Pleasant Street be removed from list.   They are not suitable sites under the 
current Bylaw.  Does not want Bylaw changed to make them legal after the fact.   
 
Mr. Bakaysa noted the Board works  on behalf of the  Town and is creating overlay districts.  The sites need  to be advertised so 
citizens can see where they are and make their individual comments either at the public hearing or Town Meeting if they want a 
site removed from the overlay district.  The Board will make its recommendation to the Town.  How to add a site to the overlay 
district?  1) everyone that wants to do this has to go thr ough an application and  a town meeting or, 2) create an overlay district 
that encompasses the entire outlying district and establish requirements, e.g., that solar could be on a 20 acre parcel with ce rtain 
setbacks and requirements.   Town Counsel noted the whole Town can be made an overlay district ; i f not, any  time a new 
developer comes in with a solar farm, it would have to go before town meeting as it would change the sites listed in this Section.  
Town Counsel suggested that the following could be added: “Any lot in the outlying district, provided however, that large -scale 
ground-mounted solar photovoltaic installation s shall require a minimum of 20 acres”.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. supports removing the 
Chase Road and Pleasant Street sites from the Bylaw.  He feels it would remove some of the controversy.  Mr. Bakaysa noted 
that the landowners of those two sites could ask they be proposed as part of the overlay district.  Check with Town Counsel.   
 
Ms. Bertram feels the two properties should not be included.  Just as the point was made that properties can be taken off at town 
meeting, properties can also be put on at town meeting.  If the two projects do not come to fruition, then the two properties are 
grandfathered.  She has an issue with a blanket statement on outlying  as the Open Space Plan emphasized the need to keep 
properties in their environmental habitat. 
 
Mr. Lockwood made Motion to remove No. 1 and No. 2, (Chase Road and Pleasant/West Street) from Section 4.15.4.2., Second, 
Mr. Bodkin Jr.  Discussion ensued.  Mr. Bakaysa noted the three remaining sites are quasi -municipal sites; which may make the 
Town too restrictive.  Mr. Lockwood supports an effort to identify non -municipal sites.  Ms. Benson feels if  the Board identifies 
private sites, they are infringing on residents’ rights  as developers will then approach the private resident  noting their property 
has been identified.   
 
Citizen noted the 651 Chase Road and Pleasant/West Street  sites have already applied and have by -right.  Mr. Lockwood 
disagreed; they did not have to be included in the new Solar Bylaw.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. noted they are grandfathered.  Ms. Bilotta-
Simeone is concerned that citizens will not realize even though the two sites are removed from the bylaw, the  Grandfather 
Clause will apply.  Mr. Bakaysa disagree d with taking the two sites out  and feels the citizens should make that decision  at town 
meeting.   
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 3-8-12 
Page 3 
 
Roll Call vote on Mr. Lockwood’s Motion to remove No. 1 and No. 2 from the Section - Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, 
aye; Mr. Bakaysa, nay; Mr. Lockwood, aye. 
 
Mr. Bodkin Jr. is not comfortable specifying just the outlying district and feels there should be a  special permitting process.  Mr. 
Bodkin Jr. will supply information to Ms. Benson to confer with Town Counsel.  Mr. Bakaysa recommends applicant s bring their 
proposed sites to the Lunenburg Planning Board, and then a special town meeting will be held to  see if the citizens vote to add  a 
specific site to the Overlay District.  The Keating property was brought up as a possible site – Ms. Benson noted the 671 
Lancaster Avenue site is on Keating property.  There is v ery little Industrial and Commercial zoning in Town for siting  and the 
Town c annot become too restrictive.  Mr. Bakaysa suggested adding an Overlay District of Industrial and Commercial.  Ms. 
Benson noted instead of cutti ng off the small solar and large mounted solar at 250 KW, there are Towns considering the small 
ones at a lower threshold – enough to put in a yard  and count above the 10 KW as a large mounted.  This gives better ability for 
monitoring through Development Plan Review (DPR) .  Up to 10 KW would be a small -mounted and anything above that would 
be a large -mounted which would go through a DPR or special permit.  Ms. Benson to pursue more details.  Mr. Bakaysa feels 
anyone in the Commercial District who wants to put solar panels on their home will now have to go through another process , 
which will be more cumbersome for them.   
 
4.15.4.3. Development Plan Review 
No issues 
 
4.15.4.4. Utility Notification 
No issues 
 
4.15.4.5. Fees 
No issues 
 
4.15.4.6. Setbacks 
Town Counsel recommended definition of Buffer Strips be placed in this Section.  Board wants it also put in Definitions.  Mr. 
Bakaysa feels Buffer Strip is defined as being contained within the setbacks.  He also  feels footage should be ratio -based 
depending on size of the lot.  In first line, change “Residential” Districts to read “Solar Overlay” District.  Ms. Benson will ask one 
of the Town’s reviewing engineers to put together some visual diagrams; e.g., on a one -, five-, ten - and  twenty - acre lot s 
(working with the current footage in the draft) , to get a visual representation for both the Board and the Public Hearing .  Board to 
consider different setback s for Commercial/Industrial v ersus Residential.  Ms. Benson to insert – during discussion, Board can 
decide to keep/delete.  
 
4.15.4.7. Visual Impact 
Change “structure” to read “solar array”.    
 
4.15.4.8. Required Documents 
Subparagraph 5- add the word “phase” between “three” and “line”.  
Include title documents, i.e., property owner, lessor, lessee, address, etc. 
 
4.15.4.9. Site Control 
Town Counsel recommended adding “Town cannot enter upon private property without owner’s consent or court order”.  Board 
disagreed. 
 
4.15.4.10. Design Standards 
a. Lighting 
No issues 
 
b. Signage 
No issues 
 
c. Land Clearing 
No issues 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
Minutes 3-8-12 
Page 4 
 
d. Safety, Emergency Service and Environmental Standards 
Should yearly verification take place to keep up -to-date on designated person answerable to inquiries?  Ms. Benson responded 
this is done annually in January. 
Is change in ownership covered?  Both a change in ownership form and yearly verification form will be included in DPR packet.   
 
e. Monitoring and Maintenance 
No issue 
Ms. Benson noted developers will provide training to police, fire and DPW personnel.  Will be i ncluded in Directives for future 
projects. 
 
4.15.4.11. Modifications 
Need written -in definition of  “material modification”  as- “Any modification to an existing plan”.  Is DPR required for standard 
repairs, e.g., if a panel goes bad?  No, but Building Offic ial must be notified.  “Material Modification” may be standard legal 
language that covers modification to the design.  Mr. Bakaysa feels term may be change in technology, e.g., panel sizers, 
capacity, efficiency change, but still within same footprint.  
 
4.15.4.12. Abandonment and Removal 
What are “discontinued operations”?  Answer- no longer producing power.  Does the Zoning Bylaw specify certain sites that 
hazardous material ha s to be taken to?  Yes, applicant must notify office.  Add office notification of disposal site and route to 
Section.  
It was noted that Section 3.12.2. of State model defines “ abandonment” as; “when it fails to operate for more than one year 
without the written consent of the Site Plan Review Authority”.  Board chose to be able to o rder removal within 150 days.  How is 
Board notified when operation stops?  Does utility notify Town?  Form will be worked on to include with DPR. 
 
4.15.4.13. Financial Surety 
Specify Surety Bond by recognized insurer and also maintain liability insurance.   If ownership changes, must ensure new owner 
has same. 
Mr. Bakaysa inquired as to how cost is determined to account for cost escalations over time.  Wants that cost presented up-front 
to the Board.  Ms. Benson to confer with Town Accountant and Town Counsel.  Ms. Benson noted Board does not determine that 
cost – the developer presents and the Board will have bond reviewed.  Copy of bond is filed with Town Accountant.  
 
State Model Section 3.12.3.  notes “such surety will not be required for  municipally- or state- owned facilities”.  Change first 
sentence of 4.15.3.13. to read “The applicant, unless municipal, shall provide surety to cover the cost  of removal in the event the 
Town must remove th e installation and remediate the landscapes, in an amount and fo rm determined to be reasonable by the 
Planning Board”.    
 
What about screening, if someone wants to do ground-mounted in front of their house?  Board to discuss under setbacks. 
 
Ms. Benson to ask Town Counsel if there is any way to restrict installation to side and rear yards. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed.  Adjourned 9:10 PM.   
 
 
Minutes/2012/03.08.12 