===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 9, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison 
Absent:  Marion M. Benson 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Separate minutes 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion to approve 8-26-13, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. McQuaid.  Minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison-   No meeting 
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone-   Discussion regarding the possible casino (slot machines only) to be located on Route 117 in 
Leominster.   
School Building Committee, Mr. Lockwood -  Committee had discussion as to how number of students was calculated.  The 
project must go to town meeting; no date set  yet for a fall town meeting.  Committee is discussing a possible January Special 
Town Meeting. 
Building Reuse Committee, Mr. McQuaid-    No meeting 
Capital Planning Committee, Ms. Benson-    No report 
 
OLD BUSINESS:  Planning Board Goals -  Board members will review their individual “assignments” with continued discussion 
at the September 23 rd Board Meeting.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted if any member has a specific q uestion regarding same, they 
can email Ms. Benson.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Stone Farm Estates- No report 
Highfield Village, Massachusetts Avenue- Supplemental Draft EIS received in Planning Office. 
Mobil Stat ion, Leominster Shirley Road -  Work continues.  Progress reports being submitted to the Planning Office.   Mr. 
Allison requested that Progress Reports be distributed to Board members as they are received in the office .  He questioned the 
proposed sewer line being located six inches above the water main  as he believes industry standard is a minimum of 18 inch 
separation.  Mr. Bakaysa noted that the Board hires reviewing engineers to make those judgments  and that the Board should not 
be reviewing something tha t has already been reviewed by a certified engineer.  It is the intent for Board members to work 
relative to the Town’s bylaws.  If there had been an issue, the reviewing engineer would have brought it to the Board’s atten tion.  
Mr. Bakaysa felt Mr. Alliso n was implying that the reviewing engineer did not have all his facts.  Mr. Lockwood opined that if a 
Board member has expertise in an area, he/she should be allowed to voice concerns.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted that when the 
project engineer and the reviewing engineer are before the Board for a project, that is the time to ask those questions.   To sit and 
say that on approved plans, the plans are all wrong, is inappropriate.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-   Appointment at 6:45 PM, September 23, 2013. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road-   Board requested Ms. Benson forward 40S guidelines to Board members.  
Whalom Road LLC/Lunenburg Village -   Hearing continued to September 25, 2013.   Mr. Allison n oted he attended the last 
continuation and brought before the ZBA the fact that he felt the name “Lunenburg Village” was inappropriate.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 09.09.13 
Pg 2 
 
Whites Woods, Phase III, White Street- No report 
Medical Marijuana Clinic-   not discussed   
MGL Ch 40 §10- Section states that “…a town having a population of not less than ten thousand, may provide and maintain one 
or more public markets,…for this purpose may acquire land by gift or purchase…”  Mr. Allison opined this would benefit the 
Agricultural Commission.  He noted he brought up a mapping commission at the  last Board meeting and a municipal data 
processing center; he has also brought these items to the Town Manager’s attention.   
Lunenburg Hazard Mitigation Plan Update - As noted at the August 26 th Board meeting, Mr. Allison again quoted a portion of 
the matrix on pg. 84, “The Planning Board is reviewing Zoning Bylaws and regulations to determine the best way to accomplish 
all Flood Related Hazards Mitigations.”  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted Fire Chief Sullivan informed Ms. Benson there has been no 
update since September 2012 and he will inform Ms. Benson when another meeting is scheduled.  Mr. Allison noted Meeting 
Notice dated June 25, 2013.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone will request Ms. Benson check. 
 
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- Account won’t be activated until payment received.  IT Director will inform the Planning Office when account is 
up and running. 
Landscape Yard Area Requirements- not discussed 
Town Owned Land- Noted list 
Fee Schedule- Noted Fee Schedules for Harvard and Shirley 
MRPC- Will present to the Board on September 23, 2013.   
Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land- not discussed 
Notices and Communications- not discussed 
NRWA September 2013 Events-not discussed 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 23 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
October 14 – HOLIDAY – Board will determine a meeting date at its September 23rd meeting. 
October 28 – Ritter Memorial Building 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
1. Mr. Allison noted the Agricultural Commission is interested in how a 4 -H is developed within a town.  He also noted in  
looking through the 2011 Town Elected Officials that Ruth Anderson is a 4-H representative.   
2. Mr. Allison  is not clear on his position as Liaison with the  Agricultural Commission.  His understanding from the 
Commission Chair is that, per Ms. Benson, he is  there to observe and not partake in the communications.  Ms. Bilotta -
Simeone noted he is the Liaison.  Mr. McQuaid opined that Mr. Allison’s role as Liaison was to answer any questions 
the Agricultural Commission may have and to relay information to the P lanning Board.  He is not an active, voting 
member, but more of a resource for the Commission.  Mr. Lockwood opined that if there are issues of common 
concern Mr. Allison can be the conduit between the Board and the Commission.   
3. Ms. Bertram, Board of Sele ctmen, spoke to her role as Liaison between the Board of Selectmen and the Planning 
Board.  The Board of Selectmen felt this was an avenue to understand what goes on throughout the Town.  She is a 
resource for the Planning Board, but not an active particip ant in the Planning Board process.  She shares with the 
Board of Selectmen what is going on with the Planning Board.   
4. Mr. Allison noted that the Agricultural Commission questions the Building Reuse Committee as to locating a grange 
hall at the old primary  school.  Mr. McQuaid, Building Reuse Committee member, noted that the building is not the 
focus of the Reuse Committee and there is still the potential for senior housing to be located there through HUD.  Mr. 
McQuaid requested that Mr. Allison inquire of basic needs of the Agricultural Commission, which he will bring forth to 
the Reuse Committee.   
5. Mr. Lockwood hopes that with Town Center planning, the old primary school will become a topic of discussion.   
6. Mr. McQuaid noted there is no central location fo r all Town documents and that some of the old blueprint drawings the 
Reuse Committee is viewing are missing pages .  He requested  if anyone within Town is aware of where they may be, 
to please get them to the Reuse Committee for scanning.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 09.09.13 
Pg 3 
 
7. Mr. Lockwood noted in reviewing Bylaws, and Rules and Regulations, there are no enforcements and/or penalties if an 
applicant does not comply with the Bylaw and/or Rules and Regulations.   He would like to discuss augmenting the 
Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land  with appropriate enforcement measures/ penalties.  This will 
be an Action Item for the September 23, 2013 meeting.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone w ill request Ms. Benson check with 
surrounding communities for their enforcements.   
8. Mr. Allison noted that the 2011 Town Report stated 40 iPads were purchased for the schools and he felt they could be 
shared with the Board.   
9. Ms. Bilotta-Simeone inquired of Ms. Bertram the status of the gas station located in the center of Town.  Ms. Be rtram 
noted there is a legal owner.  Of concern is i f the Town a uctions the property, what responsibility does the Town 
assume under MGL Ch 21E.  It is a contaminated site.   
10. Ms. Bertram noted the old primary school  may possibly be developed as Over 55 hou sing.  She also noted  the Lane 
property on Holman Street is being actively marketed. The Board of Selectmen is l ooking to create overall criteria by 
which to evaluate Chapter land so when a property becomes available, they will have this resource.  This resource will 
help them determine whether or not the Town should attempt to purchase the land.  
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn, Mr. Bakaysa, Second, Mr. Allison, adjourned 8:42 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 8-26-13 
Planning Board Goals 
Mobil Station Progress Report 
Whalom Road LLC Hearing Continuation Notice 
MGL Ch 40, §10 
Lunenburg Hazard Mitigation Plan Update 
Town Owned Land listing 
Fee Schedules- Harvard and Shirley 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2013/09.09.13 