===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (Continuation) 
Aro Estates, Howard Street 
February 27, 2013 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:30 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice Chair,  Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood , Marion M. 
Benson, Planning Director 
Also Present:  Town Counsel, Joel Bard 
 
Chair opened the Hearing Continuation .  The initial hearing was held on January 30, 2013 , first continuation to February 13 th, 
second continuation to this date.   The Hearing continuation is to  hear and discuss applications for ten subdivisions off Howard 
Street totaling 135 lots.     
 
Representing the Applicant, Kevin O’Brien, O’Brien Homes was Attorney Mark Johnson, Johnson and Borenstein.  He reviewed 
documents since the last continuation, review the two zonin g issues, and discuss waivers.  He referenced the following 
documents: 
 Johnson & Borenstein, LLC letter dated February 27,  2013, subject: Aro Estates – 1-10 Subdivision Plans  (attached) 
containing the Land Court Decision , partial copy of the transcript of the oral arguments , and the Motion for Summary 
Judgment. 
 David Ross Associates Review letter dated February 25, 2013 (attached) 
 Whitman & Bingham Associates letter dated February 13, 2013, subject: Waiver Requests  
 
The zoning iss ues were addressed by Attorney Donald Borenstein.  Johnson and Borenstein ’s letter dated February 27, 2013  
states that “the Zoning Bylaw in effect at the time of the Applicant’s filings of its original plan remains applicable and ‘frozen’ 
under the Subdivi sion Plan process freeze found at G.L. c.40A, §.6. par. 5 ”.  Kopelman and Paige P.C. response letter dated 
February 27, 2013 (attached) states that “…the question of whether the zoning freeze currently exists and continues with respect 
to the current subdivision filings is a factual and legal question that would ultimately have to be decided by the courts.”  Johnson 
and Borenstein’s letter also states t hat “…the Land Court stated that O’Brien ‘ can develop the 189 acres in separate 
subdivisions, each of less than twenty -five acres (avoiding s.5.6 entirely).’ ”  “It can still be subdivided and developed by 
meeting the requirements of s. 5.6 (resulting in ei ther smaller or fewer homes), or by re -planning its development into 
separate subdivisions of less than twenty -five acres.”  Attorney Borenstein also referred to the three options available not ed 
on page 5 of the letter.  In reference to accessing the publ ic way, their letter states that “the Applicant intends to physically 
construct and/or post security to ensure the construction of the new roadway necessary to access the public way from each of 
the separate subdivisions.” 
 
In response to Attorney Borenstein’s noting of the three options available, Attorney Bard noted that in the transcript, when asked 
what’s the difference if you have seven or eight 24 ½ or 25-acre subdivisions versus one large subdivision, Attorney Bard  
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing (Continuation), Aro Estates, Howard Street 
February 27, 2013 
Page 2 
 
responded that “there is a difference because each one becomes a community of its own and it’s all, of course, how it’s planned 
and developed. But you don’t get t his one mass of 189 -acres developed into a 135 house lots.  You have a variety of smaller 
communities…it’s up to the developer as to how they want to do it.”  “…each 25 -acre subdivision would have to be a stand-
alone.”  “Each cluster of 15 to 25 would have  its own communal system.”  “…the picture I’m drawing here…is a more complex 
picture than what the plaintiff is sketching out to support their arguments.”  
 
Attorney Bard noted t he Board will have to decide if this is one of the options under the Bylaw; that the Applicant could take the 
old plan, cut it into 10 phases, and call it 10 subdivisions.   The judge stated this was one of the options available under the 
bylaw, but did not say this was how it had to be done.  T his was the legal question before the Board at the outset  and presented 
to Attorney Bard by Attorney Johnson.  Initially, Attorney Johnson wanted these two legal issues to be brought to court for 
resolution, but then decided the Applicant wanted to go through the plan process instead.  Attorney Bard notes that the Board 
has to decide whether the new subdivisions are the old subdivision broken into 10 phases. 
 
Attorney Johnson interprets Section 5.6. as allowing breaking up into parcels of 25 acres.  
 
Regarding the zoning freeze, the Applicant’s attorney states that the Applicant has continuously moved forward with his project.  
Attorney Bard notes there is no timeframe guidance from the courts.   
 
Mr. Bakaysa noted that when Section 5.6. was enacted, it was with the intention of managing growth.  It was the intent that they 
would be independent subdivisions  that could stand on their own  and not subdivisions that would be phased to create one large 
subdivision.  Mr. Bakaysa feels there has been no cooperation from the developer on working with the Board.    
 
Mr. Bodkin Jr. noted that as these are considered 10 separate subdivisions, each has to  have access to a public way.  The 
developer’s attorney is of the opinion that under G.L. ch. 41, §81O, the ways do not have to be physically constructed prior to the 
Board’s approval of the plans.  Attorney Bard noted there would have to be a bond in place for the roads  and recommended it be 
in place before any building perm its are issued.  Attorney Johnson referred to G.L. c h. 41, §81U re garding Performance 
Guarantees.   
 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone feels that the 135 houses cannot be justified as this is the same that was  submitted in 2008, and denied.   If 
the developer is saying this is a new submittal, the 80,000 square foot change to the Outlying District should be followed.    
 
Mr. Lockwood voiced same concerns as Board members above.   
 
Ms. Benson noted the  ”Purpose” of 5.6. Cluster Development.  “…to encourage the preservation of useable open space, …and 
assist in preserving the Rural Residential Character of the Town.”   Mr. Bakaysa noted that 135 lots on Howard Street will have 
an impact on the infrastructure as it exists today.   
 
Attorney Bard noted the Applicant has a plan before the Board and the Board needs to get to the end of that process and write a 
Decision.   
 
Attorney Johnson moved on to waiver requests.  Noted that J. Johnson’s review supported t he waiver requests with the following 
exceptions: Section 3.4.3.12. requiring the applicant to simultaneously apply for a Determination of Applicability or Notice of 
Intent.  Section 4.2.5.1. stating dead -end streets shall be no longer than 650 feet.  If the Fire Department has no issue with a 
longer cul-de-sac, J. Johnson has no issues.  Section 3.4.3.3.b. requiring grading details for building sites.  J. Johnson supports 
based on the A pplicant estimat ing proposed impervious coverage.   Attorney Johnson inquired if  the Board has received a 
response from the Fire Department re cul-de-sac length.    
 
J. Johnson summarized his review  letter of February 25, 2013 noting that he had no issues with the waivers as they are 
requested.  He defers to the Conservation Commission on the i ssue of simultaneously filing of Determination of Applicability or 
Notice of Intent.  He feels the cul-de-sac length is a public safety issue and has no issue from an engineering standpoint.  He  
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing (Continuation), Aro Estates, Howard Street 
February 27, 2013 
Page 3 
 
defers to Police and/or F ire Department.  He noted the closing of his letter which mentions there are a number of items listed in 
Whitman and Bingham’s  response letter dated 12 -7-12 that have not yet been provided.  W hitman and Bingham should update 
the Board regarding the promised materials.  The Applicant has not yet provided the information  requested in  the Rules and  
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Section 3.4.3.1.q) for Aro 1 and Aro 4, “…layout plans shall show…all buildings, 
walks, drives and the existing fixtures, within one hundred feet of the sidelines of such street.”  J. Johnson stated this is critical as 
it will show adjacent driveways to each of the proposed entrances into the project.  The Applicant has not yet provided a 
completed set of deep test holes and percolation holes for eve ry proposed individual lot , but they have supplied enough to 
characterize the underlying soils.  If they don’t provide all of them, they will have to request a waiver.   
 
There is still a difference of opinion between the Board and the Applicant in the interpretation of the bylaw regarding the longer 
leveling area strip with a lesser slope.   
 
J. Johnson  also brought attention to 4) Leveling Area Grade, 8) Pro posed Site and Grading Plans  and 13) Deep Drainage 
Infrastructure of his February 25th review letter.  Mr. Bakaysa noted February 27, 2013 electronic mail from Mr. Rodriquenz, DPW 
Director; “In the document, Drainage Analysis, Stormwater Maintenance Program, Sections 2.0 – 2.5 simply stated, the 
maintenance program as proposed, would require resources in the form of personnel, equipment, and funds not currently 
available within the department .  To place this kind of economic burden upon the DPW at this time would certainly place us in a 
position to fail.  …request you and the Commission look unfavorably upon this component of the project.” 
 
Major items still needed noted as 8), 13), 14), and 15) in J. Johnson’s review letter.  Also noted Aro 4, four to five feet off property 
line, to install wall and do grading, will be very close to abutter’s property.  Whitman and Bingham noted they will stake property 
line at time wall is being built.   
 
Mr. Bakaysa noted that before building, the Applicant would have to show water supplies or septic systems for each lot. 
 
Mr. Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates, on behalf of the Applicant, supplied the Board with a Memorandum dated February 27, 
2013, listing the square footage wetland area for all ten individual subdivisions (on file in the Planning Office).  Also supplied the 
Board with Abend Associates Memorandum dated February 1 3, 2013, subject: Roadway Grading Regulation - Opinion (on file in 
Planning Office).  Abend Opinion is that “a 75-foot distance is sufficient to accommodate a line of three passenger vehicles while 
a 200-foot distance is sufficient to accommodate about three tractor -trailer trucks.”   “Unless there are large trucks coming and 
going regularly, the more conservative (longer) dimension is not necessary to provide for safe operations at an intersection.”    
 
Mr. Flis noted that one of the important waivers is the 650 feet for dead-end streets/cul-de-sacs.  It impacts Aro 6, 8, and 9.  If not 
waived, the plans will have to be significantly revised.  Will request waiver on soil testing of 135 lots.  They will go thro ugh the 
Board of Health process.  They have done some more testing on the detention basins.  Information will be in final dr ainage 
report. Will be submitting plans with revised basins.  Requesting a meeting with Ms. Benson and J Johnson at the time revised  
plans are submitted.  Working on tabular summary noted in J Johnson’s review letter of October 22, 2012  – waiting until fin al 
plans are done.  Will be requesting a waiver on basin pipe cover.   
 
Mr. O’Brien noted that in meeting with the Fire Department, Chief Sullivan stated he did not have a problem with the 650  foot 
dead-end length.   Mr. O’Brien requested a response from th e Board so Whitman & Bingham  could complete the drainage 
calculations on those waivers.  He also stated that two of the waivers were at the request of the C onservation Commission as 
they have wetlands.  Ms. Benson will request written confirmation from the Fire Chief.   
 
One of the agenda items for March 4, 2013 will be a hearing continuation to review the 650 foot waiver.     
 
Mr. Lockwood asked for clarification on Decision end -date.  Attorney Bard informed him Board hopes to have a Decision by April 
8th.   
 
Attorney Bowen, 1686 Massachusetts Avenue- Noted on-going discussions with Water Department about bringing water to the 
site.  J Johnson noted it’s always more beneficial to be on a public water system.   
  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing (Continuation), Aro Estates, Howard Street 
February 27, 2013 
Page 4 
 
No proponents. 
 
Opponents: 
 
Walter Paquette, 10 Iris Court - speaking as President of Hickory Hills Land Owners Incorporated and expressing the opinion of 
the eleven (11) Board members.   Concerned with the construction of 135 houses at the Mulpus Brook headwaters and how this 
will affect Hickory Hills Lake.     
 
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road - concerned with the Hickory Hills Lake eco -system.  Voiced the same concerns as 
Mr. Paquette.  Sedimentation and debris have become a significant concern in the Hickory Hills community.  Aro Estates will 
result in changes to infiltration and ground water ru noff.  She urges the Board to deny the waiver request from Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Section  3.4.3.12 Wetlands.  She urges that the Board require the Applicant 
and/or future property owners maintain ownership of all stormwate r components associated with the development due to 
maintenance costs if DPW responsibility. 
 
Dave McDonald, Island Road- Echoed Ms. Bertram’s concerns.   
 
Rennie Shattuck, 396 Howard Street - Access road into development too close to his home.  Equipment c ut down trees, 
bulldozed a stone wall and left some stones within twenty (20’) feet of his home.  Applicant also filled in a drainage trench along 
his wall.  (Submitted photographs to the Board – on file in Planning Office.)    
 
Mr. Bodkin Jr. inquired of J. Johnson as to any future fertilizer runoff into Mulpus Brook.  J. Johnson responded b uffer zones will 
be Conservation Commission jurisdiction.  Also noted he has requested Applicant provide stormwater management form which 
stipulates how they have met all ten (10) requirements listed in the Massachusetts stormwater guidelines.  Soil testing is  required 
within each detention basin which shows what the ground water level is and the soil type.  T here have not shown they have done 
that.  Things may change once the Applicant goes through Notice of Intent process with the Conservation Commission.  Attorney 
Bard noted the wetlands delineation is approximately four year s old; he thought it was only good for three years .  J. Johnson 
noted the Applicant fell under the Permit Extension Act to get it for another two years.   
 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone continued to have issues with the wall.  Attorney Bard  noted that the “wall issue” is a civil matter  and Mr. 
Shattuck may have gained “adverse possession” over the wall as he had maintained the land up to the wall for a number of 
years, but; he cannot gain legal right to that land until he goes to court and gets a court judgment to that effect.  The Board has to 
assume ownership is where the Applicant’s documents states.  It is also unclear as to if the stone wall demarked a property line.     
 
Ms. Benson inquired of timeline to Conservation Commission.  J . Johnson stated current plans show disturbance within the 
buffer zone resource areas.  Notice of Intent must be filed.  Regulations suggest they run concurrently  with the Planning Board 
and Conservation Commission; Applicant requested a waiver to do that – J. Johnson has no issue.  It puts the responsibility on 
the Applicant as the Planning Board may approve something, but if there is an issue with Conservation, the Applicant will have to 
return to the Planning Board  to get the Planning Board approvals modified .  The Conservation Commission  can deny any 
infringement within the buffer zone.   
 
Ms. Benson noted to Whitman and Bingham that Town offices are closed on Fridays for any paperwork they wish to submit.   
 
Mr. O’Brien noted he will file with the Conservation Commission once drainage issues are resolved.   
 
The Board will review its meeting schedule at the March 4 th meeting.  Attorney Bard n oted he will be available on March 13 and 
14, but not on the 12th.    
 
Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone to adjourn the Hearing to March 4 th, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Roll Call Vote, Mr. Lockwood, aye; Mr. 
Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.  Adjourned 9:30 PM. 
 
 
 
minutes/public hearings 2013/Aro Estates Howard St 02.27.13 