===PAGE 1===
 
 
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing (continuation) 
35 Leominster Road 
March 23, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  3:05 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
 
Chair opened the Public Hearing continuation for review of Draft Findings and Directives for a Special Permit under Section 4.2., 
Subsection 4.2.3.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg.   The Special Permit is for 35 Leominster Road for a saw 
mill operation and workshop.  Owner is Lunenburg Realty, 12 Brook Street, Wellesley, MA 02482.  Applicant is Brian Brown, 35 
Leominster Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462.   
 
Mr. Bodkin Jr. recused himself from the Hearing.   
 
As the Findings are in draft format, they were not read into record.   Board reviewed draft Findings and found them to be 
complete. 
 
Christine Higdon, 83 Lancaster Avenue - did not hear a Finding noting that some abutters felt the Special Permit should not be 
issued.  Only heard a Finding noting abutters’ requests for restrictions to the Special Permit.   Feels the Special Permit should not 
be considered.  Mr. Bakaysa noted Fin dings will be revised to note that some abutters felt the Special Permit should not be 
issued.  He also noted that a sawmill operation can be permitted under the Zoning Bylaw, but the Board is not obligated to issue 
one. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa noted a letter present ed at this continuation ; “We, the undersign ed, are opposed to increasing and expanding the 
existing business of Brian Brown, 35 Leominster Rd.  We are very concerned about significant increases in noise, dust, odor, 
possible carcinogens, air pollution, truck traffic and safety issues, and the disruption caused to a dense residential neighborhood.  
We are also very concerned about the serious impact to the historic district and the valuation of abutting properties.  We be lieve 
that there are sufficient reasons NOT to grant a special permit for a sawmill.” 
The above letter contained 13 signatures. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa read draft Directives into record. 
 
1. The Applicant shall follow the Directives stated in the Lunenburg Zoning Bylaw, Section 4.2.3. Uses Permissible by 
Special Permit Granted by the Planning Board, Sub-Section 4.2.3.4. noting sawmills are permissible by Special Permit. 
a) Vehicles and equipment in connection with the use are parked behind the setbacks. 
b) Buffer are provided for the storage of materials and equi pment and related to above uses and located to 
limit adverse impact on adjacent properties. 
c) In addition to the conditions of Section 6.5. Signs, and Section 6.6. Performance Standards, the hours of 
operation, decibel levels, signs may be further conditions of the permit. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 
35 Leominster Road Public Hearing (continuation) 
03.23.13 
Pg 2 
 
2. The Applicant shall follow the conditions for a Special Permit designated by the Lunenburg Fire Chief according to the 
Fire Safety Code relating to Forest Products, Regulation 527CMR as follows: 
a) A permit to operate from the Fire Department. 
b) All weather access to be maintained for Fire Apparatus to and from sawmill and barn. 
c) Surface shall be durable and not subject to unsafe land conditions.  Asphalt, graded base or sim ilar solid 
material shall be used.  Said surfaces shall be maintained to allow fire apparatus to turn around in yard or 
field. 
d) No yard storage of raw materials or finished product.  All materials to be stored within barn. 
e) Storage of waste materials (bark, sawdust, etc. for use in composting only shall be allowed). Said storage 
shall not exceed 300 yards.  Storage shall be neat and orderly.  If piled, pile shall have minimum 23 ft. 
clearance from structures or nearby combustible material. 
f) Current accumulations of waste materials to be removed.  No more than six (6) months to remove current 
waste materials. 
g) General area to be kept free from weeds, grass, etc., especially around structures or waste storage area. 
h) No smoking in sawmill or barn area. 
i) No burning on site. 
j) Sawmill, barn and associated structures shall be equipped with suitable fire extinguishers in accordance 
with NEPA 10.  This shall be based on sizes shown on plan, minimum 1 -4A rated extinguisher in each 
building. 
k) Suitable notification method for emergencies regarding sawmill.  
l) A working cell phone with adequate signal in possession of the sawmill operator shall be required. 
m) Recommendation of a monitored fire alarm system and/or automatic sprinklers for the structure in 
question. 
 
3. The Applicant shall  prove by written notation to the Zoning Officer that all uses shall be in conformance with 
Regulation 310 CMR 6.00 -7.00 of the Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts.  
 
4. The Applicant shall prove by written notation to the Zoning Officer that the equipment and instruments will not cause 
sound, noise, vibration, odor or flashing instruments of more than 80 decibels at 200 feet from the boundaries of the 
premises.   
 
5. The Applicant shall prove by written notation to the Zoning Officer that business conducted on site will not exceed the 
established value for odor as outlined in T. M. Hellman F. H. Small, Journal Air Pollution Control  Association.  
 
6. The Applicant shall be consistent with the directives in Zoning Bylaw Sub -Section 4.2.3.4 a); all materials, supplies, 
and equipment shall be stored behind the set back line, be consistent with regulations set forth by the Fire Department 
and be screened in reasonable fashion from public ways and abutting properties.  
 
7. The Applicant shall provide by written notice to the Zoning Office and the Fire Department, a schedule of trash and 
debris removal to satisfy the appearance of sightliness relative to the neighborhood and the value of preservation 
according to a Historic Design Dis trict.  The Zoning Officer will monitor the following on a periodic timeline of a 
monthly basis. 
A. Piles of unsightly rubbish piles shall be contained and removed. 
B. Any outside drying of lumber shall be assembled in an orderly fashion.  
C. All necessary equipment shall be placed on property to reflect limited adverse impact on adjacent properties. 
 
8. The Applicant shall complete construction of barn to house necessary equipment and product by October 31, 2013 as 
noted in Applicant’s letter of commitment dated February 27, 2013. 
 
9. The Applicant shall regulate traffic in and out of the site by determining and identifying the access and design of the 
driveway to the Zoning Officer and the Fire Department.   
A. There shall be no parking of any type of vehicles on Leominster Road. 
 
10. The Applicant shall operate the sawmill only during the hours of 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday. 
A. No operation of sawmill will be conducted on holidays. 
B. No operation of sawmill shall exceed   -----hours per year. 
 
11. The Applicant shall follow the Zoning Sign Bylaw Section 6.5, Sub-Section 6.5.1.2 a) 3. 
a) One sign for identification of professional and home occupation not exceeding a total area of three (3) 
square feet.  
 
12. The Applicant shall be cognizance that the attached Special Permit is gra nted to the Applicant and shall not run with 
the site or land. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 
35 Leominster Road Public Hearing (continuation) 
03.23.13 
Pg 3 
 
13. The Applicant shall not make any changes or performance to the attached Special Permit without submitting to the 
Planning Board for an amendment to this Permit. 
 
14. The Applicant shall adhere to the above Directives; if not, this Special Permit as declared by the Building Official, will 
be revoked. 
 
Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted  to the audience  that 90% of what Mr. Brown does fal ls under his Home Occupation.  Even if the 
sawmill operation is not permitted, 90% of what is there will remain.  If a Special Permit is put in place, this will give the Building 
Official/Zoning Officer enforcement authority.   
 
The Board discussed the draft Directives with the following comments: 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone- f) six months is too long. 
Mr. Lockwood- e) 300 yards – is this cubic yards?  Yes.  Attorney Winner suggested a more specific Directive as to height and 
depth of said storage (concerned with fire). 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone- add 15. Stating that within 30 days of the granting of this Special Permit, the yard will be cleaned up.  Mr. 
Bakaysa noted need to be specific – what does “clean” mean? 
Mr. Lockwood- 7.B. – note that this is while barn being built – once built, lumber will be moved into barn. 
Ms. Benson - 10.B. – Mr. Brown noted he would need 350 hours/year.  Board needs to determine how to set limits – yearly, 
monthly, weekly?   
Mr. Bakaysa asked for Attorney Winner’s input.  Attorney Winner inqu ired as to how Board will oversee.  Board noted Mr. Brown 
will provide documentation to Building Official.  The sawmill has a counter on it.  Building Official can validate counter.   
Mr. Lockwood- 350 hours/year is too much given his historic usage.  240 should be sufficient.   
Ms. Benson inquired of Counsel if conditions can be imposed that undermine the operation . Attorney Winner – yes, but Mr. 
Brown can appeal and challenge as an unreasonable condition.   
Mr. Bakaysa feels this is an accessory use to th e Home Occupation (will be noted in Directives) and should be limited to number 
of hours required for him to conduct his Home Occupation of manufacture of furniture.    
Board consensus was for 200 hours/year.  Also change hours of operation from 9 to 3.   
Add Directive that states there must be a mechanism that provides restricted access when not in use. 
Board wanted to Change 14. to read “…cease and desist, and/or revoked”.   Attorney Winner noted revoking a special permit is 
very problematic.  It is not covered in the Zoning Act.  There is no case law allowing a Planning Board to revoke a special permit.  
He suggested, “Any violations of this order shall be addressed by the Zoning Official through appropriate legal means ”.  He also 
noted the Board cannot negate the Permit as noted in Directive 12.  Special Permits are recorded and run with the land.  Put in a 
lapse and renewal requirement; e.g.,  “The permit shall lapse after two years, and is subject to ren ewal by the Planning Board on 
application of the property owner”.  Mr. Bakaysa suggested Permit to be renewed annually for the first three years, and then after 
three years, it could be issued for a two -year period, pending feedback from the Zoning Official as to Mr. Brown’s compliance 
with the Directives.  The Board could also solicit neighborhood feedback before renewal.   
Delete 12. and 14. – put in renewal clause instead. 
Mr. Lockwood- 4. – noise – Ms. Benson referred to OSHA’s daily permissible noise level is 8 hours a day at 90 decibels.  Both 
Mr. Bak aysa and Mr. Lockwood want closer review.  Ms. Benson r eferred to  6.6. Performance Standards, SubSection 6.6.3. 
Noise.  Mr. Bakaysa wants to know most noise restriction that can be put on at the boundary line. More research needed. 
 
An abutter requested time restriction for truck deliveries – possibly 10 to 1 – while children are in school. 
 
Individuals listed below are in opposition.  Individuals’ comments are on the DVD filed in the Planning Office.   
Gare Thompson, 10 Whiting Street 
John Murphy, 125 Lancaster Avenue 
John and Bonnie Reynolds, 91 Lancaster Avenue 
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Avenue 
Tom Mulholland, 2 Leominster Road 
Al and June Dettenrieder, 72 Lancaster Avenue 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
Minutes 
35 Leominster Road Public Hearing 
03.23.13 
Pg 4 
 
Mr. Bakaysa inquired of T own Counsel, within how many dates from application does the Board have to approve a special 
permit.  Attorney Winner believes the public hearing must be held within 60 days of the application, and then the Board must 
issue its decision within 90 days after a hearing has closed.   
 
Board will open hearing Monday night for purpose of giving date of continuation and then adjourn hearing. 
 
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Motion to continue Hearing to March 25, 2013, 6:30 PM , Ritter Memorial Building , Second, Mr. Lockwood, 
all aye. 
 
Adjourned 5:20 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2013/35 Leominster Road 03.23.13 