===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
July 22, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa , Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  7-8-13, Motion to approve, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. McQuaid.  Minutes signed. 
 
APPOINTMENT: MRPC -  Presentation by John Hume, Planning and Development Director on the Economic Element of the 
Master Plan.  He presented two handouts to the Board, which were also in a PowerPoint presentation; 1) Economic 
Development Element Draft Inventory/Analysis, and 2) Draft Assessment of Lunenb urg’s Current Economic Base – Economic 
Development Element.  (MRPC signed a contract with Lunenburg to assist in updating the Town’s Economic Development 
Chapter of the Master Plan.)   
Board questions: 
Mr. Lockwood- Table E-3, Residence to Workplace Flows for Lunenburg and Montachusett Region 2000 - accounts for 60% of 
workforce; what about the remaining 40%?  Are they from workplaces other than the six listed?  Mr. Hume to research.  Figures 
were taken from 2000 Census.  Such information was not collected for the 2010 US Census.    
Mr. Bakaysa- Do the other towns that Lunenburg was compared with have a single tax rate or different tax rates for commercial 
and industrial?  Mr. Hume responded that all had singular tax rate.  Lunenburg has more commercial properties than industrial.   
Mr. Lockwood- Table E-13, Lunenburg’s Tax Levy 2009-2013 (with rate ) - is the rate per thousand of assessed value?  If the 
Town wants to significantly grow  the commercial/industrial base, it should take into consideration how Lunen burg’s tax rate 
compares with surrounding communities.  How do Lunenburg’s utility costs compare with surrounding communities?   
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone- In regards to Brownfields, would like to know what could be done “grant wise” with L&M Service Center at 
925 Mass Ave.  Mr. Hume noted there is a Brownfields Committee that will be meeting in September.   
Mr. Bakaysa- Why aren’t the Town’s landfills included in Brownfields?  Mr. Hume noted a site is only listed if a hazardous spill is 
reported.   
Mr. Bakaysa- What have been communities’ successes in getting 43D sites developed , e.g., Lancaster?  Did those communities 
have specific attributes that Lunenburg does not have?  Mr. Hume will check with State.   
Mr. Bakaysa - In possible creation of Village District By law, what are neighboring communities doing for reuse of municipal 
buildings. 
 
In conjunction with above presentation, there was discussion of the draft Citizen Survey.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone wanted a section 
included for the workforce, where do they work, h ow many miles, education.  She also suggested one robocall from the Planning 
Department informing the citizenry there is a survey available on the Town web.  Suggested a notice also be posted on sign 
board in Town Center.  Mr. Lockwood noted www.surveymonkey.com can tabulate the Survey.  It was suggested Ms. Benson 
and Ms. Noble, Director of the Senior Center, have a working session with the seniors to assist them with completing the  Survey.  
Mr. Lockwood will ema il Ms. Benson the Town Center Planning Discussion previously compiled for her to forward to Mr. Hume, 
Mr. Allison and Mr. McQuaid.    
 
Mr. Hume noted possibly meeting again with the Board end-August, beginning-September.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 07.22.13 
Page 2 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison - No August meeting.  Received GIS data which office will forward to Board.  Felt MJTC was expending too 
much money in reproducing reports in various languages.    
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone- Meeting July 23rd.    
School Building Committee, Mr. Lockwood- Meeting July 24th.     
School Reuse Committee , Mr. McQuaid -  Mr. McQuaid was voted as Committee Secretary.  Vice Chair is Patrick Slattery, 
Chair is Jamie Toale.  Ms. Benson to find out when next meeting date is and notify Mr. McQ uaid.  Mr. Lockwood noted asbestos 
removal cost in building renovations and suggeste d possibility of prisoner work crew if it would provide a cost advantage .  It was 
noted that for asbestos removal, a qualified contractor is required.   
Capital Planning Co mmittee, Ms. Benson - Noted cover letter to departments.  Packet will go to departments end -August, 
beginning-September.   
 
OLD BUSINESS:  Planning Board Goals - Revised per Board discussion of 6-24-13.  Board to review and discuss at 8 -12-13 
meeting. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Stone Farm Estates- Noted engineer review of administrative change for the development.  Developer has put change on hold. 
Highfield Village, Mass Ave- Board Extension expires 7-23-13.  Project engineer was not available for this Board meeting and 
sent a letter dated 7-19-13 request ing additional extension to August 5 th (anticipating a Board meeting that date) to give a 
detailed status.  Board consensus was to approve Extension to August 13, 20 13 with the Applicant appearing before the Board 
at its August 12 th meeting.  Motion to approve Extension to August 13 th, Mr. Lockwood, Second, Mr. Allison, roll call vote - Mr. 
Allison, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  Motion passed. 
New England Farms, Leominster Shirley Road- Foundation in and inspected.    
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom , Lakefront- Ms. Benson will set up date for developers to appear before the Board.  Inside 
road work still in process.  Board of Selectmen discussing crosswalks to accommodate pedestrian flow and for safety purposes 
and are  looking for input from the Planning Board and DPW.  Mr. Bakaysa suggested the Board also communicate with the 
Zoning Board of Appeals regarding same in regards to Lunenburg Village on Whalom Road.    
Tri Town Landing , Youngs Road -   Both the Annual Update and the Density Bonus application  were provided to State.  Ms. 
Benson working with Mr. Scheid, Assessor, and the State on 40S (school) reimbursement.  Discussion ensued around the fence 
issue brought forth by a citizen at the 6-24-13 Board meeting. When the Board approved the Plan, it was with the fence.  It was 
then asked if the developer was given an easement as the fence is on Town property.  Mr. Baka ysa noted that when the 
developer came to the Board requesting an easement, the Board directed them to the Selectmen.  The Board of Selectmen 
chose to give the developer a License Agreement instead of going to town meeting for an easement.  The License Agr eement 
gives emergency vehicles access to the rear of the buildings.  The developer built to that line; not the property  line.  The 
Selectmen do not have an issue with the fence placement.  Board m embers questioned if the Selectmen could revoke the 
Agreement if the Town chooses to use that land at some time in the future.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone feels the fence should be 
moved from the Town land to preclude the possibility of the Town being held liable if there are injuries ; e.g., a child becoming 
injured while playing on the fence .  The developer notes he is willing to accommodate the Town.  Mr. Bakaysa inquired if the 
fence is moved, will firefighters have access to the rear of the buildings.  Mr. McQuaid fe els access on three sides is sufficient.  
Resolution falls under the Board of Selectmen.   Ms. Benson to check with Fire Chief to see if there is access to the rear of the 
buildings and/or if access on three sides is sufficient.   
Asian Imperial, Electric Avenue - Gating of the emergency access continues to b e an issue.  Fire Chief does not want a solid 
gate.  Chain will be redone as a double chain, there will be more signage and reflectors.  If the issue is not resolved, it will 
become a Zoning Board of Appeals issue as the permitting authority.   
Whalom Road LLC/Lunenburg Village- Applicant requesting to go from 64 to 80 units.  Original application was for 120 units.  
Zoning Board of Appeals welcomes Board comments.   Letter will be written to Zoning Board of Appeals as noted above under 
Emerald Place.  Board  would like to see the development remain at 64 units, but is aware this is the Zoning Board of Appeals’ 
jurisdiction.   
Whites Woods Ph III- Modification approved and filed with the Registry. 
Medical Marijuana Clinic - Ms. Benson noted how abutting communi ties are handling.  Board will proceed to put a one year 
moratorium bylaw in place while continuing to research.  Mr. Allison inquired if there could be a Town point of contact with the 
Federal Government.  Ms. Benson suggested going through the Town’s Sta te Senator.  Mr. Lockwood suggested Town Counsel.  
Motion, Mr. Allison, to create a bylaw for the fall town meeting to put a year moratorium on marijuana clinics, Second, Mr. 
McQuaid, roll call vote - Mr. Allison, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, aye; Mr . Lockwood, aye; Ms. Bilotta -Simeone, aye.  
Motion passed.    
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 07.22.13 
Page 3 
 
ACTION FILE: 
651 Chase Road, solar status-   Noted news article that states the Board of Selectmen approved a power purchase agreement 
with NuGen Capital.   
Lunenburg Middle/High School, schematics- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
MJTC, meeting handouts- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
Fee Schedule- Ms. Benson polling neighboring communities as to whether or not they charge for extensions.  Will provide more 
information at the next Board meeting.  
North County Land Trust Newsletter- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
School Building Committee, 6-18-13 meeting notes- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
35 Leominster Road - Noted Zoning Official’s July 8, 2013 letter stating he  has conducted several inspections of the property 
and that the applicant is operating and cleaning the property in conformance with the Special Permit directives.  
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom, Lakefront, new article- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
EPG Solar, Pleasant Street, news article- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
Zoning Board of Appeals Public Hearing, 305 Leominster Shirley Road- Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
Zoning B oard of Appeals Special Permits, 1501R Lancaster Avenue, 19 Mass Ave, 27 Mas s Ave, and 39 Mass Ave - 
Scanned to Board; no discussion. 
Building Permits , 325 Sunnyhill Road, 24 Riley Road, 22 Riley Road, 20 Riley Road, and 18 Riley Road - Scanned to 
Board; no discussion. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
August 12 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall, will include appointment for Highfield Village 
August 26 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building, Mr. Bakaysa may not be available 
September 9 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
September 23 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
Requested pdf’s, current status- Have been requested from developers; awaiting responses. 
 
BOARD COMMENT: 
Mr. Allison inquired if the Town has GIS.  Yes, on the Town web under the Assessors.   Mr. Allison felt it should be more 
prominent on the Town’s web.  He also noted Harvard’s tutorial for same and requested it be scanned to Board.   
Mr. Allison p rovided a sample RFP  (Request for Proposal)  to Mr. Lockwood that he could present at the School Building 
Committee meeting at his discretion.  Mr. Lockwood noted the Committee is working with an OPM.   
Mr. Allison inquired as to the roles and responsibilities of different Town functions and composition of the Town government.  Mr. 
Bakaysa referred him to the Town Charter.  Ms. Benson referred him to the Town Manager through the Board of Selectmen.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Ms. Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Rod – noted GIS is administered by the Assessors’ Office  and 
suggested Mr. Allison contact Assessor Harald Scheid with any specific questions.  Referred to 310 CMR 11.00 and inquired if a 
MEPA submission was completed with the EPA for Aro Estates.  She noted it is u p to the Secretary of Environmental Affairs to 
determine if a full MEPA filing is required.   
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Board did not go into Executive Session 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn, Mr. Bakaysa, Second, Mr. McQuaid, adjourned 9:05 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
North County Trust Newsletter      MJTC handouts 
Planning Board Goals      School Building Cmte 6-18-13 meeting notes 
Stone Farm Estates Engineer Review    Emerald Place at Lake Whalom news article 
Highfield Village Extension Request    EPG Solar news article 
Highfield Village Chronological Order     ZBA Public Hearing 305 Leominster Shirley Rd 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom Occupancy Certificates  Sample RFP 
Whalom Road LLC Letter dated 6-27-13     Harvard’s GIS Tutorial 
651 Chase Rd news article     35 Leominster Road Building Official’s status letter 
Building Permits- 325 Sunnyhill Rd, 24, 22, 20, and 18 Riley Rd  School Schematics 
ZBA Special Permits- 1501R Lancaster Avenue, 19, 27, and 39 Mass Ave Economic Development Element Draft Inventory/Analysis 
Draft Assessment of Lunenburg’s Current Economic Base – Economic Development Element 
Video recording on file.         Minutes/2013/07.22.13 