===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 23, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa,  Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom:   Represented by Jack Sullivan and Gary Crossen.  One Hundred and Seventy -eight (178) 
units currently built; 12 more to be built within the next couple of weeks .  Landscaping on -going.  Conversation on-going with a 
possible tenant for the commercial portion of the site.  The lease -to-own is still in place.  Principals not currently pushing sales 
due to the market.  Condos are currently on the market for an average of 248 days.  Prices are currently 20% below where the 
Principals need to be to recoup their investment and make a profit.  Commitment is still to sell the property out, but not at this 
time.  Mr. Bakaysa stated that when the Board supported this project , it was to be owner -occupied. Mr. Crossen noted to 
properly market 190 units in the current market would depress the Lunenburg market ; as the market improves they hope to move 
the units to responsible owners.  He also noted they have a continued commitment to the Town.  Will plan to meet with the Board 
semi-annually to update.  A crosswalk will be added from the development to the beach.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone suggested there 
be a cross walk from the development to CVS.  It is not known if there is a pedestrian control a t the intersection of Electric  
Avenue and Whalom Road.  Mr. Sullivan noted their commercial plan, per the original Permit, stated a sidewalk be built from the 
Leominster line to the edge of the commercial property.  There will also be a crosswalk from the development to the sidewalk on 
the commercial site and individuals can then walk down to CVS .  Mr. Lockwood voiced his proposal  of the development’s beach 
being combined with the Town beach to provide more recreational space to the Town.  Principals noted they do not own the strip 
of land between the two beaches and are not inclined to purchasing it and then deeding it back to the Town.   
 
Information Meeting, Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Road:  See separate minutes. 
 
ANR- 419 Sunny Hill Road, William Drumm & Susan Drumm:   Plan accepted for review.  Owner separating Lot “1”, consisting 
of 1.9988 AC.  Lot not classified under Chapter programs.  21 ± AC out of the 38 ± AC parcel is undevelopable wetlands 
classified under Ch. 61B.  The parcel they are selling is part of the remaining 17 ± AC not assessed as chapter land.   Mr. Allison 
noted steep grades on the Lot and was unsure how that is handled under the zoning bylaws.  M s. Benson noted any issues will 
be addressed once the ANR Plan goes out for review.  Mr. Bakaysa had issue with the lot design.  He thought there was 
something in the bylaw regarding “tails”.  Mr. Allison stated that if a lot is approved, it then becomes a  buildable lot.  Plan will be 
distributed for review. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion to approve 9-9-13, Mr. Bakaysa, Second, Mr. McQuaid.  Minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison-   Report on trails program.  No traffic studies done for potential casino site. 
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone-   Previous traffic counts for Lowes and Wal-Mart were higher than actual traffic.  MRPC feels 
traffic will not be an issue for a casino. 
School Building Committee, Mr. Lockwood- Televised meeting to be held September 30th.   
Building Reuse Committee, Mr. McQuaid -  Theoretical budget being prepared for possible demolition of Passios.  
Subcommittee looking at possible uses for site. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 9-23-13 
Page 2 
 
Capital Planning Committee, Ms. Benson -    FY 2015 p aperwork due from Department Heads.  School Building Committee 
made presentation before the Capital Planning Committee at its September 18 th meeting.   
Green Community Task Force, Ms. Benson - Criteria has been met for Lunenburg to be a Green Community.  Waiting for  
confirmation from Town Counsel.  There is an issue with membership; membership has fallen on the Committee and the 
Liaisons/Advisors are not considered voting members.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Citizen Mr. Slattery noted that he has been a Lunenburg citizen for  41 years and spent many of those 
years serving on various committees within the Town.  He noted how individuals give of their time, money and supplies.  He has 
issue with Mr. Allison’s comment s, which he felt were “whiney” , at a previous meeting that  the Town should issue  iPads to the 
Board.  Mr. Slattery opined that if a Board member wants an iPad, they can purchase it themselves.  He also noted questions 
raised regarding the project on Leominster Shirley Road which had already been approved by the Board and is under 
construction.  He noted that the process does not stop once the Building Official issues a building pe rmit and that the project 
continues to be reviewed and inspected until completion.  He opined that Mr. Allison is calling the integrity of pr ofessionals into 
question.  Mr. Slattery wanted it noted that he is not involved personally in the subject project, but knows the developer and does 
not question his integrity. 
 
Mr. Allison took objection with Mr. Slattery referring to him as “whiney” .  Th e iPads would be for Town Boards, not just for him.   
He reiterated there was an error on the plans for the Mobil station on Leominster Shirley Road even though it went through 
numerous reviews.  He noted Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates , does what he is paid for, and pretty poorly, and only 
reviews what he is asked to review.  Just because the same thing has been done inefficiently for 30 years , there is no excuse for 
it to continue that way.   
 
OLD BUSINESS:  Planning Board Goals - Noted Mr. Lockwood’s  creation of Facebook page for the Planning Board.  Ms. 
Benson looking for guidance from Town Counsel for any possible legal issues that could arise  and not violate the Open Meeting 
Law.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted that before an item is placed on Facebook, there has to be a Board consensus.  Continued 
Goal discussion to take place at the October 7, 2013 Board meeting.   Mr. Bakaysa inquired as to the intended outcome of his 
updating of the Board’s procedures and policies.  Ms. Benson noted that he should pro vide a listing of the way the Board 
accomplishes specific task s.  Ms. Benson has started updating the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land , 
and will also be getting input from Steve Mullaney, Mullaney Engineering Inc.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Stone Farm Estates- Will be coming forward with a change. 
Highfield Village, Massachusetts Avenue - Ms. Benson received a call from MEPA  asking for verification of the information 
Highfield submitted.  She confirmed same. 
Mobil Station, Leominster Shirley Road- Work continues.     
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-   See appointment above. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road -  Should be receiving Density Bonus Payment next week.  Board still requesting formulation 
for 40S qualification.  Requested Ms. Benson continues to pursue with the state. 
Whalom Road LLC/Lunenburg Village-   No report   
Whites Woods, Phase III, White Street- Board endorsed Mylar. 
Medical Marijuana  Clinic-  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone noted a news article  that referenced a meeting held on Devens with training 
provided by the state.  Mr. Lockwood noted the Board needs to come up with its rationale for a moratorium.  Ms. Benson to put 
together a draft for the October 28th Board meeting for a town meeting presentation. 
 
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- Account won’t be activated until payment received.  IT Director will inform the Planning Office when account is 
up and running. 
Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land- Definitions scanned to Board members. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
October 1 – 6:30 PM, Executive Session w/Board of Selectmen, Conservation Commission, and Open Space Committee .  
October 7 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building w/MRPC 
October 28 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 9-23-13 
Page 3 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
1. Ms. Bilotta-Simeone opined that to have someone come before the Board for a 9 PM appointment is too late.  She 
would like appointments set in 15 minute increments, with nothing scheduled later than 8:30 PM.  Public Comment will  
be placed at both the beginning and the end of the agenda.   
2. Mr. Allison inquired if Lunenburg has held its mitigation update meeting yet.  Ms. Benson noted she brought this to  the 
attention of Fire Chief Sullivan; he has not yet received an update. 
3. Mr. McQuaid gave update on plans he has obtained of Town buildings.  The issue of storage of Planning Board plans 
arose, and Ms. Benson noted attic storage.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone suggested the plans be scanned; possibly getting a 
Monty Tech intern.  (Possible future discussion regarding this.) 
4. Mr. Allison noted that 4H funds were expended on the Teen Center.  It was suggested Mr. Allison approach the Board 
of Selectmen regarding same.   
5. Mr. Allison noted he has approached the Town Manager re leasing a scanner.   
6. Ms. Bilotta-Simeone requested the YouTube link be placed on the Planning Board web page. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  none 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR COMMENT:  none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Reporter inquired the name of the citizen who spoke at the beginning of the meeting (Mr. Slattery).   
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Motion to leave Regular Session, enter into Executive Session, not to return to Regular Session, Mr. 
McQuaid, Second, Mr. Allison, Roll Call Vote - Mr. Allison, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye; Mr. McQuaid, aye; Mr. Lockwood, aye; Ms. 
Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  Separate minutes. 
 
Adjourned Regular Session 9:30 PM. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 9-9-13 
Planning Board Goals 
Force Corp. Application 
Rules & Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land- Definitions 
ANR Plan, 419 Sunny Hill Road 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2013/09.23.13 