===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.  960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Aro Estates, Howard Street 
January 30, 2013 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:30 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair, Joanna L. Bilotta, Vice Chair,  Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood , Marion M. 
Benson, Planning Director 
Also Present:  Town Counsel, Joel Bard 
 
Chair opened the ten consecutive Public Hearings with the reading of the legal notice advertised in the Sentinel & Enterprise 
January 16 and January 23, 2013 .  The Hearings were to hear and discuss applications for ten subdivisions totaling 135 lots.  
Aro Estates 1 (one) containing eighteen lots, Aro Estates 2 (two) containing nineteen lots, Aro Estates 3 (three) containing 
seventeen lots, Aro Estates 4 (four) containing twenty -one lots, Aro Estates 5 (five) containing twenty lots, Aro Estates 6 (six) 
containing sixteen lots, Aro Estates 7 (seven) cont aining five lots, Aro Estates 8 (eight) containing twelve lots, Aro Estates 9 
(nine) containing five lots, and Aro Estates 10 (ten) containing two lots.  These ten subdivisions are located on the norther ly side 
of Howard Street in the northwest portion of Lunenburg encompassing four parcels.  Parcel addresses are 384 Howard Street, 
Map 17, Parcel 19, owner O’Brien Homes, 18 Cassimere Street, Andover, MA; 460 Howard Street, Map 6, Parcel 25, owner 460 
Howard Street Realty Trust, 18 Cassimere Street, Andover,  MA; 318 Howard Street, Map 17, Parcel 20, owners John & Judith 
Aro, 318 Howard Street, Lunenburg, MA; and 400 Howard Street, Map 6, Parcel 24, owners John & Judith Aro, 318 Howard 
Street, Lunenburg, MA.  Applicant is O’Brien Homes, Inc., 18 Cassimere Stre et, Andover, MA.   
 
Representing the applicant/developer Kevin O’Brien, O’Brien Homes, Inc. were Attorney Mark Johnson, 12 Chestnut Street, 
Andover, MA, Wesley Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates, project engineer, and Brian Milisci, Principal, Whitman & Bi ngham 
Associates.   
 
Mr. Flis made presentation for Mr. O’Brien.  Aro Estates 1 - 18 lots, 24.6 acres .  Individual septic systems for each lot.  Initial 
subdivisions showed wells, but it was noted at the January 24 th Tech Meeting that there is now enough water supply in the Town 
to service the subdivisions.   Mr. O’Brien will work with Water District regarding same.  Cisterns for  fire protection.  Hydrants if 
water brought into subdivisions. 
 
Reviewing Engineer for the Town was Jesse  Johnson, David Ross Asso ciates.  Aro 1 - Comments are general for the whole.  
Drainage calculations were submitted as a complete set for the ten subdivisions  on January 2, 2013 .  Reviewed as submitted 
with 40,000 square foot lots.  Reviewed from standpoint of consecutive subdivisions.  Can 10 be a subdivision?  Does not create 
frontage.  ANR lot?  Possibility 5.6. would still apply.  Focused review on drainage and public safety.  The abutter on left -hand 
side as access road comes in off Howard Street  has their driveway an d yard going up to a stone wall.  Stone wall follows along 
left/west side of road.  There could possibly be an adverse possession issue.  Could impact access.  Does Mr. O’Brien  comply 
with 6.4.3.10. of the Zoning Bylaw (minimum distance from driveway to intersection).    
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing, Aro Estates, Howard Street 
January 30, 2013 
Page 2 
 
If soil testing is provided to J. Johnson, can be used as review for detention basins.  Mr. O’Brien  consistent on groundwater 
levels.  Based his drainage calcula tions on full site build -out.  J. Johnson had no issue with the manner in which the drainage 
calculations were compiled. 
 
Aro Estates 2 – 24.3 acres, 19 lots.  No comments. 
 
Mr. O’Brien has no issue conditioning sequence of subdivision building with Board.   
 
Traffic Impact Assessment from 2008 being updated as there are now two egress points instead of three. 
 
Aro Estates 3 – 17.7 acres, 17 lots.  No comments. 
 
Aro Estates 4 – 23.9 acres, 21 lots .  R equires two wetland crossings, will have second egress o ff Howard Street .  ( See 4.), 5.) 
and 14.) of Whitman & Bingham Associates letter dated January 30, 2013.)   
 
Aro Estates 5 – 19.8 acres, 20 lots.  No comments. 
 
Review was clarified to note that it is based on septics and wells.   
 
Aro Estates 6 – 20.5 acres, 16 lots.  Waiver will be requested for dead end road .  Aro 6 and Aro 7 will not have a connected 
roadway due to wetlands.   
 
J. Johnson recommended with Mr. O’Brien ‘s requesting of a waiver for cul-de-sac length, Board direct questions to p ublic safety 
depts.   
 
Aro Estates 7 – 8 acres, 5 lots.  No comments. 
 
Aro Estates 8 – 23.4 acres, 12 lots.  J. Johnson’s comment is same as above for Aro Estates 6. 
 
Aro Estates 9 – 9.6 acres, 5 lots.  No comment. 
 
Aro Estates 10 – 22.7 acres, 2 lots.  J. Johnson feels should be an ANR.  Mr. Bakaysa concurs.  Has a common driveway – 
would not be a subdivision. 
 
Mr. Flis went through January 30, 2013 Whitman & Bingham letter, which was in response to January 24, 2013 review letter of 
David Ross Associates.   
 
Brought attention to 7.).      4.5.1. states the “Planning Board may require…. ”. At the Tech Meeting, Mr. O’Brien noted he would 
be willing to work with the Town to provide for parks if the Board sees necessary, but may not be able to provide 10% of eac h 
subdivision.  At the Tech Meeting Mr. O’Brien proposed possibly doing neighborhood common playground area s with easements 
over properties. 
 
J. Johnson has received soil testing info rmation – asked for additional plans that better show existing topography .  Looking for 
relative to drainage- level of groundwater, potential for ledge, how that might affect construction.  Groundwater concern is if you 
have shallow groundwater you would not want basins constructed in groundwater as it would potentially be infiltrating 
groundwater and not have space available for incoming stormwater.   Some of proposed drainage infrastructure could pose a 
long-term maintenance problem.  Asking for more information on construction methodology and long -term prevention of 
groundwater intrusion.  Bulk geared to project as it sits – can it be legally presented as shown.    
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing, Aro Estates, Howard Street 
January 30, 2013 
Page 3 
 
Opened to public comment- 
 
No proponents 
 
Opponents- 
 
Dave Finch, 537 Howard Street- Questions regarding lot frontage.  Howard Street residents would like to see fewer houses.  Has 
concern with water.   
 
Ms. Benson requested Whitman & Bingham Associates provide the Planning Office with a plan depicting the te n subdivisions, 
number of lots in each, and acreage of each subdivision. 
 
Rennie Shattuck, 396 Howard Street - Abuts Subdivision 1.  Groundwater runoff problems on Howard Street.  Should not be a 
subdivision built – should be conservation land. 
 
Gary Lahti, 440 Howard Street- Abuts Subdivision 2.  Concerns with drainage.   
 
J. Johnson addressed overall drainage – with drainage calculation an applicant  usually pick s sensitive areas, wetlands and 
abutting properties for summation points for pre- and post- development.  Calculations as submitted picked too broad an area for 
those summation points.  He is asking it be fine -tuned.  Once that takes place, he will review to ensure they meet standard 
engineering practice and State guidelines.   
 
Dan Bracke tt, 815 New West Townsend Road - Abuts 4 and 3.  Asked if there was advantage to breaking up into ten 
subdivisions.  Felt they should be looked at individually without temporary roads.   
 
Town Counsel, Attorney Joel Bard was of the opinion that it was presented this way to circumvent a Zoning Bylaw that says you 
cannot subdivide more than 25 acres of land without taking other steps.  To evade that , Mr. O’Brien  presented a number of 
subdivisions smaller than 25 acres in hopes of making an argument that it satisfies 5.6. of the Zoning Bylaw.  Attorney Bard  
noted that the Boar d could require a bond  for each subdivision  in the event that if not completed, the bond could be used to 
convert the temporary road into a permanent road.  Each subdivision has to be looked at as if it would stand on its own. 
 
Mr. Bakaysa noted individual findings and directives will be done for each subdivision. 
 
Attorney Bard brought up the  issue of a timeline; noting that at his urging, the Planning Board set this Hearing date prior to all 
documentation being received.  Due to the fact that this property had been the site of litigation previously, and that a larg e 
amount of the necessary documentation had been received in the Planning Office, Atto rney Bard wanted the Board to be 
cautious and commence the hearing process.   The legal issue that it raises for Attorney Bard is the Board’s deadline for a 
decision.  He noted for the public’s benefit, o nce an application has been filed, the Board has 135 days to hold a hearing, render 
a decision, and file that decision with the Town Clerk.  When all information is received at the same time, it is easy to kno w when 
the 135 days begin.  In this case, Atto rney Bard is requesting Mr. O’Brien and his attorney  set a target deadline for the Board ’s 
decision.  Attorney Bard suggests late April.  He is requesting a clear date.  If it needs to be pushed out , the Town will come back 
to Mr. O’Brien.  Attorney Johnson responded he will discuss with Mr. O’Brien and dete rmine what documents came in  and what 
is missing.  Attorney Johnson request ed what additional information is needed.  Attorney Bard reiterated that the Board started 
the Hearing at his urging, even though the Board  felt it did not have all the necessary do cumentation.  Attorney Johnson 
responded he will discuss with Attorney Bard.  Attorney Bard wanted to make it clear that he is requesting a letter from Mr. 
O’Brien, through Attorney Johnson, to the Town Clerk granting Board extension to (date).   
 
Ms. Benson requested clarification from Attorney Bard that the anticipated April date included only Planning Board information ; 
neither the Board of Health nor Conservation Commission.   He noted that Board of Health and Conservation Commission 
requirements are separate. 
  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing, Aro Estates, Howard Street 
January 30, 2013 
Page 4 
 
Mr. Bakaysa asked J. Johnson if he had all he needed at this time to satisfy Planning Board requirements for a solid peer review.  
J. Johnson noted as of getting the soil testing and the last plans, he has everything he needs  for a first -round formal response.   
He noted his  October 22 nd letter which stated section by sec tion all deficiencies relative to what is required by the Board for a 
formal submissio n.  J. Johnson suggested the Planning Office go through Whitman & Bingham Associates December 7 th 
response letter to deter mine if all items they note have been submitted, have been submitted.  Possibly have applicant update 
letter?  Mr. O’Brien noted he previously requested that the Board go through his December 7 th letter.    
 
Mr. Bakaysa inquired of Ms. Benson if Mr. O’Brien owes anything financial to the Planning Office , which would be considered 
part of the application.  Ms. Benson noted breakdown of review fees.  Mr. O’Brien gave verbal approval for payment of the two 
current Ross invoices.   
 
Attorney Johnson requested list of missing items.  Attorney Bard noted items he was aware of – list of waiver requests, revised 
traffic study, more detailed drainage analysis.  J. Johnson noted the drainage analysis would come back in the revisions.  He has 
everything necessary from the first review aspect; now need items for noted deficiencies.   
 
Mr. O’Brien noted submission of a set of plans at a Planning Board meeting on September 10th.  Plans are dated April 2012 and 
Whitman & Bingham Associates had bee n discussing  with Ms. Benson since April 2012.  Mr. O’Brien was prepared for an 
April/May 2012 submission.  Mr. Milisci discussed with Ms. Benson the extent of the paper load that the submittal required (Ms. 
Benson noted that Mr. Milisci stated he would ne ed a pickup truck). Ms. Benson recommended one set of plans from Whitman & 
Bingham Associates  be submitted to be reviewed for compliance, saving a submittal of ten complete sets of plans until that 
review was accomplished.  Mr. O’Brien was of the opinion t hat e verything came to a standstill due to Ms. Benson ’s medical 
situation and he feels he is being penalized.  Wants to know what date does the clock start ticking?   
 
J. Johnson noted drainage analysis dated December 21, 2012.  He was unable to commence a ny review until drainage 
calculations were submitted.  Suggested to the Board this could be considered the formal submittal dat e.   
 
Motion to continue the Public Hearing to February 13, 2013, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Second, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone.  Roll Call Vote , Mr. 
Lockwood, aye; Mr. Bodkin Jr., aye; Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; Mr. Bakaysa, aye.   
  
Motion to adjourn, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr.  Adjourned 9:40 PM. 
 
Attachments 
1. Letter dated January 24, 2013, David E. Ross Associates Inc., re Definiti ve Subdivision Plan, Aro Estates 1 -10, 
Howard Street, Lunenburg 
2. Letter dated January 30,2013, Whitman & Bingham Associates, re Aro Estates 1 -10, Definitive Subdivision Review, 
Howard Street, Lunenburg, MA  
 
 
minutes/public hearings 2013/Aro Estrates Howard St 01.30.13 