===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
January 14, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa 
 
ANR:  Norman & Pamela Vincent, 20 Fire Road #19, David Ross Associates - Presented by Mike Martorella of David Ross 
Associates.  Parcel A to be conveyed to Dooling property. Plan accepted for review.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion to approve 12-10-12 and Executive 10-23-12, Second, Mr. Lockwood.  Executive 
10-15-12 not approved; to be discussed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC-  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone has replaced Mr. Saiia as Board representative.  First meeting for her will be January 16, 2013.  
MRPC-  Next meeting January 15, 2013. 
School Reconfiguration Committee-  Subcommittee formed to work with OPM regarding architect selection.  
Capital Planning Committee- Committee meeting weekly and will begin prioritizing requests next week .  Ms. Benson noted that 
the new Westminster cruisers will be available for public viewing at the Lunenburg Public Safety Facility on Wednesday, January 
16th.   
 
OLD BUSINESS:  APR (Agricultural Preservation Restriction) Applications-  The Town Manager will be reviewing with the 
Board of Selectmen the applications for Mario Lanni, Lanni Orchards, 294 Chase Road and Daniel & Kathleen M. Pierce, Pierce 
Farm, 490 Chase Road. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
Board Vacancy – Applications- Noted Mr. Saiia’s resignation and that the vacancy will be filled through a joint appointment by 
the Planning Board and the Board of Selectmen.   Applications will be accepted until January 31 st.  Four applications received to 
date. 
“Interise” Program- Noted information received in the office regarding Interise (non -profit organization) program to assist small 
businesses. 
Solar- Noted current status – Board of Se lectmen unable to make any decisions at this time.  They are awaiting necessary 
documents from the developers of both Electric Avenue and Chase Road regarding power -purchase and payment -in-lieu-of-
taxes (PILOT) agreements.  The Board of Selectmen needs to decide whether or not to pursue the third project, on the Town’s 
landfill.   
New England Farms, 134 Leominster Shirley Road - Applicant working with Tennessee Gas (TG) regarding work within its 
easement.  Project may require some minor redesign. 
===PAGE 2===
Planning Board minutes 01.14.13 
Page 2 
 
Aro Estates, Howard Street - Drainage calculations have been received.  Town Counsel has recommended that the reviewing 
process begin.  Ms. Benson noted the Tri Party Account from the previous application of 2008 was closed and  monies returned 
to Mr. O’Brien, the applicant.  Administrative fees and review fees are being charged for this new application.  The public hearing 
has been set for Wednesday, January 30 th, Town Hall.  Mr. O’Brien noted David Ross Associates letter of December 13, 2012, in 
which Jesse Johnson notes four items still needed for his office to start reviewing the subdivisions.  1) Drainage calculations, 2) 
soil testing information, and 3 & 4) any responses from Board of Health and Conservation Commission that confirm accuracy of 
soil testing and wetland delineation.  As Town Counsel has advised the review process start, Mr. O’Brien expects that reviewing 
engineer Jesse Johnson has all the necessary items.  Ms. Benson responded that the Planning Office has recei ved the drainage 
calculations.  She has been informed by the Conservation Commission office they ha ve not received the information noted in the 
December 13th letter.  Board of Health office noted they would speak directly to Mr. O’Brien.  Mr. O’Brien noted  he had spoken 
with that office and a Board of Health letter was provided to the Planning Office on November 7, 2012.   Mr. O’Brien noted an 
existing ORAD (Order of Resource Area Delineation) which delineates the wetlands, in place with the Conservation Commission.  
He is requesting confirmation that David Ross Associates is all set with everything.  Mr. O’Brien requested clarification of how the 
amounts were calculated for the review fees.   A tech meeting will be scheduled prior to the public hearing.  Mr. O’Brien 
requested that if each subdivision is reviewed individually, could he get each review as it is received in the Planning Offic e.  Ms. 
Benson does not know if the office will be receiving the reviews individually.  Board members inquired as to why th e project 
engineer and the reviewing engineer are not able to confer directly with each other  and requested to examine the policy for peer 
review with Ms. Benson.  Mr. O’Brien noted that he had expected to submit his application in July, but submittal was delayed due 
to Ms. Benson’s prolonged absence from the office for medical reasons.   Mr. O’Brien decided to bring plans before the Board in 
September.  
Asian Imperial, 5 Electric Avenue-  Snow removal was clarified with the owner. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Weekly reports note continuing work on villas on Carousel Lane. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road- Weekly reports note continuing work on Building 3.  Fire inspections are on-going. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Benson noted she has received request for FY2014 Planning Office budget from Town 
Manager.  Notices from Conservation Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals on file in Planning Office.  MRPC will be 
presenting at the January 15th Board of Selectmen meeting regarding Priority Development/Preservati on Areas.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
January 28 – Ritter Building, Board meeting and public hearings for ATT, 9 Chase Road and 2005 Massachusetts Avenue.  
Public hearing for 35 Leominster Road. 
January 30 – Town Hall, public hearing for Aro Estates, Howard Street. 
February 11 – Board meeting, Town Hall 
February 25 – Board meeting, Ritter Building 
 
MEMBER ISSUES: The Board of Selectmen is requesting input from the Planning Board regarding the R ight of First Refusal for 
Aro property on Howard Street.  As this spe cific subject was not included in the Agenda, Mr. Bodkin Jr. felt it could not be 
discussed at this evening’s meeting.  A Planning Board meeting will be scheduled for Thursday, January 17 th for discussion.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   8:00 PM. 
 
 
Minutes/2013/01.14.13 