===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Thomas W. Bodkin, Jr., Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
March 25, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Thomas W. Bodkin Jr., Nathan J. Lockwood, Marion M. Benson 
 
35 Leominster Road- Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone to come out of regular session and enter Public Hearing Continuation for 35 
Leominster Road, Second, Mr. Lockwood, Motion passed.  Mr. Bodkin Jr. recused himself.  Continuation to be held April 8, 2013, 
6:30 PM, Town Hall.  Motion, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone to recess Continuation and return to regular session, Second, Mr. Lockwood, 
Motion passed. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  The following minutes were signed. 
2-25-13, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood. 
2-25-13 ATT Chase Road Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood 
2-25-13 ATT 2005 Massachusetts Avenue Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood 
2-25-13 35 Leominster Road Public Hearing Continuation, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood  
2-27-13 Aro Estates Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood 
3-4-13 Aro Estates Public Hearing, Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood 
3-4-13 Motion to approve, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Lockwood 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC- Workshop held in place of scheduled meeting last  week.  Discussion of TIP (Transportation Improvement Plan) and 
ongoing projects in surrounding communities. 
MRPC- Next meeting March 26th.    
School Reconfiguration Committee -   Public envisioning sessions will be held .  A White Paper is on file in the Pl anning Office 
for the future of Thomas C. Passios Elementary School.  The Board of Selectmen to decide on bid process.  
Capital Planning Committee- Ms. Benson, as Capital Planning Committee Chair, noted the FY2014 Capital Plan recommended 
by the Capital Pla nning Committee at $523,483.00.  Plan breakdown on file in Planning Office.   Ms. Benson noted some 
changes made by the Town Manager.  Presentation to Finance Committee on March 28 th.   
 
APR (Agricultural Preservation Restriction ) - Mr. Lattanzi, representi ng Lunenburg farmers, noted the farmers do not have 
any formal representation.  He is looking to the Board  for its support on a Right to Farm Bylaw and the establishment of an 
Agricultural Commission.  Commission will be appointed by the Board of Selectmen .  Motion, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone to support the 
establishment of an Agricultural Commission in the Town of Lunenburg, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Motion passed.   
 
APR Application Status, 294 Chase Road and 490 Chase Road- Negotiations on-going with State.   
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS:  
MRPC- Board has received approval for another DLTA for study of establishment of a Village District  Bylaw.   
Certificate of Compliance, 2012, Smart Growth Zoning District - Town received FY 2012 Certificate of Compliance for Tri 
Town Landing Smart Growth District. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Planning Board minutes 03.25.13 
Page 2 
 
Grease Trap Regulation Change- Noted updated Grease Trap Regulations from the Sewer Commission. 
Highfield Village, Northfield Road - Planning Director c opied on Sewer Commission letter dated March 7, 2013 to Mr.Godfrey 
notifying him that the five year extension for sewer allocation expired May 30, 2011.  The Planning Office received the Draft 
Environmental Impact Report on March 12, 2013.  The Planning Board extension expires March 30, 2013.  
Asian Imperial , Electric Avenue - Parking quota is according to the Plan, but is insufficient.  Applicant hoping to acquire 
additional abutting land for parking.  Additional signage will be put in place to preclude unauthorized vehicles from entering 
through the Massachusetts Avenue emergency ingress/egress.   
Aro Estates, Howard Street- Continuation to be held April 3, 2013, Town Hall, 6:30 PM.  Board noted it will not accept any more 
waiver requests after that date.   
New England Farms, Leominster-Shirley Road- Plan under review with Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates.  Mr. Johnson 
feels changes are minor and can be handled administratively. Board will review at its April 8th meeting.  
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- Noted weekly progress report. 
Tri Town Landing, Youngs Road- Noted weekly progress report. 
White Tail Crossing- Mr. Proctor (developer) looking for street acceptance at May 2013 Town Meeting.  As Built was reviewed 
by Jesse Johnson, David Ross A ssociates; it did not meet Plan specifications.  Review noted issues that need resolution prior to 
acceptance at a town meeting.  Mr. Proctor now hopes to go before a fall town meeting.  Mr. Bakaysa inquiring if project is b uilt 
out.   
Master Planning Surveys- Noted surveys received from Concord and Westminster. 
Solar Farm, Chase Road - Ms. Benson noted newspaper article which states MASS PV1 is looking to sell the property.  
Question is will the Plan remain the same?   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
April 3 – Aro Estates Hearing Continuation, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
April 8 – Discussion ensued.  Agenda to contain only critical items.  As noted on Page 1,  “35 Leominster Road”, Board vote 
was taken for Continuation to be held April 8, 2013, 6:30 PM.  As Mr. Bodkin Jr. will b e recusing himself, it was decided to hold 
the regular meeting from 6:30 – 7:15 PM, followed by the Continuation.  Both to be held at Town Hall.  Board requested first draft 
of Findings and Directives for Aro Estates be available at this meeting.   
April 22 – Board Meeting, Ritter Memorial Building 
April 30 – Town Election, Elementary School, 7:00 AM 
May 4 – Town Meeting, High School, 9:00 AM 
Mr. Lockwood requesting a meeting is scheduled with the Board and Town Counsel during the week of April 8th for discussion of 
Aro Estates.  Mr. Bakaysa inquiring if the Mullin Rule applies only to public hearings, or does it also pertain to regular Board 
meetings.  Meeting date TBD. 
 
CITIZEN COMMENT:  Mr. John Whalen inquired as to impact on water table if Aro Estates is developed.  Ms. Benson will inquire 
of Jesse Johnson. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lockwood inquired if Board members want more information regarding the options available for the 
schools, the method of bidding, or the future of Passios.  Board would like more information as to what would happen to Thomas 
Passios and the High School if a new school is built , where would the new campus be, who would be responsible for demolition 
costs of the existing High School?  Mr. Lockwood suggested Ms. Benson get listing of O ptions from School Superintendent Ms. 
Calmes and forward on to Board members.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   Motion to adjourn, Ms. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, Mr. Bodkin Jr., Adjourned 8:55 PM. 
 
Minutes/2013/03.25.13 