===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147 ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
December 9, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Emerick R. Bakaysa,  Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  none 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion to approve 11-25-13, N. Lockwood, Second, M. Allison.  Motion to approve 11 -25-13 615/617 
Leominster Road Public Hearing, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid. 
 
PRESENTATION- MRPC: Represented by John Hume and Chantell Fleck.  Presentation given on the draft Village District Bylaw 
and the Economic Development Element of the Master Plan.  (Items on file in the Planning Office.)  There was discussion on 
brownfields which led to the ab andoned gas station in the center of Town and being able to do a possible site assessment 
through a grant - grant deadline of January 21 – does the Town have to own the property to do the testing, no, but need owner’s 
permission to go on property.  P. Bertr am recommended the Town Manager attend a Planning Board meeting to update the 
Board on the property.  J. Bilotta -Simeone requested M. Benson ask the Town Manager to attend the January 13 th Board 
meeting. 
 
MRPC’s current DLTA Program requires MRPC conclude its assistance by December 31, 2013.  The Town can re -apply for 
additional assistance.  Applications, signed by the Board of Selectmen, are due by January 17, 2014.  
 
N. Lockwood noted he looked at land inventory that could support alternative energy – access to three phase electrical structure 
– typically owned by UNITIL – any state/federal grants to expand land that has access to grid?  J. Hume noted f unding to 
improve infrastructure would be obtained through the utility.   
 
J. Hume recommended the Board d evelop a Design Guideline Handbook with illustrations, pictures, write up of particular 
architectural designs for developers.   
 
J. Hume will provide the Economic Development Update to the Planning Office in Word format for extraction of information.  Wi ll 
also provide listing of towns that are doing a good job of promoting economic development on their website.   
 
Draft map was presented showing proposed boundary of Village District as a result of Board input.  C. Fleck opined that the 
District was rather large and including the schools did not lend to the intimate, walkability of a Village District.  Possibly create a 
Reuse Overlay District on the lot where the schools are located - do not include in the Village District.  Board will have to 
determine minimum lot size for the Village District.   
 
Draft Village District Bylaw given to Board for review.   
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 12.09.13 
Page 2 
 
Action Items: 
 Creation of Design Guideline Handbook 
 Triplex housing by special permit in the Village District?  This would provi de for more apartments in Town.  A business 
on the ground floor with two apartments on the second floor.  The Board would have to determine lot size for same.  
Member inquired if all lots in the proposed district are sewered.  District Bylaw could specify triplex only allowed if 
sewered.  N. Lockwood felt growth success for the Town could involve triplex or larger.  M. Allison suggested multi -
family.  D. McQuaid opined capping at quadplex.  Concerned with availability of parking.  There will be more Board 
discussion regarding this subject. 
 Allow telecommunications towers in the Village District, other than those grandfathered in?  
 Allow restaurants in the Town Center?   
 Should gasoline service stations with automotive sales be included in the District; or kee p it simply gas stations. 
 N. Lockwood would like MRPC to help develop criteria for proposed commercial uses.  J. Hume suggested building it 
into the next DLTA application.   
 Possible list of suggested construction materials be included in the Design Guideline Handbook.  Also include in 
District Bylaw.  C. Fleck will look for specifics.   
 Looking for stronger language for Additional Design Standards for the Village District, a) 8.- historical buildings. 
 Have the Demolition Delay Bylaw referenced.   
 
P. Bertram noted that the Board may have to expedite a Reuse Overlay District, depending on the vote for Article 1 at the 
January Special Town Meeting. 
 
MRPC will work with M. Benson  to craft another DLTA for continuing the Village District Bylaw, Economic Development, 
streamlining the zoning, and possible Reuse Overlay Bylaw.  
 
ANR- 136 & 150 Sunset Lane, Bisceglia Family Realty Trust - Presented by David Leroy, David Ross Associates.   The 
Suttons, residing at 130 Sunset Lane, currently use the upper corner of the property at 136 Sunset Lane for their driveway 
access.  The applicant intends to sell Parcel A (394 square feet) to the Suttons so the applicant’s lot is not encumbered by the 
Sutton’s driveway.  This will create a safe situation for driveway access purposes.  Plan accepted for department review.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, M. Allison-  No meeting   
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  No meeting   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  No meeting 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid -   Presentation given to Board of Selectmen.  Committee suggestion is that Eagle 
House stay as is, Brooks House, Ritter Memorial Building, and Passios be sold.  Town H all could be renovated to house all Town 
Offices. 
Capital Planning Committee, M. Benson -  Continuing to prioritize department requests.  Will meet with Town Manager on 
December 18th.      
Green Community Task Force, M. Benson- Green Community Designation Criteria submitted to the State. 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison - Commission still working on Right -To-Farm Bylaw.  Looking for ways to participate with 
farmer’s market and possible multiple locations.    
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Special Town Meeting, January 7, 2014-  
Article 1- School Building Project- N. Lockwood made a Motion for the Planning Board to support the proposal of the 
School Building Committee at Town Meeting, E. Bakaysa, Second.  Discussion ensued  with Board members various opinions 
regarding cost to the Town; impact on planning, e.g. econ omic development, quality of the Town and its school system to attract 
newcomers to  Town; disadvantage of  a possible increase in residential development ; a new school will make it even less 
affordable to move to Lunenburg; t he Board is looking for more com mercial/retail development to offset taxpayer burden ; 
increase in property value with a new school; too much money is spent to build a new school for the existing students ; is it going 
to cost more to repair/revitalize the existing school ; e conomic development will help to offset the cost of the new school ; 
members have a civic and moral responsibility to the Town.  P. Bertram opined that the Village District Bylaw is too restrictive.  
Board vote i n favor of endorsing Article 1 on the Town Warrant fo r the new school, Roll Call Vote - J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; E. 
Bakaysa, aye; N. Lockwood, aye; D. McQuaid, nay; M. Allison, nay.  Vote 3-2 in favor of endorsing Article 1. 
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 12.09.13 
Page 3 
 
Article 2 & 3- Marijuana Moratorium Bylaw- Placed on Warrant.  Used model provided by Town Counsel.  J. Bilotta-
Simeone noted under State law  patients with a hardship cultivation registration  do not have to register with local 
police/town/zoning officer.  Registration may be required by a town general bylaw (not a zoning bylaw).  Town Counsel has noted 
that would not be part of the moratorium bylaw, but would be in the subsequent bylaw.  Board needs to prepare a bylaw for 
spring town meeting.  The moratorium bylaw does not negate hardship cultivation.  Board of S electmen would have to put the 
general bylaw together.  E. Bakaysa looking for verification that the Planning Board has authority to require a dispensary register 
with local police/town.  M. Benson will confer with Town Counsel.   
Force Corp., 305 Leominster Shirley Road - Plans needs to be revised as a result of  peer review.  M. Benson to schedule 
meeting with herself, project engineer and reviewing engineer.  Issues with Conservation Commission have been resolved.   
Definitive Subdivision Application, 50 Elmwood Road- Hearing set for January 13, 2014.   
Whites Woods, Mass Ave- Weekly progress report noted. 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom -  E. Bakaysa requesting update on number of units totally built and plan for completion.  He 
also feels Town Counsel should be consulted as to how Board can leverage the fact that it was anticipated Emerald Place would 
be owner-occupied.   
35 Leominster Road- Board member questioned how Building Commissioner could extend building permit when the Board was 
the permitting authority.   
Smart Growth District/Tri Town Landing - Certificate of Compliance issued for  FY2013.  Town received 40R Density Bonus 
Payment of $99,000. 
White Tail Crossing - Owner wanted to get on Special Town Meeting Warrant to have road declar ed public wa y, but was not 
prepared.   
NuGen Capital Management LLC- Letter of Guaranty received and noted at prior Board meeting.  Has been forwarded to Town 
Counsel for review.   
 
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- J. Bilotta-Simeone requested M. Benson convey to the Town Manager that the Board of Selectmen, during their 
televised meetings, encourage the public to complete the Survey.  Will have a notice put back on the Town Scroll.   
Notices- Conservation Commission & Zoning Board of Appeals -   Noted that the Zoning Board of Appeals has received a 
petition for 337 Page Street for a special permit dimensional variation to install a 100 kilowatt ground mount solar photovol taic 
system in the rear of the property.  Applicant was denied by the Building Commissioner as it did not meet the zoning bylaw.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
January 13, 2014, Town Hall, Public Hearing followed by Board meeting 
January 27, 2014, Ritter Memorial Building, regular meeting 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENTS:  J. Bilotta -Simeone opined that the signboard located at the PSFB should be used for community 
announcements.  Board members noted that if it is on and flashing all the time, people lose interest and stop looking.  There are 
signboards on the school and one outside the Ritter.  Board member felt that if using the signboard at the PSFB for community 
announcement, local businesses will want to do the same thing.    
 
MEMBER ISSUES: none 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR COMMENT: none 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Motion, E. Bakaysa, to enter into Executive Session, not to return to public session,  Second, N. 
Lockwood, Roll Call Vote- J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye; N. Lockwood, aye; D. McQuaid, aye; E. Bakaysa, aye; M. Allison, aye.   
 
ADJOURNMENT: Regular Session 10:30 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
11-25-13 Minutes     Notices- Conservation Commission & Zoning Board of Appeals 
Draft Village District Bylaw    Warrant for January 2014 Special Town Meeting 
ANR- 136 & 150 Sunset Lane    Whites Woods Weekly Progress Report 
Economic Development Element of the Master Plan  Smart Growth District Certificate of Compliance 
11-25-13 615/617 Leominster Road Public Hearing Minutes 
Minutes/2013/12.09.13 