===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
July 8, 2013 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood , Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa , Matthew Allison, Marion M. 
Benson 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  6-24-13, Motion to approve, Mr. Bakaysa, Second, Mr. Allison.  Minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, Mr. Allison- Noted there will be MBTA track closures due to track work .  Town only receiving 50% of Ch . 90 funds from 
State; approximately $316,000.  Committee hoping to finalize trail inventory by fall 2013 in conjunction with regional trail coalition.   
MRPC, Ms. Bilotta -Simeone- Members voted in.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone voted as Member -at-large.  2013 -2014 budget was 
reviewed.   
School Building Committee , Mr. Lockwood- Schematic site layout provided by Mr. Lockwood.  Office will scan  to Board.  Mr. 
Bakaysa questioned why only o ne gymnasium.  Mr. Lockwood noted in order to have a higher quality facility gymnasium will be 
shared among the 6-12.   
School Reuse Committee , Mr. McQuaid - Mr. McQuaid will not be available to attend first meeting; Ms. Bilotta -Simeone will 
attend in his place.   
Capital Planning Committee , Ms. Benson - Continuing to meet throughout the summer to update forms and procedures.  
Timeline is for end-August, beginning-September for packets to all department heads. 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Highfield Village , Northfield Road - Applicant requesting Extension to September 30, 2013  due to MEPA review extending .  
Applicant states they are currently negotiating with Sewer Commission to develop a new agreement as last agreement has 
expired.  Sewer Business Manager noted that the Commission is negotiating with the city of Fitchburg, not with the applicant.  
Ms. Bilotta-Simeone requested input from Mr. Luck, Sewer Commission Chair.  He noted only discussion between Highfield and 
Commission is securing sewer allocation.  Applicant has not submitted new plans to the Commission.  Board will approve 
extension to its July 22 nd Board meeting at which time they request  Mr. Oldfield, Project Engineer, appear before the Board for 
discussion.  Also requesting Applicant provide  chronological order of past extensions and anticipated milestones.  Mr. Bakaysa 
gave brief project background to new Board members.  Ms. Bilotta -Simeone noted Town Counsel previously recommended 
Board approve extensions.  
New England Farms, Leominster Shirley Road- Building Permit issued to Applicant.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom , Lakefront- Two more villas to be completed this week with three to commence building next 
week.    Landscaping ongoing to coincide with each building’s completion.  Ms. Benson is following up with applicant on condition 
of interior roads.  Board discussion as to development being quite different from what Board had approved, e.g., approved as a 
For Sale project, but due to market conditions all  are lease -to-own.  Mr. Bakaysa would like a formal response from the 
developer as to when the project will eventually meet the standard for which it was approved (owner -occupied development).   
Tri Town Landing , Youngs Road - Occupancy has been given to Bu ilding 3.  Office working on applying to State for Density 
Bonus.  Annual Update also being provided to State.  Ms. Benson working with State on 40S  (school) reimbursement.  
Continuing to research fence issue brought forth at 6-24-13 Board meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 07-08-13 
Page 2 
 
Asian Imperial - Gating of the emergency access continues to be an issue.  Ms. Benson is scheduling a meeting with the 
applicant, project engineer, and reviewing engineer.   
651 Chase Road - Noted news article in which Townsend Town Admin istrator said the two towns are going to enter into an 
agreement whereby Lunenburg will sell net metering credits to Townsend.   
Marijuana Clinic- Noted news article in which Ayer Selectmen sending a letter of support to the state on behalf of businessman 
wanting to open medical -marijuana dispensary in Ayer.  Ms. Benson to start investigating what is/is not allowed if an applicant 
comes before the Board.  Board interested in State law.  Mr. Allison inquired as to results of Town vote.   
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted Conservation Commission agenda.   
 
SUMMER MEETING SCHEDULE:   
July 22 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall- MRPC and Highfield Village to be scheduled 
August 12 – 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
August 26 – 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
 Agenda will be revised to include “Action File”.   
 Mr. Bakaysa noted news article regarding  Mr. Lorden’s request for increase in number of units  on his Whalom Road 
project.  Ms. Benson noted that is a Zoning Board of Appeals project and will request information from t hat Board. 
 Mr. Allison requested pdf’s of development plans in order to bring him current.  Also that the Board receive pdf’s each 
time there is a new project application.  Mr. Bakaysa went on to note that with pdf’s, Board membe rs will have an 
opportunity to review prior to the formal presentation by the applicant.   
 Mr. Lockwood felt there should be more Board access to Planning Office documents.  Mr. Bakaysa  opined that should 
be a policy decision driven by the Board of Selectmen and applied to all Town offices.  He is also concerned with 
document security.  Ms. Bilotta-Simeone requested that the IT Director come before the Board to get an understanding 
of what the Board is requesting and possible solutions.  Ms. Benson to investigate. 
 Revision of Planning Board Goals will be distributed at next meeting for discussion at August 12th meeting. 
 Mr. Allison inquired if Board could put a fee in place for extension requests.  Ms. Benson will provide Fee Schedule to 
Board. 
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION:  Board did not go into Executive Session 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  Motion to adjourn, Mr. Allison, Second, Mr. McQuaid, adjourned 8:00 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Highfield Village Extension Request 
New England Farms Building Permit 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom Weekly Update 
Tri Town Landing Weekly Update 
651 Chase Road Solar News Article 
Marijuana Clinic News Article 
Conservation Commission Agenda 
 
Audio recording on file. 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2013/07.08.13 