===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
 
 
Workshop Minutes 
October 20, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Also Present:  John Hume, MRPC 
 
Element summarization given by John Hume, MRPC.  Summarization covered Assessment of Lunenburg’s Current Economic 
Base and Goals, Objectives and Recommendations.  The Planning Board previously reviewed the Element and changes had 
been incorporated.   
 
N. Lockwood noted that the Element advises strategies to pursue  and gives broader themes  vs providing specifi c 
recommendations.  J. Hume concurred, noting that the Element provides a general framework for the Town.  A. Burney inquired 
as to the Town maintaining a real estate listing through CoStar (a commercial real estate information company).   
 
Carl Luck, Sewer Commission- Opined that the issues in this Element are the same as those in the 2002 Master Plan.  What is 
the goal of updating this Element?  To bring in more tax revenue?  Why shouldn’t you start with updating the first Element?  J. 
Hume noted the Goal s and Policies a re listed in the Introduction Element  and there was a low financial cost to the Town to 
update this specific Element through DLTA (District Local Technical Assistance).  
Mark Erickson, Finance Committee- Inquired as to whether the other Elements were already updated.  
Troy Daniels, Sewer Commission - Inquired as to where a brownfields grant would fit into the L&M Service Center on 
Massachusetts Avenue listed in the Element .  N. Lockwood reiterated that the Master Plan is a general framework.  J. Hume 
noted that MRPC was not successful in obtaining a brownfield grant as they were not funded region -wide.  J. Bilotta-Simeone 
opined that a regional economic development team should be formed and inquired as to how this can be moved forward.   
 
Workshop terminated at 7:30 PM due to a medical emergency. 
 
 
Documents used at workshop: 
Master Plan Economic Development Element 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/10.20.14 MP workshop 