===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
February 10, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison 
Absent:  Emerick R. Bakaysa, Marion M. Benson 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  none 
 
Stone Farm Estates:   Represented by Anthony Cleaves, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  Developer is requesting a c hange 
from a single 4-plex unit to two 2-plex units.  Reviewing Engineer Jesse Johnson, David E. Ross Associates, noted via electronic 
mail that change would create a “modest increase in impervious surface…however, I don’t think it would impact the drainag e 
infrastructure in a noticeable way. …it is an insubstantial modification request.”  Impervious surface increase  is of approximately 
3000 sf.   Motion to accept proposed modification, N. Lockwood, Second, D. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote - all aye. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed. 
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 1-27-14, Second, D. McQuaid. 
Motion, N. Lockwood to approve 1-27-14 Leominster Shirley Road Information Meeting, Second, McQuaid 
Motion, N. Lockwood to approve 1-6-14 Warrant Article Hearing, Second, D. McQuaid 
Motion, N. Lockwood to approve 12-8-13, Second, D. McQuiaid 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, M. Allison-   No meeting held. 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   Town was awarded District Local Technical Assistance (DLTA)  by Montachusett Regional 
Planning Com mission ( MRPC) for review and analysis of providing regional animal control services and , for the Board,  
continued work to refine a draft Mixed Use Village District Bylaw.   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- No update  
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    No update  
Capital Planning Committee, M. Benson-    Tabled due to M. Benson’s absence.    
Green Community Task Force, M. Benson- Tabled due to M. Benson’s absence. 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-  No update 
 
PLANNING DIRECTOR’S REPORTS/NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Highfield Village- Project still under review with the Sewer Commission. 
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road- Board waiting for revised plan showing sight distances in both directions for 
each driveway before endorsing Approval.   
50 Elmwood Road- Represented by Anthony Cleaves, Whitman & Bingham Associates.  Both  DPW Director J. Rodriquenz and 
Fire Chief P. Sullivan provided their comments to the Board re garding basin maintenance and road length respectively .  A. 
Cleaves noted that the project would have been before the Conservation Commission at its February 5 th meeting, but the 
meeting was cancelled due to inclement weather.  He noted one of the roadblocks in the Commission moving forward was that  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 02.10.14 
Page 2 
 
they were waiting for a response from Division of Fisheries & Wildlife to the applicant’s filing with the Natural Heritage &  
Endangered Species Program.  That response has been received.   Applicant will be meeting with the Commission o n February 
19th.  Discussion ensued on requested waivers from the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land: 
§ 3.4.3.6. from submission of tree plan  as subdivision has less than 10 lots .  Board wants trees planted  both along Elmwood 
Road and the internal road .  A. Cleaves noted due to the site being elevated from Elmwood Road it will be difficult to retain the 
current trees.  Little vegetation will be retained.  If street trees are planted along Elmwood Road they will have to be away from 
the intersection as to not impede sight distance.   M. Allison Motion to waive § 3.4.3.6. conditional upon trees included in the plan 
set in some fashion; does not have to be a separate “tree plan”, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
§ 3.4.3.8. from submission of tab ular summary as subdivision has less than 10 lots.  Motion, D. McQuaid, to grant waiver, 
Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
§ 3.4.3.9. from submission of environmental impact statement as subdivision has less than 10 lots.  Board wants to hear from 
Conservation Commission before voting on this waiver request.   
§ 4.2.5.1. for 650 foot length for dead end street.  750 feet requested due to site topography.  Board had two issues before vo ting 
on this request.  One was the cul -de-sac accommodating the turning radius  of the largest fire vehicle.  Chief Sullivan noted it 
appears to meet that.  The Water District will also review the plan for hydrant placement.   J. Bilotta -Simeone inquired as to 
easement to abutting conservation land.  Will be discussed further with the  Conservation Commission.  Board questioned  
parking for individuals to access easement.  Two spots allocated in the cul-de-sac?   
§ 4.9.1. for installation of sidewalks due to the subdivision having less than 10 lots.  A. Cleaves noted Section 4.9.1. speci fies 
“sidewalks shall be provided on one side of each street for the full length of major street.”  The internal road is a minor s treet, not 
a major street.  Applicant did not need to request waiver ; it was done as a courtesy.  Motion, N. Lockwood  to approve waiver, 
Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
Electrical distribution will be underground.  M. Allison inquired if stormwater basins could be reduced from two to one .  No- A. 
Cleaves noted they go to two different locations.   M. Allison also inquired if applica nt looked into LID (Low Impact Development) 
approach to managing stormwater runoff.   A. Cleaves noted it is difficult to fit into subdivision roads such as this one.  N. 
Lockwood initiated discussion as to road maintenance being a financial issue for the T own.  Possibly invite both the DPW 
Director and the Town Manager to a  future meeting for discussion?  He o pined th e possibility of updating the Rules and 
Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land to include requirements for long-term maintenance.  Talk to Town Counsel to find 
out what Board’s legal options are, e.g., condo docs, etc..   
Whites Woods- No report.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report. 
White Tail Crossing- Still in review. 
651 Chase Road Solar - Noted Building/Zoning Official’s letter that engineered design of solar field has a few solar panels that 
will project within the setback requirement, but the projections are of a small portion of only a few panels.  He determined that the 
minor encroachment is insignificant. 
265 Pleasant Street Solar- No report   
Annual Town Meeting- Creation of Marijuana Bylaw- Main issues to consider: 
 Permitting Requirements 
 Location 
 Method of Zoning 
Permitting Requirements- Special Permit?  Right -of-use?   By right with site plan review? Have police and fire g et final review of 
safety.  Do two different sets of reg ulations have to be considered; one for retail and one for growing on separate sites?   N. 
Lockwood felt that given Town sentiment it should be by right.  This makes it more enticing to invite business es into the 
community.  Board needs to seek Town Counsel’s input on five year siting requirement with DPH vs a two year special permit 
within Town.   
Method of zoning - Medical District? Add new use to existing district ? Add overlay?  Cultivation – use would  be added in with 
reference to restrictions.     
N. Lockwood opined it might be helpful to have a copy of the documents that transpire between an applicant and the state.  
In creation of draft bylaw, r eference 105 CMR 725.000: Department of Public Health Im plementation of an Act for the 
Humanitarian Medical Use of Marijuana and then put in Town specifics.  Board needs to be cognizant of future changes to 105 
CMR 725.000 to ensure bylaw stays current with same.   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 02.10.14 
Page 3 
 
Locations-   Retail aspect in Commercial  (limit to Mass Ave and Rt 13) and Office Park and Industrial District for cultivation.   
Possible overlay in Commercial District in the vicinity of the Public Safety Facility Building.   Possibly old Gitto Global location on 
Leominster Shirley Road.  (Space currently for lease.)  Limited Business/Residential District excluding Leominster Shirley Road.  
Board questions if retail can also go in a farm location where cultivation is occurring.  General consensus  was overlay in 
Massachusetts Avenue/Rt 13 area.  Cultivation could be in any District.  Board would put restrictions in place. 
Board discussed conference call with Town Counsel.  Planning Office will comp ile list of questions for Boar d review/additional 
questions.  Once list of quest ions completed, will forward to Town Counsel.  Board would like draft bylaw for the February 24 th 
meeting.  Need to separate cultivation and retail.  Need special permitting language.  Need to reference overlay? 
  
ACTION FILE: 
Citizen Survey- No report. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
February 24, 2014, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
March 10, 2014, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
March 24, 2014, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: None 
 
BOARD COMMENTS:  None 
 
MEMBER ISSUES: 
M. Allison opined the Board should meet more frequently.  Board reaction was mixed.  More discussion in March.     
 
Adjourned 8:50 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Stone Farm Estates Site Change 
Minutes 1-27-14. 
Minutes 1-27-14 Leominster Shirley Road Information Meeting 
Minutes 1-6-14 Warrant Article Hearing 
Minutes 12-8-13 
50 Elmwood Road Subdivision List of Requested Waivers 
Building/Zoning Official letter regarding 651 Chase Road Solar 
Marijuana Information Packets 
 
 
Minutes/2014/02.10.14 