===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
August 11, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison 
Also Present:  Chantell Fleck, MRPC 
 
INFORMATION MEETING, 1259 Massachusetts Avenue- See separate minutes. 
 
APPOINTMENTS:   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom - Jack Sullivan, Emerald Place Development, request ed both a bond reduction and a bond 
release.  He noted review by Jesse Johnson, David Ross Associates, which recommended all but approximately $70,000 be 
released.  The letter from DPW Director noted release all but $65,000, but intent of letter was to releas e $65,000 and hold the 
rest.  Money being released to pave Lakefront.  Weather permitting, paving may be done by Friday.  After that , Great Pond Road 
will be redone and the applicant will be looking for more funds to be released for that paving.  J. Sullivan questioned the bond 
being put on a private development.  Emerald Place Development Co., LLC opines they own Lakefront; once paving is complete, 
proper legal procedure will be follow ed to deed to Town.  K. Chenis questioned original intent of the Bond.  Approximately 38 
more units are left to be built.  M. Allison felt that would generate a large amount of traffic.  M. Allison also questioned lease-to-
own.  J. Sullivan noted all units are full.  Motion, N. Lockwood, to release $65,000 of the $202,702 Bond  as recommended by 
DPW Director, Second, D. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote - M. Allison, nay; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, Aye; N. Lockwood, aye; J. 
Bilotta-Simeone, aye; vote passed 4-1.  Remaining Bond balance will be discussed at the August 25th Board meeting. 
 
Whites Woods, Ph. III- Developer represented by project engineer Bill Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering.  Final construction is 
underway.  During survey work it was discovered that Building No 6 was installed with the same jogged footprint as the other 
three duplexes.  On the design plan, the jog was reversed to provide conformance with the setbacks in the Approval.  The 
building was constructed 39.2 feet from the property line, 64.2 feet from the centerline of the right -of-way, which is less than the 
approved 65 feet.  The developer is asking for approval of a minor modification for B uilding 6 to be 63 feet from the centerline of 
the right-of-way.  Also, the building is constructed 39.2 feet from the property line; less than the 40 feet required by the bylaw.  
The Board’s Approval allowed the property line setback to be reduced to 30 feet.  The developer is asking for Boar d approval of 
a minor modification for B uilding 6 to be set  back a minimum of 38 feet from the property line.  Correspondence from the 
Building/Zoning Official noted that “…It is my opinion that a new waiver could be granted to allow the building location.  The 
Planning Board has the ability to grant this new waiver which will bring the building into compliance.  If the waiver is deni ed, then 
the applicant can seek the needed relief from the Zoning Board of Appeals.” .  C. Fleck opined that as this is a special permit, she 
believes it would not be a minor modification  and that a public hearing is required.  W. Hannigan disagreed.  C. Fleck 
recommended the Board seek Town Counsel guidance.  W. Hannigan opined once the Planned Residential Area ( PRA) was 
approved, making a minor modification within the PRA is at the Board’s discretion.  D. McQuaid was of the opinion this was a 
minor change.  C. Fleck  is concerned with the Board following proper procedure.  K. Chenis inquired if Board approval could be 
contingent upon Town Counsel’s recommendation.  Motion, N. Lockwood, to support the two requested waivers contingent upon 
legal counsel verifying Board’ s authority to do so, Second, K. Chenis; D. McQuaid requested Motion be amended to include that 
the Board believes this is a minor change, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 08.11.14 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed. 
Motion, N. Lockwood to approve 7-22-14, Second, D. McQuaid.  M. Allison questioned wording used in the minutes – “stated” vs. 
“noted” vs. “opined”.  K. Chenis noted that approval of the minutes is based on an accurate reflection of the meeting.   
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 7-28-14, Second, D. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote- M. Allison, aye; K. Chenis, abstain; D. McQuaid, 
aye; N. Lockwood, aye; J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   Budget discussion at last meeting.  MRPC relocating across street from current location.   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood -   Upcoming meeting with abutters and School Committee on September 4, 2014, 
6:00 PM.  Meeting will concentrate on project landscaping.  A second public meeting will be held November 6 th.  A  local firm, 
Powell Stone and Gravel, is doing quite a bit of the site work.     
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    No meeting.   
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Election of new officers.  Wachusett Smart Growth plan distributed ; includes an analysis of stormwater  on 
federally funded roads.  A portion of that study will include Lunenburg.   Bylaws were not voted in.  Next meeting in September.   
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Tri Town Landing- In house tech meeting held July 30, 2014.  Notes on file in th e Planning Office.  Developer hopes to file for a 
building permit for the fourth building within the next 60 days. 
Open Space and Recreation Committee-  J. Bilotta-Simeone will be the Planning Board’s liaison. 
Green Community Task Force-  Planning representation is required.  Put on hold until new Director on board. 
145 Page Street - Revised Right of First Refusal received.  Board comment remains the same – support Conservation 
Commission and Open Space recommendations.   K. Chenis noted he attended the Conse rvation meeting and the Commission 
noted they did not have an interest in Town acquisition of the land at the purchase price.  Motion, N. Lockwood to reaffirm 
Board’s position with the updated parcel information, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.   
MS/HS Project-    No report 
Highfield Village-   No report 
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-   No report 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- Continuing stump removal, strip loam and stockpile. 
Whites Woods, Mass Ave-   See above 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  See above 
651 Chase Road Solar-   Site on line.  Applicant looking to close building permit.   
65 Pleasant Street Solar-  Site on line.  Applicant looking to close building permit.   
White Tail Crossing-   No report 
 
ACTION FILE:  
1259 Massachusetts Avenue- See above 
250 Whalom Road, Lunenburg Village- No report 
40 Leominster Shirley Road- No report 
Master Plan , Economic Development Element -   Board to set joint meeting with a representative from each 
Board/Commission.  C. Fleck recommended attendance by J. Hume from MRPC.  Tentative meeting early September.   
Village District Draft Bylaw -  Charrette questions reviewed.  Minor changes will be made.  Assignment of breakout groups as 
follows: 
#1 –N. Lockwood 
#2 – K. Chenis 
#3 – D. McQuaid 
#4 – J. Bilotta-Simeone 
#5 – M. Allison 
Charrette results will be in a White Paper report .  Could be placed on the Town’s web and s ummarization published in the 
Ledger. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:    Noted preparation of Fall 2014 workshop series by the Citizen Planne r Training 
Collaborative (CPTC).  Board members interested in attending workshops on; 1) Master Planning, 2) Planning with Community 
Support, and 3) Site Plan Review. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 08.11.14 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
August 14, 6:00 & 7:00 PM – Charrette - Ritter Building and Town Hall 
August 18, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building – review State Village District Bylaw and Village District Draft Bylaw  
August 25, 6:30 PM, Town Hall – work on Village District Draft Bylaw/public input (C. Fleck not available) 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  P. Bertram noted that the issue was never legally resolved as to whether Emerald Place Development 
Co., LLC or the Town of Lunenburg owned the roadway.      
 
Motion, N. Lockwood, to enter into Executive Session not to return to public session, Second,  D. McQuaid, Roll Call Vote - M. 
Allison, aye; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, aye; N. Lockwood, aye; J. Bilotta-Simeone, aye.  Adjourned regular session 8:40 PM. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Development Plan Review Application, 1259 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom - Correspondences from David Ross Associates (7/21/14), DPW Director (7/31/14), and 
Building/Zoning Official (7/27/14) 
Whited Woods- Correspondences from Hannigan Engineering (8/4/14), and Building/Zoning Official (8/5/14)  
Minutes 7-22-14 
Minutes 7-28-14   
Tri Town Landing In House Tech Notes 7/30/14 
145 Page Street, Right of First Refusal 
50 Elmwood Road Progress Form 
Solar Sites Progress Form 
Charrette Questions – Draft 3 
 
Minutes/2014/07.28.14 