===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
April 14, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Emerick R. Bakaysa, Matthew Allison 
Also Present;  Chantell Fleck, MRPC 
Absent:  Marion M. Benson 
PUBLIC HEARING (cont’d), Warrant Article for May 2014 Town Meeting, RMD (Registered Marijuana Dispensa ry) Bylaw-  
See separate minutes. 
Motion to Accept RMD Bylaw - Motion, E. Bakaysa, to accept RMD Bylaw and forward to Town Counsel for review, Second, D. 
McQuaid, all aye. 
Highfield Village, Extension Request - J. Godfrey, project developer, noted sewer plan  was accepted by the Sewer  
Commission.  Site plans have been received in the Planning Office and supplied to David E. Ross  (DR) Associates for review.  
DR will review the plans to ensure changes recommended by the previous reviewing firm (Marsden Engineeri ng) have been 
incorporated into the new plans.  An in -house tech meeting will be held April 23 rd to bring Town Departments up to date.  The 
Hearing Continuation is scheduled for May 12 th.  The EIR  (Environmental Impact Report)  is outstanding and in final 
determination by MEPA (Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act ).  The Town submitted a request for a sewer extension permit 
to DEP (Department of Environmental Protection).  That is currently in a 30-day review.  A final design is before the Conservation 
Commission to get an Order of Conditions for project construction.  Developer requesting  from the Board a 90-day extension to 
July 14, 2014.  Motion, D. McQuaid, to extend to July 28, 2014, Second, M. Allison, all aye.   
ANR- David/Sandra Diperri, 115 Fairvie w Road - Plan accepted for review.  Parcel A, consisting of 353 sq. ft., is to be 
conveyed to the Town for street purposes.  Applicant has discussed this with Building/Zoning Official, Town Manager, and DPW 
Director.  Applicant noted he is expecting a lette r from the DPW Director stating same.  Applicant going before the Zoning Board 
of Appeals as existing barn does not meet required setbacks.  Submittal does not contain completed Board of Health form with 
Nashoba Associated Board of Health signature as Mr. Garreffi has a question for the State.  Applicant currently has a septic 
system.  Sewer runs up the street and applicant suggests an enforceable agreement with the Planning Board that applicant ties  
into Town sewer on/before occupancy of the house that wil l be constructed.  Board noted as part of review process the plan will 
be reviewed by the Sewer Commission. 
ANR, Sean Connery, 317 Sunny Hill Road- Plan accepted for review.  Lot 5 being changed into Lots 5A and 5B.   
Pleasant Street Solar - Eric Aubrey wit h Gehrlicher Solar on behalf on the developer.  There is an issue of utility poles being 
installed on-site.  There will be four on site.  (There will also be four poles at the Chase Road site.)  Pole location was not in the 
Board approved Plan.  E. Aubrey noted these are Unitil poles.  J. Bilotta-Simeone noted Board Approval states all utility wiring is 
to be underground.  E. Aubrey noted since the Plans were approved 2 -3 years ago, utility companies now require pole mounting 
for monitoring of the solar fie ld.  Without the poles, there is no project.  The equipment that goes on the poles protects the sub -
station.  If there is a power surge , it will shut the field off from the grid.  J Bilotta -Simeone noted she needs to research.  She 
inquired of C. Fleck if a Cease and Desist could be issued.  C. Fleck responded that the Board was within its rights to do the 
research as the Approval specified all utilities would be underground.  M. Allison opined that the pole could be in a differe nt 
location.  J Bilotta-Simeone notes letter this date from Building/Zoning Official   stating “…several utility poles…installed by the 
utility company that were not shown on the site plan… any poles…not approved by the Planning Board would require their 
approval. …some or all of the poles may also require the Selectman’s approval if their location requires such additional 
approval…”  DR did a site inspection on April 2nd and noted “no pole is installed at the driveway and Pleasant Street intersection  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 04.14.14 
Page 2 
 
as proposed and approved.”  N. Lockwood opined that it would be beneficial for the Board  and the reviewing engineer  to have 
information from the developer as to what exactly is being required by the utility company.  E. Aubrey noted that the solar field 
only takes up 4.5 acres of the 47 acre site and that the remaining acreage is available to the residents.  E. Bakaysa inquired if 
this requirement is unique to Massachusetts.  E. Aubrey will get information from Unitil stating the ground -mounted requirement.  
M. Allison and E. Bakaysa inquired if poles could be along Pleasant Street or the tree line.  M. Allison would like to know the 
minimum spacing of the poles.  E. Aubrey stated they could be moved, but the utility company requires twelve and one half fee t 
from the property line on either side.  Board requested name of contact person at Unitil  to provide to DR for research.  J Bilotta-
Simeone inquired process for Cease and Desist so no more wiring work is done.  E. Aubrey noted that the developer has done 
all it can do.  Nothing else will happen with the poles.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed. 
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 3-24-14, Second, M. Allison. 
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 3-24-14 Public Hearing, Second, D. McQuaid . 
Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 4-7-14 Workshop, Second, D. McQuaid. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC, M. Allison-   No meeting held.  
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   State Land Use Bill legislation ongoing to revise  Ch. 40A to change the land use and subdivision 
control law.   
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- Building cost being estimated based on latest stage of design.  Architectural firm 
moving forward with next level of design.   J. Bilotta-Simeone noted that Whitman & Bingham Associates, the Planning Board’s 
peer reviewing firm, has stated they will do a pro bono review.  Town Manager has been informed.  
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    Committee back up to nine members.  Subcommittee meeting will be held on issue 
of getting goals accomplished re planning and zoning  of Town Ce nter with a Village District or Overlay District .  C. Fleck 
suggested the Board start working on public outreach/site walks.  
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-  No meeting held.  It was noted that the Right to Farm bylaw is on the Warrant. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
MS/HS Project- No report 
Highfield Village- See “extension request” above.   
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-   Noted well and septic system being done. 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road - Whitman & Bingham Associates, on behalf on the applicant, requesting that the 
decision period for the Board to act on the proposed subdivision be extended for 90 days.  J. Rheault, Whitman & Bingham 
Associates noted the buyer and seller are still working on the transaction.   Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  
Extension approved to July 14, 2014. 
Whites Woods- No report.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report. 
651 Chase Road Solar- Noted update of site work.   
265 Pleasant Street Solar- Noted update of site work.  J Bilotta -Simeone requested letter be sent to the developer confirming 
no more electrical work will be done. 
250 Whalom Road, Lunenburg Village - Noted Zoning Board of Appeals continued hearing.  Next hearing dates are May 28 th 
and June 25th.  J Bilotta-Simeone updated the Board on the hearing.   
White Tail Crossing - Roadway inspected by DR.  Some work still needed to be done in the field.  DPW Director noted, per 
conversation with the Town Manager, there will be a Fall Town Meeting if the developer d oes not get approval at May Town 
Meeting.   
Annual Town Meeting- May 3, 2014- Noted 
 
ACTION FILE: Master Plan, Housing Element - Discussion on use of FY2013 encumbered funds for updating an Element of 
the Master Plan.  J. Hume, MRPC, felt it would be benefi cial for the Board to proceed with the Housing Element as housing is 
considered an eligible project under the DLTA.  A Housing Element would normally cost $8,000 - $10,000, but in conjunction with 
the DLTA, it would be reduced to approximately $4 ,000 which would make use of the encumbered funds.  The only Element that 
has been updated since 2002 is Economic Development.  The Open Space Plan could be converted into an Element for around 
$2,000, but does not fall under DLTA.  A Housing Element “identifies and analyzes existing and forecasted housing needs and  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 04.14.14 
Page 3 
 
objectives including programs for the preservation, improvement and development of housing.”  Motion, N. Lockwood to move 
ahead with MRPC on the Housing Element, Second, D. McQ uaid, all aye.  J. Hume to follow up with the Town Manager as to the 
DLTA portion.  He noted it takes approximately three meetings with the Board to do an Element.  He will have a draft 
presentation for the Board in approximately a month. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
April 28, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
May 3, 8:15 AM, High School Auditorium 
May 12, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
Tuesday, May 27, 6:30 PM, Ritter Memorial Building 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  
Celeste McCain-Stober, 275 Pleasant Street- opined that the poles were being put up on Pleasant Street because it is more cost 
effective for the developer and the utility  company.  This should not be the concern of the Planning Board.  She also felt if one of 
the poles was erected near the solar entrance, it would be well hidde n in the tall trees. 
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road - Concerned with the earth removal at the proposed Elmwood Road subdivision.  
She recommends that the Board confer with the Building/Zoning Official for safeguards prior to endorsement of the Appr oval.  
She also noted that utility pole location must come to the Board of Selectmen for approval.  Opined that the population growt h 
needs to be looked at in the updating of the Master Plan.  The Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan - a full build out for 
all proposed areas of sewer need were looked at and those population projections already exist in the CWMP.  That data could 
be incorporated into the Master Plan.   
Sharon Jordan, 77 Burrage Street - As a member of both the Conservation Commission and t he Open Space and Recreation 
Committee, thanked the Board for its recommendation to acquire the Lane property on Holman Street.  Also wanted to remind 
the public of the two site visits scheduled for April 19 th and 26th, 10:00 AM.   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  N. Lockw ood brought up the issue of speed/traffic at 305 Leominster Shirley Road.  Board requesting 
Police Chief J. Marino come to the April 28th Board meeting for discussion of same.   
 
Motion N. Lockwood to adjourn, Second, D. McQuaid, Adjourned 8:30 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 3-24-14 
Minutes 3-24-14 Public Hearing 
Minutes 4-7-14 Workshop 
115 Fairview Road ANR 
317 Sunny Hill Road ANR 
Highfield Village Request for Extension 
50 Elmwood Road Request for Extension 
Chase Road Solar Update 
Pleasant Street Solar Update 
Draft RMD Bylaw 
David Ross Associates review 4-2-14, Pleasant Street solar 
Building/Zoning Official letter 4-14-14, Pleasant Street solar 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/04.14.14 