===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
September 22, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Kenneth Chenis 
Also Present:  Chantell Fleck, MRPC 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  909 Massachusetts Avenue - See separate minutes .  Motion, M. Allison to approve two allowable use 
signs for the two uses on the premises and the open flag, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.  Discussion, Motion N. Lockwood  to 
amend to include furniture sign at proposed location and exit sign, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.  Motion to approve special 
permit and development plan review for Harley House Décor, M. Allison, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye.  Findings and Directives 
will be prepared. 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Whites Woods, 221 White Street - See separate minutes .  Motion, D. McQuaid to approve modification 
request, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  Findings and Directives will be prepared. 
PUBLIC HEARING:  322 Flat Hill Community Sola r- See separate minutes .  Due to lack of quorum Hearing will be continued 
to a date TBD. 
 
ANR, 18 and 22 Oak Ridge Road - Mike Martorella, David Ross Associates, representing applicants.  Requested the Board 
waive its normal 14 day department review period as a closing date is scheduled for September 30 th on the Graham property 
(#22).  Also requesting contour plan be waived as lots are already existing with access.  Issue is existing septic system built on 
one property, but services the abutting property.  Septic easement will be put in place.  Also a small portion of the building at #18 
is over the lot line  onto #22.  ANR will convey a 35 foot parcel.  Motion, D. McQuaid to grant waivers , release applicant from 14 
day review period, and endorse ANR Plan, Second, M. Allison, all aye.  Plan will be endorsed at conclusion of Board meeting. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  All minutes signed.  Motion, D. McQuaid to approve 9-8-14 and 9-15-14, Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- no report 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood -  Will be ground-breaking ceremony as part of homecoming; October 18, 1:15 PM.   
D. McQuaid noted that in reading minutes of the School Committee, he has the  understanding that the School Committee is of 
the opinion they can’t make a decision on the property line of Passios for purposes of resale until the Village District  Bylaw has 
been created.  D. McQuaid opines that this is a misconception on the part of t he School Committee and that there needs to be 
coordination between the Committee and Planning Board.  N. Lockwood noted that the Building Reuse Committee is waiting on 
the creation of the Village District  Bylaw before proceeding with marketing of the Pass ios and that the two committees should 
meet.  N. Lockwood will note same to the School Building Committee.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood- no report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   see above 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  no report 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 09.22.14 
Page 2 
 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -   Commission interested in discussion on Village District Bylaw.  Would like to attend 
October 6th meeting for discussion of permanent location for a Farmers’ Market. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
909 Massachusetts Avenue- see above 
322 Flat Hill Community Solar- see above 
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue- see above 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road - Update provided.  Crushing, screening, and h auling out sand and gravel  continue.  
M. Allison noted two street trees have been cut.  D. McQuaid  stated that it was noted at the hearing due to extreme amounts of 
gravel being removed, no trees could be saved.  Trees would be replanted.   
Tri Town Landing-   Flow tests results provided to Board.   
MS/HS Project- no report 
Highfield Village-   no report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-  no report  
651 Chase Road Solar-   no report 
265 Pleasant Street Solar-  no report 
White Tail Crossing-   no report 
 
ACTION FILE:  
90 West Townsend Road, Notice of Intent to Sell-  Board anticipates future request from Town Manager for input. 
Scenic Road - Letter sent to Historical Commission – no response yet.   Board anticipates requesting Flat Hill and Northfield 
Roads be designated scenic roads at town meeting.   C. Fleck will research to see if a hearing is required. 
Zoning Bylaw- Design Standards Discussion- Will resume discussion October 6th.   
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments- Zoning Board of Appeals hearing continued to September 24th.   
Master Planning- Economic Development Element- Board meeting to be held with interested boards/commissions 10/20/14. 
40 Leominster Shirley Road- no report 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
October 6, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building, HPP & Village District Bylaw 
October 20, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building, Master Plan Workshop 
October 27, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building 
 
ADJOURNED:   8:30 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 9/8/14, 9/15/14 
909 Mass Ave Submittal Packet 
221 White Street Submittal Packet 
50 Elmwood Road Progress Form 
Tri Town Landing Update 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/09.22.14 