===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Emerick R. Bakaysa, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
Public Hearing Minutes 
Special Town Meeting Article 
January 6, 2014 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA. 01462 
Time:  6:30 PM   
Members Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta -Simeone, Chair, Nathan J. Lockwood , Vice Chair, Damon McQuaid,  Emerick R. Bakaysa, 
Matthew Allison, Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
Chair opened the Public Hearing at 6:30 PM with the reading of the legal notice published in the  Sentinel & Enterprise on 
December 23 and December 30, 2013.   The Public Hearing  was to hear an a mendment to the Zoning Bylaw to add a new 
Section 9.0. entitled Temporary Moratorium on Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered ,Marijuana Dispensaries.  
Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, agencies and Town departments.   
 
MODEL MORATORIUM WARRANT ARTICLE 
 
Article:  2   
 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Town’s Zoning Bylaw by adding a new Section 9.0., entitled TEMPORARY MORATORIUM 
ON MEDICAL MARIJUANA TREATMENT CENTERS/REGISTERED MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES, that would provide as follows, and further 
to amend the Table of Contents to add Section 9.0., “Temporary Moratorium on Medical Marijuana Treatment 
Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries:” 
 
Section 9.0.1.  Purpose 
 
By vote at the State election on November 6, 2012, the voters of the Commonwealth approved a law regulating the cultivation, 
distribution, possession and use of marijuana for medical purposes.  The law provides that it is effective on January 1, 2 013. On 
May 8, 2013, the State Department of Public Health promulgated Regulations that became effective on May 24, 2013.   Currently 
under the Zoning Bylaw, a Medical Marijuana Treatment Center, identified in the State Regulations as a Registered Marijuana  
Dispensary, is not a permitted use in the Town of Lunenburg.  The State Regulations provide guidance to the Town in regulatin g 
medical marijuana, including Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries.  The regulation of 
medical marijuana raises novel and complex legal, planning, and public safety issues and the Town needs time to study and 
consider the regulation of such use  and address such novel and complex issues, as well as to address the potential impact of  the 
State regulat ions on local zoning and to undertake a planning process to consider amending the Zoning Bylaw regarding 
regulation of medical marijuana treatment centers and other uses related to the regulation of medical marijuana.  The Town 
intends to adopt a temporary  moratorium on the use of land and structures in the Town for Medical Marijuana Treatment 
Center/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries so as to allow the Town sufficient time to engage in a planning process to address t he 
effects of such structures and uses in  the Town and to enact bylaws in a manner consistent with sound land use planning goals 
and objectives.   
 
Section 9.0.2.  Definition 
 
“Medical Marijuana Treatment Center” shall mean a “not -for-profit entity, as defined by Massachusetts law only, 
registered by the Department of Public Health as a Registered Marijuana Dispensary, that acquires, cultivates, 
possesses, processes (including development of related products such as food, tinctures, aerosols, oils or ointments), 
transfers, transports, sells, distr ibutes, dispenses, or administers marijuana, products containing marijuana, related 
supplies, or educational materials to qualifying patients or their personal caregivers.” 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes STM Article 
01.06.14 
 
Section 9.0.3.  Temporary Moratorium 
 
For the reasons set forth above and notwithstanding any other provision of the Zoning Bylaw to the contrary, the Town hereby 
adopts a temporary moratorium on the use of land or structures for a Medical Marijuana Treatment Center/Registered Marijuana 
Dispensary. The moratorium shall be in effect through December 31, 2014 or until such time as the Town adopts Zoning Bylaw 
amendments that regulate Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries and related uses, whichever 
occurs earlier. During the mora torium period, the Town shall undertake a planning process to address the potential impacts of 
medical marijuana in the Town, consider the State R egulations and related uses, and shall consider adopting new Zoning Bylaws 
to address the impact and operation  of Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers/Registered Marijuana Dispensaries and related 
uses;  
or take any action relative thereto. 
 
D. McQuaid inquired if the Town would benefit economically; e.g., are Town taxes different for a not -for-profit entity. M. Benson 
to inquire of Town Counsel.   
 
J. Bilotta-Simeone opened the Hearing to public comment. 
 
Bob Ebersole, 94 Main Street - Encouraged the Board to have a bylaw for adoption at the May Town Meeting.  Noted that if a 
dispensary is not within a certain radiu s of the community, community residents with the need for medical marijuana can apply 
for a hardship cultivation permit (which would be separate from zoning). 
 
N. Lockwood noted that hardship cultivation could also be financial  (if a patient cannot afford the price a dispensary is charging) .  
He opined that most insurance plan s would probably not cover medical marijuana and that banks probably do not want to be 
involved either.  He believes there are also restrictions on how an individual will pay for their  medical marijuana; probably cash 
only.  The Commonwealth of Massachusetts has mandated a price floor for medical marijuana to avoid patients reselling it on t he 
illegal market.    
 
E. Bakaysa inquired as to what happens if the Moratorium Warrant Article d oes not pass at STM as it is currently not a permitted 
use in Town.   What would be the consequences to the Town?   
 
E. Bakaysa, Motion to adjourn, Second, D. McQuaid, Motion passed.  Adjourned 6:50 PM.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2014/town mtg art 01.06.14 