===PAGE 1===
INITIALS   _______       _______       _______       _______       _______  
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marion M. Benson, Planning Director 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes 
June 9, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis 
Also Present:  Chantell Fleck, MRPC 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Vacancy- J. Bilotta-Simeone noted interested individuals should fill out a Talent Bank form.  
 
Motion N. Lockwood to enter into Public Hearing for Highfield Vil lage and then return to regular session, Second, D. McQuaid, all 
aye. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING (cont’d), Highfield Village, Northfield Road-  See separate minutes. 
 
MS/HS Project-  Represented by D. Warner, Warner Larson Landscape Architects ; C. Hay, Tappe Associates; A. Gallagher and 
S. Smith, Nitsch Engineering.  Recap of plan introduction to the Board on May 12 th and in house tech meeting on May 21 st.  
Submittal reviewed by Whitman and Bingham Associates (WBA).  Telephonic conference held this date with applicant  and WBA 
to go over review.  An item of concern from the tech meeting was the amount of queuing at the drop -off loop.  In r esponse the 
applicant has widened the drive back to where it is already greater than 32 feet in width (towards Mass achusetts Avenue end) in 
order to have a dedicated queuing lane while still having two -way traffic.   A fire lane will circumnavigate the building.  Sight 
distances for two of the three entrances are okay.  Third entrance where the student parking is located sight distance not 
suitable.  There is no posted speed limit; Police Chief notes speed limit of 30  due to density.  Recommendation from applicant’s 
engineer is to post speed limit in advance of the intersection  so it can be enforceable .  Also, vegetation clearing will ta ke place 
and possible pavement markin gs.  When those changes are implemented off -site, the s topping distance will be acceptable.  D. 
Warner has the understanding that the Town has its own method for off -site traffic improvements so they are not incorporate d 
into the MS/HS design.   
Anthony Cleaves, WBA presented review (on file in Planning Office).  He noted that for the benefit of the Board this was 
reviewed as WBA would review any project.  J. Bilotta -Simeone noted that under MGL ch 40A Sect ion 3 “…no zoning ordinance 
or by-law shall regulate or restrict the use of land or structures…for educational purposes…however, that such land or structures 
may be subject to reasonable regulations…”   WBA review comments came under the following headings - protective bylaws; 
subdivision rules and regulations ; Planning Board regulations on design,  construction and maintenance of off -street parking and 
loading area; stormwater management; general comments.  Of particular concern to WBA were #17, 19, 25 ( it was noted that the 
DPW Director was unable to attend the complete in -house tech meeting and he needs to be aware of WBA review of those three 
items).   
S. Smith noted th at stormwater -wise the site is challenging.  It all flows southeast to a 30 inch culvert under Mass achusetts 
Avenue.  This drives the applicant’s intent to maintain 24 inch line so the water is not released at a rate greater than the peak.   
Therefore peak flow is being mitigated.  They do not want to put in a 36 inch line that goes down into a 30 inch lin e.  Will also be 
putting in two underground infiltration systems and two large storm pipes acting as detention systems.   
N. Lockwood inquired of consequences if system could not handle discharge.  A. Cleaves noted if water restricted too much, it  
can come out of manholes at certain storm events.  The Town needs to be aware of this.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 06.09.14 
Page 2 
 
D. McQuaid inquired of property line between site and Passios.  Can be subdivided, but there is no frontage for Passios as it is 
on a driveway.  Town will have to determine how to create frontage.  (Run Memorial Drive in front of Passios?)  D. McQuaid 
opined having the Massachusetts Avenue to Oak Avenue drive brought up to standards for a road.  This would provide frontage 
for Passios.  D. Warner had no quantitative response at this time. 
Mike Mackin, Chair, School Building Committee -  Any change from design of drive into a road would be borne by the Town; 
MSBA would not participate. 
There was discussion surrounding parking.  Parking will be increasing  by approximately 27 spaces for a total of 508 spaces (total 
capacity need for largest event).   
Discussion on offsets between Passios and proposed HS driveway – 45 – 50 feet between existing building and proposed curb 
line of driveway.  How close can the lot line be to the driveway and still be a conforming lot?  Zoning bylaw requires 40 foot 
offset.   
Applicant requesting conditional acceptance of the plan as accepted, with revisions that will be made satisfactor ily to WBA.  
Applicant anticipates having r evisions to WBA in two weeks.  WBA will then have to review.  Board will defer conditional 
acceptance.  Consensus was to attempt to have a review done by the June 23 rd meeting, but if necessary, defer to the July 14th 
meeting.   
 
ELMWOOD ROAD SUBDIVISION: Covenant Endorsement - Covenant wil l bind the developer to building the roadway and 
utilities according to the approved plan.  No lots can be conveyed to third parties and no building permits can be issued unl ess 
the roadway is built to the plan spec ifications.  Developer may request Covenant be released as site work progresses and a 
different form of surety be put in force which will allow building permits to be issued.  Motion, N. Lockwood to accept the Form H 
Covenant, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
ANR:  Montuori Farms LLC, 174 Northfield Road - Plan presented by F. Preston, WBA.  Land consists of 20 acres.  Division 
will create two 10-acre lots.  Submittal packet included Board of Health (BOH) acceptance of septic design.  Sewer Commission 
letter noted they will not extend sewer to that property.  F. Preston noted no connection to Town sewer required; a septic system 
design has been approved by the BOH.  D. McDonald, Vice Chair Sewer Commission noted property is outside the Sewer 
District and the Commission has no plans to extend sewer to Northfield Road.  Plan accepted for review.  
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION: 
Motion, D. McQuaid, to nominate J. Bilotta -Simeone to represent the Planning Board on the Capital Planning Committee, 
Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
Motion, N . Lockwood, to nominate K. Chenis to represent the Planning Board on the Montachusetts Joint Transportation 
Committee, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Motion, N. Lockwood, to approve 5/27/14, Second, K. Chenis. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MJTC -  No report. 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   No update since last meeting.  
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood- Project site work being bid.  MSBA issues noted at last Board meeting have been 
resolved.   
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    Committee looking at space needs of Town staff and how to look at maximizing 
use of Town Hall space.  Old Primary School has been added to Re-Use Committee marketing review.   
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
145 Page Street, Right of First Refusal - The Town h as 120 days to exercise its Right of first Refusal.  Town Manager 
requesting comments as to whether or not the Board believe s the Town should attempt to acquire the property.  Board will make 
a decision at its June 23 rd meeting as to response.  N. Lockwood  requested C. Fleck to determine if any To wn-owned land is 
adjacent to the property. 
Inclusionary Zoning -  N. Lockwood attended seminar.  Inclusionary zoning works with the bylaws to encourage affordable 
housing.   
MS/HS Project- See above. 
Highfield Village- See above.   
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road -   Developer has not had a chance to move the fence.  Just finished the 
septic system.  Hopes to be able to move the fence in about two weeks.     
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- See above. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 06.09.14 
Page 3 
 
Whites Woods- No report.   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom- No report. 
651 Chase Road Solar- Planting ongoing.  Site cleanup finishing up.  Unitil on Chase Road doing pole work.    
265 Pleasant Street Solar- Plantings finishing up.    
White Tail Crossing-  Form of surety was a Covenant stating that no building would take place until construction of roadway and 
utilities completed.  History of the project shows that both building and occupancy permits have been issued.  The road  has not 
yet been accepted as a Town road.  C. Fleck recommended the current owner come before the Board to change their form of 
surety to either a Tri Party agreement or a bond ; then the Covenant can be released.  C. Fleck also recommended getting an 
estimate from the reviewing engineer as to the cost of completing the road in order for the developer to set the surety amount.  
 
ACTION FILE:  
250 Whalom Road, Lunenburg Village- No update.  
MRPC Traffic Counts- Board’s requested count for Goodrich and Lancaster signed by the Board of Selectmen. 
40 Leominster Shirley Road - D. McQuaid noted the Chair of the Historical Commission w ill be sending a letter to EBI 
Consulting noting that the only potential impact from the proposed cell tower is that Lancaster Road is  a designated scenic road  
and the Commission would hope that the tower is not visible from Lancaster Avenue.   
Village District Draft Bylaw - Joint workshop to be held June 18 th with the Building Re -Use Committee.  D. McQuaid noted the 
Envisioning Session by the Historical Commission will be June 30th, 6:30 PM, Town Hall.   
Master Plan-   Board workshop to be held June 16th (see meeting schedule below). 
Notices and Communications-  Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
June 16, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building, Master Plan Workshop 
June 18, 6:30 PM, Ritter Building, workshop with Re-Use Committee 
June 23, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  J. Bilotta-Simeone and N. Lockwood attended an Economic Development meeting at Mount Wachusett 
Community College.  J. Bilotta-Simeone noted  that the Board should review the Sign Bylaw to see if the restrictions imposed 
hinder Lunenburg in relationship to the meal tax 
 
Motion, D. McQuaid to adjourn, Second, N. Lockwood, Adjourned 9:20 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 5/27/14 
Form H Covenant, Elmwood Road Subdivision 
ANR, 174 Northfield Road 
145 Page Street, Right of First Refusal 
Inclusionary Zoning Handout 
Force Corp. update 
Chase Road & Pleasant Street Solar updates 
Lancaster Notice of Public Hearing 
Town Manager letter to Mr. Bakaysa  
Zoning Board of Appeals Notice of Public Hearing 
 
 
 
Minutes/2014/06.09.14 