===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
November 24, 2014 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    
All minutes signed 
9/9/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, N. Lockwood 
11/10/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
11-10-14 Highfield Village Hearing, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, N. Lockwood  
11-10-14 322 Flat Hill Solar Hearing, Motion, D. McQuaid,  Second, N. Lockwood  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   Meeting 12/4/14.   
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  Met 11/18/14.  Reviewed requests of the School Department and the P olice 
Department. 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood -   Main topic at last meeting was contracting with aerial photographer to make site 
progress available. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  No report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   No report 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Updating regional transportation plan.  Push to have more street funding.  Reviewed trail map ; going to print 
in next few weeks.  Street funding program present where communities can apply for funds that are in addition to Ch . 90 funds.  
Sidewalk projects would qualify; e.g., under the Village District Bylaw.  Have to have a bylaw that works towards complete street 
criteria.  Next meeting 1/21/15. 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -  Met 11/20/14.  Sherri Bean (MRPC) attended in her personal interest as a farmer to  
promote “eat fresh, eat local”  program.  RMV possibly coming out with agricultural license plate.  Proceeds go to agricultural 
ventures and are  tax deductible.  Reviewed draft letter to Planning Board regarding a year-round public market.  Discussed 
jurisdiction of the farmers’ market being moved from the Board of Health to the AgCom.  Received a grant to purchase “Right To 
Farm Community” signs.   
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Aven ue-  Developer requested r oad inspection of Jacklyn Drive in order to obtain release of 
Letter of Credit; inspected by Hamwey Engineering Inc. (HEI) 11/21/14.  As built needs to be submitted.   
Highfield Village- no report 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwoo d Road- Progress reports note water main installed; inspected by Water District.  M. Allison 
noted much sediment on the road.   
White Tail Crossing -   Developer Dan Proctor indicated to the office he was prepared for a road inspection.  Road inspected 
11/21/14 by David E. Ross Associates Inc.  Inspection noted a few minor things still need to be done .  A. Burney noted the road 
is not yet ready to be accepted.  Question arose as to whether or not t he Approval waived the requirement for street bounds.  M. 
Allison inquired if road acceptance could be conditioned upon proper monumentation; would be up to town meeting.  Outstanding 
items may be minor enough that the Board could release the “cannot be occupied” restriction, thereby allowing the new builder to 
get his occupancy permits.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.24.14 
Page 2 
 
909 Massachusetts Avenue- Currently in appeal period 
Tri Town Landing-  no report    
MS/HS Project- no report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road -  No report.  M. Allison noted debris piled on top of dumpster.  Is sightliness 
one of the Conditions?   
651 Chase Road Solar-   no report 
265 Pleasant Street Solar-  no report 
 
ACTION FILE:  
322 Flat Hill Community Solar-  Special Permit and Development Plan Review denial endorsed by the Board.   Will be filed with 
the Town Clerk and entered into a 20-day appeal period. 
Village District Bylaw-   Draft bylaw was reviewed by the Board.  It was questioned why drive-thru windows would be prohibited 
for restaurants.  Response was to hav e restaurants be a place for individuals to sit and mingle vs. just driving through Town.  
Take out and/or delivery could be a secondary use.  The Planning Board will act as the administering authority for any 
development plan review un der Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  as well as special permit per 
Section 9 of the Village District Bylaw.  The Zoning Board of Appeals  (ZBA) shall serve as the special permit granting authority 
for any use that requires a spe cial permit in the district .  Of the uses under B., the Board is interested in getting feedback from 
the citizens as to single and two -family homes being allowed only through the granting of a special permit by the ZBA.  There 
was discussion on C.2) as whe ther to prohibit retail operations with more than 5.000 square feet of gross floor area on any 
individual floor or change it to 5,000 square feet total.   Decision was to leave at 5,000 per floor.  Parking requirements will be 
added to 7. as there will be n o underlying zoning district to reference for parking standards..  B. Buildings 2)- Discussion of high 
quality (how is that determined?) vinyl siding being allowed under Design Standards and focus being more on aesthetics than 
materials.  Height bonus in the Village Center Overlay District (VCOD)  was discussed; maximum building height of forty (40) feet 
and a maximum of no more than three and a half (3 ½) stories above street level grade.  J Bilotta-Simeone noted she would like 
the public hearing process to  commence as soon as the draft bylaw is finalized by the Board.  To expedite the hearing process, 
A. Burney suggested public work sessions in advance of the hearing.  Board discussed the possibility of adding a sidewalk plan 
to the bylaw; it should be discussed with the DPW Director.   
Scenic Road- no report 
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments-  no report 
Master Planning- Economic Development Element- A. Burney working on presentation for various Boards.   
40 Leominster Shirley Road- no report 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
December 8, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
December 22, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
January 12, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
January 26, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
The possibility was discussed of televising all meetings. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  J. Bilotta-Simeone noted her attendance at  the Stormwater workshop, noted a previous meeting she and 
C. Fleck from MRPC had with the DPW Director on the same subject, and provided documents from Salem and Reading to the 
Board.  M. Allison noted Reservoir Road markings need to be reinforced.   N. Lockwood has been working on changes to the 
solar bylaw and distributed copies to the Board. 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  J. Bilotta -Simeone questioned whether or not the chain was supposed to be across the Mass achusetts 
Avenue exit from Asian Imperial.  A. Burney will note to the Building/Zoning Official. 
 
ADJOURNED: 10:10 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 11-10-14 Highfield Village Hearing, 11-10-14 322 Flat Hill Solar Hearing, 11-10-14, 9-9-14 
50 Elmwood Road Progress Form 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
Board Decision- 322 Flat Hill Community Solar, Inc. 
David E. Ross Associates Review Letter, White Tail Crossing 
Fred Hamwey Engineering Review Letter, White’s Woods 
Minutes/2014/11.24.14 