===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
November 23, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
UNITIL:  Submittal – Site Plan Review Application - Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham Associates, representing applicant 
Unitil, submitted an application for site plan review under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenbur g.  
Application is for a new headquarters and maintenance facility to be located at 357 Electric Avenue  (site of old Whalom Drive In 
Theater).  A Public Information Meeting will be scheduled for December 14, 2015. 
 
ANR PLANS: 
155 Reservoir Road - Presented by Brian Marche tti, McCarty Engineering, on behalf of the property owner Steven Powell, 
Trustee.  Property consists of 42± acres with approximately 20 of those acres being divided among nine lots.  There is currently 
no plan for developing the 22 acres at the rear of the site ; an access easement is located on the proposed Lot 9.  Plan was sent 
out for departmental review prior to the Board’s meeting with no issues being raised.  Board endorsed plan.  
404 West Townsend Road - Presented by Edmond Boucher o n behalf of the property owners Wayne and Marcia Conrad.  Plan 
was sent out for departmental review prior to the Board’s meeting with the Conservation Commission noting that due to the 
location of wetlands on Lot 2, the owner/applicant will hav e to file a Notic e of Intent with the Commission in order to obtain a 
driveway permit. Board member noted frontage on Lot 1 was not labeled.  Mylar will be reprinted with the frontage  and endorsed 
by the Board.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  175 Northfield Road-  see separate minutes 
 
INFORMATION MEETING:  1 Main Street-  see separate minutes 
 
Minutes Approval:   11/9/15 signed.  Motion, D. Prokowiew, Second, G. Bittner.  K. Chenis abstained as he had to recuse 
himself from a portion of the meeting. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Building Reuse Committee-  Meeting 11/24/15. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No meeting scheduled. 
Agricultural Commission-  Discussion of location of right-to-farm signs in Lunenburg and who has the responsibility of placing 
the signs.  More discussion needed. 
MJTC-  Discussion of  an initial  plan to obtain public comments  for the improvement plan .  Traffic counting equipment being 
updated.  Discussion on safety studies and towns’ liability when no action is taken to rectify a safety issue.  No determinat ion 
made due to absence of legal counsel. 
MRPC- Next meeting will cover both November and December. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee - Noted Estate Planning Outreach Grant availability and application form.  Grants available up 
to $350. 
School Building Committee-  Met 11/12/15.  Building 65% complete.  Construction ongoing.  
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)-  No meeting scheduled 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.23.15 
Page 2 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road-  Construction progressing 
Tri Town Landing- Interior work continuing 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
District Local Technical Assistance - Received application packet from MRPC.  Focus this year on “Community Compact”  to 
help communities  meet their goals and  improve themselves.  Applications are due in the beginning of Decembe r.  Board 
members to contact A. Burney with proposals. 
Bylaw Updates-  Board reviewed the third draft of Off-Street Parking Design Standards.  Items updated from the 11/09/15 Board 
meeting included loading bays and snow storage.  Bylaw will be a warrant article for May 2016 Annual Town Meeting. 
 
Next to be updated will be parking space requirements. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
December 14 
274 Prospect Street Hearing (cont’d) 
Unitil, 357 Electric Avenue Informational Meeting (District Operations Center relocation from Fitchburg) 
December 28 – NO MEETING 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: 
D. Prokowiew opined that the Historical Commission and Open Space Committee should be approached for input whenever 
scenic road hearings are held. 
K. Chenis opi ned that it would be good to have a bicycle lane included in the Summer Street project and inquired who was in 
charge of the project.  A. Burney will check status with the DPW Director. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   8:20 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 11/9/15 
Off-Street Parking Design Standards DRAFT 3 
ANR Plan, 155 Reservoir Road 
ANR Plan, 404 West Townsend Road 
MRPC’s District Local Technical Assistance Request for Service Delivery 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/11.23.15 