===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Town Meeting Warrant Article 
April 13, 2015 
 
Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:05 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone 
 
Vice Chair N. Lockwood opened the Hearing with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise 
on March 9 and March 16, 2015.   The Hearing was to amend the Zo ning Map, Map 59, Parcel 8, 790 -792 
Massachusetts Avenue, owner Edward H. Riley Jr., 39 Pinnacle Road, Ellington, CT 06029, and Map 59, Parcel 9, 
748 Massachusetts Avenue, owner Stone Farms Estates Condominium, 748 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, 
MA, 01462 from Commercial to Limited Business/Residential.  Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, agencies 
and Town departments. 
 
Article    To see if the Town will vote to approve a zoning change from “Commercial” to “Limited 
Business/Residential” land des cribed as parcels currently designated Parcel 8 on Assessor’s Map 59, and Parcel 9 
on Assessor’s Map 59. 
 
These two parcels are spot-zoned Commercial.  A. Burney noted that a single property is not usually rezoned as that 
is considered spot zoning and gene rally benefits only the property owner.  The surrounding area is zoned Limited 
Business/Residential.  This zoning change would fold these two parcels into the surrounding zoning.  K. Chenis 
noted there has been no commercial business there for a number of years.   
N. Lockwood opened the Hearing up to public comment. 
Robert Ebersole, Select Board member -  The Board of Selectmen voted 3 to 2 to recommend this Article at Town 
meeting.  He would like to see a less intense commercial use for those parcels; the g as station previously 
disapproved by the Zoning Board of Appeals was too extreme. 
Paula Bertram, Select Board member-  Voted against this Article opining that this is spot -zoning.  She felt this Article 
is a result of the previously proposed gas station.   
Al Luoma, 39 Pinnacle Road, Ellington, CT - Noted the land Stone Farm Estates is located on had previously 
belonged to his father-in-law, Edward Riley.  His father-in-law ran a business there for over 55 years.  A. Luoma has 
tried to sell the property over  the years for a commercial enterprise.  Over the past nine years, the family has spent 
over $118,000 to maintain the property.  He has submitted an ANR Plan at tonight’s meeting and was concerned how 
that Plan would be affected if the zoning is changed to Limited Business/Residential.  A. Burney noted that tonight  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 04.13.15 
Page 2 
 
was the official filing date for the ANR Plan.  The statutory notice for this Warrant Article was dated March 30, 2015  
(prior to the ANR submittal); therefore, if the Article passes at Town Meeting the zoning will change regardless of the 
ANR Plan.   A. Luoma noted that he had previously tried to market the property for a business attached to a 
residence, i.e., residence with bicycle shop attached, but the Building/Zoning Official said it was not allowed.   
David Riley, 27 Cross Road - Noted both the p ast flower shop business and the antiques consignment shop located 
across the street, stating that both these business were attached to a residence.  (He was not aware that both these 
businesses are located in the Limited Business/Residential District.   Combined business and residential are not 
allowed in Commercial zoning.) 
P. Bertram noted that these two parcels were originally located within the proposed VCD (Village Center District).  
Why was the perimeter of the VCD decreased ?  A. Burney and D. McQuaid responded that the original boundary of 
the VCD was beyond ½ mile, eliminating the feel of a village district.  The Board wanted to create a walkable district; 
therefore, it was scaled back to ¼ mile.   
A. Burney to seek clarification from the  Building/Zoning Official regarding uses in the Limited Business/Residential 
District.  Motion, M. Allison, to continue Hearing to April 27th, 6:35 PM, second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
Hearing recessed 7:50 PM. 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Zoning Warrant Article 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2015/TM Warrant Article 04.13.15 