===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
February 23, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone  
 
ANR- Vito & Virginia Piccirillo, 205 Sunset Lane:  Plan accepted for review. 
 
Public Hearing- Highfield Village (Cont’d):  See separate minutes. 
 
PUBLIC DISCUSSION:  Village Center District Bylaw & Architectural Preservation District Bylaw- 
 
Village Center District (VCD) Bylaw: 
 
Larry Marshall, 42 Main Street - Questioned why single family homes require special permit .  Also questioned why 
sandwich board signs have to be taken inside each night if they are on private property.  Opined that the requirement 
for sixty percent (60%) façade transparency does not lend itself to a village district.   
 
D. McQuaid felt that 60% was high and suggested to the Board the possibility of 40%.  L. Marshall felt it would be 
more appropriate to handle the transparency percentage during site plan review.   
 
Robert Ebersole, 94 Main Street- Concerned with “unintended consequences”.  A commercial district is being created 
in a much larger area and the bylaw is moving from residential to commercial for allowable uses .  Questioned if just 
the façade is renovated does it have to go to 60% .  N. Lockwood responded that it only applies to “campus 
developments”.   
 
Jamie Toale, 147 Peninsula Drive - Speaking as Chair of the Building Reuse Commi ttee, concerned that it will be 
difficult to attract reuse candidates f or existing town buildings  as retail uses greater than 5,000 sq. ft. will require a 
special permit .  Three of the existing buildings being evaluated under the Committee are large than 5 ,000 sq. ft.  
There may be retail uses larger than 5,000 sq. ft. which could be permissible.  Special consideration for Town -owned 
existing buildings? 
 
K. Chenis suggested that prohibited uses be applicable only to new construction.  Also need to address d ifference 
between reuse and new construction, especially when it comes to glazing.   
 
D. McQuaid went through his graphics.  He noted that most parcels within the Village Center District are less than 
one acre and they will hit their physical boundary long  before they hit the bylaw boundary.  Probably no more than  
half a dozen sites would fit the “more than 5000 sq. ft.”    
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 02.23.15 
Page 2 
 
R. Ebersole noted that the Zoning Board of Appeals could give a variance for some of the properties.  
 
N. Lockwood inquired if the bylaw needed to address noise and hours of operations .  A. Burney noted i f the Town 
has a General Noise Bylaw, that would pertain  and that hours of operation are usually governed by the Board of 
Selectmen.  
 
Agricultural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw: 
 
The Historical Commission will be invited to attend the Board meeting on March 2nd for discussion of the APD Bylaw.   
 
R. Ebersole opined that it doesn’t provide enough protection.  A “Contributing Property” is defined as “any build ing 
within an APD that was constructed prior to 1900”.  How many are there within Lunenburg?  The Bylaw proposes the 
formation of an APD Commission.  What will be the criteria for the Commission? 
 
D. McQuaid noted that Section 8 (c) should be edited to specify only Planning Board review for new buildings. 
 
K. Chenis inquired how “demolition by neglect” would be regulated.   
 
Cullen Dwyer, Historical Commission- Noted that “demolition by neglect” is different from the Demolition Delay Bylaw.  
It will offer historical protection to the downtown area.   
 
Board members opined that the Bylaw may be too restrictive and deter any building. 
 
The Design Standards in both the VCD and the APR Bylaw need to be consistent with each other. 
 
P. Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road- opined that the Bylaw is in contradiction with streamlined permitting and will 
not foster economic development. 
 
Minutes Approval: 
01/12/15, Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis, Minutes signed. 
Executive 02/04/14 not signed due to lack of quorum. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- no report 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  Going well overall - progress slow due to storms. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  no report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    no report 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  no report 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -  Discussion of meeting with the Board of Selectmen regarding a farmers’ 
market. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Town Meeting, May 2, 2015-  Noted that the Warrant closes March 23rd. 
White Tail Crossing-    no report 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- no report   
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue-  no report 
Highfield Village- see above 
Tri Town Landing-  no report 
MS/HS Project- no report   
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 02.23.15 
Page 3 
 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
 
ACTION FILE:  
Housing Production Plan (HPP)-  Submitted to state for review.   
Scenic Road- no report   
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments-  no report 
Master Planning- Economic Development Element- no report     
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   Noted Zoning Board of Appeals Hearing for 36 Summer Street to construct 
addition to existing building and add an apartment on the second floor.  If given approval by the Zoning B oard of 
Appeals, will then come to the Planning Board for site plan review. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
All Board meetings are held at Town Hall, 6:30 PM 
March 2- Public discussion of draft bylaws 
March 9- Hearing for Planning Board warrant articles 
March 23 
April 13 
April 27 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
M. Allison suggested increasing the number of Board members to seven and/or add two alternates.  A. Burney noted 
that the Charter would have to be revised. 
N. Lockwood noted that he will not be running for reelection. 
 
ADJOURNED:   10:00 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 01-12-15 
Executive Minutes 02-04-14 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
Draft Architectural Preservation District Bylaw 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/02.23.15 