===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
270 Electric Avenue 
May 11, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney  
 
Vice Chair N. Lockwood opened the Hearing with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on 
April 27 and May 4, 2015.  The Hearing is to hear and discuss an application for a development plan review under Section 8.4. of 
the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction and operation of a self -service storage facility at 270 Electric 
Avenue, Map 93, Parcel 72. 
 
Project currently in review with Graves Engineering Inc. Worcester, MA with a review expected by next Board meeting on June 8, 
2015.  Applicant/owner Richard Bursch gave an overview of the project.  The area is approximately three (3) acres and zoned 
Commercial.  The greenhouses currently located on the site will be removed and replaced with self -storage units.  Buildings will 
be pre-manufactured steel.  Site will consist of indoor units for rent to the general public for the purpose of storage.  There will be 
no outside storage.  Buildings A and B will be climate controlled.  Access to all buildings (A, B, C, D, and E) will be from the back 
of each building.  There will be a small office for management and operation of the facility.  Access will be via a locked entry gate 
with individual key codes during normal operating hours.  After -hours access will be only for site management and emergency 
vehicles.  Public access is located on Electric Avenue/Rt. 13  at the peak of the hill to allow for sight distance both entering and 
exiting.  Project Engineer Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) did a sight line study.  The current site has shallow infiltration 
and the majority of runoff will be onto the greenway with only one building draining onto the blacktop.  Detention pond locat ed at 
back of site.  The sewer stub is located across the street from the Electric Avenue entrance.  Under MA Building Code f ire 
sprinklers are required in the two large buildings .  A fire hydrant will be located on West Street adjacent to the emergency 
access.  R. Bursch anticipates renting the back two buildings for car storage , which will require a fire wall .  Anticipated hours of  
operation will be 7:00 AM to 8:00 PM.  All buildings are single story.  There will be landscaping completely around the property 
line for the benefit of abutters.  All buildings will have ¼ pitch roofs.   
 
K. Chenis concerned with simultaneous incoming/outgoing traffic.  R. Bursch responded that per J. Rodriquenz, DPW Director , 
self-storage is considered a low -traffic use with approximate ly 80 visits per day.  The entry gate will be located approximately 90 
feet from the edge of the road.  Ten parking spaces are designated.  M. Allison inquired as to snow storage.  Front parking 
spaces will not have fixed curbs so snow can be pushed off th e front of the building.  There will also be a straight push through 
from the entrance to the rear of the site.  Snow can also be moved to the northwest and southwest corners of the site.  Climate-
controlled buildings will be heated to 50 degrees and coole d to 80 degrees.  D. McQuaid inquired as to façade compliance under 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg , § 4.6. §§ 4.6.5. Design Standards.  There is no distinct design in the Whalom area.  
R. Bursch is trying to keep with the area landscape.  N. Lo ckwood opined that the plans didn’t fully capture the shape and 
construction of the buildings and wanted to know what the buildings would look like from the street.  M. Allison inquired whe re the 
water tie-in would be.  Off West Street with an eight inch main at the request of the Water District.  There is also a one inch tie -in 
off Rt. 13.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 
270 Electric Avenue Hearing 
05.11.15 
 
No public comment. 
 
There was discussion of continuing the Hearing to June 8, 2015  to allow for receipt  of the peer rev iew and for R. Bursch to 
provide street view drawings from the front and side. 
 
Motion to continue Hearing to June 8, 2015, 6:35 PM, J. Bilotta-Simeone, Second, D. McQuaid, all aye. 
 
Recessed 7:20 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2015/270 electric avenue 05.11.15 