===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
January 12, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  none 
 
ANRs: 
11 Beachview Road, Eric & Stacey Manseau - Lot consolidation plan for tax purposes .  Plan endorsed by Board.  Applicant to 
file at Registry.   
 
26/30/32 Laurel Lane, Mahoney Family Tr ust & Steven Mastrangelo -  Plan endorsed by Board.  Applicant to file at Registry.  
M. Allison declined to sign. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    
All minutes signed. 
12/22/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
Executive 12/09/13, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, N. Lockwood 
Executive 01/27/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, M. Allison 
Executive 03/10/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, M. Allison 
Executive 07/14/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
Executive 08/11/14, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, M. Allison 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-  absent – no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- absent – no report 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood -  No meeting since last Board meeting.  P roposed boundary sketch of TC Passios 
submitted by School  Committee.  One p arcel for the Brooks House and one for TC Passios with a p otential realignment of 
Memorial Drive.  D. McQuaid attended the meeting.  He expressed his personal concern for Town Center and suggested a joint 
meeting with the Planning Board a nd Building Reuse Committee.  He also  evaluated the site for zoning .  One item was parking 
count per square footage – if anything other than school or housing use would require more footage for parking.   A. Burney to 
follow up on possible joint meeting.  This would be  in anticipation of Passios remaining and not being demolished or 
reconfigured.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood -  Noted joint meeting of the Conservation Commission and the Acquisition 
Advisory Team (AAT) for discussion of the “Lane”  property obligations for grant requirements.   Covered what had to be done in 
order to close on the property.  Parking (over $27,000) has to be established prior to May 15th.  P. Bertram of the AAT noted they 
are looking at getting potential grant opportunities through the SnowRiders to help fund.   
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-    J. Toale checked out the old primary building.  Talked about school boundaries.   
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Next meeting 1/21/15.  
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-  Next meeting 1/15/15.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 01.12.15 
Page 2 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
White Tail Crossing-    Layout hearing for roadway in front of Board of Selectmen January 13, 2015.  If accepted, will become a 
warrant article for May Town meeting. 
Whites Woods, Massachusetts Avenue-  no report     
Highfield Village- no report 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- Installing drainage and utilities lines.  In process of putting in subgrade.   
Tri Town Landing-  no report 
MS/HS Project- no report   
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report  
Force Corporation, 305 Leominster Shirley Road-   no report  
 
ACTION FILE:  
Housing Production Plan  (HPP)-  Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis to approve final HPP; all aye.  Plan w ill now be 
submitted to state for form al review.  State has 90 days from receiving HPP to approve it.  Once approved, after 12 months the 
Board can submit to State for compliance.   
Village Center District Bylaw-   Continued discussion.  Minor edits made.  Public discussions of the Bylaw will take place at the 
January 26 th, February 9th and February 23rd Board meetings at approximately 7:00  PM.  This will allow for dissemination of 
information to Town residents  prior to May Town Meeting .  Meetings will also be televised.  The public hearing for  the article is 
anticipated to take place on March 9 th.  D. McQuaid will work on an architectural sketch of what a Town Center would look like 
under the Village Center District.  Mailers publicizing the meeting dates will go to those addresses located with in the boundaries 
of the District .  (It is cost prohibitive to send mailers to all Lunenburg residents.)  The meetings will also be publicized via the 
Town Scroll.   
There was discussion of special permits.  Special permits will be for construction of new dwelling units.  N. Lockwood noted that 
there are no use restrictions for “campuses” and suggested adding in a use percentage requirement.  K. Chenis suggested 
clarifying in Purpose.  An “F”. will be added to Purpose stating encouragement of mixed use deve lopment that facilities 
community, civic use, etc.   
Retention of trees will be encouraged; this can be addressed through the development plan review process.  Will also be 
incorporated into design guidelines.   
There was discussion of the 60% transparency  requirement being too high.  It was noted that this is strictly for newly constructed 
building facades for non-residential use.  Wording to be clarified noting if a mixed use building façade , a non-residential first floor 
shall have a transparency of at least 60%. 
 
Maryellen Ramstack, 44 Cortland Circle - Voiced her concern at the lack of public attendance at the meetings.  A. Burney noted 
anyone can submit questions/issues to the office.  The Bylaw will also be placed on the Town’s website.  
 
322 Flat Hill Community Solar-  Decision needs to filed with Registry.  Applicant has not yet picked it up.   
Scenic Road- no report   
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments-  no report   
Master Planning - Economic Development Element - no report .  A. Burney anticipate s working on this in February.  N. 
Lockwood would like to have committee in place as soon as possible.    
Historical Commission - Architectural Preservation District -  A. Burney has received draft from the Historical Commission.  
The Commission would like to attend the January 26th Board meeting for discussion.   
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: 
Noted Library Board of Trustees meeting January 15th – A. Burney to attend. 
Noted Zoning Board of Appeals Denial for 790 Massachusetts Ave. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
January 26, 6:30 PM, Town Hall- regular meeting will include public discussion of both the Village Center District Bylaw a nd the 
Architectural Preservation District Bylaw at 7:00 PM. 
February 9, 6:30 PM, Town Hall- Highfield Hearing following by meeting 
February 23, 6:30 PM 
March 9, 6:30 PM, Town Hall- Hearing for Planning Board warrant articles 
March 23, 6:30 PM, Town Hall 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 01.12.15 
Page 3 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:   
P. Bertram inquired as to process for White Tail Crossing.  A. Burney noted that the Board is consid ered the proponent and will 
make a formal recommendation at Town Meeting, based upon completion/non -completion of the two minor outstanding issues, 
whether the road should be accepted or to pass over the article. 
 
M. Ramstack asked if the scenic roads will go on the warrant.  Yes.  The Board will publicize closer to Town Meeting.   
 
MEMBER ISSUES:  M. Allison felt that future meeting dates of Boards/Commissions/Committees, etc. should be extended out 
further on the Town Calendar regardless of whether or not an agenda has been submitted.   
 
ADJOURNED:    8:28 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR, 26/30/32 Laurel Lane 
ANR, 11 Beachview Road 
Minutes 12-22-14 
Executive Minutes 12/09/13, 01/27/14, 03/10/14, 07/14/14, 08/11/14 
Draft Housing Production Plan 
Draft Village District Bylaw 
50 Elmwood Rd Updates 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/01.12.15 