===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
274 Prospect Street 
August 24, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:50 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Hearing with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on August 
10 and August 17 , 2015.  The Hearing is to  hear and discuss a n application for a special permit under Section 4.12. Lake 
Whalom Overlay District  of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for 22 townhouse units at 274 Prospect Street , Map 
98, Parcel 10. 
 
Presentation by Project Engineer Mark Piermarini, Whitman & Bingham Associates .  Project consists of 22 townhouse units on 
3.53± acres.  Six units will directly access Pond Street, with an internal road between Pond and Kimball Street for the remai ning 
16 units.  The project area consists of slopes which start from the northeasterly  corner of the site at the corner of Pond and 
Kimball Streets and then drain toward the southerly end of the site to existing drop inlets along Prospect Street.  A detention 
basin is located on the west side of the site which will be exiting into the exist ing drop inlets.  There is a sewer main through the 
site which will connect into a main on Prospect Street.   
 
As a result of the July 28, 2015 In House Tech Meeting, a “parking on this side of road only” sign will be placed on the inte rnal 
street.  Stop signs will be placed at both ends of the internal street.  There will be an external drop to the sewer manhole. 
 
M. Allison noted the  retention basin overflows to a catch basin with the outflow going directly to Lake Whalom in the middle of 
two swimming areas.  This requires a one-inch recharge instead of a half-inch.  M. Piermarini noted there is plenty of recharge in 
the retention basin.  The proposed project ha s received a Notice of Intent approval from the Conservation Commission.  G. 
Bittner asked for b uilding height.  Developer Daniel Gardner  (Greener Living Luxury Homes)  and M. Piermarini noted  thirty (30) 
feet from foundation to ridge.  All units are three bedrooms as opposed to the two bedrooms noted in the In House Tech Meeting.  
 
Reviewing Engineer Jeffrey Walsh noted his initial review letter of August 14, 2015.  He is currently reviewing plan revisions as a 
result of his review.  The Sewer Commission has requested he  also look at the  sewer design in compliance  to the sewer 
regulations.  His second review will encompass both a Planning and Sewer review.  The plans proposed a driveway length of  
twenty ( 20) feet; J. Walsh recommended twenty-two ( 22) feet.  The existing water main in Kimball Street is six  (6) inches in 
diameter and two service connectio ns are proposed off this main .  J. W alsh recommended the applicant move the southern 
connection point from Kimball Street to the eight  (8) inch diameter main located in Prospect Street.  This connection will better 
serve the proposed project as well as the  current residents north and east of the Kimball/Pond Street intersection .  (This would 
be addressed by the Water District. )  J. Walsh addressed M. Allison’s concern as to a one -inch recharge , noting a  swimming 
beach is considered an area of critical sto rmwater management and the applicant is  obligated to demons trate they can capture 
and treat one inch of runoff from impervious areas as they are discharging to a critical area .  Because the site drains down to a 
large swale, any stormwater generated from the  site would pass through the grass swales and then into the infiltration system.  
He opined they m eet the one-inch water quality.  Treatment occurs in the infrastructure.  M. Piermarini noted that both J. W alsh 
and the Conservation Commission requested two additional lines of erosion controls be added to the plans.    
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 08.24.15 
274 Prospect Street Public Hearing 
Page 2 
 
Wayne Travis, 24 Kimball Street - Inquired if parking would be restricted on Kimball Street.   M. Piermarini noted they cannot 
restrict parking on a public way; only within the development.  Ten (10) visitor spaces will be provid ed for the development.  A. 
Burney noted that i f brush on Kimball Street is cleaned up on the a pplicant’s property it will make Kimball Street seem wider.  
The applicant has the right to apply for a curb cut; which will be up to DPW to approve.   
Lois Lewis, 389 Sunny Hill Road -  As a property owner on Kimball Street, she is  concerned with the increase in parking, 
population, and demands on the Town’s emergency services. 
Lynn Major, Town Beach employee– Concerned with parking and traffic as individuals using the Town Beach park along 
roadway during the summer months.   
Jill Normandin, 36 & 38 Kimball Street- Concerned with having a “high volume” development in this area, impact to Town Beach, 
Impacts to traffic and property values, and sewer capacity.  
 
D. McQuaid noted these are not thirty (30) foot buildings; with the land topography he opined they are closer to forty (40) feet 
and asked for a more accurate building elevation.  Applicant responded they meet the building code. 
 
Sharron Albert, 5 Pond Street- Concerned with the proposed project  changing the neighborhood aspect of the area, and traffic in 
regards to children exiting Town Beach and crossing the road.    
Brad Kennedy, 17 Crocker Avenue - As a member of the Conservation Commission he noted that  on August 19, 2015  the 
Commission gave the applicant approval for wetland act issues .  He is c oncerned with individuals wanting a dock/marina.  M. 
Piermarini responded that has been taken off the plans.  If they decide to move ahead with a dock in the future, they will have to 
again appear before the Board and the Conservation Commission.  
Paula Bertram, 312 Townsend Harbor Road- The proposed project doesn’t fit the character of community.  She encouraged the 
Board to listen to the residents.  She was also concerned with sediment coming into the swimming area at the Town Beach.     
Kimberly Kingerski, 8 & 32 Kimball Street- The proposed project is not beneficial to the community. 
Jill Normandin – Would like to see it scaled down.  Wants more time to learn about the development.   
 
M. Piermarini noted that the building elevation is  thirty-six (36) feet, four (4) inches from g round to peak.  A. Burney stated that 
thirty-eight (38) feet is the allowable height. 
 
Lois Lewis – Would a traffic study be appropriate?  
  
There was Board discussion as to what issues they wanted addressed for the continuation. 
A closer look at the density; what is the overriding bylaw? 
Explanation of sewer capacity from Sewer Commission in relation to three (3) bedrooms per unit. 
Does the Lake Whalom Overlay District override Section 5.0. Dimensional Regulations?   
Issue of traffic; possible negotiation with applicant, e.g., widen sides of Kimball and Pond? 
Sheet #2, Grading and Drainage, indicates proposed dock.  M. Piermarini will remove from plan. 
Drainage from Pond Street and presence of C type soils.   M. Piermarini noted d rainage has been designed according to DEP 
standards.  Post- development rates are less than the pre- development rates. 
 
Hearing recessed at 8:10 PM.  Motion, M. Allison, to continue to September 28th, 6:35 PM, Second, K. Chenis, all aye. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2015/274 prospect street 08.24.15 