===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
March 23, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone 
 
PUBLIC HEARING: Warrant Articles-see separate minutes.  Motion, D. McQuaid, to approve bylaw modifications to 
§ 5.2. and § 8.4., Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
ANR:  360/370 Sunny Hill Road-  ANR Plan presented by S teve Marsden, Marsden Engineering.  Two new lots 
being created off Elm Street.  Parcels A and B are minor land swaps between 360 and 370 Sunny Hill Road.  Sewer 
stubs exist.  Plan accepted for review.  There was Board discussion as to the current ANR Plan process as a result of 
information obtained during  D. McQuaid and M. Allison’s attendance at the March 21st  CPTC Annual Conference.  
D. McQuaid opined that departmental review was not necessary and ANR Plans  should be signed the night they are 
presented to the Board.   N. Lockwood felt before the Board changed the current process, all 
departments/commissions/boards involved in the review process should be notified. 
 
Minutes Approval: 
02/04/14 Executive- Not signed.  Quorum of 02/04/14 Board meeting attendees not available. 
03/09/15, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison, minutes signed. 
03/09/15 Warrant Articles Hearing, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison, minutes signed. 
03/10/15, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison, minutes signed. 
03/19/15, D. McQuaid, Motion to approve, Second, M. Allison, minutes signed. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   absent – no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- absent – no report 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  no meeting 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  no meeting 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   Meeting not held due to lack of quorum.  Hope to meet with the School 
Committee on April 6th for discussion of Passios property lines. 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  Meeting was held March 18th.  Focus was TIP (Transportation Improvement Plan) and review of 
project listing for upcoming developments.  Focus for Lunenburg is Summer Street project.  K. Chenis mentioned a 
traffic study for Rte. 13 and Northfield Road in reference to the Highfield Village submittal.   MJTC response was that 
the developer should do traffic study and also include the intersection at Rtes. 13 and 2A.  MJTC is working to extend 
its bus routes from Wal-Mart to the Lake Whalom area.   Next meeting April 15 th.  A. Burney noted that the state 
would have requested a traffic study if it had concerns with the Rte. 13 and Northfield Road intersections. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 03.23.15 
Page 2 
 
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison-  Unable to attend last me eting as it was held during a Board workshop with 
the Historical Commission. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Town Meeting, May 2, 2015 -  N. Lockwood thanked all who had been involved in the Village Center District (VCD) 
Bylaw and Architectural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw process, noting good communication between community 
and boards.  He inquired if the Board should send a letter requesting support from the Board of Selectmen, Finance 
Committee, Building Reuse Committee and Historical Commission at Town Meeting.  A. Burney responded that both 
the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee will make their recommendations on Town Meeting floor.  D. 
McQuaid will put it on the Reuse Committee agenda for April 6 th.  D. McQuaid and A. Burney will co ordinate a slide 
show presentation for Town Meeting.  A. Burney noted that Becky Lantry of the Historical Commission contacted him 
inquiring if the Planning Board still planned on passing over the VCD Bylaw if the APD Bylaw did not pass.  The 
Board and the Historical Commission have had conversation regarding this but no “formal” decision was made.  The 
Board will discuss this at its April 13th meeting.   
Town Election, May 16, 2015 - N. Lockwood noted there will still be two vacant positions on the Board af ter Town 
Election. 
1249 Massachusetts Avenue - Final review noted all issues were addressed.  Applicant in process of obtaining 
department signoffs to obtain his building permit. 
White Tail Crossing- no report     
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road- no report 
Highfield Village- no report 
Tri Town Landing-  no report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report   
 
ACTION FILE:  
250 Whalom Road, Whalom Luxury Apartments-  no report 
36 Summer Street- no report 
Architectural Preservation District (APD) Bylaw-  Submitted for Warrant 
Scenic Road-  Submitted for Warrant.  A. Burney noted a previous request for visuals for Town Meeting; pursuing, 
but may be difficult to acquire in graphic form.  Board inquired if the Historical Commission would be interested in co -
sponsoring the Article. 
Master Planning- Economic Development Element-   no report 
Housing Production Plan (HPP)-    no report 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
April 13 - Warrant Article Hearing & Highfield continuation followed by regular meeting .  D. McQuaid inquired if 
changes to Board member composition would present an issue with the Highfield continuation.  A. Burney responded 
that the applicant may have to withdraw its submittal and resubmit.  If there are only three (3) members on the Board, 
the applicant will need a unanimous vote.  As a result of information from the CPTC Conference, D. McQuaid noted 
that when the Board gives an extension to a project, the extension should go to two (2) weeks past a Board meeting 
date in the event a Board meeting is cancelled.  M. Allison also noted that when advertising a public hearing, the 
statutory notice can note a rain date. 
April 27 
Saturday, May 2- Town Meeting 
May 11 
May 25- NO MEETING- Memorial Day 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 03.23.15 
Page 3 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
M. Allison- With a five (5) member Board, there can only be one (1) alternate and with a seven (7) member Board, 
two.  With only three (3) members, no special permits can be issued.  A. Burney noted that the Town Charter has to 
allow for alternates.   
M. Allison- Requested stormwater management be placed on the agenda.  Will be on the April 27th agenda. 
M. Allison- Pope Road should be a second access for Highfield Village.  It is presently a private road; what steps 
need to be taken to make it a Town road?   A. Burney noted that to “require” the Highfield Village applicant make this 
a second access would be asking the developer to redesign the project.   
 
ADJOURNED:  7:40 PM 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
02/04/14 Executive Minutes 
03/09/15 Minutes 
03/09/15 Minutes- Warrant Articles Hearing 
03/10/15 Minutes 
03/19/15 Minutes 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/03.23.15 