===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting (cont’d) 
10 Massachusetts Avenue 
July 27, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:30 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Informational Meeting , continued from July 13, 2015, was to hear and discuss an application for development plan review 
under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for a used car lot at 10 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
Applicant is Adnan Inayat,  dba Premium Motors.  At the July 13 th meeting, the Board requested the Applicant provided a scaled 
parking plan showing both customer and staff parking, to include parking at the building rear.   
 
A parking plan was provided along with a Tenant Agreement letter signed by all tenants of the site and the property owner.   
 
M. Allison apologized to the Applicant for an improper character assessment by one of the tenants at the July 13th meeting.   
 
Fourteen (14) parking spaces are on site; the Applicant is requesting ten (10) of them.  A no parking area will be designated  in 
front of the rear access.  The Applicant does not plan to stripe the parking spaces or the loading zone a rea.  Parking spaces are 
9 x 20 feet and at least one of the spaces should be a handicap parking space.   
 
Andrea Adams, 39 Pleasant Street - Presented letter to the Board (on file in Planning Office) urging the Board to be comfortable 
with the parking situ ation.  She also noted to the Board that the Fallon Medical Clinic  across Massachusetts Avenue  is actually 
located in Fitchburg and that the Applicant needs to investigate whether the off -loading of vehicles would be permitted by that 
facility’s permit.  ( The Applicant had mentioned at the July 13 th meeting that he had an agreement with the medical building for 
the offloading of vehicles.)  The Applicant noted to avoid that issue, he no longer plans to offload vehicles in the medical 
building’s parking lot. 
 
Lance Rozell (property owner) - Noted that the other two businesses on site do not have a high number of customers.  The rear 
of the building is used only by the tenants.   
 
Frank Dower, FunStuf Rentals- His concern at the July 13th meeting was that he has access to the back lot where his warehouse 
is located.  Under the parking agreement with the tenants, the drive to the rear will be clear and he is comfortable with the  
customer parking at the front of the building.   
 
The Applicant wishes ten (10) space s; eight (8) for the sale vehicles, one for himself and one for a customer.  He no longer 
needs parking at the building rear. 
 
The Board discussed possible conditions they wanted placed on the Approval.  Stripe the parking spaces to be in compliance 
with the Massachusetts AAB (Architectural Access Board).   Denote one handicap parking space .  Vehicle delivery between 9:00 
AM and 6:00 PM.  Vehicle delivery will not block access to rear of building.  No loading/unloading within the State layout.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 7-27-15 
Informational Meeting (cont’d), 10 Massachusetts Avenue 
Pg 2 
 
M. Allison, Motion to approve with outlined conditions: 
Parking is striped in accordance with the fourteen (14) spaces shown on the Plan. 
One handicap parking space is provided in accordance with the Massachusetts AAB (Architectural Access Board). 
No loading/unloading between the hours of 9:00 AM and 6:00 PM. 
Delivery shall not block area between buildings or access from Mass Ave to rear of building.  
Second, K. Chenis 
Discussion:  A. Burney noted to the Board a condition of no loading/unloading within the State layout.  Board declined.  
M. Allison amended Motion that a 15 foot wide loading zone is provided behind the building, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.  
 
Conditions will be prepared for Board signature at its August 10, 2015 meeting. 
 
Informational Meeting closed at 7:32 PM. 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/Information meeting 2015/10 massachusetts avenue 07.27.15 