===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting 
10 Massachusetts Avenue 
July 13, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Informational Meeting opened with the Chair reading the legal notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on July 6, 
2015.  The Meeting was to hear and discuss an application for devel opment plan review under Section 8.4. of the Protective 
Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for a used car lot at 10 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
Applicant is Adnan Inayat,  dba Premium Motors.  A. Inayat ’s proposal is to sell eight (8) used cars at the front of the b uilding 
located at 10 Massachusetts Avenue.  He received a Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals on July 8, 2015 for the 
storage and display of eight (8) motor vehicles.  A. Inayat does not intend to stripe the spaces , but would do some landscapi ng.  
He also wants to keep one or two cars at the rear of the building so when one out front sells he can immediately replace it with 
another vehicle.  Board members voiced concerns with the 20 foot setback  and how the right -of-way was determined.  A. Inay at 
responded that he had conferred with the Building/Zoning Official, Michael Sauvageau  and was told from the edge of the road .  
There are two other businesses located on site and the Board members were concerned with the impact to customer parking.  A. 
Inayat responded that he has seen only 1 -2 vehicles there at a time.  There are no pavement markings or handicapped spaces 
on site.  Generally, the vehicles he purchases from auction will be individually driven to the business.  If he purchase s two or 
three vehicles, they would come on a small trailer; not an 18 -wheeler.  Vehicles would be delivered after normal business hours.  
D. McQuaid inquired if A. Inayat had an agreement with the owners of the medical building located across Massachusetts 
Avenue for un loading of vehicles.  No.  If A. Inayat cannot get a flatbed on site to unload, A. Burney  is not comfortable 
recommending Board approval.  K. Chenis requested a parking plan indicating how all parking will be shared with the three 
businesses.  A. Inayat noted his customers would be by appointment only.   
 
D. McQuaid asked for comments from the public. 
 
Francis Dower, Merrill Street, Fitchburg - Owner of FunStuf Rentals - Rents two building located at 4 (warehouse) and 10 
(storefront) Massachusetts Avenue.  He  is concerned with fire safety access due to the number of cars that will be displayed for 
sale at the front of the building and the one to two vehicles A. Inayat wishes to store at the rear.  The attic business sometimes 
has five to six  customer vehicles at a time , which fills up the parking area .  If A. Inayat’s clients park in front of the chain gates 
located to either side of the building, this will obstruct the FunStuf trucks from entering/exiting the rear of the building.  He stores 
three (3) pickup t rucks at the rear of the building.  The tenants have no written agreement with the property owner as to parking 
spaces.  He noted that even though A. Inayat said his customers would be by appointment only, it is common for drivers to 
spontaneously stop and check out vehicles that are for sale. A. Burney inquired if there would be the possibility of formalizing an 
agreement and also inquired if F. Dower felt th ere was the possibility of storing some of the eight (8) cars in addition to his trucks 
at the buil ding rear .  K. Chenis inquired if the parking was marked and he had access to the rear of building, would he be 
satisfied with his parking needs.  Yes. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Nick Kendall, 535 South Street, Fitchburg - Owner of Barbara’s Attic-  He opined that A. Inayat was not  truthful at the Zoning 
Board of Appeals hearing and disagreed with A. Inayat stating that the property owner said he could park cars there.  N. Kendall 
has had the attic business there five to six years and at times there have been six (6) customer vehicles.  He also needs access 
to the rear of the building for large pieces of furniture.  K. Chenis inquired if the parking spaces were marked, and there were up 
to six (6) spaces available for his business, would that satisfy N. Kendall.  Yes.   
 
The Board would like to see a parking plan showing where the vehicles will be parked, and a signed agreement from the property 
owner endorsing the proposed parking .  The plan should include employee parking for all business es and also parking at the 
rear of the building to include a common area. 
 
M. Allison requested to see the square footage of the retail floor area as parking spaces are based on same. 
 
A. Burney will clarify how the setback was determined with the Building/Zoning Official.  
 
Plan needs to be received in the Planning Office by July 23rd. 
 
M. Allison, Motion to continue Informational Meeting to July 27, 2015, 6:3 0 PM, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
Informational Meeting recessed 7:45 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/Information meeting 2015/10 massachusetts avenue 07.13.15 