===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Highfield Village 
September 14, 2015 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   7:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair opened the Hearing with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on  August 31 and September 7, 
2015.  Hearing is to hear and discuss a definitive plan per the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land  and of 
the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  Section 5.6. Cluster Development for construction of sixty-six (66) dwelling units 
off the south side of Northfield Road between Massachusetts Avenue (Map 0 57, Parcel 0031) and Northfield Road (Map 037, 
Parcel 0009).   
 
Developer John Godfrey noted to the Board the change in engineering firm.  Attorney Haverty of Blatman, Bobrowski, Mead and 
Talerman noted to the Board that the Hearing had been re -noticed and will be presented as a new submittal, thereby allowing all 
Board members to vote.   
 
Project engineer Jamie Rheault, Whitman & Bingham Associates  (WBA) presented plans to the Board.  He noted that WBA went 
through the April 6, 2015 review letter from Davi d Ross Associates and made changes to the plan in accordance with that letter.  
WBA will be meeting with David Ross Associates on September 18 th for discussion and then the plans will again be revised and 
submitted to Ross Associates.  Drainage and traffic reports will also be submitted.   
 
J. Rheault gave a brief overview of the proposed development.  Two lots comprise the site; 961 Northfield Road (Map 037, 
Parcel 0009) and 361 Massachusetts Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031) , totaling approximately178 acres.  Zoning is Residence A, 
which requires 40,000 square feet per lot, but the application was submitted under Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg , 
Section 5.6. Cluster Development, which reduces required lot size to 30,000 square feet.  There will be 59 acres of open space.  
Three roadways are proposed within the development; Highfield Road (forming a loop) entering/exiting the development, and two 
cul-de-sacs, Wachusett Way and Summit Circle.  The development design is the same basic design as from the previous 
engineer.  Gas and water mains will come from Massachusetts Avenue via easement.  Sewer will be an 8 -inch gravity line 
throughout the entire site and then running cross country  to Maple Parkway and White Street .  There will be ten (10)  detention 
basins, utilizing LID (low impact development) as much as possible .  WBA will invite both David Ross Associates and A. Burney 
to witness the percolation testing.  The Sewer District line runs through the property .  From the Sewer District line to Northfield  
Road a dry sewer will be installed running all the way to Northfield Road in the event there is any future extension of the s ewer 
line or development of lots.  A force main will also be installed.  The site has two wetland crossing s on the proposed roadwa ys; 
WBA designed bottomless culverts and lowered amount of fill.   A Notice of Intent (NOI) will be filed with the Conservation 
Commission.  WBA plans on altering only 90 square feet of wetlands in order to provide a gravity sewer connection from one of 
the house lots to the sewer main.  WBA will replicate those wetlands. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 09.14.15 
Highfield Village Hearing 
Page 2 
 
Amy Archer, Pare Corporation.  Assessed the development with regards to access, traffic capacity, and accidents utilizing 
various methods, e.g., traffic counts, crash data analysis, speed study along Northfield Road.  Found normal incidents at both 
intersections.  There is no  posted speed limit ; the police department noted to Pare Corp. they adhere to the thickly settled de 
facto speed lim it of 30 mph.  A. Archer noted that studies showed average speed limit of 39 mph.  There is adequate sight 
distance in both directions.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Ronald Smith, 110 Old Farm Road-  Noted high water table area and requested the Board include street cleaning/sweeping in its 
Approval.  
Robin Brideau, 897 Northfield Road - Concerned with possible future houses being built towards the Northfield Road end of the 
site.  J. Rheault responded Highfield Village is not proposing any more homes between Northfiel d Road an d the Sewer District 
line; they just want to put the infrastructure in place for any future developments that may be submitted.   
Bill Gustus (owner of abutting golf course), 19 Burke Street-  Please continue hearing for additional public input. 
 
D. McQuaid inquired as to whether responsibility is with the Town or the developer to install traffic signals at the intersec tion of 
Northfield and Chase Roads.  The developer had previously proposed installing the infrastructure for the future.  It would be the 
Town’s responsibility for the signaling.   
 
Motion to continue Hearing to November 9, 2015, 6:35 PM, M. Allison, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.  
 
Hearing recessed 8:10 PM. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2015/highfield village 09.14.15 