===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone, Chair  Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Nathan J. Lockwood, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Damon McQuaid, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Matthew Allison, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
April 27, 2015 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Nathan J. Lockwood, Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Joanna L. Bilotta-Simeone 
 
ANR: 790-792 Massachusetts Avenue- Endorsed by Board. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Warrant Article - see separate minutes .  D. McQuaid, Motion to support the warrant article, Second, M. 
Allison, discussion ensued.  N. Lockwood had no problem with the Article going for Town vote, but felt there were pluses and 
minuses to both sides.  K. Chenis  noted interested parties  were in attendance at the last meeting stating they had challenges 
with selling the property due to the current commercial zoning restricting a dual use of the property.  N. Lockwood opined that 
limited business zoning is “messier and less by -right” than commercial zoning.  He also noted points previously raised by both 
the Board of Selectmen and the property owner noting hardship.  Roll Call Vote - M. Allison, aye; K. Chenis, aye; D. McQuaid, 
aye; N. Lockwood, abstain.   
 
Minutes Approval: All minutes signed. 
04/13/15, Motion D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis  
04/13/15 Warrant Article Hearing, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
04/13/15 Highfield Village Continuation, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, K. Chenis 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
MRPC, J. Bilotta-Simeone-   absent – no report 
Capital Planning Committee, J. Bilotta-Simeone- absent – no report 
School Building Committee, N. Lockwood-  no meeting 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, N. Lockwood-  no report 
Building Reuse Committee, D. McQuaid-   Meeting scheduled for April 30th with the School Committee. 
MJTC, K. Chenis-  TIP (Transportation Improvement Program) amendments reviewed.  Sum mer Street project progressing well 
and is at 25% design.  Hearing anticipated for May.  K. Chenis noted that MassDOT will not recognize data more than three 
years old; the Highfield Village Traffic Study was in 2007.  M. Allison inquired if the Town shoul d pursue up to date traffic counts 
for Whalom Road and Youngs Road.  Current funding program reviewed; one program included is a trail inter -connection study.  
K. Chenis inquired how to proceed regarding Highfield Village’s Traffic Study.  Adam Burney note d that the 2007 Study was 
included in the 2013 EIR.  Possibly ask the developer to update the figures?  
Agricultural Commission, M. Allison -  Farmers’ Market scheduled for a June 28 th opening.  Hours will be 10AM – 1PM.  The 
Commission is actively seeking a market manager. 
 
NEW BUSINESS/DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: 
Town Meeting, May 2, 2015-  Noted 
Town Election, May 16, 2015- Noted 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 04.27.15 
Page 2 
 
Definitive Subdivision, 50 Elmwood Road - Binder course pavement installed on April 14 th.  Adam Burney doesn’t feel there 
will be any runoff issues.  Developer preparing construction cost estimates for a bond.  Anticipates requesting release of two lots 
based on work completed. 
Highfield Village-  no report 
1249 Massachusetts Avenue- no report 
White Tail Crossing-  no report  
Tri Town Landing-  no report 
Emerald Place at Lake Whalom-  no report 
 
ACTION FILE:  
Stormwater Management- A. Burney gave a brief overview to the Board.  Based on size, Lunenburg is a Phase II stormwater 
system (MS4).  The Town is subject to a five-year permit and permit renewal is approaching.  The Planning Board will work with 
the DPW to put forward a set of standards for systems to be property maintained .  The DPW may create a design handbook to 
accompany the Planning Board’s rules and regulations for subdivisions.  At an MRPC presentation there was discussion of 
creating a mobile application for maintenance logging.    
Scenic Road -  Noted Article on Warrant to accept Northfield Road and Flat Hill Road .  A. Burney has some thoughts f or a 
general bylaw which could put penalties and fines in place.   
Master Planning- Economic Development Element-  No report  
Housing Production Plan (HPP)-   No report 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
Saturday, May 2 - Town Meeting , 9 :00 AM .  Board consensus was that a short  meeting Saturday morning would not be 
necessary.  Board inquired as to process for making  Board Article  amendments.  A. Burney will note to the citizens that the 
handouts reflect any changes recommended by Town Cou nsel and any changes recommended by the Board.  At that point, a 
Board member will make the amendment motion.  A. Burney will provide K. Chenis the correct language to request amendments.   
May 11- 270 Electric Avenue Hearing, Continuation of Highfield Village Hearing, regular meeting 
May 25- NO MEETING- Memorial Day 
 
MEMBER ISSUES:   
D. McQuaid inquired if any decision had been reached on revising the ANR Plan process.  A. Burney responded that he had 
received mixed feedback from the reviewing departments/ commission/boards; they would still like to view the plans.  The Board 
will continue to follow the current process until the Rules and Regulation Governing the Subdivision of Land is updated. 
 
ADJOURNED:  8:00 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
04/13/15 Minutes 
04/13/15 Warrant Article Hearing Minutes 
04/13/15 Highfield Village Hearing Minutes 
ANR, 790-792 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
 
 
Minutes/2015/04.27.15 