===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Informational Meeting 
Hannaford - 301 Massachusetts Avenue 
April 25, 2016 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew 
 
The Information Meeting was  to hear and discuss an application for a development plan review under Section 8.4. of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for an outside grocery pick up service at Hannaford, 301 Massachusetts Avenue. 
 
Hannaford was represented by J.M. Lord, Maple Rock Marketing & Project Development, PO Box 28, 560 South Road, Rye 
Beach, NH.   
 
Hannaford is in its third year of “Hannaford -To-Go” (HTG) with about 30 stores currently providing the service.  Customers can 
sign up either on -line or in the store.  Groceries are ordered on -line and the customer is given a timeframe of when to pick up 
their order.  Customers pull up to the call box, announce  their presence, and then pull forward under a small gullwing canopy to 
pick up their order.  Hours of operation will be 10AM to 8PM.  The service schedules 8 customers per hour, but can process a 
maximum of 12 if a customer arrives outside of their scheduled timeframe.  Location will be on the right hand side of the store.  A 
crosswalk will be provided for employees to service the vehicles.  There will be little impact to the site, with no change to either 
the drainage or grading.  Minor change to lighting  with the addition of lighting under the canopy .  Twelve parking spaces will be 
taken out for the HTG layout while reserving four (4) others for any overflow.   
 
There was Board concern with the turning radius with members feeling that the maneu vering lane is not large enough.  As the 
mall site has more than the required number of parking spaces, the Board wants the maneuvering lane widened by taking away 
some of the parking spaces across the lot.   The lane will be widened by creating a jughandle  with direc tional arrows on the 
pavement.   
 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street - spoke in favor of the application noting that H annaford is a great corporate citizen and goes 
out of tis way to provide service and extend its generosity to the Town.   
 
Four 16” x 24” di rectional signs will be added.  Directional arrows will also be painted on the pavement along with a Hannaford 
To Go pavement stencil.  With the addition of the jughandle, the number of parking spaces on the mall site will be reduced by  22 
to accommodate the HTG. 
 
K. Chenis, Motion to approve with jughandle, Second, G. Bittner, all aye. 
 
The Applicant will submit two large plans with signature block for the Planning Board.  Plans and Decision will be signed at the 
May 9, 2016 meeting. 
 
 
Documents use at meeting: 
Application Packet      Minutes/Information meeting 2016/301 massachusetts avenue 04.25.16 