===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Highfield Village (cont’d) 
February 22, 2016 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney  
 
Chair opened the Hearing continuation with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on  August 31 and 
September 7, 2015.  Hearing is to hear and discuss a definitive plan per the Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of 
Land and of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  Section 5.6. Cluster Development for construction of sixty -six (66) 
dwelling units off the south side of Northfield Road between Massach usetts Avenue (Map 057, Parcel 0031) and Northfield Road 
(Map 037, Parcel 0009).   
 
Applicant was represented by Project Engineer Mark Piermarini , Whitman & Bingham Associates  (WBA).  WBA presented a 
project overview.  Site being subdivided consists of 180  acres of which 59.63 are  designated open space .  This is a proposed 
Cluster Development with 65 lots  (down from the originally proposed 66)  located in the middle of the  site.  The land area for the 
Cluster Development is 120 acres.  There will be a water and gas easement off Massachusetts Avenue which will end in a stub 
at Northfield Road.  Sewer will be a gravity system to Maple Parkway and White Street  to an existing stub on Massachusetts 
Avenue.  There are two parcels at the north end of the site where a dry sewer system will be installed for any potential future 
development.  There are nine detention basins.  Project consists of three phases; Phase 1 – construct part of Highfield Road, 
utilities and 23± house lots, Phase 2 – construct part of Highfield Road, utilities and 16± house lots, Phase 3 – construct Summit 
Circle, Wachusett Way, remainder of Highfield Road, utilities and remaining house lots. 
 
WBA noted the wetlands and slopes greater than 15% grade exceeds 50% of the open space  which is not in compliance with the 
Cluster Development Bylaw.    
 
WBA went through the February 4, 2016 review letter  (on file in the Planning Office)  from Robert Oliva, David E. Ross 
Associates, Inc. (DER) referring to plan revised through December 29, 2015.   
 
The applicant should provide a street light detail.  The applicant is p roposing an E-One Sewer pump system.  At the conclusion 
of the project, the applicant will be seeking Town acceptance of the streets and the proposed stormwater systems.  
 
The applicant is requesting the following waivers from the Rules and Regulation Governing the Subdivision of Land: 
 
Section 3.4.3.1.e)- Locating large diameter trees as the site is over 1 80 acres of woodland.  A. Burney noted this Section does 
not apply.  Section 3.4.3.1.e) is looking for the noting of natural features.  This site is essentially comprised of woodlands.   
Section 3.4.3.6. – Locating existing large diameter trees to be retained.  A. Burney recommended to the Board that all trees six 
(6”) inches or larger should be done. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing 
Highfield Village (cont’d) 
February 22, 2016 
Page 2 
 
Section 4.6.1. – Requirement for no removal of trees over fifteen (15 ”) inch diameters outside the right of way.  A. Burney 
recommended to the Board the applicant look mor e specifically in the area where the houses will be located.  This also calls for 
discussion with the Conservation Commission.   WBA noted that trees within the basin areas have been located  with the 
opportunity of possible relocation of basins. 
Section 3.4.3.3.a)- Requirement to provide groundwater contours on plan.   WBA noted soil testing had been supplied (2 -5 feet in 
depth). 
Section 3.4.5. – Requirement for soil testing data along proposed roadways.  WBA noted it will be done prior to construction.   
Section 4.2.3.1. – Requirement for a 60 foot right of way for a secondary street in a “Type B” (subdivision with average lot size 
smaller than 80,000 s quare feet) subdivision.  A. Burney noted that he did not feel a 60 foot right of way needed to be required 
for a residential road that doesn’t connect to other highly travelled roads; 50 feet is sufficient.    
Section 4.10.4.10. – Requirement for groundwater observations along proposed roadways.  WBA noted borings and deep hole 
testing will be performed prior to construction. 
 
R. Oliva noted DER’s latest review letter was what was left over to get the plan to where they are now.  As a whole, he is 
satisfied with the development from the standpoint of the Rules and Regulation Governing the Subdivision of Land and drainage.  
He has not gone through the subdivision as to any  conservation issues.  He brought to the attention of the Board that certain 
criteria must be met to be defined as a “Secondary Street”  and he feels the applicant met those criteria.  He also brought to their 
attention that flow from the first 110 feet of the proposed roadway will flow into Northfield R oad.  This needs to be addressed.   
 
M. Allison inquired about the length restriction of dead end roads.  A. Burney opined this is not a dead end r oad as it has 
secondary access from Massachusetts Avenue for emergency vehicles.   
 
The Board had concerns with the applicant complying with Section 5.6. Cluster Development in regards to the open space  and 
wetlands.  A. Burney will discuss with the Buildi ng Commissioner/Zoning Official.  The applicant may have to seek relief from the 
Zoning Board of Appeals.  The Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg , Section 5.6. Cluster Development, subsection 5.6.3. 
a) states that “Dwelling units shall be developed on a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the land within the development, with the 
remaining fifty percent (50%) of the land being designated as permanent open space.  Not more than ten percent (10%) of the 
open space shall consist of wetlands or land under water or land with a slope in excess of fifteen percent (15%).”   Attorney 
Haverty, representing the applicant, addressed the process from when WBA took over the project from a previous engineering 
firm.  He noted that any open space issues predated his in volvement.  A. Burney noted he will look through the old project files  
and minutes as to the logic why the project is at the point it is regarding open space, ecological development , etc. 
 
Dennis Hirsch 915 Northfield Road-  Concerned with possible future development encroaching on his land.  He wanted parcels A 
and B to stay as conservation land.   Attorney Haverty clarified that parcels A and B will be created as part of this subdivision, but 
the applicant does not own those two  parcels and the access road i s by easement.  The applicant will only be purchasing the 
area containing the development.    
 
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane- Indicated on the Overview where the Sewer Service Area (SSA) stopped and there is no expectation 
of expansion.  Attorney Haverty noted installation of dry sewer lines to parcels A and B are part of the applicant’s Purchase and 
Sales Agreement (P&S) with the property owner.  That is why they are showing the area outside of the proposed development as 
dry sewer lines will be needed for any future development. 
 
Adam Burney recommend the Board require reference to the pump station be stricken from the Plan so it won’t be inferred that 
the Board endorses same.  Attorney Haverty noted it will be looked into as long as it doesn’t violate the P&S . 
 
Phyllis Luck, 50 Sunset Lane - Confused by the Overview.   A. Burney noted there are three parcels located t hrough the 
subdivision that will not be owned by the applicant. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing 
Highfield Village (cont’d) 
February 22, 2016 
Page 3 
 
Robin Brideau, 897 Northfield Road- Concerned with traffic; would like to see lights on Rt . 13 and four way stop signs on New 
West Townsend Road and Northfield Road.  It was noted that the applicant will be putting in infrastructure for lights at Rt. 13. 
 
The 2015 Traffic Analysis noted that the traffic generated by the proposed development is not expected to affect the safety and 
operations of the roadway network within the study area. 
 
Motion, K. Chenis to continue Hearing to March 28, 2016, 6:35 PM, Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
Recessed 9:40 PM 
 
 
 
 
Documents used: 
Project Overview 
Definitive Subdivision Plan dated 12/29/15 
David E. Ross Associates, Inc. Review letter dated February 4, 2016 
Whitman & Bingham associates Waiver Request letter dated February 3, 2016 
 
 
 
Public hearing Minutes/2016/highfield village 02.08.16 