===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Information Meeting (cont’d) 
February 22, 2016 
Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Information Meeting continuation with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel 
and Enterprise o n December 7, 2015.  The Information Meeting was to hear and discuss a proposed 45,000 S.F. office and 
maintenance facility to be located at 357 Electric Avenue, Lunenburg, MA. 
 
Applicant is Unitil -Fitchburg Gas and Electric Light Company, 6 Liberty Lane West, Hampton, NH , represented by the following 
individuals: 
Project Engineer, Mark Piermarini, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA) 
Legal counsel, Pierce Atwood LLP, Mark Beliveau 
KITE Architects, Inc., Christine West 
Unitil Project Manager, Jacqueline Agel 
 
Attorney Beliveau brought the Board u p to date on Unitil’s meeting with the Conservation Commission on February 17, 2016 by 
distributing various handouts including WBA letter to the Conservation Commission dated February 17, 2016 regarding 
stormwater regulations, a template of a Pole Storage Area Inspection Report, filing section of Form 10 -K, and photographs of the 
pole storage racks at the Fitchburg site.  A revised plan was also submitted.  Items had been added to the plan ; signage 
regarding snow storage, the lowering of visual and audio al arms for the 2,000 gallon tank, and added to the stormwater 
management plan for maintenance of the oil and gas separators .  Unitil will return to the Conservation Commission on March 2, 
2016.  A sloped six inch (6”) berm has been added to the transformer s torage area for easier forklift access , spare transformer 
pad has been relocated  to the rear, and snow storage bollards have been added  to each corner.  The pole storage area will be 
completely bermed with a wider berm at the front.  Photographs were prese nted showing the pole storage racks at the Fitchburg 
site.  The poles will be stored over asphalt.  The Lunenburg facility will be an upgrade over the current Fitchburg facility .  GZA 
reviewed plan  set with focus on pole storage area.  The recommendations of the GZA February 17, 2016 letter have been 
incorporated into the revised plans.  GZA’s recommendation is for installation of a catch basin to drain to the transformer storage 
area.  This results in the stormwater flow from the pole storage area moving t hrough two catch basins; one at the pole storage 
area and one at the transformer storage area.  This will separate out a high percentage of any existing oils prior to dischar ge.  
Attorney Beliveau noted that the petro barriers are custom designed for each site.  M. Allison had concern that there was not 
enough ground cover for the barrier which might lead to its freezing, but the applicant noted that is not an issue.  Attorney 
Beliveau noted these barriers are designed to function in the elements.   
 
The Board would like to see specific detail on the petro barrier going into the five foot manhole; design aspects, how fast water 
flows through, etc.  WBA noted as these are custom made, piping for a 100 year storm was requested. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Unitil Information Meeting (cont’d) 
02.22.16 
Page 2 
 
Forty to fifty poles will be stored on site; enough to cover a moderate storm event.  
 
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane -  Could there be a conventional retention  pond on west side of site  for stormwater runoff?  WBA 
noted that this is a redevelopment project and they are trying to maintain the vegetation  instead of opening it up to a basin ; it has 
been reviewed by GEI.  In a redevelopment project, the state looks for the applicant to do as much as practicable without 
causing extreme financial hardship.   
 
Reviewing Engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI) reiterated same, noting that the applicant is supposed to 
meet service standards to the most practicable extent.  Unitil has exceeded compliance with the regulations.    
 
GEI rev iewed GZA’s report and also contacted Solidification Products International Inc.  The petro plug is typically used in 
vertical pipes for outdoor application, in both warm and cold environments.  GEI needs to review the latest plan.  Having met with 
the Sewer Commission, he suggests the project engineer upsize the oil grid separator line.   
 
D. McQuaid noted an outstanding topic is the construction detail of the petro barrier in the catch basin  and GEI’s review of same.   
 
Motion K. Chenis to continue Information Meeting to March 14, 2016, 6:35 PM, Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
Information Meeting recessed 8:05 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
 
Site Plan Revised 2/22/16  
Pole Storage Photographs 
Form 10-K 
Pole Storage Area – Template Inspection Report 
Whitman & Bingham Associates letter dtd 2/17/16 to the Con Comm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/information meetings 2016/Unitil – 357 Electric Avenue_02.22.16 