===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
August 8, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
DISCUSSION WITH BUILDING/ZONING OFFICIAL:   Discussion was held between the Board and Mike 
Sauvageau, the Building/Zoning Official (hereinafter referred to as B/ZO) for the Town of Lunenburg.  
The Board wanted to become more knowledgeable as to  the B/ZO’s responsibilities, what the Board’s 
boundaries are, and possible ways in which they could assist him. 
 
There was lengthy discussion on Article 10 of the August 22, 2016 Special Town Meeting Warrant.  
Article 10 asks the citizens to vote to delete Section 4.12. of the Zoning Bylaw; Whalom Overlay District.    
The B/ZO had written a letter in September 2015 to the Land Use Director noting that the Board “…can 
approve any density of units with any number of bedrooms unless  waivers are sought under Section 
4.12.5.2.”  In another letter of June 2016, he notes that the property owner of a 3.5 acre parcel on Pond 
Street has requested the allowable density for her property.  He informed her that a density of eight 
units per acre  would be allowed on any lot with in the Whalom Overlay District.  M. Allison noted that 
when the Board asked for direction, the B/ZO letter  of September 2015 stated it was at the Board’s 
discretion, yet the letter of June 2016 notes eight units per acre.   
 
The B/ZO opined that removal of the Whalom Overlay District can be considered spot zoning as only one 
individual benefited from the District.  D. McQuaid noted that at a previous Board meeting, he was the 
one that had made the Motion to remove the Whalom Overlay District.  He opined that removing it will 
not be considered spot zoning as no other developer has come forward with a project during  the past 
ten years.  A. Burney no ted that both the Whalom Overlay District Bylaw and the zoning map change 
were approved by the Attorney General.  Even though only one applicant has taken advantage of the  
Bylaw, that does not m ake it spot zoning.  Spot zoning is specifically for a single landowner with no 
benefit to the neighborhood.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 08.08.16 
Page 2 
 
G. Bittner wanted to understand how the new Site Plan Approval fits in with what the Board and B/ZO 
do; e.g., where does the Board’s authority end and the B/ZO’s  begin.  The B/ZO  noted that once the 
Board issues a decision, enforcement is up to the B/ZO.   If a Board member sees  something out of 
compliance, they should feel free to speak to him as a Lunenburg citizen.  D. Prokowiew inquired of the 
B/ZO if he felt he had the “tools” he needed for enforcement.  The B/ZO noted there were not many 
zoning issues in Town.   
 
G. Bittner inquired if there is a process in place so applicants know what board/commission they need to 
go to depending on their application.  A. Burney responded a possible “guidebook” being put in place 
after the Board has finished crafting a new definition and use table.    
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   All minutes signed.   
7/25/15, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew 
7/25/16, 1026 Northfield Road, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, G. Bittner 
7/25/16, Zoning Warrant Articles, Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force- Discussed how to incorporate GIS into Lunenburg; costs, process, professional 
requirements.  P. Bertram noted that MRPC’s Unified Planning Work Program has money available to 
work on a GIS application for stormwater. 
Town Manager Search Committee- No report 
Agricultural Commission- Meeting August 18th  
Building Reuse Committee -  Meeting August 15 th with firms  that responded to request to study the 
market analysis. 
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
School Building Committee- meeting August 10th 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF) - Received thr ee bids for primary school and library lighting 
upgrades.  Accepted a bid from DMH Electric, LLC, Sterling, MA.   
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- MRPC will be collecting data in early 2017 for a community trail brochure.  Discussion of possible 
change to monthly meeting date for better member attendance. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
1026 Northfield Road - Endorse Decision- Scenic Road Decision endorsed by Board.  Applicant will file 
with Registry of Deeds. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS: none 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 08.08.16 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
August 22- 6:30 PM, M iddle-High School, agenda item - vote to accept withdrawal of Highfield Village 
application; 7:00 PM- Special Town Meeting, Middle-High School 
 
September 12-  
Discussion of Board Goals 
 
September 26 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:   
D. McQuaid noted that if STM vo tes to repeal the Whalom Overlay District, the Board needs to be 
prepared to begin work immediately on crafting the new bylaw. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  10:00 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes  
07/25/16 
07/25/16, 1026 Northfield Road 
07/25/16, Zoning Warrant Articles 
1026 Northfield Road- Decision 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/08.08.16 