===PAGE 1===
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
39 Massachusetts Avenue 
May 9, 2016 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:   6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Matthew Allison, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for site plan approval  under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of 
the Town of Lunenburg for an in-shop auto glass installation and repair at 39 Massachusetts Avenue (Map 76, Parcel 39). 
 
The Applicant was represented by Steven Koos, District Manager, Safelite AutoGlass.  Safelite AutoGlass will lease the middle 
portion of the building from property owners Rocco and Carolyn Lastella.  Hours of operation will be Monday through Saturday, 
8AM – 5PM.  There will be  approximately five mobile technicians dispatched on a daily basis with one store manager remaining 
on site during the day.  Any construction work will take place inside the building  e.g., walls and plumbing.  The location will have 
one roll-up bay for customers who bring their vehicles in for auto glass repair/installation .  This takes approximately one hour.  
Safelite does not anticipate any more than 2 -3 customers at any given time.  The site is paved and parking currently unlined.  
Spaces will be striped.  Ten parking spaces are required for the lease space per the Building Official/Zoning Commissioner.  
There are four spaces located to the rear of the site.  Safelite does not plan on us ing these spaces, but they are necessary for 
the count.  R. Lastella noted that the far right side of the site is rented to Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School.     
 
The other two adjacent spaces are used by the property owner for inside car storage.   
 
Safelite will have signage on the building and the side of the road. 
 
Motion, K. Chenis, to accept the application for site approval for Safelite as documented, second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
A . Burney noted that Safelite will have to come before the Board if street signage is planned. 
 
 
 
 
 
Documents use at meeting: 
Application Packet   
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearing 2016/39 massachusetts avenue 05.09.16 