===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
May 9, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS:   
 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d) -  Via electronic mail, Applicant requested to withdraw application without prejudice  as he is 
currently in discussion with the property owner and unable to move forward with the project at this ti me.  There was discussion 
as to Board denial of the application vs endorsing the applicant’s request to withdraw.  With Board denial no special permit 
application can be submitted for that site for two years unless there is a substantial change from the current submittal.  If the 
Applicant withdraws he can come back to the Board  at any time and with possibly the same plan .  Motion, K. Chenis, to accept 
withdrawal without prejudice, Second, M. Allison, all aye. 
 
233 Lancaster Avenue - see separate minutes .  Motion, K. Chenis, to accept the application for the conceptual drive and 
removal of trees as cited, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.  Decision will be prepared for Board signature. 
 
39 Massachusetts Avenue - see separate minutes.  Motion, K. Chenis, to accept  the application for site approval for 
Safelite as documented, second, M. Allison, all aye.  Decision will be prepared for Board signature.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   All minutes signed. 
4/25/16- Motion, G. Bittner, Second, K. Chenis 
301 Massachusetts Avenue, 4/11/16- Motion, K. Chenis, Second, G. Bittner 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
 
Building Reuse Committee -  Town Meeting vote d to approve funds for a market analysis of Brooks House, Ritter Memorial, 
Town Hall and Old Primary.   
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
Agricultural Commission- Article 41 passed over at Town Meeting at the AgCom’s request.  Farmers’ Market commences June 
5th.   
Storm Water Task Force-  Planning a cleanup day on May 14th focusing on the Route 70/ Leominster Shirley Road turnout. 
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- no report 
School Building Committee-   Meeting May 11th. 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF) -  Four projects going out for bid .  All interior lighting upgrades - library, THMS, Primary 
School, and the Boys and Girls Club. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 05.09.16 
Page 2 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: No updates 
 
357 Electric Avenue- Unitil Plan Amendment- Motion, K. Chenis to administratively accept plans with stormceptor detail, 
Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
301 Massachusetts Avenue- Hannaford-  Board Decision and Plan signed. 
 
Site Plan Approval/Special Permit/Rules and Regulations:   A. Burney noted DRAFT 3 to the Board.  As the zoning articles 
passed at Town Meeting, the Board needs to move forward with scheduling a public hearing  (possibly June 27 th), finalizing, and 
accepting the Board Rules and Regulations for Special Permits & Site Plan Approval .  There was discussion on placement of the 
Board’s signature block for plan approval.  Historically, per the requirement of past Planning Boards, the signature block ha d 
been placed in the lower right hand corner .  The  current Board opined that they don’t wish to put that requirement on the 
location, but that it should be placed in the same location  on each sheet, preferably lower right.   A. Burney will forward the draft 
to both the Board of Selectmen and engineers that frequently work with the Board.  M. Allison noted that Acton has a sidewalk 
fund which developers have the option to contribute to instead of installing sidewalks in a remo te subdivision.   
 
Town Meeting, May 7, 2016-  follow-up- Zoning articles passed. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  D. McQuaid noted May 19th MRPC presentation on economic impact of Devens to be held at  
Great Wolf Lodge.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
May 23- Public Hearing- Highfield Village 
 Public Hearing- 234 Summer Street 
 Public Hearing- 175 Northfield Road 
June 13 
June 27 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   7:35 PM 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Request for withdrawal, 274 Prospect Street 
Minutes 04/25/16 
Minutes 04/11/16, 301 Massachusetts Avenue 
DRAFT 3 Rules and Regulations 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/04.25.16 