===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
June 27, 2016 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Board Rules & Regulations for Special Permits and Site Plan Approval- (Hearing was 
taken out of order to allow any citizenry arrival for input.  Hearing began at 6:55 PM.)  The Clerk opened 
the Public Hearing with t he reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on 
June 13  and June 20 , 2016.  The Public Hearing was to discuss a revision to the Board Rules and 
Regulations for Special Permits and Site Plan Approval.   
 
The draft document had  been sent to local engineers, and Town Boards and Commissions for 
input/comments.  A. Burney edited the document to incorporate those comments and those of Planning 
Board members. 
 
There was Board discussion as to workshops vs meetings.  A. Burney noted t hat workshops are “special 
meetings”, but still considered public meetings and must adhere to the Open Meeting Law.  
 
There was also discussion as to the submission of “head on” (a view into the parcel from the street) 
photographs with the application, which would show the project’s relation to the street.  The Board felt 
that any registered architect would prepare an appropriate submission. 
 
D. McQuaid, Motion to approve the draft with changes as made , excluding the last page which is an 
administrative in-house document, Second, D. Prokowiew, discussion, M. Allison requested having the 
submittal checklist incorporated into the document.  A. Burney noted that this should be an 
administrative in-house document.  If it is incorporated into the document it woul d require the public 
hearing process for any change.  All aye to approve the draft with changes.   
 
Hearing closed 7:30 PM 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 06.27.16 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   All minutes signed. 
6/13/16- Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, G. Bittner 
234 Summer Street, 6/13/16- Motion, D. McQuaid, Second, D. Prokowiew 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Stormwater Task Force - The Task Force is looking for input on how to maintain easements, basins, 
drainage structures, etc., once a road has received Town acceptance.  Cleaning often re quires a vacuum 
truck and the Town does not have one.  There was discussion as to the Board altering its Rules and 
Regulations to move towards more LID (Low Impact Development) in Town. 
Agricultural Commission- Farmers’ Market continues.  The AgCom will be sponsoring the July 25 th Band 
Concert.  Baked goods and a  50-50 Raffle will be available with proceeds going to the 4 -H.  Right -To-
Farm signs (8) have been received and will be installed. 
Building Reuse Committee-   no report 
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
School Building Committee- Tours of the new school are available.  Details are on the school’s website. 
Green Community Task Force (GCTF)- no report 
MJTC- no report 
MRPC- no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
 
DEVELOPMENT STATUS REPORTS: no updates 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
294 Chase Road (Lanni Orchards); Proposed APR Acquisition - The Board of Selectmen requested input 
as to the Commonwealth’s intent to offer to purchase an Agricultural Preservation Restriction (APR) on 
the subject property.   Board members supported the proposed purchase.  D. McQuaid, Motion to 
support the acquisition of Lanni Orchards 294 Chase Road , for agricultural preservation, Sec ond, D. 
Prokowiew, discussion, A. Burney wanted to make sure t he Board didn’t see the acquis ition of that 
property as a detriment to any commercial/industrial expansion on Chase Road.  All aye to support the 
acquisition. 
234 Summer Street; Endorse Decision -  Board endorsed Decision.  Decision will be filed with the Town 
Clerk and filed at the Registry of Deeds. 
Highfield Village; Board Discussion-  A. Burney presented a draft memorandum for the Zoning Board of 
Appeals July 13 th Hearing for Highfield Village .  He also requested input from both the Open Space 
Committee and Conservation Commission.  He anticipates that the Commission may send its own letter 
as it is an agenda item for the Commission’s June 29 th meeting.  D. McQuaid, Motion to approve the 
letter dated June 27, 2016 to be sent to the Zoning Board of Appeals, Second, D. Prokowiew, all ay e. 
Letter will be finalized, provided to the Conservation Commission for its June 29th meeting, and provided 
to the Zoning Board of Appeals for its July 13th Hearing. 
Board Goals- Past draft goals will be electronically provided to the Board. 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 06.27.16 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
July 25- Hearing for zoning articles for STM (special town meeting) 
August 8- 7 PM, Special Town Meeting 
August 22- Highfield Village (cont’d) 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:   
There was Board discussion as to any zoning articles t hat would be submitted  at STM.  Two articles will 
cover Scrivener Errors.  Board consensus was that the Whalom Overlay District i s “not working” and i s 
more of a hindrance than a help .  D. McQuaid opined that the main goal of the Overlay was to develop 
the Whalom Park site and that has been accomplished.  D. McQuaid, made Motion to bring an article to 
STM to strike the Whalom Overlay District  pending a better use for the area , Second, G. Bittner, all 
aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   8:16 PM 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 06/13/16 
234 Summer Street, Minutes 06/13/16  
234 Summer Street, Decision  
294 Chase Road, APR Acquisition Application  
DRAFT Board Rules & Regulations for Special Permits and Site Plan Approval 
DRAFT Memo re Highfield Village Special Permit Dimensional Variation Application 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2016/06.27.16 