===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
January 25, 2016 
274 Prospect Street (cont’d) 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  David Prokowiew 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Public Hearing continuation with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and 
Enterprise on August 10 and August 17, 2015.  The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for a special permit 
under Section 4.12. Lak e Whalom Overlay District of the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for 22 townhouse units at 
274 Prospect Street, Map 98, Parcel 10. 
 
(At the applicant’s request, the Hearing was continued from December 14, 2015 to allow time to address review comments from 
Graves Engineering, Inc. [GEI].) 
 
The Applicant was represented by Wesley Flis, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA).  Revised plans dated 1/25/16 were 
presented.  Noted revisions since the January 8 th GEI review letter are the addition of a four (4) foot wide sidewalk running the 
length of Kimball Street from the intersection with Pond Street to the intersection of Prospect Street, and the addition of trees 
within the proposed development and on Kimball Street near the Pond Street intersection.  Any lots that had direct access off 
Pond Street will now instead access an internal driveway between Pond  Street and Kimball Street.  T he number of units has 
been reduced from 22 to 18 (9 duplex buildings) .  Building height has been lower ed from 38 to 31 feet on units closest to the 
Kimball Street and Pond Street side  (remaining units still at 38 feet) .  The existing vegetation in the  internal triangle at the 
intersection of Pond Street and Kimball Street will remain.   
 
G. Bittner noted that the Board had requested downhill renderings at the September 28 th continuation which have not yet been 
provided.  W. Flis responded that they want the Board to see this new layout prior  to the renderings.  The Applicant would like 
the renderings to show the final option.  D. McQuaid noted that the renderings w ill be helpful in viewing how the units are laid out  
and blend with the surrounding area .  A. Burney noted the Applicant needs to makes some paperwork revisions to the 
Stormwater Checklist as stormwater is discharging near a “critical area ” (the beach).  This was clarified for the benefit of the 
audience.  W. Flis noted that the Conservation Commission has reviewed and issued a negat ive RDA (Request for 
Determination of Applicability). 
 
Ten auxiliary parking spaces will be located within the development.  All units are still three bedroom s. 
 
Both the Board and the public still have concerns with the current density of 5.1 units per acre.  As the Applicant is not requesting 
any frontage, height, or setback variances from § 5.0. Dimensional Regulations, Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,  the 
Planning Board has the ability, as part of the permitting process, to determine the densi ty of units per acre and an appropriate 
bedroom count per unit.    
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Public Hearing,01.25.16 
274 Prospect Street 
Page 2 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT- Concerns were voiced by the following individuals: 
Jill Normandin, 36-38 Kimball Street 
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane 
Courtney Martineau, 30 Pond Street 
Sharon Albert, 5 Pond Street 
Concerns centered around the project’s scale, density, desire to keep existing vegetation on Prospect Street side, and possible 
adding of sidewalk around project perimeter.   
 
Questions were raised if any soil testing had been done.  D. McQuaid noted that the Conservation Commission has reviewed the 
site and issued a negative determination.  W. Flis noted there are no wetlands on the site.   
 
There was discussion on interpretation of the  Lake Whalom Overlay District Bylaw, with some individuals opining there could be 
no more than two bedrooms per unit.  D. McQu aid noted the September 22, 2015 letter issued by the Building 
Commissioner/Zoning Official, which noted in part, “…the Planning Board with a granting of a Special Permit under Section 4.13. 
can approve any density of units with any number of bedrooms unless waivers are sought under Section 4.12.5.2. ”  The 
applicant is not seeking any waivers under Section 4.12.5.2.   
 
K. Chenis inquired if ther e were fewer units of a lower height, would that match the density of the surrounding neighborhood?  
The Applicant will come to the continuation with a comparison of the Emerald Place at W halom Park density and the proposed 
development density in an attempt to work towards a better site.  The Applicant reminded the Board that he is not requesting any 
variation form zoning. 
 
Board members feel the development is too dense and want  it to match the character of the neighborhood .  They would also like 
to see a variation of building materials and street trees.  It was mentioned that the development might look less dense with a two-
car-width driveway.   
 
E. Bakaysa, 97 Chase Rd - Is an over 55 or affordable component being considered?  Yes, the proposed Purchase & Sales 
(P&S) agreement notes that a percentage of the unit s will be affordable.  He was also concerned with the units becoming renter -
occupied vs owner-occupied.  A. Burney responded that the Board looks at the land use and doe s not have the legal mechanism 
to govern ownership.   K. Chenis made Motion to get an opinion from Town Counsel to resolve this on-going issue, Second, G. 
Bittner, all aye. 
 
The Board discussed items they wanted for the continuation. 
Two renderings – one from the top of the site and one from the bottom. 
Perspective views from the intersection of Pond Street and Kimball Street, and one from Prospect Street. 
Perspective or elevation that would display lot interior. 
K. Chenis would like to see what units look like from driveway view. 
Where practicable, new street trees on all streets.  
Sidewalk on Pond Street. 
Documentation of varying materials, colors, etc. 
 
G. Bittner made Motion to continue Hearing to February 22, 6:35 PM, Second, K. Chenis, all aye.  
 
Recessed 8:31 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Site Plan Review Application, 274 Prospect Street 
Plans Revised to 1/25/16 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2016/274 Prospect Street_01.25.16 