===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Damon McQuaid, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Kenneth Chenis, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
May 23, 2016 
234 Summer Street 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Damon McQuaid, Gregory Bittner, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Clerk opened the Public Hearing with the reading of the statutory notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on  May 9 
and May 16, 2016.  The Public Hearing was to hear and discuss a site plan approval under Section 8.4. of the Protective Bylaw of 
the Town of Lunenburg  to replace the existing retail facility with a single family home at 234 Summer Street , Map 117, Parcel 
0031. 
 
Project engineer Gary Shepard, David E. Ross Associates (DER) , represented the ap plicant Stanley Miller, 233 Summer Street .  
The submitted application was to demolish the existing retail facility and replace it with a single family home with the pavement 
office located on the side.  (As a result of the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) Pub lic Hearing, the Applicant will be removing the 
office area.)  As this is a pre -existing, non-conforming use, the applicant has received approval from the ZBA for a modification 
to the use  and increase in nonconformity.   No exterior lighting is proposed ot her than residential wall scones near the entry 
doors.  The new building will have almost the same footprint.  Infiltration will be improved with the compacted gravel area 
being converted to both a patio and  lawn.  D. Prokowiew inquired as to height of pri vacy fence requested by an abutter at the 
ZBA Hearing.  DER was not sure if it had been specified by the ZBA.  Some of the pavement will be removed to balance the new 
pavement for a circular driveway. 
 
Jane & Dino Piermarini, 23 6 Summer Street- Letter of o pposition read into record (on file in Planning Office).  Major concerns 
were with the possibility of being the recipient of noise complaints from his commercial property, the effect on his liability 
insurance from possible damage to vehicles parked outsid e his garage (e.g., baseball from the residence damaging a vehicle),  
and prospective buyers being discourage d from purchasing his commercial property due to having a residence abutting his 
business.   
 
There was discussion regarding fence height  and location.  A. Burney noted that at eight (8) feet it would require a permit , but 
at ten (10) feet it would be considered a structure.  DER noted that as the driveway is only ten (10) feet wide, the fence would 
have to be on the lot line in order for the property  owners to use the driveway.  He also noted that the fence stops fifteen (15) 
feet from the property line to allow for sight lines.  Board members felt it was acceptable to place an eight (8) foot fence on the 
property and would like to see fence detail on the plan to include the height and a solid privacy fence.   
 
D. Piermarini- inquired if the fence could go all the way to the street by lowering it for the aforementioned fifteen (15) feet.   
 
The fence will begin at the property line, not the street line. 
 
D. McQuaid, Motion to continue Hearing to June 13, 2016 , 6:35 PM,  to allow the Board an opportunity to  familiarize 
themselves with the ZBA Decision, Second, K. Chenis; Discussion - clarification of proposed Conditions - Commencing at the 
property line, the first fifteen (15 ’) foot section of fence will be at a height of thirty -six (36”) inches, then eight (8’) feet tall 
for the remainder of the property line and will be solid vinyl, all aye. 
 
Hearing recessed at 7:55 PM. 
Documents used at hearing: Site Plan Appoval Application, 234 Summer Street 