===PAGE 1===
 
 
LUNENBURG PLANNING BOARD  
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
 
Damon McQuaid, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Gregory Bittner, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
David Prokowiew, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
March 14, 2016 
 
Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:35 PM 
Present:  Damon McQuaid, Kenneth Chenis, Gregory Bittner, David Prokowiew, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Matthew Allison 
 
Chair D. McQuaid opened the Hearing with the reading of the notice published in the Sentinel and Enterprise on 
February 29 and March 7, 2016.  The Hearing was to to amend the Protective Bylaw of the T own of Lunenburg by 
deleting Section 8.4. Development Plan Review and replacing it with a new Section 8.4. Site Plan Approval, deleting 
Section 6.1.2. Design of Off Street Parking and Loading Spaces and 6.4.3. Design Requirements, and replacing it 
with a n ew Section 6.4.3. Off Street Parking Design Standards, amend Section 3.1. Types of Districts by deleting 
“fourteen (14)” and substituting “fifteen (15)”, amend Table of Contents by deleting “8.4. Development Plan Review” 
and substituting “8.4. Site Plan Ap proval”, and to hear a petition request for rezoning of 1026 Northfield Road, Map 
37, Parcel 12, from Recreational District to Residence A District.  Notices were sent to abutting towns, cities, 
agencies and Town departments. 
 
 
Article    
To see if the Town will vote to approve a zoning change from “Recreational District” to “Residence A District” land described as 
parcel currently designated Parcel 12 on Assessor’s Map 37. 
 
Presentation made by petitioner Ron Smith, 110 Old Farm Road.  Front of property is  zoned Residence A; rear is 
zoned Recreational.  He gave a brief history of the land, noting it was zoned Residence A approximately 25 years 
ago.  It went to dual -zoning in 1990 in anticipation of the golf course buildout when Recreation District zoning was 
adopted.  He noted concern of any possible issues in the future if it retains the double zoning.  He would like to put it 
back to the original zoning of Residence A.  Motion, K. Chenis to endorse petition to rezone from Recreation District 
to Residence A District land described as Parcel 12, Map 37, Second,  D. Prokowiew.  All aye. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 2 
 
Article    
8.4. Site Plan Approval 
8.4.1. Purpose  
The purpose of the Site Plan Review Bylaw hereby established is to protect the  safety, public health, convenience and general 
welfare of the inhabitants of the Town by ensuring that the design and layout of certain developments permitted by right or b y 
Special Permit will constitute suitable developments and will not result in a detriment to the neighborhood or the environment. 
8.4.2. Applicability 
8.4.2.1. Projects Requiring Site Plan Review 
a) New construction or exterior expansion of any non -residential building or multi-family dwelling containing more than 
four (4) units. "Expansion" shall include a floor space increase of 5,000 square feet or 25% or more within any ten (10) 
year period, whichever is less. 
b) The construction or enlargement of any multi -family dwelling containing more than four (4) units, or buildings 
accessory to such dwellings, including such dwellings on contiguous lots under the same ownership. 
c) The construction, rehabilitation, of a building involving ten (10) or more parking spaces. 
d) The construction, reconfiguration or renovation of parking facilities, with the exception of normal maintenance. 
e) Any use designated that is grated a Special Permit or Variance by the Zoning Board of Appeals. 
f) Any change of use within an existing building or site.  
g) Any child care facility. 
8.4.3. Procedure 
8.4.3.1. Applications are to be prepared in accordance with the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and 
Special Permit. These plans are to be submitted to the Planning Office in the amount outlined in the aforementioned 
document.  
8.4.3.2. Public Hearing on Site Plans 
a) The Planning Board shall hold a public hearing within sixty -five (65) days of the receipt of a complete application and 
shall take final action within ninety (90) days from the time of the hearing, as provided for in MGL Chapter 40A, 
Sections 9 and 11.  
b) The Planning Board's final action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either: 
1. Approval of the site plan based upon determination that the proposed plan will constitute a suitable development 
and is in compliance with the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or 
2. Disapproval of the site plan based upon a determination that the proposed plan does not meet the standards set 
forth in this Bylaw; or 
3. Approval of the site plan subject to any condition, modification or restriction required by the Planning Board whi ch 
will ensure that the project meets the standards set forth in this Bylaw. 
8.4.3.3. Failure of the Board to take final action upon an application for Site Plan Review within the time specified above shall 
be deemed to be approval of said application. Upo n issuance by the Town Clerk of an appropriate certification that the allowed 
time has passed without Planning Board action, the required building permits may be issued. 
8.4.4. Site Design Principles 
8.4.4.1. All Site Plan Review applicants shall adhere to  the following general principles when designing a site plan for land 
within the Town of Lunenburg. 
a) Landscaping Within the Setbacks: Applicants are expected to design setbacks with landscaping, maintain the 
landscaping and replace any landscaping that has not fully established itself. Front yard setback landscaping shall 
consist of street trees, low -level plantings and other visually unobtrusive flora. Landscaping shall be situated in a 
manner such that vehicular and pedestrian sight lines are not restricted. 
b) Driveways and Curb Cuts: Entrance and exit location shall be designed to facilitate safe traffic movement both on and 
off the site as well as internally.  Curb cuts are limited to as few as practicable for the length of street frontage with 
adequate separation from adjacent parcels, other curb cuts and intersections.  
c) Service Roads/Connection of Parking Lots: To minimize turning movements onto adjacent public ways, developers are 
encouraged to provide internal circulation systems (service roads) that con nect to adjacent developments (parking 
area to parking area). Site plans that propose service roads and/or connection of parking areas shall show on the plan 
how the connection of parking areas will be achieved and have a deeded agreement and easement from the abutter. 
d) Parking and Loading Areas:  
1. Access locations shall be designed to encourage unimpeded traffic flow with controlled turning movements and 
minimum hazards to vehicular and pedestrian traffic.   
2. Facilities and access routes for deliveries, servi ce and maintenance shall be separated, where practical, from public 
access routes and parking areas.  
3. Parking facilities shall be designed to prevent parked cars from damaging trees, shrubs and curbing, and shall not 
disrupt pedestrian walkways.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 3 
 
4. Walkways shall be separated from areas of vehicular traffic and designed to minimize stormwater runoff while 
maximizing access.  
5. These facilities shall include appropriate landscaping, pedestrian access and multi-modal parking accommodations.  
e) Stormwater Management (Grading and Drainage): All site plans shall be designed to comply with DEP (Department of 
Environmental Protection) Stormwater Management Standards. Furthermore, the use of Low Impact Development, 
infiltration of stormwater and reduction of impervious surface are strongly encouraged.  
f) Lighting: Lighting designs shall be Dark Sky compliant.  This includes all exterior lights being designed and installed in 
such a manner as to prevent objectionable light at (and  glare across) the property lines.  Developments shall 
eliminate glare onto adjacent properties through the use of lighting shields, earthen berms, addition of new 
landscaping and/or retention of existing natural vegetation. 
8.4.5. Standards for Site Plan Review 
8.4.5.1. In reviewing a site plan application, the Planning Board shall take the following items into consideration: 
a) Compliance with all applicable provisions of the Lunenburg Protective Bylaw; Planning Board Rules and Regulations 
for Site Plan Approval and Special Permit; and Subdivision Regulations. 
b) Traffic safety and ease of access at street and highway entrances and exits, to be determined by  
1. The adequacy of grades,  
2. The presence of sight distances that are appropriate for the design speed of the road, as determined by ASHTO, 
3. Minimum safe distance between such exits and entrances, and  
4. The existence of proper alignment or safe distance from proximal existing street(s) and driveway entrances. 
c) Safety and adequacy of driveway layout and pedestrian w alkways; off -street parking areas; off -street loading areas 
for materials and products; to be determined by 
1. Adequate access for service and emergency vehicles,  
2. Proper separation of pedestrian and vehicular facilities, 
3. The presence of separated facilities for delivery of goods, and 
4. Acceptable traffic patterns to/from the site entrance/exit and within the parking facilities. 
d) Safe and adequate means of disposal of sewage, garbage and rubbish. 
e) Safe and adequate water supply and distribution; including sufficient water and facilities for firefighting on the site. 
f) Safe and adequate storm drainage consistent with  
1. building and surface coverage,  
2. grade and slopes,  
3. soils and  
4. water table  
All of which shall result in zero increase in the rate of runoff from the sit e, as measured by the 2 -Year (24-hour) and 10 -Year 
(24-hour) Storm Event Standards; and there will be no negative impacts to downstream property -owners in a 100 -year (24 -
hour) storm event. The stormwater system shall meet all the requirements and standards  of the Massachusetts Stormwater 
Management Standards, as amended.  
g) Prevention of soil erosion during and after construction; provisions for an increase in the volume of runoff of surface 
water from the site and the protection of adjacent areas against det rimental or offensive uses on the site by the 
provision of adequate buffers against light, sight, sound, dust and vibrations. 
h) Open space provisions and landscaping, including the maximum retention of on-site natural features. 
i) Placement of underground utilities, night lighting and signs. 
j) Compatibility of soil and subsoil's to type and intensity of development. 
k) No exterior lighting shall shine directly on adjacent properties, or in such a manner as to create a nuisance on such 
properties or a hazard on public  ways. To ensure exterior lighting conforms to this provision the following conditions 
shall be met. 
1.  For the proposed use all lighting installed shall conform to the standards outlined in The Illuminating Engineering 
Society of North America Lighting Manual. 
2.  All lighting, with the exception of security lighting, shall be turned on no earlier than one half hour prior to the 
business opening and turned off no later than one half hour after the business closing. 
3.  The Lighting Plan shall meet the req uirements outlined in the “Lighting Plan Submissions” section of the Dark Sky 
Society’s 2009 Guidelines for Good Exterior Lighting Plans, as amended; 
4.  All fixtures u sing LED lighting shall be in the range of “warm -white” or shall be filtered LEDs that m eet the 
standard of CCT < 3,000 K or have a  S/P ratio < 1.2)   
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 4 
 
l) Snow storage areas shall be shown on the site plan and shall not interfere with sight distances at points of 
ingress/egress to a site or pedestrian /vehicle circulation, nor shall it adversely impact surrounding water bodies, 
streams, wetlands, or other resource areas as defined in Chapter 131 section 40 Massachusetts General Laws, and the 
Lunenburg Wetlands Bylaw, as amended. 
8.4.6. Modifications to an Approved Site Plan 
8.4.6.1. Once a site plan has been approved by the Planning Board, said plan shall not be changed, amended or modified 
without approval of the Board. There shall be only one final site plan in effect for a parcel of land at a time. 
8.4.7. Construction of an Approved Site Plan 
8.4.7.1. Construction on a site with an approved site plan must be started within one (1) year from the date of the Planning 
Board's approval of the site plan. Site plan approval may be extended for one (1) year a t the discretion of the Board after 
receipt of a written request from the landowner, showing good cause. If one year has elapsed from the date of approval; and 
no extensions have been granted; or if one year has elapsed since the granting of said extension ; the final site plan approval 
shall become null and void without requiring any further action by the Planning Board. This time period shall not include del ays 
resulting from litigation. 
8.4.7.2. No permit to build, alter or expand any building or structur e, or change of use requiring Site Plan Review under this 
Bylaw shall be issued by the Building Inspector; nor shall any construction commence before a written statement of Approval or 
Approval with Conditions has been issued by the Planning Board. 
8.4.7.3. The Building Inspector may inspect a site under construction for compliance with the approved site plan. 
8.4.8. Enforcement 
8.4.8.1. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement Officer to administer and enforce the provisions of 
this Bylaw. 
8.4.8.2. The Planning Board shall provide a schedule of inspection fees to be paid by the applicant prior to the start of 
construction. 
8.4.8.3. The Planning Board may use inspection fees paid by the applicant to offset the cost of hiring any additional engineers or 
inspectors necessary to monitor all phases of construction covered by an approved site plan. 
8.4.8.4. If work is not performed per the approved plan, including all conditions, the Building Inspector/Zoning Enforcement 
Officer has the au thority to issue a cease and desist order per the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval 
and Special Permits, as amended.  
8.4.8.5. "As Built" plans, certified by a registered professional and noting any change from the approved plan, shall be filed with 
the Building Inspector and the Planning Board before a Certificate of Completion shall be issued. 
8.4.8.6. Building Inspector shall issue a Certificate of Completion when all construction has been performed and all other 
requirements have been met in compliance with the approved site plan. A copy of the Certificate of Completion will be filed 
with the Planning Board. 
8.4.8.7. No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for any structure or use subject to site plan review unless a Certifi cate of 
Completion has been issued. 
8.4.8.8. The Building Inspector may issue a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy for a period of one (1) year if the required 
construction has been substantially completed and the permitted uses of the development can be c arried on in a safe and 
convenient manner. 
8.4.9. Rules and Regulations 
8.4.9.1. The Planning Board may adopt such rules and regulations for carrying out its duties under this Section. The Board may, 
where such action allowed by law, in the public interest  and not inconsistent with the purpose and intent of this Bylaw, waive 
strict compliance with any requirement of this Site Plan Review Bylaw or its rules and regulations. 
8.4.9.2. The Planning Board may periodically amend or add rules and regulations relat ing to the procedures and administration 
of this Site Plan Review Bylaw, by majority vote of the Board, after conducting a public hearing to receive comments on any 
proposed revisions. Such hearing dates shall be advertised in a newspaper of general local circulation, at least seven (7) days 
prior to the hearing date. 
8.4.10. Appeals Procedure 
8.4.10.1. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Planning Board or Building Inspector regarding a Site Plan Review 
application may appeal that decision per M.G.L Chapter 40A Section 17, as amended.  
 
A . Burney noted DRAFT Board Rules and Regulations for Special Permits and Site Plan Approval that would be adopted by the 
Board if the Town votes to approve the above Article.  Motion, G. Bittner, to endorse Section 8.4. Site Plan Approval, Second, D. 
Prokowiew. All aye. 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 5 
 
Article    
 
6.4.3. Off-Street Parking Design Standards 
 
General Parking & Loading Provisions 
a) Location 
 1. Required off-street parking spaces shall be pro vided on the same lot as, and loading bays shall be provided next to, the 
principal or accessory use they are required to serve. 
 2. No area may be utilized and counted as both a req uired parking space and a required loading bay, without the approval 
of the Planning Board. Shared parking/loading areas shall only be used for loading prior to opening or after closing of all 
uses located on the site in question. However, maneuvering aisl es and driveways may serve both required parking and 
loading bays if they meet the design standards of each. Existing areas used for both parking and loading shall be counted 
for loading purposes. 
 3. Required off-street parking spaces or loading bays may be wholly or partly enclosed in a structure. 
 4. Off-street parking spaces required for two or more building s, uses, or establishments on a single lot may be provided in 
a common lot. 
b) Driveways  
 1. Each parking space and loading bay shall be connected by a driveway to a street or to an interior drive that leads to a 
street. 
 2. The number of driveways permitting entrance to and exit from a lot shall be limited to two per street line. Driveways 
shall be located to minimize conflict with traffic on public streets and where good visibility and sight distances are available 
to observe approaching pedestrian and vehicular traffic. 
 3. All curb cuts and access driveways shall be located in the Zoning District in which the site’s primary use is permitted. 
 4. The maximum grade of any outdoor driveway is 12%. 
c) Setbacks 
 1. Each parking space or driveway serving a one -family or two-family dwelling shall be set back five feet from any side lot 
line and rear lot line, with the exception of common driveways and shall be designated on a plan. 
 2. No parking is permitted in the front yard other than in a designated parking space or driveway. 
3. All paved parts of all parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering aisles shall be set back from any wall of a principal 
building and from any lot line or zoning boundary line as indicated in the following table: 
 
District Residential District 
Line Street Line All Other Lot Lines Wall of Principal 
Building 
RA; RB; O; R, VCD N/A 25 5 5 
LB/R;  25 25 10 5 
RC; C 40 30 15 5 
OP/I 50 30  5 
 *all measurements are in feet 
Exceptions to the Table Are:  
a. One and Two-Family homes.  
b. A parking space located within a structure otherwise permitted in such area 
 4. No parking space, internal driveway or loading bay, whether required or otherwise provided, shall be located, wholly or 
partly, within the right-of-way of a street. 
 5. All access to parking shall be by driveways meeting the requirements of this Section; curbs, wheel stops, screening or 
similar barriers must be installed to prevent vehicles from being parked or driven within required setback areas. 
d) Screening for Parking 
1. In all residential and mixed uses, or on a lot in any district which abuts or is across the street from a residential use, any 
outdoor parking lot, all loading bays, maneuvering aisles and driveways shall be screened in a manner to protect abutting 
lots from the glare of headlights, noise and other nuisance factors. 
2. Any parking lot, which is a principal use, must be screened along driveways and around the entire perimeter of the 
parking lot. The entrance to driveways, to the extent practicable, shall be located on the side near nonresidential uses or 
on streets or highways leading to nonresidential areas. 
3. Screening shall consist of: 
a. A strip of land at least four feet wide, densely planted with combination of shrubs, and trees with or without 
earthen berms which are at least four feet high at the time of planting and which are of a type that may be expected 
to form a year-round dense screen at least six feet high within three years;  
===PAGE 6===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 6 
 
b. A wall, barrier, or fence of uniform appearance at least five feet high above finished grade. Such wall, barrier or 
fence may be opaque or perforated, provided that not more than 50% of the face is open; or 
c. Any combination of a & b approved by the Planning Board through Site Plan Approval.  
4. Such screening shall be maintained in good condition at all times. Such screening or barrier may be interrupted by 
entrances or exits and shall have no signs attached thereto other than those permitted in the district. 
e) Design Standards 
1. Dimensions 
a. Parking spaces and maneuvering aisles shall have the minimum dimensions set forth in the following table and 
elsewhere in this section: 
Table 1 
S = Standard Parking Space  C= Compact Parking Space 
Angle of 
Parking 
Width of Parking 
Space 
Depth of Parking 
Space** 
Width of Maneuvering 
Aisle Unit Parking Depth 
 S C S C S C S C 
61 to 90 9* 8.5* 19 15 22 20 60 50 
46 to 60 9 8.5 19 15 16 15 56 48 
45 9 8.5 19 15 14 13 53 47 
Parallel 8 8 22 18 12 12 n/a n/a 
 
NOTES: 
* Where one or both of the long sides of a parking space abut a wall or similar obstruction, the width shall be 12 feet 
** Up to 2 feet of unpaved landscaped space may be included in the depth provided there are no obstructions to the 
vehicles overhang. 
b. To count as a required parking space, a parallel parking space shall have maneuvering space at least 20 feet deep in 
front of it in an aisle parallel to and abutting such parking space. 
c. Where columns of a building or structure are located in a parking lot (such as a parking garage under a building) no 
part of a column may be within  three feet of a maneuvering aisle or within the minimum dimensions of a parking 
space. 
d. The width of a driveway for one -way use shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet and for two -way use shall be a 
minimum of twenty (20) feet and a maximum of thirty (30) feet, as measured at the setback line. 
e. Where access or egress is provided for a parking lot, or one or more loading bays, such access or egress shall be so 
arranged to provide a circulation system or maneuvering space on the lot so that all vehicles may exit from and enter 
onto a public street by being driven in a forward direction and no vehicle shall b e required to enter or leave by backing 
and no vehicle shall have to stand within a street right-of-way waiting to enter the lot.  
2. Number of compact car spaces. In parking lots c ontaining more than 20 spaces, not more than 33% of such spaces may 
be designed for use by compact cars. Such compact car spaces shall be located in one or more continuous areas and shall 
not be intermixed with spaces designed for standard cars and shall b e clearly designated by signs or pavement marking. In 
parking lots with 20 or fewer parking spaces, spaces designed for use by compact cars are not permitted. 
3. Loading bays. All r equired loading bays must have minimum dimensions as follows: 30 feet long, 12 feet wide and 14 
feet high. Each loading bay shall have a maneuvering space equal to its length. Where the long portion of a loading bay 
abuts a wall, column or other obstacle, or in other cases where the permitting authority requests, evidence shall be 
provided that the loading bay and its maneuvering space are adequate to accommodate large motor vehicles and trailers.  
All required loading bays shall have an adequate travel isl e to provide access. This may be separately located or through 
the parking area. In either instance the “Truck Route” shall be clearly delineated by signage or pavement marking. An 
adequate travel path shall provide width and turning radii appropriate to a  WB-55 or the largest truck expected to deliver 
goods to the site, whichever is larger. 
4. Marking. In a parking lot or loading area, the surface of the parking lot or loading area shall be painted, marked or 
otherwise delineated so that the location of the parking spaces and loading bays is apparent, and signs shall be erected 
indicating that loading bays, and, if necessary, compact or other reserved parking spaces, are reserved for such use. Where 
50% or more of the required parking spaces in a parking lot are assigned, such as to individual employees or to dwelling 
units in a dwelling, parking spaces for guests or visitors to the use or establishment, not to exceed 10% of the requi red 
parking spaces, shall be located and designated, by signage or pavement marking, as visitor parking near the principal 
entrance to the building which they serve. 
5. Availability. To ensure the availability and utilization of required parking spaces and loading bays on a year-round basis: 
a. Unless authorized by Special Permit or Site Plan Approval, no fee or other charge to the parker, in addition to a lease 
or purchase agreement applicable to occupants generally, shall be made for a parking space or loading bay required to 
serve a use, building, or establishment. 
===PAGE 7===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 7 
 
b. Each required off-street parking space and loading bay shall be designed so that any motor vehicle may proceed to 
and from said space without requiring the moving of any other vehicle or by passing over any other space or bay. 
c. Parking spaces for  vehicles larger than automobiles, such as large trucks or buses, shall be specifically identified on 
the off-street parking and loading plan and shall be of such dimension as to accommodate the specified type of vehicle. 
Such vehicles shall be permitted to park only in the spaces so identified and approved. 
6. Snow storage. An aggregate area equal to, at a minimum, ten percent (10%) of the paved area shall be set aside for 
snow storage. Snow storage shall be designated, at a minimum, in two separate and distinct places on the property. These 
areas shall be located on the submitted off-street parking and loading plan.  
In addition snow storage shall be prohibited from: 
 a. Being located on/in stormwater structures or ponds; 
 b. Impacting the sight lines at intersections both within the site and where the site driveway meets public roads.  
 c. Being located in/on off-street parking spaces that are required per the Protective Bylaw. 
7. Surfacing and drainage. 
a. All required parking spaces and loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and driveway s shall have a durable, dustless, all -
weather surface suitable for year-round use, such as asphalt or concrete, and shall dispose of surface water by grading 
and drainage in such a manner that no surface water shall drain onto any public way or onto any lo t in other 
ownership. 
b. It is the intent of this Section that the paved surface of a parking lot or loading area shall be limited to such areas as 
are necessary for the parking spaces, loading bays, maneuvering aisles, and driveways required to meet the p rovisions 
of this Section. The off-street parking and loading plan required by this Section shall demonstrate that all paved areas 
associated with a parking lot are necessary for the storing, standing, or maneuvering of vehicles; the permitting 
authority may deny the request for a permit when more area is paved than is necessary to comply with the provisions 
of this section. 
8. Grade. The maximum grade of any required maneuvering aisle, parking space, or loading bay shall be 10%. 
9. Landscaping. 
a. On at least three sides of the perimeter of an outdoor parking lot containing 20 or more parking spaces, there mus t 
be at least one tree for every eight parking spaces abutting the perimeter; such trees must be spaced so that some part 
of a parking space is not more than 30 feet from a tree. 
b. In the interior part of an outdoor parking lot where two rows of parking s paces containing a total of 10 or more 
parking spaces face each other, a landscaped open space not less than five feet in width must be provided. The 
landscaped strip may be provided either: 
i. Between the rows of parking spaces parallel to the aisle; or 
ii. In two or more strips parallel to the spaces and extending from the aisle serving one row of spaces to the aisle 
serving the other row of spaces. There must be, in each such strip, at least three trees and in all such strips not 
fewer than one tree for every eight parking spaces in the interior part of the parking lot. Trees must be spaced so 
that some part of each parking space is not more than 30 feet from a tree. 
c. Trees required by this Section shall be at least two inches in diameter at a height four feet above the ground at time 
of planting and shall be of a species characterized by suitability and hardiness for location in a parking lot. To the 
extent practicable, existing trees shall be retained and used to satisfy this Section. 
10. Exception for one -family or two -family dwelling. The provisions (ADD CITATION) with regard to backing into a public 
street, marking of pavement, moving of vehicles and surfacing and drainage  shall not apply where parking is provided for 
any one-family or two-family dwelling.  
f) Bicycle Parking 
1. Required spaces. In any parking area with twenty or more spaces as defined in the parking and loading tables, a 
minimum of two bicycle parking spaces shall be provided, and one additional bicycle parking space shall be provided for 
each increment of 20 motor vehicle parking spaces over 40 vehicle spaces. 
2. Placement and access. B icycle parking shall be located near the primary entrance(s) of the building. Half of the bicycle 
parking spaces shall be provided as long -term parking, safe and secure from vandalism and theft and protected from the 
elements. The other half shall be provi ded as short-term (customer or visitor) parking, and short -term parking spaces shall 
be visible and convenient to the building entrance. Bicycle parking apparatus shall not be installed in a manner that will 
cause obstruction of pedestrian or motor vehicle  traffic. Bicycle parking shall be situated in such a way that normal snow 
removal activities and snow storage do not impact the bicycle parking facility. 
3. Dimensional Regulation. Each bicycle parking space shall be sufficient to accommodate a bicycle six feet in length and 
two feet in width. 
===PAGE 8===
 
Minutes 
TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 
Page 8 
 
4. Design. Bicycle par king apparatus shall be of a high -security design to which the frame and wheel of a parked bicycle 
may be attached; installed in a visible location to deter vandalism and theft; and permanently mounted to the ground or to 
a building or other immovable stru cture. Inverted-U-frame or other racks that support the bicycle at two or more points 
above the center of gravity are required. 
 
 
Add 6.4.3.b)5. – “No driveway shall require that vehicles back out onto public or private ways. ” 
 
Change 10. To read “Exception for one-family or two-family dwelling.  The provisions of 6.4.3.b)5; 6.4.3.e) 4. 5. & 6. with regard 
to backing into a public street, ma rking of pavement, moving of vehicles and surfacing and drainage and snow storage shall not 
apply where parking is provided for any one-family or two-family dwelling.” 
 
Motion, D. Prokowiew, to endorse Article as amended, Second, G. Bittner; discussion - K. Chenis brought up d)3. a.  Replace 
“which are at least four feet high” with “which shall have a combined height of at least four feet high”. 
 
9.a.  – replace “30 feet from a tree” with “30 feet from the center line of a tree”.   
 
9.b.ii. - replace “30 feet from a tree” with “30 feet from the center line of a tree”.   
 
D. Prokowiew, Motion amended to include above changes, Second, G. Bittner.  All aye. 
 
 
Article    
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by amending Section 3.1. Types of Districts by deleting “fourteen (14)” 
and substituting “fifteen (15)”. 
 
Motion, D. Prokowiew to endorse Article, Second, K. Chenis.  All aye. 
 
 
Article    
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Bylaw by amending the Table of Contents by deleting “8.4. Development Plan 
Review” and substituting “8.4. Site Plan Approval”. 
 
Motion, D. Prokowiew to endorse Article, Second, K. Chenis.  All aye. 
 
Hearing closed 8:44 PM 
 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Zoning Warrant Articles 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2016/TM Warrant Article 03.14.16 