===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
994 Northfield Road 
August 28, 2017 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:25 PM 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for a Special Permit and Site Plan Approval under Sections 4.15. and 8.4. of the Protective 
Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  for construction of a 6MW large -scale ground-mounted photovoltaic installation at 994 Northfield Road (Map 
037, Parcel 0013). 
 
The Applicant, 994 Northfield Road, LLC, William Gustus, was represented by Robert Oliva, David E. Ross Associates; Attorney Robert 
Bowen; Ethan Gyles, PE, Development Manager, Nexamp; and Alan Clapp, PE, Development Director, Nexamp.   
 
The property is split into two lots; 1A (90.55 acres) and 1B (122.61 acres).  T he solar installation will sit on Lot 1A.  The majority of the panels 
will sit on g rade.  The site will be cleared  and grubbed, and then revegetated  with meadow vegetation.  It will be mowed approximately twice 
yearly to preclude the vegetation interfering with the panels.  The Applicant has filed a Notice of Intent (NOI) with the Conservation Commission 
for construction.  There is an isolated wetland at the proposed access which would require a wetland crossing.  This would cr eate a third curb 
cut so the Applicant is proposing to utilize the current  golf course access instead.  The Plan will be amended to address the August 25, 2017 
review comments of Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI).  There will be a reduction in overall flow  post-construction.  The entire site will be fenced.  
Runoff has been addressed.  There will be underground electricity on the site out to overhead on the street poles.   
 
The site is heavily wooded and the Applicant is relying on natural vegetation on the west and south perimeters.  There is a strip of natural 
vegetation on the east side at the golf course.  Additional screening may be needed at the front of the site on the Northfield Road side. 
 
M. Jeffreys felt that  in its submittal,  the Applicant had not complied with Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,  §4.15. Solar Energy 
Systems, §§4.15.4.12. Financial Surety.  A. Clapp responded that the decommissioning estimate is usually generated by the decommissioning 
site contractor.  M. Jeffreys also inquired as to the financial contribution to the Town.  A. Clapp noted that a PILOT (Payment in Lieu of Taxe s) 
Plan will be negotiated with the Board of Selectmen.  A. Burney noted the Applicant will need a stormwater special permit from the Planning 
Board.  M. Jeffreys inquired as to what areas will be graded and to what extent .  A. Clapp noted that the maximum slope the c ontractor can 
build at for the racking is 20%.  There are three small areas that will need to get flattened from 25%; two to the north of the sit e and one to the 
southwest.  The panels meet both the 200 foot property line setback and 200 foot strip of vegetation under the Bylaw.  K. Chenis inquired if the 
panels would be visible from Northfield Road; R. Oliva did not believe so.  Board members inquired if the Fire Department had the foam and 
training to put out a fire at a solar field.  In house training wo uld be provided to the Fire Department.  G. Bittner noted the Board may ask for 
both summer and winter sight line representations under §§4.15.4.8.U.  As Northfield Road is designated a Scenic Road, K. Che nis wanted to 
make sure there is adequate buffering  and vegetation at the property lines to ensure the panels will not be seen from Northfield Road or by 
abutters.   
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 08.28.17 
994 Northfield Road Public Hearing 
Page 2 
 
Gail Stewart, 252 New West Townsend Road - was concerned with long term effects  and noted a handout from Massachusetts Department of 
Energy Re sources, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, and Massachusetts Clean Energy Center dated June 2015, 
subject: Ground-Mounted Solar Photovoltaic System. 
 
Ron Smith, 1026 Northfield Road- he is not an opponent, but he wants more permanent buffering, e.g., evergreens, not seasonal buffering.  He 
went on to note that the current proposed access would require the elimination of two to three large trees.  He opined that the water issue could 
not be alleviated and that it’s been there for years.  R. Oliva noted that the project will not worsen any drainage.   
 
Bill Gustus, 994 Northfield Road- noted that this will provide long term financial security for the golf course over the next 20-30 years. 
 
G. Bittner inquired how close to the panels the trees could be planted  without affecting their output.  E. Gyles responded that  the shade is just 
outside the panels and to move the trees in closer would encroach on the panels and cause a reduction in number of panels.   
 
B. Gustus noted that Chris Clark, Executive VP for NEXAMP and Harald Scheid, Regional Asse ssor are working on numbers for the PILOT 
Plan to bring forth to the Board of Selectmen.  E. Gyles inquired as to what the Board would con sider adequate documentation for the financial 
surety.   
 
The Board has the understanding that the Town has a solar advisor and is looking for insight and clarification.  A. Burney will inquire.   
 
Some of the Board members are asking for the financial sur ety up front.  A. Burney noted to the Board that the financial surety is to fund the 
facility if it needs to be removed ; therefore , he is unsure what  the purpose would be  to provide the financial surety up front.   §§4.15.4.12. 
Financial Surety, does not specify a timeframe.   
 
Jeff Walsh, GEI, noted his August 25, 2017 review letter.  He went on to note that he can help the Board estimate the dollar value.  He can look 
at the civil side, e.g., area of disturbance  he would expect for removal , value of labor at today’s rate, calculated inflation costs in 10-20 years.  
He stated a lot of thought went into the engineering of this project.  
 
M. Allison inquired as to the typical increase of stormwater flow going from 35 acres of thick woods to open area.  J. Wals h noted it varies with 
the type of soil cover.   
 
A. Burney summarized the additional information the Board is looking for from the Applicant:   
 Harder number on the cost of removal. 
 An improved/alternate proposal for the surety that doesn’t take ten years. 
 Proposal to increase the buffering along the south and west property lines and to ensure the panels can’t be seen from Northfield 
Road. 
 Additional community engagement with the direct abutters and visual simulations from some of the visually abutting residences. 
 
A. Burney will research the following: 
 Speak with the Fire Chief as to a foam tanker. 
 Find out who is negotiating the PILOT. 
 Speak with UNITIL as to the interconnection impact on the community from this proposal. 
 Check to see if the Town has a solar advisor.     
 
The Applicant requested a continuance to September 25, 2017. 
 
K. Chenis, Motion to continue the Hearing to September 25, 6:30 PM, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye. 
 
Hearing recessed 9:30 PM 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Special Permit and Site Plan Approval Application 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2017/994 Northfield Road_08.28.17 