===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF LU NENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147 ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr.  
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
 
Minutes 
Executive Session 
August 30, 2017 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Place:  Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael -Ray Jeffreys 
Absent:  Adam R. Burney 
Also Present:  Attorney Joel Bard, KP Law, P C; Select Board Members Jamie Toa le, Robert Ebersole,  Paula Bertram, Phyllis 
Luck, Damon McQuaid, and Town Manager Heather Lemieux 
 
The meeting commenced at 6:34 PM.   
 
J. Toale read aloud the reason for entering Executive Session.  
 
Executive Session  M.G.L. c.30A, §21; To discuss strategy with respect to collective bargaining or litigation, if an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the government’s bargaining or litigating positions, and the Chair declares 
so. (O’Brien Homes, Inc. et al. v. Planning Board for the Town of Lunenburg, Land Court Docket Nos. 13 MISC 477878 
through 13 MISC 477887) 
 
Attorney Bard corrected to the “Town of Lunenburg v. O’Brien Homes, Inc.”  
 
Motion, R. Ebersole, Second, P. Bertram 
To enter Executive Session to discus s strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting would have a detrimental 
effect of the government’s litigating position and the Chair declares so  
Roll Call Vote: P. Luck- aye, D. McQuaid- aye, P. Bertram- aye, R. Ebersole- aye, J. Toale – aye. 
 
Planning Board Chair Gregory Bittner announced the reason for entering Executive Session.  
Motion, D. Prokowiew, Second, K. Chenis 
To enter Executive Session to discuss strategy with respect to litigation if an open meeting would have a detrimental 
effect of the government’s litigating position and the Chair declares so and to not return to open meeting  
Roll Call Vote: M. Allison- aye, M. Jeffreys- aye, D. Prokowiew- aye, G. Bittner- aye, K. Chenis- aye 
 
R. Ebersole amended his Motion to state they would adjourn from Executive Session and not return to the open 
meeting. Seconded by P. Bertram 
Roll Call Vote: P. Luck- aye, D. McQuaid- aye, P. Bertram- aye, R.  Ebersole- aye, J. Toale – aye 
 
Attorney Bard reported the Planning Board has denied ten different subdivision plans from O’Brien Homes in an attempt to try to 
have them comply with Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,  § 5.6. Cluster Development, which says you cannot 
subdivide gre ater than 25 acres without certain conditions.  This was appealed by O’Brien Homes and there was a trial in 
January/ February 2016; the Town is still awaiting the judge’s decision.  Six months later we were shown photographs that  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Executive Minutes 08.30.17 
Page 2 
 
O’Brien had largely built out the subdivision and brought it down to Howard Street.  There was some discussion on what could be 
done.  There is a Planning Board subdivision rule and regulation that says you can’t build a subdivision or do any work in 
preparation unless you have an approved subdivision.  The Town of Lunenburg went to court and asked for a court ordered 
injunction.  The land court judge denied the request for an injunction on his theory that clearing 100+ feet of right of way, grading 
etc. was not preparation for the subdivision.  K P Law recommended an appeal on the grounds that the judge was incorrect as a 
matter of law. The Appeals Court agreed with the Town, but said there was a contested issue of fact, namely did O’Brien Ho mes 
do this with the intention of simply creating these 100 foot wide roads so he could go in and do his testing?   
 
Attorney Bard stated what is sche duled for next week is a two -day trial to determine whether O’Brien is being misleading or if he 
graded 100 feet of roadway just to get bulldozers in to do perc tests.  Last week the Town heard from O’Brien’s lawyer with a 
proposal to skip the trial and th ey would agree to give the Town 30 days’ notice before doing any work, basically what the Town 
has been asking for all along.  O’Brien is willing to do this if the Town dismisses the request for an injunction.   We believe that is 
a good deal.  O’Brien would give notice describing the location and nature of the work.   The Town would , within the next thirty 
days, either approve or say that is excessive and then go to court to request an injunction.  The cost to file for an injunction is 
$250.00 versus the cos t of a trial (several thousand dollars).  Attorney Bard recommended going with O’Brien’s lawyer’s draft 
agreement proposal.   
 
Discussion ensued on the draft agreement and possible outcomes.  It was noted the 30 -day notice period to the Town might not 
be long enough for the Planning Board.  Attorney Bard had asked for a 45 -day period, but O’Brien’s lawyer opposed it. Other 
wording changes were suggested for the draft agreement regarding any on -site work.  Suggestion was made to have a minimum 
of two Town re presentatives visit the site before and after work is done.  Several changes to the draft agreement were 
discussed, specifically notice and timing of site inspections and reasons for approving and denying work.  
 
Discussion ensued again on other possible outcomes if the trial is canceled and both parties come to agreement as well as 
possible decisions by the court if going to trial. A straw poll was taken on which direction to go.  
 
Motion: R. Ebersole, Second, P. Bertram 
To not approve the settlement agreement and proceed with the lawsuit  
R. Ebersole- aye, P. Bertram – aye, D. McQuaid- aye, P. Luck- nay, J. Toale- aye 
 
Motion: M. Jeffreys, Second, D. Prokowiew 
To not approve the settlement agreement and proceed with the lawsuit 
M. Allison- aye, M. Jeffreys –aye, D. Prokowiew- aye, K. Chenis- nay, G. Bittner- aye 
 
Motion: R. Ebersole, Second, P. Bertram 
To adjourn the meeting 
Vote: P. Luck- aye, D. McQuaid- aye, P. Bertram- aye, R. Ebersole- aye, J. Toale – aye 
   
Motion: K. Chenis, Second, M. Allison 
To adjourn the meeting 
Roll Call Vote: M. Allison- aye, M. Jeffreys- aye, D. Prokowiew- aye, G. Bittner- aye, K. Chenis- aye 
 
Meeting adjourned 8:06 PM 
 
Minutes/executive 2017/08.30.17 