===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Gregory Bittner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147 
Matthew Allison, Vice-Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
David Prokowiew, Mbr.  Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Mbr. 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
40 Pioneer Drive & 98 Leominster Shirley Road 
July 24, 2017 
 
Meeting Posted:  Yes 
Time:  6:35 PM 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Present:  Gregory Bittner, Matthew Allison, Kenneth Chenis, David Prokowiew, Michael-Ray Jeffreys 
Absent:  Adam R. Burney 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for Site Plan Approval  under Section 8.4. and Special Permit under Section 4.7.  of the 
Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of an addition for office and warehouse space at 40 Pioneer Drive (Map 146, Parcel 
22) and 98 Leominster Shirley Road (Map 146, Parcel 24).    
 
The Applicant, Ecological Fibers, Inc.  (Steven Quill- owner) was represented by Anthony Cleaves, Whitman & Bingham Associates (WBA).  
Also present on behalf of the Applicant were Walter Bennett, Bennett Building Corp., Leominster, MA and David R obbins, Vice President, 
Ecological Fibers, Inc. 
 
Copies of the Proposed Site & Grading Plan dated May 24, 2017 and Architecturals dated May 31, 2017 were provided to the Board.  (These 
items were part of the original application.)   The application is for a n approximately 68,000 square foot warehouse expansion with associated 
parking.  To accommodate the expansion, the existing parking will be relocated and additional parking will be added.  There are currently two 
existing curb cuts on Pioneer Drive; one to the left of the existing building  for the loading area and one to the right.  The two existing curb cuts 
will continue to be utilized and a new curb cut added to obtain access to the proposed loading docks.  The entrance on the left will access the 
parking lots and the entrance to the right will be for delivery trucks.  The existing domestic water and sewer service will remain.  A new  line off 
the street for fire service will be installed.  The stormwater system will consist of grass swales, catch basins and stormwater basins.   
 
The Board questioned the number of curb cuts under Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg, § 6.4.3., §§ 4.b.2. “The number of driveways 
permitting entrance to and exit from a lot shall be limited to two per street line.”   
 
D. Prokowiew questioned the parking calculations  as Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg,  § 6.1., §§ 6.1.1.7. specifies “One (1) space 
for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area…”.  A. Cleaves noted his calculations are from the ITE (Institute of Transportation 
Engineers) Manual.  One per 1,000 square feet is for office use, but this is warehouse use.  A. Cleaves stated that p arking calculations for 
warehouse use are not specified in the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg .  § 6.1., §§ 6.1.1.9. states  “For uses not specified above , 
the number of required spaces will be determined by the Building Official based on accepted planning standards…”   Current parking space s 
are approximately 60; will be increasing to a total of 95.   
 
D. Prokowiew noted no landscape plan.  A. Cleaves noted that trees are shown on Sheet #2, Proposed Site & Grading Plan.  Tree placement 
within the parking lot complies with Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg, § 6.4.3.e) 9.a..  Ornamental trees will probably be planted near 
the building entrance and shrubbery plantings by the site drive towards the office.  There are no specifics at this time. 
 
K. Chenis questioned size of vehicles accessing the loading docks.  Eighteen -wheelers; they will pull into t he site, but then back into the 
loading docks.  There will typically be five to six trucks in the morning and six to eight in the afternoon.   
 
M. Jeffreys noted that in conversation with Mr. Quill, he was given to understand that this proposal is for current needs as well as future.   
 
The majority of the snow storage will be towards Leominster Shirley Road.   
  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, Public Hearing 
40 Pioneer Drive & 98 Leominster Shirley Road 
July 24, 2017 
Page 2 
 
M. Jeffreys inquired as to a photometric plan.  Wall-mounted lights are shown on the plan.  No light poles are planned for the parking lot.  The 
one residential abutter is located 250 feet from the site.  Lighting will be dark sky compliant as required by the Protective Bylaw of the Town of 
Lunenburg.   
 
Roof runoff will be collected by gutters and drains and piped out to basins. 
 
No specifics on signage are provided at this time.  A. Cleaves noted it could be added to the plans and the Applicant could return to the Board if 
they chose to deviate from the plan. 
 
There are two shifts; one from 7:00 AM to 3:30 PM and the other from 3:30 PM to Midnight. 
 
Departmental comments were noted.  As the site connects to Leominster sewer, Leominster has requested a water and sewer clear ance plan 
for any new connections .  The Lunenburg Fire Chief noted little information on fire protection was available.  He expects to see plans for fire 
protection and recommends review by a fire protection engineer due to the size of the addition.  A. Cleaves not ed that fire protection plans will 
be part of the building permit process. 
 
Peer review was done by Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI).  J. Walsh summarized his July 20, 2017 review letter ( on file in the 
Planning Office).  Comments 1 -6 are for information required under the Protective Bylaw of the Town of Lunenburg  and Board Rules & 
Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits.   Of note is #4 in which “… all elevations refer to NGVD 1929.  The required horizontal 
datum is Massachusetts State Plane and the required vertical datum is NAVD88.”   Under Hydrology Computations and Stormwater 
Management, J. Walsh noted he was comfortable with the hydrology computations noted in #7.  Per #9, the depth of the wick drain needs to be 
revised.  General Engineering Comments, #10 -  three drainage pipes are proposed  to the right of the building  into the Town’s right of way   It 
would be efficient to have one manhole to which all three pipes connect and only one pipe into the street.  J. Walsh opined having only one 
would benefit the Town.  He was also pleased with the soil testing logs. 
 
A. Cleaves noted in addition to the requested waivers, he will also request a waiver from the required vertical datum of NAVD88 noted in  #4  of 
GEI’s review letter .  1929 datum was used on anything previously done  in Pioneer Park by WBA.  Re #9 – Applicant will change material to 
clean sand.  Re #10 – will add manhole. 
 
Some Board members inquired of J. Walsh if he would recommend a turning movement radii plan and a traffic study.  J. Walsh did not feel it 
was necessary. 
 
G. Bittner requested the datum waiver be documented for the next meeting.   J. Walsh recommended that the waiver be approved in order to 
keep all datum 1929. 
 
Waivers were requested from the following Sections of the Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits: 
4.1.f.22 – Photometric Plan 
4.1.h. – Level of Service Analysis 
4.1.h. – Trip Generation 
4.1.h. – Community Impacts 
 
Motion made, Michael -Ray Jeffreys to accept the four requested  waivers, Second, D. Prokowiew , discussion- M. Allison noted the site 
abuts a residential use and questioned if A. Burney would have any input they may not be aware of, all aye.  Waivers approved. 
 
A. Cleaves requested a Motion to contin ue the Hearing to August 14, 2017.  Motion made  to continue Hearing to August 14, 2017 , K. 
Chenis, Second, D. Prokowiew, all aye.  Hearing continued to August 14, 2017, 6:35 PM. 
 
Hearing recessed 8:02 PM 
 
 
Documents used at Hearing: 
Site Plan Approval Application  
 
public hearings 2017/40 Pioneer Drive_98 Leominster Shirley Road 07.24.17 