===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Vice-Chair    Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clk.   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Mbr. 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio 
                   Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Town Meeting Zoning Article 
Non-Medical Marijuana 
April 22, 2019 
 
Posted: Yes 
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  8:32 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
The Hearing was to make alterations to Code of the Town of Lunenburg , Chapter 250: Zoning, (i) Article IV, 4.1.G Use Table; (ii) 
adding 4.1.O. Non -Medical Marijuana Uses; (iii) deleting 4.15. Temporary Moratorium on Sale and Distribution of Recreational 
Marijuana and; (iv) create a new 4.15. Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments. 
 
The Planning Board is submitting seven articles for May 2019 Town Meeting.  There will be one regulation article, which covers 
all six potential types of uses, and six prohibition articles, one for each type of use.   
 
Below are the final bylaws as approved by the Planning Board on March 4, 2019.  No alteration s have been made other than 
those approved by the Board on March 4 th.  Due to a procedural issue, there is no record of Hearing mailings to the State so 
these articles are being re -heard.  Below are the article s listed in the Warrant and on file with the T own Clerk, Board of 
Selectmen, and Planning Office.  
 
April 2, 2019 
ARTICLE 25: Section 250-4.15. Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments 
 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify Section 250-4.1 by inserting 250-4.1O(1-6), to delete 
Section 250-4.15 Temporary Moratorium on Sale and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana and replace it with Section 250-
4.15 Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments, or anything relative thereto 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 2 
 
4.1O 
NON-
MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA 
USES RA RB O 
LB/
R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(1
) 
Marijuana 
cultivator  SP-PB SP-PB SP-PB - - SP-PB - - - - - 
4.1O(2
) 
Marijuana 
Product 
Manufactur
er - - - - - SP-PB - - - - - 
4.1O(3
) 
Marijuana 
Testing 
Facility - - - - - SP-PB - - - - - 
4.1O(4
) 
Marijuana 
Retailer - - - - 
SP-
PB- SP-PB - - 
-
SP-
PB - - 
4.1O(5
) 
Marijuana 
Transporter - - - - - SP-PB - - - - - 
4.1O(6
) 
Marijuana 
Researcher      SP-PB      
4.1O Non-Medical Marijuana Uses 
4.1O(1) "Marijuana cultivator'', an entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana, to deliver marijuana to 
Marijuana Establishments and to transfer marijuana to other Marijuana Establishments, but not to consumers. 
4.1O(2) "Marijuana product manufacturer'', an entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process and package marijuana and 
marijuana products, to deliver marijuana and marijuana products to Marijuana Establishments and to transfer marijuana and 
marijuana products to other Marijuana Establishments, but not to consumers. 
4.1O(3) "Marijuana testing facility'', an entity licensed to test marijuana and marijuana products, including certification for 
potency and the presence of contaminants. 
4.1O(4)"Marijuana retailer'', an entity licensed to purchase and deliver marijuana and marijuana products from Marijuana 
Establishments and to deliver, sell or otherwise transfer marijuana and marijuana products to Marijuana Establishments and to 
consumers. 
4.1O(5) “Marijuana Transporter” an entity with a fixed location not otherwise licensed by the Commission, that is licensed to 
purchase, obtain, and possess cannabis or marijuana product solely for the purpose of transporting, temporary storage, sale 
and distribution to Marijuana Establishments, but not to consumers. Marijuana Transporters may be an Existing Licensee 
Transporter or Third Party Transporter. 
4.1O(6) “Marijuana Researcher Facility” an entity licensed to cultivate, purchase, or otherwise acquire marijuana for the 
purpose of conducting research regarding marijuana products. 
 
Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments 
250-4.15.A Purpose: The purpose of this Bylaw is to allow state-licensed non-medical Marijuana Establishments to exist 
in the Town of Lunenburg in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations and impose reasonable sa feguards to 
govern the time, place and manner of Marijuana Establishment operations and any business dealing in marijuana, marijuana 
products and marijuana accessories in such a way as to ensure public health, safety, well -being, as well as limit undue imp acts 
on the natural environment as it relates to cultivation, processing and manufacturing subject to the provisions of this Zonin g 
Bylaw, M.G.L. c. 40A, and M.G.L. c. 94G. 
250-4.15.B Applicability: Where permitted by the Use Regulation Schedule, Section 2 50-4.1, the types of Marijuana 
Establishments specified therein may be allowed in designated zoning districts by special permit issued by the Planning Board  
pursuant to M.G.L. c. 40A, § 9, and Section 250 -8.3 of this By -Law.  All Marijuana Establishments a uthorized by special permit 
shall also require site plan review pursuant to Section 250 -8.4; which review shall be undertaken concurrently with the special 
permit process.  The provisions of this Section 250 -4.15 shall not apply to Medical Marijuana Treatm ent Centers, which shall be 
subject to and governed exclusively by Section 250-4.14. 
250-4.15.C Special Permit Required: The Planning Board may grant a Special Permit for Marijuana Establishments, as 
defined in M.G.L. c. 94G, in accordance with the standards set forth in this section and the general criteria for granting a Special 
Permit contained in Section 250-8.3 of the Code of Lunenburg.  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 3 
 
250-4.15.D Definitions: This Bylaw shall incorporate all definitions promulgated by M.G.L. 94G as amended.  
250-4.15.E Requirements  
1.  It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a Marijuana Establishment without obtaining a special permit to 
operate pursuant to the requirements of this Bylaw.  
2.  A separate special permit is required for each different Marijuana Establishment det ailed in Section 250-4.1.O. In the 
case that one or more different types of Marijuana Establishments are proposed, each establishment type shall 
require a special permit from the Planning Board.  
3.  The special permit requirements set forth in this Bylaw shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing 
and permitting requirements imposed by any other federal, state, or local law.  
4.  The issuance of a special permit pursuant to this Bylaw does not create an exception, defense, or immunity to any 
person or entity in regard to any potential criminal liability the person or entity may have for the production, 
distribution, or possession of marijuana.  
5.  A special permit issued for a Marijuana Establishment is not transferable or assignable t o a different location or a 
different type of Marijuana Establishment.  
 
250-4.15.F General Requirements for Marijuana Establishments: The following apply to all Marijuana Establishments as 
defined in Section 250 -4.1.O and in M.G.L. c. 94G, including but n ot limited to marijuana cultivation, manufacturing, testing, 
and retail establishments: 
 
(1) Security, Operations, and Emergency Plans. All Marijuana Establishments shall file a security plan, operation and 
management plan, and emergency plan with the Lune nburg Police Department: Should the Lunenburg Police 
Department find the Security Plan deficient, and the applicant is unable to appropriately modify the Plan to the 
Department’s satisfaction, the Lunenburg Police Department shall submit a written document outlining the deficiencies.  
(a) Security Plan.  
[1] The petitioner shall submit a security plan to the Lunenburg Police Department, in conformance with the 
requirements of the Lunenburg Police Department, to demonstrate that there is limited undue burden on Town 
public safety officials as a result of the proposed business.  
[2] The security plan shall include the details of all security measures for the site and the transportation of marijuana 
and marijuana products to and from off-site premises to ensure the safety of employees and the public and to 
protect the premises property from theft or other criminal activity.  
(b) Operation and Management Plan. All Marijuana Establishments shall submit an operation and management plan to the 
Building Department and Planning Board which shall include, but not be limited to the following elements: 
Organizational Structure, Location, Property Description, Hours of Operation and Staffing, description of proposed 
operations, distribution practices, employee safety, general compliance, fire prevention, sanitation and waste disposal 
requirements, electrical system overview, proposed energy demand and proposed electrical demand off-sets, 
ventilation system and air quality, proposed water system and utility demand prior to the issuance of a building permit.  
(c) Emergency Response Plan. All Marijuana Establishments shall meet with the Lunenburg Fire Department and the 
Lunenburg Police Department to discuss and identify emergency plans/contingency plans for the site. A written 
Emergency Response Plan, including contact information for a facility representative available 24 hours a day, shall be 
filed with the Lunenburg Fire Department and the Lunenburg Police Department pursuant to M.G.L. c. 94G, § 12.  
(d) Marijuana Establishm ents shall comply with 527 CMR and with Chapter 38 of the NFPA 1 (2018), as they may be 
amended, and as applicable. 
 
(2) All Marijuana Establishments shall be within a fully enclosed structure and no marijuana odor shall be detectable at the 
Marijuana Establishment’s property line. The use of chemical masking agents shall not be permitted. 
(3) Marijuana Establishments shall not be located in mobile structures.  
(4) A Marijuana Establishment shall not be located within five hundred (500) feet of a pre -existing public or private school 
providing education in kindergarten or any of grades 1 through 12, pre -existing small and large group child care facilities 
licensed by the Commonwealth, or within two hundred fifty (250) feet of pre -existing family child care p roviders 
licensed by the Commonwealth, municipal active recreation facilities, houses of worship and funeral homes. This 
setback shall be measured from the nearest portion of the Marijuana Establishment’s structure to the property line of 
the protected use.  
(5) All business signage shall be subject to the requirements to be promulgated by the Cannabis Control Commission and 
the requirements of Sections 250-6.5 of the Code of Lunenburg, as amended.  
(6) No marijuana shall be smoked, eaten, or otherwise cons umed or ingested within any type of licensed Marijuana 
Establishment or property thereof.  
===PAGE 4===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 4 
 
(7) Marijuana Establishments shall comply with applicable State and local laws, regulations, by -laws, codes, conditions and 
agreements with the Town, including, but not limited to, M.G.L. c. 94G,935 CMR 500, the Town of Lunenburg’s General 
By-Laws, the Town of Lunenburg’s Zoning By -Laws, all applicable local and state building, fire prevention, police , and 
health codes, regulations and standards, any conditions imposed on licenses and permits held by the Marijuana 
Establishment (including, but not limited to, the Town’s Planning Board Special Permit), and agreements between the 
Marijuana Establishment and the Town, including host community agreements. 
(8) All Marijuana Establishments shall be required to permit each individual location/address individually with the Town of 
Lunenburg.  
(9) Marijuana Establishment operations shall not create nuisance cond itions in parking areas, sidewalks, streets and areas 
surrounding its premises and adjacent properties. “Nuisance” includes, but is not limited to, disturbances of the peace, 
open public consumption of Marijuana, excessive pedestrian or vehicular traffic, odors emanating from the Marijuana 
Establishment’s premises, lighting, illegal drug activity under State or local law, harassment of passersby, littering, 
loitering, illegal parking, excessive loud noises, excessive citation for violations of State traffic  laws and regulations 
and/or local Traffic Rules and Regulations, queuing of patrons (vehicular or pedestrian) in or other obstructions of the 
public way (sidewalks and streets), collisions between vehicles, bicyclists, and pedestrians, lewd conduct or any activities 
that result in police detentions and arrests. 
(10) A Marijuana Establishment shall be required to remove all Marijuana and Marijuana Products by the earlier of: 
(a) prior to surrendering its State-issued license; or  
(b) within ninety (90) days of ceasing operations. 
 Applicants shall be required to estimate and submit a detailed breakdown of the total cost for the removal of all 
Marijuana and marijuana products. This estimate will be reviewed and approved by the Planning Board. Prior to the 
recording of any Special Permit, the applicant shall place surety with the Town of Lunenburg in the amount of the 
approved estimate plus twenty percent (20%).  
(11) No use of any special permit or site plan approval issued hereunder shall commence nor shall 
construction of a Marijuana Establishment authorized hereunder begin unless and until all requisite 
provisional license(s) and approval(s) under M.G.L. c. 94G and 935 CMR 500.000, et seq., have first been 
obtained. No Marijuana Establishment shall be permit ted to commence operations until the Cannabis 
Control Commission has issued a Final License.  
(12) No land, building(s) or structure(s) shall be used for Marijuana -related business or activity except in 
accordance with a license issued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in good standing. 
(13) The requirements of this Section 250 -4.15 shall apply to all Marijuana Establishments regardless of the 
class or type of license issued by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  All requisite operational, siting 
and sec urity requirements of the applicable licensing scheme shall be satisfied, and proof thereof 
submitted to the Planning Board. 
(14) Marijuana plants, marijuana products and marijuana accessories for the ingestion, inhalation, or used to 
introduce marijuana to the human body shall not be visible from the outside of any structure in which a 
Marijuana Establishment is located; nor shall any outdoor storage be permitted.  The foregoing shall be 
deemed to prohibit outdoor cultivation by a Marijuana Cultivator. 
(15) No Marijuana-related public events shall be permitted except in accordance with M.G.L. c. 94G and 935 
CMR 500.000, et seq. , and only if, and as may be authorized by, the Board of Selectmen from time to 
time. 
(16) The Planning Board, as SPGA, may impose s uch restrictions on the time, place and manner of Marijuana 
Establishment operations and of any business dealing in marijuana, marijuana products and/or marijuana 
accessories as may be necessary to protect the public interest and/or to satisfy the purpose and intent of 
this By-Law.  The Planning Board may consider factors including, but not limited to, project and building 
design, setbacks, visibility, traffic and pedestrian circulation, outdoor lighting, odor control, security, 
hours of operation and consi stency with nearby and abutting land uses, and may reasonably condition 
any special permit or site plan approval accordingly.   
(17) Pursuant to M.G.L. c. 40A, § 3, agriculture, aquaculture, floriculture and horticulture shall not include the 
growing, cultivation, distribution of Marijuana; and, consequently, these activities are not exempt from 
zoning thereunder. 
(18) All shipping and receiving areas shall be for the exclusive use of the Marijuana Establishment. 
(19) All Marijuana Establishments shall comply fully with the provisions of 935 CMR 500.000, as amended.  
===PAGE 5===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 5 
 
250-4.15.G. Access to Premises and Information/Reporting/Record-Keeping  
(1) Marijuana Establishments shall consent to unannou nced, unscheduled, periodic inspections of its premises by the 
Building Commissioner or designee, or an agent from the Planning, Health, Police and Fire Departments (which, when 
conducted by the Police Department, shall be by a sworn police officer assigne d by the Chief) on week -days during 
normal business hours to determine the Marijuana Establishment’s compliance with the requirements of applicable 
state and local laws, regulations, codes, license and permit conditions, and this section. In addition, rout ine inspections 
may be made on week -days during regular Town business hours by authorized inspectional departments to determine 
compliance with applicable state and local laws, regulations, codes and license and permit conditions. Inspections by the 
authorized inspectional departments may be made at other times to investigate complaints or suspected 
noncompliance issues. Inspections may include all areas occupied, used or controlled by the Marijuana Establishment. 
Facilities requiring re -inspection may be s ubject to applicable re -inspection fees. Inspections shall be conducted in 
conformity with applicable federal, state and local law.  
(2) Marijuana Establishments shall cooperate and comply with requests for information made by the Building 
Commissioner or designee, including agents from the Planning, Building, Health, Police, Fire and Public Works 
Departments.  Within twenty -four (24) hours of receipt of notice of it, a Marijuana Establishment shall file with the 
Town Manager, Police Chief, Board of Health and the Building Commissioner any summary cease and desist order, 
quarantine order, suspension order, revocation order, order limiting sales, deficiency statement, plan of correction, 
notice of a hearing, notice of any other administrative process or legal action, denial of a license, denial of a renewal of a 
license, or final action issued by a state or federal agency (including, but not limited to, the Cannabis Control 
Commission and Massachusetts Department of Public Health) regarding the Marijuana Estab lishment, the Cannabis 
Control Commission license, or the Department of Public Health Certificate of Registration. 
 
250-4.15.H Requirements Specific to Marijuana Retailer Establishments.  Marijuana retailers shall be subject to M.G.L. 
c. 94G, § 12 and the f ollowing restrictions to ensure there are no undue impacts on the health, safety, and well -being of the 
public:  
(1) As defined in M.G.L. c. 94G, the number of marijuana retailers shall be limited to no more than 2.  
(2) There shall be no drive/walk-up service window or other mechanical or non-mechanical means that allows the retail 
sale of marijuana, marijuana products and/or marijuana accessories through the exterior walls of a retail Marijuana 
Establishment to a customer or customers. 
250-4.15.I Requirements Specific to Marijuana Transporters 
(1) No marijuana or marijuana products shall be permitted to be stored in any vehicle. All products must be stored inside 
a fully enclosed building and in a manner deemed appropriate by the Lunenburg Police Department and the 
Planning Board.  
250-4.15.J Setbacks from Residential Uses  
All Marijuana Establishments must be setback from any pre -existing residential use or lot located in a residential zoning district 
as shown in the chart below. This distance shall be measure d from nearest portion of the Marijuana Establishment’s structure 
to the property line. 
Marijuana 
Establishment 
Type RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W
4.1O(1)
Marijuana 
Cultivator 375 Feet 375 Feet 375 Feet N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
4.1O(2)
Marijuana 
Product 
Manufacturer N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
4.1O(3)
Marijunana 
Testing Facility N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
4.1O(4)
Marijuana 
Retailer N/A N/A N/A N/A 250 Feet 250 Feet N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A
4.1O(5)
Marijuana 
Transporter N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
4.1O(6)
Marijuana 
Researcher N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 250 Feet N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A
Zoning District Marijuana Establishment is Located
 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 6 
 
250-4.15.K Special Permit Procedure: 
All Special Permits for Marijuana Es tablishments shall be filed and follow the provisions of Section 250 -8.3 of the Code of 
Lunenburg and the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits, as amended. In addition to 
the requirements listed in the aforementioned documents applicants must also submit the following information: 
(1) Applicant shall submit proof of approval from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts for the proposed Marijuana 
Establishment by submitting copies of all required registrations, licenses and  permits issued to the applicant by the 
state and any of its agencies for the facility as well as Host Community Agreement (HCA) with the Town and 
approval hereunder shall be conditioned on final approval from the Commonwealth.  
(2) In addition to complyin g with any other state or town requirement related to good character and criminal 
background, any person or entity proposed to have interests in the license to operate a Marijuana Establishment 
shall not have committed any marijuana licensing violation aff ecting public safety, or received any suspension or 
revocation of any other state or local marijuana business licenses.  
(3) A statement signed by the organization's chief executive officer disclosing all of its designated owners, including 
officers, direc tors, partners, managers, investors or other similarly situated individuals. If any of the above are 
entities rather than persons, the Applicant must disclose the identity and current contact information of all 
responsible individuals.  
(4) Evidence that the applicant has site control and the right to use the site for a Marijuana Establishment.   
(5) An Odor Control Plan detailing the Marijuana Establishment’s proposed mitigation measures for the potential 
odors associated with the operation of their business.  
 
250-4.15.L Special Permit Findings:  In addition to the findings for a special permit in Section 250 -8.3 of the Code of 
Lunenburg, the Planning Board must also make the following findings:  
(1) The applicant demonstrates that the Marijuana Establishme nt will meet all of the permitting requirements of all 
applicable agencies within the Commonwealth and will be in compliance with all applicable state laws and 
regulations, including, but not limited to M.G.L.A. c. 94G, § 12 General Marijuana Establishment Operation.  
(2) The applicant has satisfied all of the conditions and requirements of this section and other applicable sections of the 
Zoning Bylaw and any applicable town bylaws.  
(3) The facility provides adequate security measures to ensure that there  are not direct threats to the health or safety 
of employees, staff, or members of the public and that storage and location of marijuana and marijuana products is 
adequately secured.  
 
250-4.15.M Lapse:  Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 250 -8.3 & 8.4 of this Bylaw, any special permit 
issued for a Marijuana Establishment, and any site plan approval received therefor, shall lapse within one (1) year from 
the grant thereof (plus such time as may be required to pursue or await the determination of an appeal therefrom) if 
substantial use has not sooner commenced, except for good cause. 
 
250-4.15.N Prohibition:  All Marijuana Social Consumption Operations are expressly prohibited anywhere within 
the Town of Lunenburg; provided, however, that said prohibi tion shall apply only insofar as the same does not conflict 
with Massachusetts law, or has not been preempted thereby. 
 
250-4.15.O Revocation: Any violation of this Bylaw or conditions of the Special Permit shall be grounds for the 
revocation. The Special Permit may be revoked by the Planning Board if the Cannabis Control Commission license is 
revoked or lapses. The Marijuana Establishment shall notify the Planning Board of the revocation or loss of license(s) in 
writing within forty eight (48) hours of such happening.  
 
250-4.15.P Severability: If any provision of this section is invalidated by subsequent legislation or regulation, or held to 
be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be considered separately and apart from the remaining 
provisions, which shall remain in full force and effect.  
 
===PAGE 7===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 7 
 
ARTICLE 26 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(1) Marijuana 
Cultivator; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(1) Marijuana cultivator3  - - - - - - - - - - - 
3. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana cultivators , as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg 
but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the 
voters at a regular or special Town election. 
4.1O(1) "Marijuana cultivator'', an entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana, to deliver marijuana to 
marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers. 
 
ARTICLE 27: 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(2) Marijuana Product 
Manufacturer; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(2) 
Marijuana product 
manufacturer4  - - - - - - - - - - - 
4. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana product manufacturers , as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of 
Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage 
by the voters at a regular or special Town election. 
 
4.1O(2) "Marijuana product manufacturer'', an entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process and package marijuana and 
marijuana products, to deliver marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana and 
marijuana products to other marijuana establishments, but not to consumers. 
 
ARTICLE 28: 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(3) Marijuana Testing 
Facility; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(3) 
Marijuana testing 
facility5 -  - - - - - - - - - - 
5. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana testing facilities, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of 
Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage 
by the voters at a regular or special Town election. 
 
4.1O(3) "Marijuana testing facility'', an entity licensed to test marijuana and marijuana products, including certification for 
potency and the presence of contaminants. 
 
===PAGE 8===
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 8 
 
ARTICLE 29: 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(4) Marijuana Retailer; 
or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(4) Marijuana retailer6 -  - - - - - - - - - - 
6. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana retailers , as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but 
expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters 
at a regular or special Town election. 
 
4.1O(4)"Marijuana retailer'', an entity licensed to purchase and deliver marijuana and marijuana products from marijuana 
establishments and to deliver, sell or otherwise transfer marijuana and marijuana products to marijuana establishments and to 
consumers. 
 
ARTICLE 30: 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(5) Marijuana Retailer; 
or take any other action relative thereto 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(5) Marijuana transporter7 -  - - - - - - - - - - 
7. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana transporter , as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg 
but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the 
voters at a regular or special Town election. 
 
4.1O(5) “Marijuana Transporter” an entity, not otherwise licensed by the Commission, that is licensed to purchase, obtain, and 
possess cannabis or marijuana product solely for the purpose of transporting, temporary storage, sale and distribution to 
Marijuana Establishments, but not to consumers. Marijuana Transporters may be an Existing Licensee Transporter or Third 
Party Transporter. 
 
ARTICLE 31 
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.1O(1) Marijuana 
Researcher; or take any other action relative thereto. 
 
4.1O 
NON-MEDICAL 
MARIJUANA USES RA RB O LB/R C OP/I R VCD SS TT W 
4.1O(1) Marijuana Researcher8  - - - - - - - - - - - 
8. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana researcher , as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg 
but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers.  Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the 
voters at a regular or special Town election. 
4.1O(6) “Marijuana Researcher Facility” an entity licensed to cultivate, purchase, or otherwise aquire marijuana for the purpose 
of conducting research regarding marijuana products. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 9===
 
 
 
Minutes, 04.22.19 
TM Zoning Article, Non-Medical Marijuana 
Page 9 
 
A. Burney noted a ll marijuana uses would be allowed in Office Park and Industrial Districts, additionally, Cultivators would be 
allowed in Residence A, Residence B, and Outlying; and Retailer in Commercial and Summer Street Overlay.   
 
M. Allison stressed the importance of passage of Article 25, in the event that any of the prohibition articles do not pass.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to close hearing, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
Hearing closed 8:36 PM. 
 
Documents used at Hearing: 
Zoning Warrant Articles 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 31 
 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2019/TM Warrant Article 04.22.19_marijuana 