===PAGE 1===
 
 
 TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Marisa Thompson, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
October 7, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Gregory Bittner, Marisa Thompson 
 
BUTTERFLY LANE:  Subdivision Closeout/Layout Hearing Report - A site walk was held this date to confirm that the 
developer had met the outstanding issues noted in Graves Engineeri ng, Inc. (GEI) review letter of September 23rd.  Today’s site 
walk show ed everything was completed to the satisfaction of GEI.  The Water District has signed off on the project.  The 
Conservation Commission anticipate s issuing a Certificate of Compliance w ithin the next couple of weeks.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to release the Bond for Butterfly Lan e, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  P. Bertram made Motion for A. Burney to 
furnish the Select Board with a letter stating the Planning Board has closed out the subdivision and voted to release the 
Bond.    
 
EARTH REMOVAL:  An Article, which updates the earth removal general bylaw has been submitted for November Special Town 
Meeting.  A remaining question of the Board’s was whether or not to change the number of cubic ya rds that would trigger a 
permit.  The Article was submitted with 1,000 yards ; T. Cole would like yardage to be 1,000 whereas M. Allison and P. Bertram 
would prefer 500.  As the Warrant has not yet gone before the Finance Committee, A. Burney will notify th e Town Manager that 
the majority of members present would prefer 500.   
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE : The Board reviewed the updated draft.   The next 
step will be for the Board to adopt the Charge and form the Committee.  The Board members present would like to wait until the 
remaining members are present before voting to adopt the Charge.   
 
SOLAR BYLAW: P. Bertram asked A. Burney to clarify what concerns Board members have that would result in an updating of 
this bylaw.  His understanding is that some of the concerns are the ability of a residential lot to have solar as a primary use, the 
size solar permitted in residential areas, and the buffer language for large scale solar.  M. Allison inquired if the Board can 
prohibit solar as a primary use in residential zoning.  P. Bertram asked that A. Burney provide screening examples from other 
communities.  M. Allison requested A. Burney inquire as to Unitil’s kW limitation on roof mounted systems.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
09.23.19- T. Cole made Motion to approve, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
09.23.19, UNITIL Hearing- T. Cole made Motion to approve, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
10.01.19- T. Cole made Motion to approve, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye. 
 
UNITIL:  Notification of Approval for Desig nation and Improvement of Scenic Roads, dated October 7, 2019, was endorsed by 
the Board.  Decision will be filed with the Town Clerk and then UNITIL will file with the Registry of Deeds.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 10.07.19 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- no meeting 
Storm Water Task Force-    no meeting 
Agricultural Commission-   no meeting 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   Meeting scheduled for October 15 th.  P. Bertram noted agenda items.   There is currently a 
Committee vacancy; a notice has been published in the Lunenburg Ledger.   
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report 
Green Community Task Force-  no report 
MRPC- no meeting 
MJTC-  no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Stone Farm, Update -  The developer has completed the majority of the outstanding items lis ted in Graves Engineering Inc. 
review letter of December 20, 2017.  There is one unfinished item; raising the emergency access road shoulders.  A. Burney 
suggested the Board give the developer until the end of October to complete the outstanding item.  P. Bertram wanted the Board 
to move forward with claiming the funds for the unfinished item.   
 
MJTC, Board Representative-  Tabled 
 
Special Town Meeting/Board Warrant Article - A Select Board member inquired if the Planning Board desires the entire Board 
Article be printed in the Warrant or only referenced in the Warrant with Article copies available at Town Hall.   
 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  in process 
 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas- on hold 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
October 28- Begin discussion on the Solar Bylaw 
November 12-  Special Town Meeting, 7:00 PM, MS-HS preceded by 6:30 PM Board meeting 
November 25- 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  Board will begin review at October 28th Board meeting. 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-  on hold 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan - The Town applied for, but did not receive a grant for master planning.  A. Burney 
suggested the Board decide if it wants to hold off for a year on the RFP with the possibility of getting additional funds from the 
Town through capital funding.  Discussion will continue at the October 28 th meeting. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 7:30 PM. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 
    09.23.19 
    09.23.19, UNITIL Hearing  
    10.01.19 
Butterfly Lane As Built & GEI Review Letter 
Earth Removal Warrant Article 
DRAFT Charge for Economic Development Committee 