===PAGE 1===
 
 
 TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Vacant, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
September 23, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Gregory Bittner, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Paula Bertram 
 
ARCHITECTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT COMMISSION: Commission members were not available for discussion. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  UNITIL- see separate minutes .  Board consensus was for normal pruning and not gro und-to-sky.  T. Cole 
was in favor of removing the eight trees (# 5, 7, 8, 9, 20, 21, 22, and 23) listed as Priority 1 for removal.  He was not in favor of 
removing the five trees (# 3, 6, 10, 12 , and 24) listed for removal under Priority 2.  Tree # 6, 12, and 24 were in dispute; the 
Board wanted those for normal pruning  and not removal .  G. Bittner made Motion to approve normal pruning around 
conductors, 10 feet of side clearance, 15 feet of overhead clearance, and removal of trees that pose imminent threat as 
listed in the Proposed Vegetation Management Work Summary and Meeting Decision Recording  of trees # 5, 7, 8, 9, 20, 
21, 22, and 23 with one to one remediation of a comparable species to be planted along the scenic road within the area 
of removal at the direction of the Tree Warden, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.   
 
400 ELECTRIC AVENUE, Request for De Minim is Change- Applicant represented by Jon Higgins, South Coast Development, 
LLC.  The request is to change the location of the Dunkin Donuts menu order boar d.  The location would be moved 
approximately 2 car lengths to the east which would facilitate earlier placement of orders.  G. Bittner made Motion to approve 
request for De Minimis change for the sign at 400 Electric Avenue, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  
 
BUTTERFLY LANE:  Subdivision Closeout - The developer was represented by Chris Crowley, Ernco Development.  
Construction has been completed and all houses built.  An As-Built was reviewed by Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc., the 
Board’s reviewing engin eer and a site walk held with C. Crowley, J. W alsh and A. Burney.  The developer anticipates going to 
November Special Town Meeting for Town road acceptance.  The site walk brought forth detail work that needed completion, 
e.g., some areas to be seal coate d, grouting on the granite, and mortar on pipes.  Some trees will need to be placed.  He hopes 
to have the outstanding items taken care, along with another review from J. Walsh, by the Board’s next meeting.  The Select 
Board will hold its layout hearing on October 15 th for consideration for Butterfly Lane to be accepted as a public way.  Bufferfly 
Lane has also been placed on the Warrant for November 12 th Special Town Meeting.  As there will be no Board meeting October 
14th due to the holiday, A. Burney suggested the Board either hold a special meeting p rior to the layout hearing of October 15th to 
sign off and release the Bond, or advi se the Select Board that a final review letter from J. Walsh noting items were completed 
would have the Board’s endorsement for the laying out of the road.  A. Burney and C. Crowley will schedule a follow -up site walk 
with J. Walsh for October 3rd.   
 
The Board decided to hold a meeting on October 7th.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 09.23.19 
Page 2 
 
EARTH REMOVAL-  The Board viewed the dra ft of August 12th.  The Board hopes to have a bylaw ready for November Special 
Town Meeting.  G. Bittner inquired if there is a requirement for annual inspection.  A. Burney noted that could be added into the 
regulations.  M. Allison inquired if the bylaw could be written for review on a case -by-case basis.  A. Burney felt a threshold 
needed to be set that triggers the permit.  The draft currently states a threshold of 1,000 cubic yards; at a previous meetin g, P. 
Bertram was not comfortable with that number an d recommended 500 cubic yards.  Board members present were in agreement 
with permits being issued for three years, renewable for up to two years.  Discussion of yardage will continue at the October 7 th 
meeting.   
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COM MITTEE- The Board viewed the latest draft, which reflected 
input from P. Bertram.  Committee composition will be revised in order that the Agricultural Commission, Open Space Committee 
and Conservation Commission can recommend  appointments to the Planning Board that are not necessarily a member of that 
specific committee or commission.  The two resident appointments will not be required to be either a Lunenburg business owner 
or a property owner.  The ex-oficio appointments shall include a Lunenburg busines s owner, a Select Board member, a Planning 
Board member, and the Land Use Director.   
 
SOLAR BYLAW- Tabled 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
08.26.19- T. Cole made Motion to approve, G. Bittner Seconded, all aye. 
08.26.19, Stone Farm- T. Cole made Motion to approve, G. Bittner Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- Committee reorganized for upcoming fiscal year. Next meeting scheduled for October 1 st. 
Storm Water Task Force-    Approved annual report for MS4. 
Agricultural Commission-   Farmers’ Market continues to do well with 15-20 vendors on site every Sunday.  The Market will run 
for three more Sundays.    
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   no meeting 
Land Acquisition Committee-  Board was in receipt of a Committee report regarding the Town’s n egotiation of the purchase of 
318 +/- acres of land on Northfield Road.  The Committee will be meeting again October 2nd and 10 th.  There will be a warrant 
article for November Special Town Meeting  seeking authorization for the full project cost, contingen t upon the award of State 
grants.  Katey Adams, as a Select Board member, asked who would be submitting the article.  
Green Community Task Force-  no meeting 
MRPC- no report 
MJTC-  no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
250 Howard Street, Right of First Refusal - The Select Board is seeking comments from the Planning Board as to any planning 
significance that would make purchasing the property beneficial to the Town.  G. Bittner made Motion for the Board not to 
make any recommendation for 250 Howard Street, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.   
 
Stone Farm, Update - The developer informed the Planning Office that he will have the remaining work completed by Powell 
Construction.   
 
MJTC, Board Representative - The Board needs to select an MJTC representative as the prior represen tative is no longer on 
the Board.   
 
Building Committee, Board Designee-  G. Bittner nominated T. Cole, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.   
 
Board Vacancy, Update - One individual expressed interest in filling the position.  There will be a joint meeting of the Pl anning 
Board and Select Board on October 1st to appoint to the Board.   
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes, 09.23.19 
Page 3 
 
Building Commissioner, Update- A  permanent full-time commissioner is now on staff.  
 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  Tabled 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas- on hold 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
October 1- Joint meeting with Select Board for appointment to Planning Board vacancy 
October 7- Regular meeting due to October 14th holiday. 
October 28- 
November 12-  Special Town Meeting 
November 25- 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-   
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan- 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Katey Adams noted a text she received from a resident earlier opining that K. Adams was not concerned 
as to whether or not residents had power.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   G. Bittner made motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 9:30 PM.  
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 
    08/26/19 
    08/26/19, Stone Farm Hearing 
400 Electric Avenue, Request for De Minimis Change 
Butterfly Lane As Built 
Land Acquisition Report 
250 Howard Street, Right of First Refusal 
DRAFT Earth Removal Bylaw 
DRAFT Charge for Economic Development Committee 