===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Mbr. 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
January 3, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Kenneth Chenis, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Also Present:  Town Counsel Adam Costa (departed at 9 PM), Town Manager Heather Lemieux 
 
Board Chair M. Allison requested a Motion to enter joint Executive Session with the Board of Selectmen pursuant 
to M.G.L. c. 30A, §21, #3, to discuss strategy with respect to litigation, where an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the government’s litigating position, and the Chair so declares, namely O’Brien Homes Inc. et 
al v. Town of Lunenburg et al.,  Land Court Docket Nos. 13 -MISC-477878 to 13 -MISC-477887 and O’Brien Homes, 
Inc. v. Town of Lunenburg Planning Board, et al., Appeals Court Docket No. 2018-P-1520, to enter back into Regular 
Session.  So moved by K. Chenis, Seconded by P. Bertram , Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram,  aye; T. Cole, aye; D. 
Prokowiew, aye; K. Chenis, aye; M. Allison, aye.   
 
Master Plan:  H. Lemieux inquired if the Board was interested in approaching the Capital Planning Committee for the 
placement of a Capital Planning request on the May 2019 Town Warrant for Master Planning.  MRPC quoted A. Burney an 
estimate of $97,500 to craft the Master Plan (“Plan”) in conjunction with  input from the Planning Board.  P. Bertram noted 
that many of the recommendations of the 2002 Master Plan have not yet been implemented and feels that the funds should 
be used to hire a consultant to prioritize recommendations of the current Plan  instead of rewriting the Plan .  A. Burne y 
stressed that the Plan is from 2002 and Lunenburg has changed considerably since that time.  If the Plan is updated , more 
people can become involved  with the seating of a Master Plan Committee ; which would  consist of members of various 
boards, committees,  and citizens-at-large.  That Committee could then transition into an implementation committee.  P. 
Bertram disagreed with the formation of a committee outside of the Planning Board , stating that the Master Plan is the  
responsibility of the Planning Board.  She feels the updates are minor and not equivalent to an expense of ~$10 0,000.  D. 
Prokowiew also feels the Plan is the Board ’s responsibility , and suggests  that each Element be taken separately, with 
outside assistance be ing requested if necessary.  K. Chenis suggested usage of the funds be at the Board ’s discretion 
whether to use them for an outside consultant or for building out the Plan.  This would also include implementation.   A. 
Burney stressed that if there was  a committee consisting of various boards, committees, and a t-large, the Planning Board 
would still have final approval over the Plan to be presented at Town Meeting.  P. Bertram noted that she w ould be 
amenable to ad hoc committees being formed to address specific Elements.  M. Allison agreed that the Plan was the charge 
of the Planning Board , but does not feel it is presently feasible f or a 5 -member Board  to accomplish  in addition to the 
Board’s other responsibilities.  MRPC said it would take them approximately two years.  K. Chenis noted that a main issue is 
devising a method whereby the recommendations in the Plan get executed.   
 
H. Lemieux recommended the Board use the funds for a consultant to act as a facilitator and assist in implementing the 
action items.  The Board is requesting the funds to be for both master planning and facilitation of the Plan components.  M. 
Allison, the Board ’s representative to the Capital Planning Committee,  believes $100,000 is a large amount and 
approximately 10% of the Capital Plan.  Receiving a request from the Planning Board for Master Planning will be new to the  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.03.19 
Page 2 
 
Capital Planning Committee  and he opined that it should be a budget line item instead.  A. Burney noted that Capital 
Planning can be c arried over by fiscal year whereas a budget line item must be used in the same fiscal year.  D. 
Prokowiew made Motion that the Board proceed with a  request to the Capital Planning Committee in the amount of 
$100,000 for Master Planning and facilitation of the Plan, P. Bertr am Seconded, all aye.   A. Burney will present the 
request to the Capital Planning Committee.   
 
        D. Prokowiew made Motion to adjourn, K. Chenis, Seconded, all aye.  
 
       Adjourned 9:47 PM 
 
 
 
 
 
Minutes/2019/01.03.19 