===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
David Prokowiew, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Mbr.   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Mbr. 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
January 8, 2019 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, David Prokowiew, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
Also Present:  Town Manager H. Lemieux and Select Board members J. Toale, D. McQuaid, P. Luck, K. Adams  
 
Planning Board meeting called to order at 7:47 PM for continued discussion with the Board of Selectmen regarding Recreational 
Adult Use Marijuana questions for ballot presentation.  P. Bertram commented on questions made during the public session of 
the Board of Selectmen meeting prior to the Planning Board call ing its meeting to order.  Citizens voted to legalize, but may not 
have been aware of the potential impact and the different uses , which are c ultivation, manufacturing, testing, retail and 
transporting.  If citizens don’t want all five (5) uses, the Planning Board must take action as any prohibited use must pass by both 
ballot and town meeting vote.  D. Prokowiew  feels the citizens need to be provided the voting opportunity whether or not to 
permit, postpone or ban recreational marijuana.  P. Luck opined that the Planning Board’s job is to address the potential impacts 
of recreational marijuana and to consider adopting new provisions of the zoning bylaw to address the impact of same.  The 
Planning Board is not suppose d to advocate for complete prohibition an d is reaching outside the scope of its charter.  She feels 
there is no indication that the Town wants to prohibit marijuana  evidenced by, in her opinion, lack of attendance and public input 
during the public sessions held on recreational marijuana .  K. Adams asserted that the citizens should have a vote.  P. Bertram 
stressed that the Planning Board is not talking about outright prohibition , but looking for the  Select Board to place five (5) ballot 
questions for the five  (5) different uses.  D. McQuaid wants  to ensure the citizens understand what they are voting for, and not 
voting out of fear.  P. Luck is unwilling to place the questions on the ballot.   A. Burney noted the  Planning Board has been 
working on this for the past eight (8) months, and there has not been strong citizen input either for or against.  He went on to note 
that the 47 % (against)/53% (for) vote is not a major swing either way.  The Board is not advocating either for or against, but 
attempting to craft ballot questions that will allow the citizens to choose.  J. Toale noted that it is the Planning Board’s 
responsibility to regulate the use.  A. Burney noted the Board always intended that there would be six warrant articles; five to 
cover each individual use and one for the total regulation for zoning.  H. Lemieux emphasized that the Planning Board is coming 
before the Board of Selectmen looking for assistance and suggested the Board of Selectmen view it as such.   
 
Pete Stella, 31 Chase Road -  Stated he was one of the 53% that voted for lega lization, but he does not want people coming to 
Lunenburg to buy it.  He feels it needs to go to citizen vote.   
 
P. Bertram noted that she also voted yes, but wants to understand the potential impacts.  She did not realize that by voting to 
decriminalize, there would be a potential for it to be in Lunenburg.   
 
John Baker, 53 Chase Road - Noted that the crime rate rose in Colorado once marijuana was legalized.  This will further stretch 
the resources and manpower of the police department. 
 
Paul Smith, 800 Chase Road- Feels it needs to go to vote.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 01.08.19 
Page 2 
 
Dr. Gary Moritz, Pastor, Twin City Baptist - Research has shown that ingesting marijuana affects the teenage brain.  It has a 
drastic effect on families.  He sees the effects daily and feels it should be banned.   
   
M. Allison noted this is a zoning issue.  It has been decriminalized by the Commonwealth  and now t he Town needs to decide 
how to regulate.   
 
Board members reiterated that if these five  (5) questions do not go on the ballot, a ll five (5) uses will automatically be allowed in 
Lunenburg.   
 
Carl Luck, 50 Sunset Lane- He opined that none of the five (5) uses will significantly change the use in Lunenburg.     
 
Ryan Sarenpa, 138 Beal Street- Wants it on the ballot.   
 
D. McQuaid made Motion to put the five questions  requested by the Planning Board on the ballot, K. Adams Seconded, 
discussion: D. McQuaid went on to state that he feels the five  (5) uses should be allow ed in Town.  P. Luck opined that 
being a marijuana-free community will not decrease the amount of marijuana smoked in Lunenburg.  She also felt there 
hadn’t been enough public input to vote tonight.  J. Toale is concerned that a smaller amount of people will vote and it 
won’t reflect a mandate on what the Town really want s.  K. Adams, aye; P. Luck, nay; D. Mc Quaid, aye; J. Toale, aye.  
Vote passed 3-1. 
 
Adjourned 9:00 PM 
 
 
Minutes/2019/01.08.19 