===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Vice Chair         Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
 
Minutes 
February 11, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
ANR Plan: 205 Sunset Lane -  Plan presented on behalf of owner Salvatore Vito Piccirillo, Revocable Living Trust, by Neil 
Gorman, David E. Ross Associates.  The Planning Board endorsed an ANR Plan in 2015 di viding the land owned by the Trust 
into Lots 1 and 2.  This ANR Plan divides Lot 2 into 2A and 2B.  P. Bertram questioned the access.  N. Gorman noted i t is 
possible to access Lot 2A from Sunset Lane , but the design has not yet been finalized.  This Plan d oes meet the requirements of 
an ANR Plan.  P. Bertram noted comments of the Building Commissioner that Lot 2A does not have frontage, i.e. actual access, 
as defined in the Code of Lunenburg, Ch. 250- Section 2.1.  There is also a driveway and utility easem ent through Lot 2B, and if 
used as a common drive, does not meet the de sign standards in the Code of Lunenburg, Ch. 250- Section 6.4.C(5)k.  A. Burney 
noted that i f the driveway comes from Robbs Hill Road, it may require relief from the Zoning Board of App eals.   An ANR Plan 
does not constitute buildability.  Comments from the Board of Health were also noted that for the lots to be buildable, the 
property owner would have to obtain an approved sewage disposal system and potable water supply for each lot.  P. Bertram 
noted she was not comfortable endorsing the Plan as it states Lot 2B would provide the driveway and utility easement for Lot 2A.  
She requested that language be removed.  A. Burney stressed that the 21 -day clock  begins with the Plan’s submittal t his 
evening.  The Board will have to take action, e.g. deny the plan, within th e 21 days.  N. Gorman will consult with the property 
owner.  P. Bertram made Motion to continue the ANR to the next Board meeting, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
909 Massachusetts Avenue, Waiver Request - Property owner John Kyprianos requested waiver from site plan approval for 
change of use from a consignment shop to a real estate office.  The square footage for his office will be ~1,200; less than t he 
previous consignment shop at ~5,000.  Changing from retail to professional use is a permitted use in the Village Center District.  
P. Bertram asked if the Board should pla ce any conditions on the waiver  to ensure it is in line with the information supplied in the 
request.  There is a larger room next to the proposed office and s he suggested the waiver approval should include more square 
footage in the event J. Kyprianos wanted to expand his office space.  He responded that he did not want that to hinder the 
possibility of waiver approv al and also wants to retain a small professional atmosphere.  P. Bertram noted that he if wants to 
expand the space in the future, he would have to appear before the Board .  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the waiver 
request from site plan approval for real estate sales management and contracting with the stipulation that the use does 
not exceed 4,000 square feet, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
151-181 Leominster Shirley Road (cont’d)- see separate minutes.   
190 Electric Avenue (cont’d) - see separate minutes.  Board discussion continued regarding the definition of buffer strip in the 
Solar Energy Systems Bylaw.  The Board will take up restructuring/strengthening the Bylaw in the spring.   
380-400 Electric Avenue- see separate minutes.   
400 Electric Avenue- see separate minutes. 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 02.11.19 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
01/14/19, 190 Electric Avenue- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
01/22/19- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
01/28/19- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
Storm Water Task Force-  no report 
Agricultural Commission- no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
MJTC-  no report 
MRPC- Requests for District Local Technical Assistance due in March.  The Board discussed the possibility of walkability and 
complete street studies.   
Charter Review Committee- no report 
Green Community Task Force- no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Board Reorganization- Board vacancy has been posted  and advertised.  P. Bertram voiced interested in becoming the Board’s 
representative to the Open Space Ad Hoc Committee.   
Recreational Marijuana, Draft Bylaw- Hearing is being advertised in the Lunenburg Ledger, on F acebook, flyers at the Senior 
Center, Library, Ritter, Town Hall, and on the TV Scroll.   
March 11 Board Meeting - P. Bertram made Motion to move the March 11 th Board meeting to March 4 th, T. Cole, 
Seconded, all aye. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 25- Hearing for Board Warrant Article 
March 11- Changed to March 4th due to Caucus 
March 25- P. Bertram not available.  She doesn’t expect to be available for meetings until approximately April 15 th.   
 
ONGOING ITEMS:  
Earth Removal Permitting-  The Board will eventually take this over from Board of Selectmen.  
Economic Development- no report 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan - M. Allison opined this should become a budget line in the Board’s budget. P. Bertram 
requested that moving forward, the Board be involved in the office budget process.   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 5.6., Cluster Development- Awaiting response from Town Counsel. 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems- Anticipate beginning work on in spring.   
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  Board members thanked David Prokowiew for his service to the Planning Board.  There was 
discussion of the lengthy Board meetings and the possibility of adding another monthly meeting to the Board’s schedule.  
 
P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  10:10 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
o 01/14/19, 190 Electric Avenue- 
o 01/22/19 
o 01/28/19 
ANR Plan, 205 Sunset Lane 
Waiver Request, 909 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
 
02.11.19 