===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Vice Chair    Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Kenneth Chenis, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Tanner Cole, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Paula Bertram, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio 
                   Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
380-400 Electric Avenue 
February 11, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:40 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Kenneth Chenis 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss an application for  Modification to a Site Plan Approval under Ch. 250, Section 
8.4. of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg for relocation of an existing building and construction of a new building at 
380-400 Electric Avenue, Map 98, Parcels 166 -168  Owners/Applicants are Daniel and Jean Proctor, 1529 
Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA.   
 
Owners/applicants were represented by Greg Roy and Frank McPartlan, Ducharme & Dillis Civil Design Group, Inc. 
(‘DDCDG’).  A brief history of the site was given noting that the Board issued approval ~2 years ago for the car wash.  
That site plan also included relocation of the o ffice (“red”) building to the front of the site, bus parking at the site rear, 
and continue d use of the westerly portion of the site.  Recently the owners were approached by a developer 
proposing a gas station project.  This past summer the Proctors’ were issued a Zoning Board of Appeals special 
permit for dimensional variation for common driveway width from 30 to 40 feet ; also zoning relief for three curb cuts 
on Electric Avenue (the bylaw allows two per lot.)  In addition, the property was subdivided via an ANR Plan for the 
proposed gas station and donut shop.   
 
DDCDG gave a site plan overview.  The bus parking has been eliminated, but an equivalent area will be taken up by 
truck parking at the south edge of the property.  Seventeen (17) parking spaces wi ll be added; twenty-seven (27) are 
required.  The proposed building location was based on the existing sewer easement, setbacks and wetland buffer.  
The s ite will be screened by existing fencing and vegetation.  DDCDG is in the process of addressing 02.09. 19 
review letter from J. Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. (‘GEI’).  DDCDG stressed to the Board that lots were merged to 
resolve the easement problem; lots now comply with sewer regulations.  The sewer will come from the existing sewer 
service at the car wash.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
380-400 Electric Avenue 
Minutes, 02.11.19 
Pg 2 
 
P. Bertram noted GEI review comments requesting a standard manhole instead of the proposed doghouse sewer 
manhole.  Review engineer Jeff Walsh, Graves Engineer, Inc. (GEI) noted this is a new sewer se rvice.  A  regular 
manhole is more watertight than a doghouse manhole.  That is what he has recommended to the Sewer 
Commission.   
 
No update has been received yet from the February 6th owners’ meeting with the Conservation Commission.   
 
Richard Schreiner, 57 John Street-  Complained about noise and dust from  what he describes as gravel processing.  
He went on to state that the noise starts early in the morning and he has no peace and quiet.    
 
Sako Kalfayan, 44 John Street-  Was in agreement with R. Schreiner regarding the noise and lights.     
 
D. Proctor noted that his business is not open on Sundays.  He understands the neighbors’ concerns and is trying to 
downsize his operation with a reduction in inventory.   
 
P. Bertram asked if any additional lighti ng is proposed.  DDCDG responded that the one existing light will be shifted 
east towards Electric Avenue.  One light is also propose d between the proposed gas station and parking lot.  
DDCDG noted all comments will be addressed to the satisfaction of GEI.   There will be no  change of use and no  
change in hours of operation.   
 
P. Bertram referred to GEI’s review comment #20:  “The proposed drainage system discharges to the existing basin 
appear to be located outside of the existing sediment forebay.”  DDCDG will design an additional forebay.   
 
J. Walsh noted a drain line across the site with an outlet towards Dana Street.   Drainage needs to be maintained 
across the project to avoid backup.  DDCDG noted the wetland adjacent to Dana Street flows south and out  to 
Electric Avenue.   
 
Richard Trainque, 44 Otis Street-  Noted a storm drain installed by his father at 408 Electric Avenue.  He stated two 
illegal pipes have been installed under Dana Street and that the drain adjacent to Dana Street was blocked off by Sky 
Cycle.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to continue the Hearing to February 25th, 6:35 PM, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Application for Site Plan Approval 
Modification to Site Plan dated 1.21.19 
Graves Engineering, Inc. letter dated 2.9.19 
 
 
Minutes/public hearings 2019/380-400 Electric Avenue_02.11.19 