===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Gregory Bittner, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Rhonda Lisio, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
July 22, 2019 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Gregory Bittner (arrived 6:40 PM), Paula Bertram, Rhonda Lisio, Adam R. Burney 
 
APPOINTMENT TO OPEN SPACE AD HOC COMMITTEE:   One completed Talent Bank Form for the vacancy  was received in 
the office and forwarded to the Open Space Committee  for review/vote.   The Open Space Committee was also meeting this 
evening, but did not have a quorum  and was unable to take a vote on the vacancy.   Discussion tabled awaiting the arrival of G. 
Bittner.   
 
EARTH REMOVAL:  Members were in receipt of Draft #1.  The Board of S electmen has placed this topic on their August 6 th 
agenda; the Board discuss ed attending the August 6 th Select Board meeting.  P. Bertram had concerns with the impact to 
existing businesses if earth removal/fill is prohibited on weekends.  She would also l ike input from the Board of Health regarding 
groundwater analysis.  M. Allison requested bot h the Bylaw and the Rules and Regulations be reviewed by the Board of Health.  
R. Lisio felt limiting  weekend hours would be appropriate if the operations are takin g place in a residential area.  Continued 
discussion took place and revisions will be made to Draft #1. 
 
With the presence of G. Bittner, the Board resumed discussion of the Open Space vacancy.  G. Bittner made Motion for P. 
Bertram to be appointed to the Open Space Committee as an At-Large member, R. Lisio Seconded, all aye. 
 
MASTER PLAN:  Board members viewed goals of the 2002 Master Plan.  A. Burney noted the Visioning Process and Planning 
Goals from the 2002 Master Plan were based on recommendations fro m the late 1980’s - early 1990’s.   He suggested that the 
Board, instead of implementing those goals, hold a visioning session with focus on implementing what comes out of a new 
master plan.  There was discussion on assimilating the new Open Space and Recr eation Plan into the master plan as Element 
V, Open Space and Recreation, Natural and Cultural .  P. Bertram questioned if the Economic Development Element prepared by 
MRPC in 2013 should be updated.  There was Board discussion on what should be included in  the RFP (Request For Proposal) 
for consultant tasks.  T. Cole felt the RFP should not be finalized until the Board knows if it will receive the $50,000 grant.  P. 
Bertram felt that an RFP should be put together with the expectation of having the full $100 ,000, and then have a works hop to 
review the RFP.  A. Burney proposed the formation of a master plan committee, which could then transition into an 
implementation committee of the master plan.   
 
MASTER PLAN, Request for Proposal- See “Master Plan” above 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL , 0 7/08/19:  G. Bittner made Motion to app rove, T. Cole Seconded, vote passed 4 -0, P. Bertram 
abstained. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 07.22.19, Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee- No meetings currently being held. 
Storm Water Task Force -   Consultant interviews were held  and the Task Force will make its recommendation to the Town 
Manager.   
Agricultural Commission-  Due to an electrical fire at Hollis Hills Farm in Fitchburg, the Commission discussed the possibility of 
fund raising.  (Holl is Hills Farm is very active with managing fields in Lunenburg.)   The Commission will investigate what is 
required to hold a cookout during/after the Farmers’ Market on Sundays.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  Met this evening – no quorum available for voting. 
Land Acquisition Committee -.  Continue to m eet in executive session.  Have a signed Purchase & Sales and a grant 
application has been submitted.  M. Allison, as Planning Board Chair, will reach out to the Committee Chair about updating the 
Planning Board. 
Green Community Task Force-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  Working on draft transition plan for Lunenburg ADA public rig ht-of-way.  MJTC hopes to have a draft plan to Lunenburg 
by September 30th.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee, Vacancy- see “Appointment to Open Space Ad Hoc Committee” above 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-  Board members to review existing Bylaw and provide individual 
input to A. Burney.  The Board will discuss the current Bylaw at its August 26th meeting.   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas- on hold 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
August 12- 
UNITIL Hearing 
Economic Development Committee 
Earth Removal 
Master Plan RFP 
Master Plan Committee 
 
August 26- 
Stone Farm Hearing 
Solar Bylaw Discussion 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan  
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems   
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas  
 
ADJOURNMENT:   G. Bittner made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 8:25 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes- 07/08/19 
DRAFT Rules and Regulations, Earth Removal and Placement of Fill 
DRAFT Bylaw, Earth Removal and Placement of Fill 
Talent Bank Form 
2002 Master Plan 