===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Marisa Thompson,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Vacancy, M ember 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
January 27, 2020 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:00 PM 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Marisa Thompson, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss a  stormwater management special permit under Ch. 204 of the Code of the Town of 
Lunenburg for an earth rem oval project at 1325 Massachusetts Avenue, Map 062, Parcel 0003.   Owners/Applicants are Daniel 
and Jean Proctor, 1529 Massachusetts Avenue, Lunenburg, MA.   
 
Owners/applicants were represented by Frank McPartlan, Ducharme & Dillis Civil Design Group, Inc. (‘DDCDG’).  The project 
calls for the removal of 50,000+/ - cubic yards of material.  The site is mostly grassed with woodlands along the perimeter .  A 
single family residence is located on the lot.  A twenty foot buffer, to remain untouched and wooded, wil l be maintained along the 
property lines.  The site will be graded to a large flat 1% pitched area, which will drain to a stormwater management area  (a 
basin with infiltration capacity) on the west side of the property .  That will discharge into the existi ng wetland buffer.  An earth 
removal permit has been received from the Select Board.  As the site is zoned commercial, the property owner wanted t he 
stormwater management area designed to capture runoff from the earth removal as well as any  impervious area that may occur 
with future development.  The basin has been designed up to a 100 -year storm.  The basin has been created with forebays, one 
at each end and one  in the middle.  Three manholes are proposed for any future development.  The outlet structure i s designed 
to promote groundwater recharge.  The site will not discharge to any critical area.  During earth removal, a  double row of silt 
fence will be placed along the wetland side of the property.  Slopes will be stabilized with erosion control matting.   The flatter 
areas will be stabilized with wood chips until seeded.   A gravel access drive will be constructed once approval is received from 
MassDOT.   
 
P. Bertram disagreed with DDCDG’s comment that the site would not discharge to any critical area.  S he had looked at the 
ACEC (Areas of Critical Environmental Concern) map and opined that this address falls  within an ACEC.   The map of the 
Cowdrey area shows an ACEC going down Townsend Harbor Road and across Massachusetts Avenue.  P. Bertram has 
concerns with pre- and post- development stormwater and is of the opinion that the Board should be looking at this from both the 
earth removal viewpoint and possible future commercial development.  She felt the Board is only looking at a small portion of this 
project, while there is a large r one coming.  A. Burney responded that the Board can only act on the current application, not 
something that may take place in the future.  DDCDG  reiterated that the basin was designed to handle 77,000 s quare feet of 
impervious s urface.  P. Bertram noted d rainage calculations were available, but a full stormwater plan was not done as the 
project meets pre - and post - requirements.  She also questioned if there was sufficient hydrology information.  P. Bert ram 
inquired as to a planting plan.  DDCDG responded that plantings are shown on the Earth Removal Permit Plan.    
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
Page 2 
 
D. Proctor noted he will be doing a site walk with abutter Dale Erskine to determine what trees are to remain.  Arborvita es will 
also be planted along her property line.   
 
P. Bertram is looking for a sequencing timeline for stormwater stabilization.  DDCDG responded erosion control barrier s will be 
installed first along the limits of the property .  Where earth is to be removed, the basin will be constructed first .  P. Bertram would 
like this documented. 
 
A. Burney noted an email he received f rom abutters Gerry and Dale Erskine, 1331 and 1335 Massachusetts Avenue.  They had 
concerns with noise, dust, duration of project, and buffer materials.  Full email is on file in the Planning Office.  A. Burney noted 
most of their concerns are with earth removal, not the stormwater management.  A peer engineering review letter was also 
received from Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI) after th e close of business.  A. Burney summarized that review letter for the Board.  
GEI had no issues with compliance to the Stormwater and Storm Sewer Bylaw.  There were review comments relative to 
Hydrology Computations and Stormwater Management and general en gineering comments.  Review let ter is on file in the 
Planning Office.  
 
P. Bertram would like to see screening and proposed stabilization on a revised plan .  She is also looking for assurance that the 
project complies with best management practices for an ACEC and wants a  vegetation/planting schedule and sequencing 
schedule.   
 
DDCDG requested the hearing be continued to February 10, 2020.  A. Burney will relay the Board’s questions/concerns to GEI 
for response.  P. Bertram made Motion to continue the Hearing to February 10 th, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Hearing 
recessed 7:50 PM. 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Site Plan dated 12.18.19 
Stormwater Operation & Maintenance Manual dated 01.06.2020 
SWPPP Executive Summary dated 01.06.2020 
GEI Review Letter dated 01.27.2020 
Abutter Email dated 01.22.2020 
 
 