===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Marisa Thompson, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
April 13, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present: Marisa Thompson, present. 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading.  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg  Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Publi c Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c. 30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely re motely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being record ed and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
APPOINTMENT:  Historical Commission - Appointment put on hold per request of the Historical Commission Chair to a time 
closer to town meeting. 
 
ANR PLAN:  17 6 Elmwood Road - The applicants Mr. and Mrs. LaPointe, were represented by Jason Goyette, David E. Ro ss 
Associates.  This was a 2 lot division.  Both lots met the acreage and frontage requirements.  P. Bertram made Motion to 
approve the ANR Plan for 176 Elm wood Road, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote: T. Cole, aye; M. Thompson, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
1325 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE: Public Hearings, Stormwater Permit and Site Plan Approval:  see separate minutes.  T. 
Cole made Motion to approve the Stormwater Permit for 1325 Massachusetts Avenue, P. Bertram Seconded for 
discussion with the requirement that maintenance for the sediment forebay be incorporated within the Stormwater 
Operation and Maintenance Manual  and that the monito ring well that has been installed should be removed.  T. Cole 
amended his Motion to state same, P. Bertram amended Second to state same, Roll Call Vote: M. Thompson, aye; T. 
Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 04.13.2020 
Page 2 
 
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the Site Plan as proposed with the condition that a four (4) to six  (6) foot high 
earthen berm be installed from the eastern property line along the northern property line in lieu of the plantings as 
originally proposed, T. Cole Seconded, P. Bertram amended her Motion to specify a seeded berm, T. Cole amended his 
Second to state same, Roll Call Vote: M. Thompson, aye; T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0.   
 
STORMWATER AND STORM SEWER S BYLAW:   As this will be an item for fall town meeting, Board consensus wa s to table 
this evening’s discussion until there is a more conducive setting.  P. Bertram requested A. Burney consult with the CEI consultant 
as to aspects of the Stormwater Handbo ok the Board may not w ish to adopt.  Are there standard  engineering practices used in 
lieu of the stormwater regulations?  A. Burney noted the consultant is amenable to meeting with the Board for discussion 
purposes.  A. Burney went on to note that DEP has  formed a working group to look at the current Stormwater Handbook with the 
goal of updating the Handbook.    
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
03.09.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded,  Roll Call Vote: M. Thompson, aye; T. Cole, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
03.09.2020, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue - P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded,  Roll Call Vote: M. 
Thompson, aye; T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: Annual Town Meeting, Update-  Currently scheduled for June 13, 2020.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   Discussion ensued regarding the upcoming meeting schedule due to COVID -19 legislation that has 
been enacted allowing for the pausing/delaying the period of time set  forth by statutes.  A. Burney recommended that the Board 
hold off on meeting unless they fe lt it necessary to continue doing permits via virtual meetings.  P. Bertram was of the opinion 
that unless there is something that would prohibit the Board from a v irtual meeting, as long as the Board has all the necessary 
information, it should proceed with meetings.    
 
There was discussion of the Board ’s response concerning  support that the Historical Commission was seeking for the 
Community Preservation Act (CPA).  Not all Board members were in favor of supporting the CPA at Annual Town Meeting.   
 
T. Cole opined that the Board should endeavor to move permits along digitally for the benefit of the applicants, but if appli cants 
are more comfortable presenting their  projects by conventional means, i.e., Board meetings held as usual in Town Hall, that 
would be the preferred method.    
 
Board consensus was to not hold a Board meeting on April 27th.  The next Board meeting will be scheduled for May 11 th. 
   
May 11-  
Public Hearing, Borrego Solar, 190 Electric Avenue 
Stormwater and Storm Sewers Bylaw- discussion with CEI consultant 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  T. Cole asked for an update on the four requests for Removal from Chapter that were presented at the 
Board March 9 th meeting.  A. Burney responded that the Select Board chose to not act on its Right of First Refusal for three of 
the properties, but held off on Tract A, Holman Street and Northfield Road  to gain additional information.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   P. Bertram made Motion to a djourn, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  Roll Call Vote: M. Thompson, aye; T. 
Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
Adjourned 9:00 PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes 
    03.09.2020 
    03.09.2020, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
ANR Plan, 176 Elmwood Road 