===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
December 14, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that t his meeting is being recorded and broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the L unenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently closed to the public and open by 
appointment only.   In accordance w ith the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on 
the Town’s website COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to 
meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberat ions 
of the meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This 
meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted on the  Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a sma rt phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is: 86118768002.  Please note that this meeting is 
being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conferen ce.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  A. Burney reiterated that Town offices are once again closed to the public; open by appointment only.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
318 & 384 Howard Street -  The applicant, Kevin O’Brien, O’Brien Homes Inc. presented the ANR Plan at the November 23, 
2020 Board meeting.  At that time, the Board requested a letter/agreement  that K. O’Brien had with the Haley’s at 384 Howard 
Street.  Both that letter and the Deed from 2008 were furnished to the Board subsequent to the meeting on the 23rd.  The 
documents indicated that K. O’Brien owned the property through the initial Board ap provals for the subdivision , then 
subsequently sold the property while the subdivision was in litigation, which included the boundary adjustment agreement as part 
of the purchase.  The Deed and letter indicated that K. O’Brien would complete the boundary a djustment agreement at the end of 
the subdivision approval process.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan, M. Brenner Seconded, T. Cole 
commented that when the subdivision went through final site plan approval K. O’Brien did not own the land curr ently 
being subdivided under this ANR.  The subdivision plans that the Board previously signed depicted property that K.  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.14.2020 
Page 2 
 
O’Brien did not own.  K. O’Brien responded that when the subdivision was approved, he did not own any of the land; it was 
under a purchase and sales agreement.  The subdivision plan was approved and then he closed with the previous owners.  Roll 
Call Vote - T. Cole, abstain; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed with 3 in favor, and 1  
abstention.   
250 Howard Street - Applicants Cesira Newcomb and Joel Normandin purchased the property and under a Tri -Partite 
Agreement would be donating ~3 acres of land  to the town.   The applicants would be building a  single family home on the 
remaining land.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.   
 
WAIVER REQUEST FROM SITE PLAN APPROVAL:  88 Massachusetts Avenue - Applicants Stac i and Bill Halkiadakis 
purchased the property with the intent of dividing the building interior from three into five units for retail use.  The Zoning Board of 
Appeals had granted a special permit for the use.  Due to the change in use, the next step would be site plan approval f rom the 
Planning Board; from which the applicants were seeking a waiver.  There would be no exterior alterations to the building.  They 
also leased a section of abutting land for parking to conform to the bylaw.  Two long -term busin esses already occupied the 
building in Units 4 and 5; a barber shop and a pottery business .  Unit 1 was not included in the parking calculations as a retail 
cannabis business had expressed interest which could require different parking accommodations.  A. Burney suggested that Unit 
1 be excluded from the discussion as the retail cannabis business would undoubtedly involve a lengthy approval process.  M. 
Allison questioned excluding a portion of the building from the site plan approval process.  A. Burney re sponded that the Board 
could condition a return before the Board for Unit 1.  The applicants informed the Board that i nterest was expressed in Unit 2 for 
a pickup/delivery pizza business and Unit 3 for a nail salon.  The 12 parking spots at the rear of the  building were anticipated for 
staff parking and would be one -way traffic, exit only, as there w ere only 14 ½ feet of aisle width.  The Board had concerns with 
adequate parking  on site  and vehicular passage around the back of the building.   The Board quest ioned what exactly the 
applicants were seeking; approval for the current parking situation for the creation of Units 2 and 3.  T. Cole was of the op inion 
that the applicants should go through site plan approval , with each unit being approved for a defined use.  In the future, any use 
that fell within that specified category would not have to return to the Board.  The applicants questioned if they could cont inue 
separating the units and then the individual tenants come before the Board.  A. Burney noted that  the Zoning Board of Appeals 
special permit was for a shopping center, for all the units functioning as one building.  T. Cole asked that the applicants r eturn to 
a Board meeting with defined uses, e.g. retail, service.  If the retail cannabis business came to fruition, it would have to come 
before the Board for a special permit and the site plan would have to be amended.  The Board questioned the amoun t of 
required parking.  The building was ~6,900 SF.  Based on the units’ square footage and the uses, 17, 232 SF of parking would 
be required.  T. Cole felt there were a lot of concerns that needed to be addressed, e.g., width of vehicular aisles, potential uses, 
viability of all parking spaces .  Board members would like the applicants to return to the Board w ith an engineered plan showing 
the building on the property lines, layout of parking spaces, access points, distance from the body of water at the rear to the 
parking lots, what was gravel, what was paved, square footage of each unit, and access around snow storage,  
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  361 Massachusetts Avenue, BrightFarms- see separate minutes 
 
361 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, BRIGHTFARMS - Review/Vote on Board Decision -  In addition to the Conditions already 
contained in the draft Decision, the following would be added: 
 
Requirement for a third-party monitor. 
Letter from Graves Engineering, Inc. that all outstanding requirements had been met. 
Requirement for at least one foot of freeboard from the 100-year storm. 
Pope Road would not be used for a construction entrance. 
 
The Board determined construction hours would be 7  AM - 5 PM, Monday through Friday, 8  AM – 4 PM Saturday, no 
construction on Sundays and federal or state holidays. 
 
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the Stormwater Permit and Site Plan Approval for 3 61 Massachusetts Avenue with 
the eleven Conditions as distributed and the four Conditions added this evening by the Board, T. Cole Seconded, Roll 
Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 12.14.2020 
Page 3 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: 
11/23/2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
11/23/2020, BrightFarms - P. Bertram made Motion to approve , M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  no report.  Next meeting December 17th.   
TCP Building Design Committee-   Discussion with the architectural firm regarding costs and finishings.  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  Met with Al Futterman from the Nashua Watershed Association for over view of forest legacy 
program.  The Program allows communities to  come together to conserve land.  The Committee d iscussed the possibility of 
adding trail and town property layers to the existing GIS website.   It recommended that the Town not exercise its right of first 
refusal for 360 Flat Hill Road.  Continued to revi ew town-owned property list to see what properties might meet the open space 
criteria.   
Capital Planning Committee–    no report 
MRPC–  Progress made on the conservation lands mapping project.  
MJTC–   Upcoming shared winter streets and spaces grant was noted; January 5th due date.  The State has 10M in funding for 
small, meaningful projects, e.g., outdoor dining.  Funding available through May 2021.   Trail grants are available for 2021 with a 
February 1, 2021 deadline for application.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Master Planning- Population projections received f rom Donahue Institute and distributed to Boa rd members.  Once the 2020 
census is released, in approximately 3-4 years, Donahue Institute would be willing to plug those numbers into the projections.   
Green Leaf Botanicals - Draft Host Community Agreement submitted to the Town.  The Select Board was not planning to take 
any action on the Agreement until the Host Community Meeting was held after the beginning of 2021.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
December 28- Workshop on Subdivision Rules and Regulations.  P. Bertram would not be available.   
January 11 
January 25 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: T. Cole asked if it would be possible to get full size copies of plans when they are being 
reviewed by members.  A. Burney responded that the Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits 
codified 11x17 for the Board.  If the Board wanted to revise, a hearing would need to be held.  Board discussion to be held at a 
future meeting.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.  Adjourned 9:00 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes:   
    11/23/2020 
    11/23/2020, BrightFarms 
ANR Plans: 
    318 & 384 Howard Street 
    250 Howard Street 
Waiver Request, 88 Massachusetts Avenue 
Board Decision, DRAFT, 361 Massachusetts Avenue 