===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula, Bertram, Member    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Clerk - Vacant   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member - Vacant 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 8, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present:  
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this m eeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC rega rding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public.  I n 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all publ ic 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see you 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
71 Wildwood Road- The applicant Gerard Croteau, 55 Wildwood Road was represented by Frank Preston, Whitman & Bingham 
Associates.  Mr. Croteau was mistaken as to the locat ion of the property line and thought he owned more land ; therefore, he  
made an agreement with the owner of 71 Wildwood Road to purchase 0.714 ± acres.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the 
ANR Plan, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
46 Arbor Street -Applicant Claire Courtemanche submitted a plan for the sale of property from 46 Arbor Street to 64 Arbor 
Street.  Parcel A -1 consisting of 8.775 ± acres will be sold to Matthew & Laura Woodward, 64 Arbor Street.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to approve the ANR Plan, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote 
passed 3-0. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  190 Electric Avenue-  see separate minutes. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 06.08.2020 
Page 2 
 
STORMWATER BYLAW:   Nick Cristofori, Comprehensive Environmental Inc.  (CEI), is the consultant to the Stormwater Task 
Force and has been assisting in updating the Stormwater and Storm Sewers Bylaw to bring the Town into compliance with the 
MS4 Permit.  He noted few changes needed to be made to the existing bylaw.  Changes made were mostly for clarification.  The 
major change was to update the stormwater standards  to match the Permit.   Under D. Applicability, P. Bertram asked if more 
LID (Low Impact Develo pment) recommendations should be incorporated into the Bylaw per CEI recommendation.  CEI 
responded some communities have LID handbooks to point applicants in the right direction .  P. Bertram’s goal is not just to meet 
the MS4 standards, but to make a posi tive impact on stormwater contamination.  CEI’s interpretation of D. is that any 
development, regardless of amount of disturbance, will be required to meet these regulations.  He opined it eliminate d the one 
acre threshold and t ied it to anything that incr eased stormwater runoff , e.g., building a garage.   This would pull in a lot more 
projects than a one acre threshold.  It would be at the Board’s discretion if it wanted to trigger a permit at less than one acre.   CEI 
felt it would be good to have some sort  of acreage as a trigger.  A. Burney noted that stormwater compliance was required 
through site plan approval.  T. Cole wanted the Board to stay with the one acre requirement.  At a future time, an LID bylaw could 
be created which could trigger a smaller t hreshold.  Board was in agreement with leaving D. Applicability as is, which complied 
with EPA requirements and kept it strictly to the MS4 Permit.   
 
P. Bertram felt municipal, state and federal agencies ( D. Applicability [5] ) should not be exempt from th e regulations.  It was 
decided to eliminate D.[5].   
 
P. Bertram felt the language of F.(2) Standards. should be altered as the Board has not always required 100% compliance with 
the Massachusetts Stormwater Management Policy.  Is it required or does the Board have the ability to lessen those regulations?  
CEI will review as there is no longer a Massachusetts Stormwater Management Policy , but the Massachusetts Stormwater 
Handbook.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
04.13.2020-  P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Col e Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  
04.13.2020, 1325 Massachus etts Avenue -   P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. 
Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Annual Town Meeting, Update- Scheduled for June 13th. 
Baker Brook (Tri Town Senior Living Facility), Update- A building permit was issued for this, the final building.  The developer 
expected construction to take 16-18 months.  A. Burney will prepare paperwork for the State for the Density Bonus Payment. 
Endorsement of Plans While Meeting Remotely - Discussion ensued authorizing a single individual, e.g., Board Chair, Land 
Use Director, Board Clerk, to endorse Board-approved plans.  P. Bertram was in favor of same, but T. Cole was opposed.  Board 
members will need to come into the office to sign plans.   
Endorse Site Plan, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue - The final plan was revised to include the changes from the conclusion of th e 
public hearing.   
Discussion of Restaurant Outdoor Seating- With the commencement of the Phase 2 Reopening Plan, restaurants are allowed 
to serve on outdoor patios.  A. Burney was approached by some Lunenburg restaurants that would like to initiate outdo or 
serving.  A. Burney and the Building Commissioner discussed allowing this through temporary modifications to site plan 
approvals.  T. Cole made Motion authorizing the Land Use Director to w ork with the Bui lding Commissioner in setting 
guidelines for safe establishment of outdoor dining, P. Bertram, Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:     
June 13- Annual Town Meeting 
June 22- Board Meeting 
June 27- Town Election 
July 13- Board Meeting 
July 27- Board Meeting 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 06.08.2020 
Page 3 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: There was Board concern with  the lack of forward movement on the Master Plan.  This has 
been amplified as parts of Town spending have been put on hold due to COVID -19.  A. Burney will approach the Town Manager 
regarding the status of the spending freeze.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   Adjourned 8:39 PM. 
 
 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Stormwater and Storm Sewers Bylaw 
Minutes 
    04.13.2020 
    04.13.2020, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
ANR Plans 
    71 Wildwood Road 
    46 Arbor Street 