===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Marisa Thompson, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Paula Bertram, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
February 24, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Tanner Cole, Paula Bertram, Marisa Thompson, Adam R. Burney 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: Hans Wentrup, 418 N W Townsend Road- Inquired as to Board progress with updating the solar bylaw and 
if there would be an a rticle at annual town meeting.  He had previously submitted a citizen petition at annual town meeting for 
some language change and that the permitting authority changes from the Planning Board to the Zoning Board of Appeals.  M. 
Allison responded that the solar bylaw is currently on hold as the Board focuses its attention on other bylaws  
 
Below Agenda items taken out of order. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  1325 Massachusetts Avenue- Ducharme & Dillis Civil Design Group, Inc. (‘DDCDG’) letter dated February 
24, 2020 requested a continuance to March 9, 2020  on behalf of the Applicant.   P. Bertram made Motion to continue the 
Hearing to March 9, 2020, 6:35 PM, per the applicant’s request, T. Cole Seconded, all aye.  
 
1325 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE- Waiver Request from Site Plan Approval:  Attorney Bowen, 1686 Massachusetts Avenue 
spoke on behalf of the A pplicants, Daniel and Jean Proctor.  He reference d DDCDG letter dated Feb ruary 20, 2020, subject:  
Change of Use Site Plan Approval Waiver Request .  He is of the opinion that a site plan is not required  at this time as there has 
been no change of use.  After the earth removal, there may be a change of use.  P. Bertram would like to know how the Building 
Commissioner arrived at his change of use determination.  She would like the Board to continue  its discussion once 
correspondence has been received from the  Building Commissioner.  Atty Bowen does not feel it is necessary for that input, or 
even for the Board to agree with him.  The waiver should still be con sidered on the basis of the other points bulleted in DDCDG’s 
letter (on file in the Planning Office).  P. Bertram feels there are portions of Code of Lunenburg , 250-8.4. Site Plan Approval, 
which would apply.  She is concerned with screening and would like additional landscaping  to protect the neighbors.  Atty Bowen 
responded that perimeter  screening is already addressed.  He believed additional screening c ould be addressed in the ongoing 
stormwater review as opposed to having the Applicant go through an additional application for Site Plan Approval.  P. Bertram 
responded that stormwater does not address vegetation; that is through site plan approval.  A. Burney emphasized that site plan 
approval looks at the final use of the site, which in this case would be how the earth removal is managed and operated .  Site plan 
approval is usually intended for commercial or industrial development and not earth removal.  Discussion will continue at the 
Board’s March 9th meeting.   
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 02.24.2020 
Page 2 
 
496 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE:  Request for De Minimis Change -  The Lunenburg Water District is requesting a change in 
slope.  The slope on the westerly side (right side of building) is 3:1, as previously permitted by the Board.  The Water Dist rict 
would like to change it to a more gradual 4:1.  The rear of the site will remain at a 3:1 slope  due to the power line easement.  P. 
Bertram made Motion to approve the De Minimis change at 496 Massachusetts Avenue for a proposed change of slope 
from 3:1 to 4:1, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
EARTH REMOVAL BYLAW & REGULATIONS:   
 
Daniel Proctor, property owner of 1325 Massachusetts Av enue voiced his f rustration regarding communication between Town 
Departments and applicants/contractors.   
 
Board viewed a new draft of Earth Removal Rules and Regulations.  New edits will be made; a dditional screening language 
added to 5.2. , hours of remo val operation 8:00 AM to 4: 30 PM, Monday through Fridays in residential zoning.  Hours in other 
zones would be determined by the Planning Board.  A. Burney will make these and other edits, to the draft.   
 
The Board will plan on having a public discussion on the general bylaw at its March 9th Board meeting.    
 
STORMWATER AND STORM SEWERS BYLAW:   As a result of Board discussion and submitted comments from Board 
member P. Bertram, more edits will be made, e.g., adding definitions, wording to address areas with sensitive resources, adding 
more to the objectives, an abutter notification, fee structure, and more details on the  Plan.  A. Burney will update the draft and 
submit to the stormwater consultant for comments.  The consultant’s comments should be availa ble for the Board’s March 9 th 
meeting.    
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
02.10.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
02.10.2020, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, all aye. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Capital Planning Committee-   no report 
Storm Water Task Force-   no report 
Agricultural Commission-   Additional weeks will be added to the duration of the Farmers’ Market. 
TCP Building Design Committee-  no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
Land Acquisition Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  
Historical Commission/Community Preservation Act-  The Chair of the Historical Commission is looking for Board support for 
the passing of the Community Preservation Act at  annual town meeting.  The Community Preservation Act had failed to pass at 
town meeting at least twice before.  Board support was mixed.  The Board was amenable to hearing the Historical Commission 
Chair at its March 23rd meeting.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
March 9- 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue Hearing Continuation 
1325 Massachusetts Avenue Waiver Request 
Earth Removal Public Discussion 
Stormwater Discussion 
March 23- 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 02.24.2020 
Page 3 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 4.15., Solar Energy Systems-    
Lunenburg Code, Section 250- 6.1., Off Street Parking & Loading Areas-   
MGL, Ch. 41, Section 81D, Master Plan - A joint meeting with the Select Board for discussion of master planning has not yet 
been set.  T. Cole made Motion to invite the Select Board to its March 23rd meeting, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.   There 
was discussion of also including the APDC (Architectural Preservation District Commission) , School Committee, and TCP 
Building Design Committee for discussion of both master planning and munic ipal buildings.  T. Cole had concerns with including 
too many committees in the discussion; therefore, only the Select Board and APDC will be invited.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   T. Cole made Motion to adjourn, P. Bertram Seconded, all aye.  Adjourned 9:00 PM.  
 
Documents used at meeting: 
496 Massachusetts Avenue, Request for De Minimis Change 
DDCDG Letter Requesting Hearing Continuance 
Minutes: 
  02.10.2020 
  02.10.2020, 1325 Massachusetts Avenue 
Historical Commission Letter 
Earth Removal Bylaw & Rules and Regulations– DRAFT 
Stormwater Bylaw – DRAFT 
Stormwater Bylaw Comments, Paula Bertram 