===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
September 14, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present; Erik Torgersen (left 10:05 PM), present. 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised tha t this m eeting is being recorded but not broadcast live due to technical difficulties.  It will be available on 
the You Tube channel tomorrow.  The meeting of the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in 
response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, 
Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the 
spread.  A ll town facilities are  currently cl osed to the public with the exception of  10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.; Monday through 
Thursday.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, 
Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remote ly.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s 
website COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet 
entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the 
meeting.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting 
will feature public comment  both and the beginning and end .  For thi s meeting the Planning Board is convening by video 
conferencing via Zoom as posted on the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note 
that this meeting is being recorded and that some attendees are participating by v ideo conference.  Accordingly please be aware 
that other folks may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be 
captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
237 Prospect Street- M. Allison noted letter from the Building Commissioner stating this w as not a building lot.  The Plan took a 
parcel of beachfront property and split it in two.  One of the p arcels to be deeded to property across the street to provide lake 
access.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 237 Prospect Street, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. 
Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allis on, aye.  Vote passed 5-0. 
 
422 Mulpus Road- Both the property owner Donald Solovei and his representative Steve Marsden of Marsden Engineering were 
present.  Perc testing had been done for the existing home and the four new frontage lots.  The plan was re vised to 9-9-2020 per 
request of the Bui lding Commissioner to show shed offset s.  T. Cole made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 422 Mulpus 
Road, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Al lison, 
aye.  Vote passed 5-0. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 09.14.2020 
Page 2 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
Northfield Road -  See separate minutes .  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the application for common drive and 
scenic road on Northfield Road, property formerly part of 300 Holman  Street West, and 524 Northfield Road, M. Brenner 
Seconded for discussion.   Approval would be contingent on the applicant adhering to the plan submitted and approved this 
evening.  Roll Call Vote-  T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgers en, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 
5-0. 
 
361 Massachusetts Avenue, BrightFarms-  See separate minutes.   
 
DE MINIMIS CHANGE:  Baker Brook, Tri Town Landing - There was a fire hydrant and water  main extension located on the 
southeast side of the building  under construction.  With the re location of the connection to the northeast side of the building, the 
additional hydrant and extension were no longer necessary and they wanted to remove it.  The Fire Chief reviewed the request 
and had no issue with the hy drant removal.  T. Cole made Motion to approve the De Minimis Change for Baker Brook, Tri 
Town Landing, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote -   T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5-0. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   
08.24.2020- P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5-0. 
 
08.24.2020, Northfield Road/Holman Street West - P. Bertram made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -   
T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5 -0. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
Agricultural Commission-   Commission at full membership.  Worked on letter regarding animal complaints.  Farmers’ Market 
will conclude for the season on October 11th.   
TCP Building Design Committee -   Various organizations in Town expressed interest in occupying space in the building.  The 
Committee hoped to have an article ready for fall special town meeting.  T. Cole opined that special town meetings aren’t as well 
attended and as the Board’s representative  to the Committee, he sought feedback from the Board.  If an article w as approved at 
special town meeting it would most likely require a ballot vote and a special election would have to be called for a debt ex clusion 
to fund the project.  Board members felt there would be better attendance at annual town meeting.  Neither would a special 
election be required as there would be spring annual election.  Additionally, architectural plans were not firm at this time.  If the 
Committee planned on going to fall special town meeting, an article would have to be finalized at its next meeting.  Board 
members voiced various concerns which T. Cole would bring up to the Committee.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   Meeting scheduled for September 22, 2020. 
MRPC-  Meeting held September 3, 2020.  MRPC provided update on conservation mapping in Town.  The Conser vation 
Commission received a grant to put small maps at trail intersections.   
MJTC-  Meeting held September 9, 2020.  Discussed master planning services provided.  MA DOT communicated the shared 
streets and spaces grant program.  The program provided gran ts i n quantities of $5,000 – $300,000 for quick build projects 
relating to mitigating COVID issues in towns, e.g., projects that would provide for social distancing such as walking paths, 
enhancing ability for sidewalk dining.  Projects needed to be submitted by September 29, 2020.   
Capital Planning Committee- No report 
 
WORKSHOP: 
ANR Process - Frontage and access are the two key elements for approval of an ANR Plan.  There is no requirement for 
conformance with other laws.  A. Burney spoke with other commu nities to see how their process compared with Lunenburg’s  and 
he also conferred with Town Counsel.  If the Board approved a plan that made someone’s septic system noncompliant ; that 
would be an enforcement issue for the Board of Health through the Title 5 process.  If it so desired, The Planning Board had the 
authority to add a Board of Health  requirement to the ANR process.  The Board viewed two drafts of the process.  T. Cole was 
concerned with a homeowner dividing land and then discovering they should ha ve taken into consideration land that should have 
been retained for a septic system.  He was  of the opinion that the Board of Health should sign off on a Plan prior to its submittal 
to the Planning Office.  P. Bertram recommended that the ANR process require that septic system, reserve area, and wells 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 09.14.2020 
Page 3 
 
be indicated on a Plan that had an existing dwelling ; also that the approval contain a statement that the land division did not 
necessarily comply with Board of Health requirements.  A public hearing w ill be scheduled for the end of October to amend Ch. 
325, Subdivision Regulations, §325 -3.2. Plan believed not to require approval .  T. Cole inquired if an applicant requested a 
waiver for items required in the submittal  and the 21 -day time clock had commenced, how the waiver would affect that time  
clock.  A. Burney responded t he time  clock would continue without interruption.  Discussion was had on whether or not 
applicants needed to file the Plan with the Reg istry of Deeds within 14 d ays as specified in the current process .  P. Bertram 
inquired what would happen if a Plan was not recorded and there was a  zoning change subsequent to the Plan’s endorsement .  
A. Burney responded that there was a three -year zoning freeze from the date the Plan was endorsed.  If the Plan was recorded 
after the three year zoning freeze, current zoning would apply.  A. Burney will make changes to the draft for Board discussion at 
the next meeting.    
 
Master Planning- Tabled to next meeting.    
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:     
September 28- BrightFarms 
October 26- BrightFarms 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  Adjourned 10:21PM 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    08.24.2020 
    08.24.2020, Northfield Road/Holman Street West 
ANR Plans: 
    237 Prospect Street 
    422 Mulpus Road 
Tri Town Landing, Request for De Minimis Change 
§325-3.2., DRAFT 
 
 