===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Northfield Road/ 300 Holman Street West 
August 24, 2020 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  7:25 PM 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Bu rney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison,  present; Tanner Cole,  present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present; Erik Torgersen, present. 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Ope n Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this m eeting is being recorded and broadcast over Lunenburg Public Access and this meeting of the 
Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is curre ntly 
following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding 
the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are open by appointment only .  In 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations of the meeting.  Ensuring public 
access does not en sure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will feature public 
comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom and FacebookLive as posted on 
the Town’s website identifying how the public may join.  For Zoom meetings, please note that this meeting is being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks may be able to see y ou 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
A. Burney then covered the ground rules for effective business and to ensure accurate meeting minutes.   
 
The Hearing was to hear and discuss a request to remove six (6) s mall trees, one large tree  leaning towards Northfield Road, 
and create two or three new driveway entrances off Northfield Road at 300 Holman Street West (Map 021, Parcel 0011)  and 524 
Northfield Road (Map 039, Parcel 0032) , under M.G.L. Ch. 40, Section 15C , Scenic Road Designations and under M.G.L. Ch. 
87, Section 3, Cutting of Public Shade Trees. 
 
The applicant Bray Ave 9, LLC was represented by Ed McSweeney.   
 
T. Cole noted there was no driveway plan for Lot A on the Brightman property (524 Northfield Ro ad) and that the presented plan 
was not an engineered plan, e.g., it did not show driveway setbacks or the existing openings in the wall.  E. McSweeney 
requested clarification as to specifics requested by the Board.  He stated that five (5) saplings, two (2) trees with a circumference 
of approximately eleven (11”) inches, three (3) stumps, and a broken tree would be removed.  The trees ha d been marked and 
reviewed by the DPW Director/Tree Warden.  M. Allison noted, in agreement with T. Cole that the plan presented was not an  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Northfield Road/300 Holman Street West, 08.24.2020 
Page 2 
 
engineered plan, but  he had been on site and  the proposed driveways were clearly marked.  T. Cole reiterated that without an 
engineered plan showing specific locations and dim ensions, if future enforcement  became necessary, it would be difficult.  P. 
Bertram pointed out that both the drive for Lot 1 and the shared drive for Lot 5 annotated on the plan look ed as if they went 
directly through the stone wall , yet that was not what the photographs indicate d.  E. McSweeney responded that the stone w all 
was fully intact at the proposed shared drive for Lot 5.  At the proposed drive for Lot 1, there were remnants of the stone wall.  It 
was noted by the Board that the proposed drive for  Lot A, 524 Northfield Road, was not shown in the scenic road applicat ion 
packet, but was shown on the ANR Plan for 524 Northfield Road.  Board consensus was for E. McSweeney to submit an 
engineered plan for the proposed drives.  E. McSweeney responded tha t he w ould submit a plan showing the Brightman 
driveway (Lot A) and the shared driveway  (Lots 1 and 5)  with all measurements.  The plan w ould also show where the shared 
driveway entered Lot 1.  In the event the Board disapproved the shared driveway, E. McS weeney presented an Option 2, which 
was a singular drive into Lot 1 and a singular drive into Lot 5.  As there was a significant portion of stone wall remaining at the 
proposed singular drive into Lot 1, the Board was more favorably inclined to the shared drive for Lots 5 and 1.  P. Bertram made 
Motion to continue hearing to September 14, 2020, 6:35 PM, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 5 -0. 
 
Hearing recessed 8:00 PM 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Scenic Road Application 