===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
October 25, 2021 
 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  7:15 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Erik Torgersen, Adam Burney  
Absent:  Matthew Brenner 
 
The hearing was to make alterations to Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA, Chapter 250, Zoning, Article IV Use Regulations, 
Section 250-4.9. Water Supply Protection District, B.(1), by updating the Lunenburg Water District Aquifer Protection Zone map 
date, Article V, Dimensional Regulations, Section 250 -5.1. Lot Area, B., by deleting the Retail Commercial and defining the 
required lot area, required lot width through building and required lot width and frontage for Limited Business/Residential, Article  
III, Establishment of Districts, 250-3.1. by replacing G. Retail Commercial District with Village Center District, 250 -3.2. Location of 
Districts by amending the zoning map date to November 16, 2021, and to amend the current Zoning Map to reflect the change in 
the Water Supply Protection District.   
 
 
ARTICLE XX.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 2 50-3.1, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Types of Districts,” as depicted below, with additions 
underlined and deletions stricken-through, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Planning Board) 
 
§ 250-3.1 Types of districts.  
[Amended 5-7-2016 ATM by Art. 38]  
The Town of Lunenburg is hereby divided into 15 types of districts designated as:  
A. Residence A District.  
B. Residence B District.  
C. Outlying District.  
D. Recreation District.  
E. Commercial District.  
F. Limited Business/Residential District.  
G. Retail Commercial District Village Center District.  
H. Route 2A Overlay District.  
I. Office Park and Industrial District.  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 2 
 
J. Floodplain District.  
K. Water Supply Protection District.  
L. Lake Whalom Overlay District.  
M. Tri-Town Smart Growth District.  
N. Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District.  
 
The above Article removed the Retail Commercial District  from the list.  The Retail Commercial District has not existed since 
2017.  The Village Center District, which had been in existence since 2015, was added  to the list.   
 
 
ARTICLE XX.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -4.9, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw e ntitled “Water Supply Protection District,” Subsection B(1) District 
Delineation as depicted below, with additions underlined and deletions stricken -through, or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) 
 
§ 250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District.  
[Amended 5-5-2018 ATM by Art. 32]  
A. Purpose. The purpose of the Water Supply Protection District is to promote the health, safety and 
general welfare of the community; to protect, preserve and maintain present and potential 
sources of water supply and watershed areas for the public health and safety; to protect, 
preserve and maintain the existing and potential groundwater supply and groundwater recharge 
areas within the Town for public health and safety; to preserve and protect th e lakes, ponds, 
streams, brooks, rills, marshes, swamps, bogs and other water bodies and watercourses in Town; 
to protect the community from the detrimental use and development of land and water within 
the district; to conserve the natural resources of the  Town; to preserve and maintain the 
groundwater table and water recharge areas within the Town; and to prevent blight and the 
pollution of the environment.  
B. District delineation. 
(1) The boundaries of the Water Supply Protection District shall be as fol lows: Zone I, Zone II, and 
Zone III for the Town of Lunenburg, approved by the Department of Environmental Protection 
(DEP) according to Map 1, entitled " Water Protection District, revised October, 2009  LUNENBURG 
WATER DISTRICT AQUIFER PROTECTION ZONES, dated July 2021."  
(2) Where the bounds as delineated are in doubt or in dispute, the burden of proof that the use is 
outside the Water Supply Protection District or does not impact the district shall be upon the 
owner(s) of the land in question. However, th e Building Commissioner retains its authority to 
determine final location with regard to said Water Supply Protection District.  
(3) At the written request of the owner(s) of the property in question, the Town may engage a 
professional geologist, a certifi ed soil scientist or a registered professional engineer trained in 
hydrology to determine the location and extent of a protection area on the parcel in question and 
charge the owner(s) of said parcel for the cost of the investigation.  
C. Use regulations. 
(1) The Water Supply Protection District is established as an overlay district to all other districts. 
Land in the Water Supply Protection District shall be subject to the requirements of this section, 
as well as to all other requirements of this Zoning By law which apply to the underlying zoning 
districts. Uses that are not permitted in the underlying district shall not be permitted in the 
Water Supply Protection Districts.  
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 3 
 
(2) Uses permissible in the Rest ricted Area Zone I by special permit granted by the Planning Board. 
Irrespective of the permitted uses in the underlying district, only the following uses are permitted 
within the Restricted Area Zone I of the Water Supply Protection District, subject to t he granting 
of a special permit by the Planning Board, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals 
required by local, state or federal law are also obtained, and except as limited by the 
Conservation Commission and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies 
for Public Water Systems, Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water 
Supply, Revised May 1, 1991, as amended: 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
(c) Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, hazardous materials, 
liquid petroleum products, and other leachable materials are stor ed within an enclosed structure 
and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination.  
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, pro vided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 15% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(3) Uses permissible in Zone II by special permit granted by the Planning Board. Irrespective of the 
permitted uses in the underlying district, only the f ollowing uses are permitted within Zone II of 
the Water Supply Protection District, subject to the granting of a special permit by the Planning 
Board, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by local, state or federal 
law are also  obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Commission and/or Lunenburg 
Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies for Public Water Systems, Department of 
Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Revised May 1, 1991:  
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
(c) Raised wooden walkway, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and d ams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing as provided under 
MGL Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure, haza rdous materials, 
liquid petroleum products and other leachable materials are stored within an enclosed structure 
and used in a manner that will not permit groundwater contamination.  
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the  underlying district and 
subject to the provision of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(g) Detached one -family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying distric t and subject to the 
provisions of the underlying district, provided that no more than 20% of the required lot area is 
covered with impervious surfaces.  
(h) New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and if located on a lot  
having an area at least 1 1/2 times that required by §  250-5.1, and provided that no more than 
20% of the required lot area is covered with impervious surfaces.  
(i) Maintenance and repair of an existing structure, provided that there is not an increase i n 
impervious surfaces.  
===PAGE 4===
 
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 4 
 
(j) Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwater 
will occur.  
(4) Permitted uses: Zone III. The following uses are permitted with in Zone III of the Water Supply 
Protection District, provided that all necessary permits, orders or approvals required by local, 
state or federal law are also obtained and except as limited by the Conservation Commission 
and/or Lunenburg Water District as outlined in Guidelines and Policies for Public Water Systems, 
Department of Environmental Quality Engineering, Division of Water Supply, Revised May I, 1991, 
as amended: 
(a) Conservation of soil, water, plants and wildlife.  
(b) Outdoor recreation, nature study, boating and fishing.  
(c) Raised wooden walkways, foot, bicycle and/or horse paths and bridges.  
(d) Normal operation and maintenance of existing water bodies and dams, splash boards and other 
water control, supply and conservation devices.  
(e) Farming, gardening, nursery, conservation, forestry, harvesting and grazing provided under MGL 
Chapter 40A, provided that fertilizers, herbicides, pesticides, manure and other leachable 
materials are stored within an enclosed structure and used in a manner th at will not permit 
groundwater contamination.  
(f) Uses accessory and subordinate to the above uses, if permitted in the underlying district and 
subject to the provisions of the underlying district, provided that the use does not result in 
coverage of more than 20% of the lot with impervious surfaces.  
(g) Detached one -family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district and subject to the 
provisions of the underlying district.  
(h) New detached two-family dwellings, if permitted in the underlying district.  
(i) Maintenance and repair of an existing structure, provided that there is no increase in impervious 
surfaces.  
(j) Public utilities and facilities, provided that no adverse impact on surface water or groundwater 
will occur.  
(k) The application of  pesticides for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that all necessary 
precautions shall be taken to prevent hazardous concentrations of pesticides in the water and on 
the land within the Water Supply Protection District as a result of such applicat ion. Such 
precautions include, but are not limited to, erosion control techniques, the control of runoff 
water or the use of pesticides having low solubility in water, the prevention of volatilization and 
redeposition of pesticides and the lateral displacement of pesticides.  
(l) The application of fertilizers for nondomestic or agricultural uses, provided that such application 
shall be made in such a manner as to minimize adverse impacts on surface water and groundwater 
due to nutrient transport and deposition and sedimentation.  
(m) Planned residential development, subject to development plan approval and provided that no 
more than 15% of the required lot area is covered with impervious surfaces.  
(n) Those commercial and industrial activities permitted in  the underlying district, subject to 
development plan approval to prevent adverse impact on the environment.  
(5) Uses prohibited in the Water Supply Protection District: 
(a) Storage of road salt or deicing chemicals;  
(b) Chemical and bacteriological laboratories;  
(c) Industrial uses which discharge process water, including any commercial or service uses 
discharging wastewater;  
===PAGE 5===
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 5 
 
(d) Storage of petroleum or other refined petroleum product except within buil dings which will be 
heated by the petroleum or other refined petroleum product; however, nothing in this section 
shall prevent the owner of a tank or tanks existing at the time of adoption of this section to 
replace said tanks, provided there is no increase in capacity;  
(e) Any other use which involves the manufacture, use, storage, transportation or disposal of toxic or 
hazardous materials or generates, treats, stores or disposes of hazardous materials as defined in 
Article II in quantity exceeding 250 total gallons of liquid material(s) or 2,000 total pounds of solid 
material(s) at any one time.  
(6) Uses prohibited in Zone I and Zone II. The following uses are prohibited in Zone I and Zone II:  
(a) Public or private sanitary landfills, including the depos ition of any foreign or nonindigenous 
material upon the land except for normal and accepted agricultural;  
(b) Junkyards or recycling facilities;  
(c) Sewage treatment facilities;  
(d) Commercial car washes;  
(e) Dry-cleaning establishments;  
(f) Metal plating or metal finishing;  
(g) Use of chemicals for deicing unless deemed necessary for public safety by the Board of 
Selectmen;  
(h) The use of septic system cleaners which contain toxic organic chemicals;  
(i) The rendering impervious of more than 15% of a required lot area;  
(j) The disposal of liquid or leachable wastes, except subsurface domestic waste disposal systems;  
(k) Dumping of snow brought in from outside the district;  
(l) The alteration of any natural site features or topography, including bu t not limited to the cutting 
or removal of trees or other natural vegetation or the dumping, filling, excavation, grading, 
transferring or removing of any gravel, sand, loam or other soft material, rock or ledge prior to 
obtaining all permits and approvals for final development plans required by this bylaw;  
(m) Any use determined by the Planning Board to be detrimental to the purposes of this section of the 
bylaw;  
(n) Mining of land except as incidental to a permitted use, subject to a special permit gran ted by the 
Board of Selectmen.  
D. Conditions for use. 
(1) Each application for a special permit in the Water Supply Protection District shall conform to the 
Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits, as amended. In 
addition to the submission requirements of the Planning Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan 
Approval and Special Permits the following items shall also be included:  
(a) A plot plan showing: 
[1] Location of wetlands, streams, water bodies and floodplain;  
[2] Existing drainage patterns, including direction of surface flow and, if required, subsurface flow;  
[3] Existing soils;  
[4] Soil boring locations and results;  
[5] Existing woodlands;  
[6] Areas having slopes exceeding 15%;  
[7] Areas to be disturbed by construction;  
[8] Areas where earth and other material subject to erosion will be temporarily stockpiled;  
[9] Areas to be used for disposal or storage of construction debris, stones, stumps, etc. if within the 
district;  
===PAGE 6===
 
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 6 
 
[10] Temporary and permanent erosion control measures planned, such as sediment basins, storm 
waste basins, diversions, rip-rap, stabilization seedings, etc.;  
[11] Temporary work roads to be used during projects;  
[12] Locations and size of septic systems;  
[13] Method to contain spillage in fuel filling areas;  
(b) A storm drainage plan showing: 
[1] Locations of drains and culverts and names of streams, rivers, ponds or reservoirs in the Town into 
which they flow;  
[2] Discharge peaks and expected velocities at drain or culvert outlets;  
[3] Conditions above and below outlets and expected flow vehicles;  
[4] Supporting computation for the above;  
(c) A grading plan showing existing topography and planned grade along existing and/or proposed 
street or highway profiles;  
(d) A siltation and sedimentation control plan, including: 
[1] Sedimentation and erosion control structures such as diversions, waterways, slope stabilization 
structures and sediment basins, in sufficient detail to imp lement their installation together with 
referred standards for soil erosion and sedimentation as appropriate and design calculations as 
required for each structure;  
[2] Seeding and/or sodding requirements for all exposed areas, including seedbed preparati on, seed 
mixtures, lime, fertilizer and mulching requirements with referenced standards;  
[3] Schedule or sequence of operation with starting dates for clearing and/or grading, timing for 
storm drain and culvert installations, both temporary and permanent,  indicated dates when 
critical area stabilization, paving, seeding, mulching and/or sodding is to be completed;  
[4] General notes for sediment control that spell out the procedures for implementing the plan.  
(e) A complete list of all chemicals, pesticid es, fuels and other potentially toxic or hazardous 
materials to be used or stored on the premises in quantities greater than those associated with 
normal household use, accompanied by description of measures proposed to protect such 
materials from vandalism, corrosion and leakage and to provide for control of spills;  
(f) A description of potentially toxic or hazardous wastes to be generated, indicating storage and 
disposal methods;  
(g) Evidence of approval by the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Quality Engineering 
(DEQE) of any industrial water treatment or disposal systems;  
(h) For underground storage of toxic or hazardous materials, evidence of qualified professional 
supervision of system design, installation and operation;  
(i) Analysis by a professional engineer in sanitary or civil engineering registered in the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts certifying compliance with Subsection E below.  
(2) The Planning Board shall transmit one copy of the plan to the Board of Health and one copy to the 
Conservation Commission, one copy to the Fire Department and one copy to the local water 
purveyor for review and comment. The Board of Health and the Conservation Commission shall 
submit a written report to the Planning Board within 14 days.  
(3) Said plan submission shall be submitted to the Planning Board at a regularly scheduled meeting of 
the Planning Board. 
===PAGE 7===
 
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 7 
 
(a) In case of a use not requiring a special permit, the Planning Board, within 45 days of the rece ipt 
thereof, shall submit a report to the Building Commissioner. Said report shall summarize the 
Board's findings with regard to the compliance of the plan with the provisions of the Zoning Bylaw 
and any recommendations of the Board to ensure that: 
[1] The proposed use shall comply in all respects with the provisions of the underlying district and 
will promote the purposes of the Water Supply Protection District; and  
[2] The proposed use is appropriate to the natural topography, soils and other characteris tics of the 
site to be developed; and  
[3] The proposed use will not, during construction or thereafter, have an adverse environmental 
impact on the aquifer or recharge area; and  
[4] The proposed use will not result in the deterioration of existing ground water or surface water 
quality, whether or not such water meets established state or federal standards; and  
[5] The proposed use complies with the provisions of § 250-8.3C(2).  
(b) The Board may specify such additional requirements and conditions it finds  necessary to protect 
the health, safety and welfare of the public and the occupants of the proposed use.  
(c) The Building Commissioner shall not issue a permit until the report of the Planning Board, or more 
than 45 days shall have elapsed from the time of submittal to the Planning Board without receipt 
of such report, has been submitted to the Building Commissioner.  
E. Limitations upon uses. In addition to the limitations set forth in Article V of this bylaw, all uses 
within the Water Supply Protection District, except for single -family dwelling lots on plans not 
requiring Planning Board approval, shall be subject to the following limitations:  
(1) Safeguards. Provision shall be made to protect against toxic or hazardous materials discharged or 
lost throu gh corrosion, accidental damage, spillage or vandalism through such measures as 
provision for spill control in the vicinity of chemical or fuel delivery points, secure storage areas 
for toxic or hazardous materials and indoor storage provisions for corrosi ve or dissolvable 
materials.  
(2) Location. Where the premises are partially outside of the Water Supply Protection District, such 
potential pollution sources as on -site waste disposal systems shall, to the degree feasible, be 
located outside the district.  
(3) Disposal. For any toxic or hazardous waste to be produced in quantities greater than those 
associated with normal household use, the applicant must demonstrate the availability and 
feasibility of disposal methods which are in conformance with Chapter  21C of the Massachusetts 
General Laws and all other applicable laws and regulations.  
(4) Drainage. All runoff from impervious surfaces shall be recharged on the site, diverted towards 
areas covered with vegetation for surface infiltration to the extent p ossible. Dry wells shall be 
used only where other methods are infeasible and shall be preceded by oil, grease and sediment 
traps to facilitate removal of contamination.  
(5) Monitor test wells. Where fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides or other potential c ontaminants are to 
be applied, utilized or stored and in the opinion of the Planning Board are a matter of concern, a 
groundwater monitoring program shall be established before the special permit is granted. Such a 
program shall adequately monitor the qual ity of the groundwater leaving the site through the use 
of monitor wells and/or appropriate groundwater sample analyses.  
(6) Natural vegetation. No more than 30% of existing natural vegetation on any lot may be disturbed 
in an underlying residential distr ict, nor more than 50% of existing natural vegetation on any lot 
may be disturbed in an underlying nonresidential district.  
===PAGE 8===
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 8 
 
(7) Technical reference. The technical reference to be used to prepare and review  plans is 
"Guidelines for Soil and Water Conservation in Urbanizing Areas of Massachusetts," 1977, U.S.D.A. 
Soil Conservation Service, Amherst, Massachusetts. Specific guidelines to use include, but are not 
limited to: 
(a) Limit grading to only those areas actively undergoing current construction;  
(b) The smallest practical area of land should be exposed at one time during development;  
(c) Limit the length of time graded areas are exposed;  
(d) Provide temporary or permanent stabilization of disturbed are as at the earliest opportunity. Limit 
exposure to less than 60 days;  
(e) Retain and protect as much of the natural vegetation as possible;  
(f) Permanent improvements such as streets, utilities, storm sewer, vegetated waterways and other 
features of the d evelopment should be scheduled for installation to the greatest extent possible 
before removing the vegetative cover from an area scheduled for building construction;  
(g) Protect all fill slopes and cut slopes exceeding five feet in height from storm run -off through the 
use of diversion berms, drop chutes or other acceptable means;  
(h) Rough-graded rights-of-way awaiting installation of utilities and/or pavement should be protected 
by the installation of interceptor berms across the right-of-way so as to reduce the length of slope 
between berms to not more than 250 feet;  
(i) On sites where the above procedures are impractical or not acceptable, where the topography 
permits, install sediment basins, desilting basins or silt traps to remove sediment from ru noff 
waters.  
(8) Non-point source pesticide contamination. All pesticide use in Zone II shall comply with the 
provisions 333 CMR 12.00.  
The above Article took the map of 2009 and replaced it with the current map of July 2021.  The July 2021 map was creat ed by 
the Water District with input from DEP.  This affected the District boundary in the vicinity of Kilburn Street and Lancaster Avenue.   
 
 
ARTICLE XX.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -3.2, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Location of Districts,” as depicted below, with additions 
underlined and deletions stricken-through, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Planning Board) 
 
§ 250-3.2 Location of districts.  
Said distric ts, except Floodplain Districts, Water Supply Protection Districts, the Route 2A Overlay 
District, Whalom Overlay District, and Tri -Town Smart Growth District, hereinbefore referred to are 
located and bounded as shown on a map entitled "Revised Protective Bylaw Map of the Town of 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts," dated May 3, 2008  November 16, 2021 , signed by the Planning Board and 
filed with the Town Clerk, which map, together with all explanatory matter thereon, shall be deemed 
to accompany and be a part of this  bylaw. The Floodplain District location is described in §  250-4.8B, 
Water Supply Protection District is described in §  250-4.9B, Route 2A Overlay District is described in 
§ 250-4.10, Lake Whalom Overlay District is described in §  250-4.12B, Tri-Town Smart Growth District is 
described in § 250-4.13, and Summer Street Revitalization Overlay District is described in § 250-4.14B. 
 
The above Article removed the May 3, 2008 Zoning Map as the official Zoning Map and replaced it with an official Zoning Map 
dated November 16, 2021.  The new Zoning Map would include the revised Water Supply Protection District.    
===PAGE 9===
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 9 
 
ARTICLE XX.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -5.1, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Lot Area,” Subsection B as depicted below, with additions 
underlined and deletions stricken-through, or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Planning Board) 
§ 250-5.1 Lot area.  
Purpose. The purpo se of §  250-5.1. is to define all dimensional regulations related to allowable lot 
area, width, frontage, including dimensional regulations for all districts, and to clarify the regulations 
for dwellings per lot, lot size exceptions and reduction of occupied lots. 
A. Wetlands or land under water. In all districts, no more than 10% of the required lot area, as 
defined in this Article V, shall consist of wetlands or land under water.  
B. Lot area, width, shape and frontage. Except as provided in Subsections C, D and § 250-5.5, no 
building, except a detached building of accessory use, shall be constructed on a lot having less 
area than the "Required Lot Area" or having less width than the "Required Lot Width Through 
Building," specified in the following table for the district in which said lot is located: 
District 
Required Lot Area  
(square feet)  
Required Lot Width 
Through Building  
(feet)  
Required Lot Width and 
Frontage  
(feet)  
Residence A 40,000 175 100 
Residence B 80,000 175 100 
Outlying 80,000 175 100 
Dimensional requirements 
with sewer 
   
Retail Commercial Limited 
Business/Residential 
40,000 100 100 
Commercial 40,000 150 100 
Office Park and Industrial 60,000 200 150 
(1) An area of access is the portion of the lot between the accepted or approved T own way and the 
point where the required lot width through the principal building is reached.  
(2) Lot shape. Unless approved in connection with a subdivision plan under MGL c. 41, or with a 
development plan review under this bylaw, lots shall maintain, be yond the principal building, a 
lot width as defined in Subsection B of the definition of "lot" in §  250-2.1, and measured from 
side lot line to side lot line to be a minimum of 50% of the required lot width as defined in this 
Subsection B above. Any lot ar ea width less than the minimum described above shall not be 
calculated in the required area dimension or used for any other purpose.  
(3) Frontage can be reduced by 50% when it provides the only access to one dwelling unit on a lot 
which is equal to at least twice the minimum lot area requirement, provided that: 
(a) Not more than two lots with such reduced frontage can be placed side by side.  
(b) There shall be at least two lots with the otherwise required 100% frontage adjacent to any two 
50% frontages.  
(c) Each 50% frontage lot must be the access to its own lot.  
(d) No more than 30% of the required lot frontage can be encumbered by easement or used for a 
common driveway.  
(e) Entrances and/or driveways to lots in all districts must be made from an accep ted or approved 
Town way.  
(4) The frontage of a lot must be available for access. 
===PAGE 10===
Minutes, 10.25.2021 
STM Warrant Articles 
Page 10 
 
(a) The Planning Board shall determine that the frontage is adequate and available for safe vehicular 
access in accordance  with its Rules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land and/or 
when the Building Commissioner requests a determination.  
(b) Except for public utilities in place at the time of the passage of this provision, no more than 30% 
of required frontage shall be encumbered by easements, drives, access strips, or ways of any 
type.  
(5) In case of a farm exempted from the provisions of the zoning by statute, the minimum lot area, 
width and frontage requirements shall be in addition to the five acres as requ ired under MGL c. 
40A, § 3 and MGL c. 61A.  
C. Recreation District. In a Recreation District, except for municipal recreation uses, the following 
minimum areas and frontages are required: 
(1) The minimum frontage for all uses shall be 200 feet.  
(2) For a golf course, the minimum lot area shall be at least 120 acres.  
(3) For all other uses, the minimum lot area shall be at least two acres of lot area plus sufficient area 
for the proposed use as determined by the standards contained in Time -Saver Standards for Site 
Planning, Joseph DeChiara and Lee E. Koppleman, McGraw Hill, New York City, 1984, pages 424 
and 425.  
D. Retail Commercial, Commercial and Office Park and Industrial Districts.  
(1) In a Retail Commercial or Commercial District, no building shall b e constructed as a dwelling or so 
used on a lot having less area or width than the amount required for the construction of a 
dwelling in an abutting Residence A, Residence B or Outlying District or where more than one such 
district abuts, in the particular  district having the greatest length of common boundary with the 
Retail Commercial or Commercial District in question.  
(2) In an Office Park and Industrial District, the following minimum areas and frontage are required:  
(a) For office and industrial park s, at least five acres of lot area and 150 feet of frontage and 200 
feet required lot width through building.  
(b) For all other uses, at least 1.2 acres plus the minimum land area required for on -site sewage 
disposal.  
E. One dwelling per lot. In all dist ricts, not more than one building on each lot shall be constructed 
as a dwelling or so used except as provided in Section 3.4.  
F. Reduction of occupied lots. No lot on which a building is located in any district shall be reduced 
or changed in size or shape so that the building or lot fails to comply with lot area, width, setback 
or yard provisions of this bylaw, or, if such building or lot already fails to comply with said 
provisions, such reduction or change would bring about a greater degree of noncompli ance with 
said provisions. This prohibition shall not apply, however, when a portion of a lot is taken or 
conveyed for a public purpose.  
In the above Article, as the Retail Commercial District no longer existed, it was deleted from the lot area, width, sh ape and 
frontage portion of 250-5.1.  Limited Business/Residential was added  along with a required lot area of 40,000 sq. ft., required lot 
width of 100 feet, and required lot width and frontage of 100 feet through the building.     
 
P. Bertram made Motion to close the public hearing for warrant articles, M. Allison Seconded, vote passed 4 -0. 
 
Hearing closed 7:31 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
DRAFT Planning Board Warrant Articles 