===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road 
June 14, 2021 
 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Erik Torgersen, present. 
Absent:  Matthew Brenner 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:35 p.m. 
 
The Hearing continuation, via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review applicat ions for site plan approval and stormwater 
management permit under Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for 
construction of a new Subaru auto dealership at the same location as the existing dealership at 7 57 Chase Road ( Map 0 14, 
Parcel 0003), Lunenburg, MA.  Owner/applicant was Empire Management Corporation, 171 Great Road, Action, MA.     
 
The owner/applicant was represented by James T. Almonte, RLA, Principal, Land Design Collaborative , hereinafter “LDC” and 
Brian Lafferty, Empire Management Corporation .  Plans had been revised in response to Graves Engineering, Inc. review letter 
dated March 17, 2021  and the applicant received a follow -up review letter from Graves Engineering, Inc. on June 11 th.  
Comments from the last Planning Board meeting were also incorporated into the revised plans.  The last Plan the Board received 
was revised to May 5th.  J. Almonte noted the last plan revision was on May 19th; the Board was not in receipt of that Plan.   
 
At a Zoning Board of Appeals hearing on April 14, 2021, a special permit was granted to continue the pre -existing nonconforming 
use.   
 
Jeff Walsh, P.E., Graves Engineering, Inc. hereinafter “GEI”, summarized his June  11th review letter.  There was a large sub -
surface infiltration system at the front of the building that would receive roof runoff.  The plans showed a four inch (4”) diameter 
pipe to the drainage system ; ye the hydrology model stated six inches (6”).  The Plan needed to be revised to sh ow a six inch 
(6”) pipe to be consistent with h ydrology computations.  Soil testing for the sub -surface infiltration system had not taken place 
due to the building’s location and potential impact to business operations.  GEI would like to see confirmatory soil testing at  some 
point, preferably no later than start of construction.  GEI was comfortable with the turning maneuvers on the site. 
 
The current septic system would be utilized, which was designed for 63 employees.  A Title 5 inspection wou ld be required prior 
to occupancy of the new building.  There was some Board concern that the system could possibly fail a Title 5 inspection due to 
its age.  It was noted that the Planning Board did not have authority over the septic system , but if a new system was required, the 
Board’s approval might require a modification.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 06.14.2021 
North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road 
Pg 2 
 
P. Bertram inqu ired as to stormwater maintenance; J. Almonte noted it was included in the Stormwater Report.  P. Bertram 
would like the stormwater permit to specify conditions for maintenance and require maintenance reports be provided to the 
Board.  GEI noted that he served on a Conservation Commission which required applicants to annually report to the Commission 
what happened the previous year rather than have administrative staff receive documents at all different times of the year.       
 
Requested waivers were as follows: 
Section 4.1  f. 2)- Datum Requirements.   When Empire Management took over the property in 2005 the existing conditions plan 
at that time was prepared on an assumed datum.  Any renovations/improvements since that time were performed on an 
assumed datum.  Three benchmarks have been set on-site and the applicant would like to continue on an assumed datum. 
M. Allison made Motion to  approve the waiver requirement for Section 4.1 f. 2), P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. 
Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
Section 4.1  f. 23)- Architectural Elevations stamped by a registered architect.  Conceptual arc hitectural elevations were included 
in the application.  Final plans would be prepared by a registered architect.  
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the waiver for Section 4.1 f. 23), M. Allison Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. Allison, 
aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
Section 4.1 h.- Impact Reports.  This was a redevelopment project.  No new staff would be required.  The applicant would file a 
Notice of Intent with the Conservation Commission.  
P. Bertram made Motion to approve the waiver  for Section 4.1 h., Traffic, Transportation and Circulation, M. Allison 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.         
M. Allison made Motion to approve the waiver for Section 4.1 h. , Public Services and Fiscal, and Environmental and 
Community, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  M. Allison, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; E. Torgersen, aye.  Vote 
passed 4-0.         
 
M. Allison made Motion to close the hearings for Stormwater a nd Site Plan Approval, P. Bertram Seconded, M. Allison, 
aye; P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Hearing closed 7:11 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Site Plan revised to 05.19.2021 
GEI Review Letter dated 06.11.2021 