===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
March 22, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Paula Bertram, Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from the Lunen burg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
and by appointment outside of those hours.  In a ccordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you 
can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage 
allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does not ensure publ ic participation unless such participation is required by law.  
This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted on the  Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a smart p hone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 89094139393.  Please note that this meeting is  
being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
925 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE:  Town Manager Update - The Town Manager updated  the Board on what steps had taken 
place over the past two years towards the reuse/redevelopment of 925 Massachusetts Avenue.  The site was an abandoned gas 
station located in the Village Center District  and consisted of .19 acres with the building approxi mately 1800 square feet.  The 
gas pumps had a self -supporting overhead canopy.  The property had been in tax title since 2005 and the town would foreclose 
once it was determined there were no imminent hazards that the town would be responsible for.  September 2019 the town 
gained legal access to the property in order to perform an environmental site assessment.  A Phase I assessment was 
conducted and completed in February 2020.  As a result of the Phase I assessment, a Phase II assessment was recommended.  
The Town Manager, in November 2019, submitted a brownfields site nomination and EPA approval form to the Montachusetts 
Brownfield Group, which administered site assessment grants.  The Brownfield Group approved the town’s grant in the amount 
of $30,000 towards the Phase II assessment.   The Phase II assessment has been submitted to the EPA for review.  Hazardous 
materials were determined to be on site.  There were five underground storage tanks, a septic system, along with soil 
contaminants.  As cleanup woul d be involved, the town requested additional funds through the Brownfield Group.  $6,000 was 
received for a Phase III assessment.  This assessment would identify the cost of cleanup.  The next step in the process would be  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.22.2021 
Page 2 
 
a request for interest for redevelopment by private entities.  This would show Ma Development an interest in the property which 
would make it eligible for cleanup funding.  The Town Manager wanted to determine if the Planning Board felt the property 
should be auctioned or put out for an RFP for property reuse.                         
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road-  see separate minutes 
 
305 REALTY LLC, 305 LEOMINSTER SHIRLEY ROAD:   
Waiver Request from Public Hearing and Site Plan Approval-  
Site Plan Approval- 
Presentation given by Christopher Anderson, Hannigan Engineering, Inc.  Application was for repurposing the commercial lot at 
305 Leominster Shirley Road.  The site consisted of ~2.5 acres of land located on the northerly side of Leom inster Shirley Road.  
The site would not change, but would be repurposed as a contractor yard for the main office and headquarters of GVC 
Construction, Inc.  The property was in receivership due to legal and financial troubles of the previous owner.  M. Al lison opined 
there was a lack of sight distance from the east.  He would also like to see the entrance to the rear storage yard moved ~100 feet 
to the west.  Chris Valenti, 305 Realty and GVC Construction, noted it would not be able to move forward with th e project unless 
it had the full support of the Board.  The project had already received a Special Permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals for  the 
intended uses.  The applicants did not intend to make any changes to the site and had not been aware of any c oncerns with 
sight distance or the entrances until this hearing.  It would be detrimental to the project if it had to wait for more Board members 
to be present at a meeting.  M. Brenner inquired as to anticipated changes in traffic volume from the previous  use.  M. Allison 
responded that the road is heavily trafficked by large vehicles and he was concerned with the grade and sight distance , but h e 
did not feel there would be any major change in the traffic flow.  C. Valenti noted the yard would be quiet dur ing the day; the 
crews typically l eft between 5:00 a.m. and 6:30 a.m.  to travel to their sites.  C. Anderson elaborated there would be some 
renovations to the existing office building, e.g., repainting.  T here would also be interior modifications.  The fencing and gate 
system would be repaired .  T. Cole made Motion to approve the site plan approval waiver for 305 Leominster Shirley 
Road, M. Brenner Seconded.  The following Condition s would be placed on the project:  1) Work with the DPW to 
address the sight  distance as much as practicable , and 2)  Adhere to the Plan entitled Site Development Plan in 
Lunenburg, Massachusetts, Dated March 8, 2021.  T. Cole amended his Motion to include the two mentioned 
Conditions, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
BRIGHTFARMS: 
Board Endorsement, Final Site Plan -  The final site plan was received and Board members needed to come into the office to 
sign it. 
Phase 1 Land Development Plan -  The Phase I Developm ent Plan contained minor revisions to the current approved plan.  
Grades were raised resulting in less rock excavation.  The applicant was requesting these changes as a de minimis change ; A. 
Burney requested Graves Engineering, Inc. to review the Plan.  M. Allison noted that if the grade was raised, pavement runoff 
would be affected.  He was also concerned with visual impact to abutters.   
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval  & Special Permits-  Hearing continuation opened at 8:25 
p.m.  Hearing was to discuss revisions to the Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval and Special Permits .  The 
updated version was supplied to the Board members.  Section 4.1 f. would adjust the submitt ed number of full size and reduced 
size plans.  Full size plans would increase from eleven (11) to eighteen (18) sets and reduced size plans would no longer be 
required.  This would allow each Board member to be possession of a full -size copy.  4.1 h. Stormwater would change 
compliance from the Ma ssachusetts Department of Environmental Protection Stormwater Management Policy Handbook and 
Technical Handbook to Section 204 of the Code of Lunenburg.  Sections 4.2 a. and 4.2 b. would increase the number of full size 
plans from four (4) to (12) sets, an d reduced size would no longer be required.  Section 4.4 b.3. Drainage would be preceded 
with the word “Minor”.  Section 4.4 c. changed the number of plans submitted for de minimis change from two  (2) full size to 
seven (7) full size and 11 x 17 from ten ( 10) to five (5).  M. Brenner made Motion close the Public Hearing and to approve 
the Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval  & Special Permits, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  M. 
Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  Hearing closed 8:30 p.m. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 03.22.2021 
Page 3 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  03/08/21- M. Brenner made Motion to approve, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  T. Cole, aye; M. 
Brenner aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Ta sk Force - A meeting was scheduled for March 23 rd.  The Task Force would reorganize and anticipated an 
update from its consultant CEI. 
Agricultural Commission- The Commission updated and approved its rules and regulations for the 2021 season of the farmers’  
market. The Market would reopen in June 2021.  Hours would be from 10 – 12:30.  Vendor fee would decrease.   
TCP Building Design Committee-  No report  
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report  
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
MRPC-  A meeting was scheduled for April 1st.   
MJTC-  Work would be taking place at the intersection of Routes 117 and 70 in Lancaster.  UMass Memorial Health Alliance 
would be doing a Community Health Needs Assessment.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
District Local Technical Assistance  (DLTA) Request for Service Delivery (RSD) - Packet provided to Board members.  This 
would be cost-free technical assistance provided by MRPC.   
Chase Road and Northfield Road, Map 33, Parcel 6, and Map 38, Parcels 17 and 24.2, Agricultural Preservation 
Restriction (APR) Update - Known as “Pierce ’s Christmas  Tree Farm”, it would be placed on the May town warrant for an 
Agricultural Preservation Restriction.  The town would be responsible for 10% of the purchase price.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
April 12- Hearing for Board Warrant Articles 
April 26- 
 
ONGOING ITEMS: 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans - 
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250 -6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas - The Board had been looking for additional 
information regarding private camps and also take -out only services.  A. Burney reached out to other planners, with the majority 
of them stating that they didn’t have regulations in place as there had never been issues with parking for private camps and take-
out services.  He went on to opine that what Lunenburg had adequately serviced what would be anticipated.  He would continue 
to research to see if any information would be available.  M. Brenner felt language should be included for outdoor seating for 
take-out.  A. Burney noted changes could be made during the public hearing.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street - He was looking for a better understanding of the parking calculation 
warrant article.  H e was also concerned if the new parking ca lculations were more restrictive how it would affect both the town 
businesses and municipal buildings.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:   M .Brenner made Motion to adjourn, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
M. Allison, aye.  Adjourned 8:55 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
305 Leominster Shirley Road, Site Plan Approval Application 
BrightFarms: 
  Final Site Plan 
  Phase 1 Land Development Plan 
Minutes, 3/8/2021 
DLTA RSD 
Chase and Northfield Road, APR Update 
Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits 