===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road 
March 22, 2021 
 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Matthew Brenner, 
present. 
Absent:  Paula Bertram, Erik Torgersen 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:49 p.m. 
 
The Hearing , via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review applications for site plan ap proval and stormwater 
management permit under Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for 
construction of a new Subaru auto dealership at the same location as the existing dealership at 757 Chase Road ( Map 0 14, 
Parcel 0003), Lunenburg, MA.  Owner/applicant was Empire Management Corporation, 171 Great Road, Action, MA.     
 
It was noted by M. Allison that the applicant had not yet received an approval from the Zoning Board of Appeals due to Zoom 
issues; the Zoning Board of Appeals hearing had been re-advertised.  The owner/applicant was represented by James T. 
Almonte, RLA, Principal, Land Design Collaborative  (hereinafter LDC) and Brian Lafferty, Empire Management Corporation .  
Empire Management owned  the follo wing four adjoining properties on Chase Road :  # 739 (vacant land) , #747 (Mazda 
dealership), #757 (Subaru dealership), and #777 (existing house).  The site of this Hearing, #757, sloped to the west to detention 
basins at the site rear.  A septic system was located at the site rear  that serviced both dealerships .  Potable water for both 
dealerships was serviced by individual wells.  The house lot at #777 was on its own septic and well.  Other than two small, 
uncurbed, mulched islands along the front of the property it was open pavement from the site out to Chase Road.   
 
The project would be phased with the construction of a 27,800 square foot dealership.  There would be no change to the number  
of staff.  Twenty-three ( 23) bays at the rear of the site would be  constructed first while the existing dealership remained 
operational.  Once the bays had been constructed, the current dealership would be razed  and the new one built .  Chase Road 
curb cuts would be defined with landscaped islands.  The applicant anticipated separating the house lot onto its own parcel.   
 
Requested waivers were as follows: 
Section 4.1  f. 2)- Datum Requirements.   When Empire Management took over the property in 2005 the existing conditions plan 
at that time was prepared on an assumed dat um.  Any renovations/ improvements since that time were performed on an 
assumed datum.  Three benchmarks have been set on-site and the applicant would like to continue on an assumed datum. 
Section 4.1  f. 23)- Architectural Elevations stamped by a register ed architect.  Conceptual architectural elevations were included 
in the application.  Final plans would be prepared by a registered architect. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Minutes, 03.22.2021 
North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road 
Pg 2 
 
Section 4.1 h.- Impact Reports.  This was a redevelopment project.  No new staff would be required.   The applicant would file a 
Notice of Intent with the Conservation Commission.        
 
The applicant would be meeting with the Conservation Commission on April 7th and with the Zoning Board of Appeals on April  
14th.   
 
Brian Lafferty emphasized that Subaru required updates to its facilities approximately every ten to twenty years to meet 
marketing standards and customer expectations .  The majority of sales were now generated online.  Currently there were three 
(3) entrances to the service department in the existing building .  The proposed building would have only one  (1) entrance which 
would result in decreased traffic within the dealership area.  All customers would be directed to the same entrance with a drive  
thru reception area and directed to the back of the lot.  The project would be in two phases ; the first being bay construction while 
the current showroom remained operational.  Once bay construction was completed, the second phase, construction of a new 
showroom, would occur.   
 
Reviewing engineer Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI)  highlighted the following:   The entrances off Chase Road 
needed to be defined.  Customers need ed to know where to enter, where to go once they enter ed, and how to exi t.  The 
proposed landscaped islands would be a major improvement for defining the entrance and also ensuring that vehicle inventory 
would not jut onto Chase Road.  It was also important to get the  car carrier trailers  off the right -of-way and onto the site  in a 
forward motion; not backing onto the site from a public way.   The Chase Road drainage system consisted of a double -inlet catch 
basin in front of #777 and a single -inlet catch basin in front of #757.  GEI estimated the site provided  ~75% of the tribut ary 
pavement area to the Chase Road drainage system.  GEI walked th e #777 property and determined that water could not enter 
the catch basin quickly enough.  The slope has eroded towards the wetlands.  Addressing the quantity of water to Chase Road 
would improve the operation of the Chase Road drainage facility and ongoing erosion.   
 
M. Brenner voiced concern with the parking of vehicle inventory blocking access to the snow storage  locations.  B. Lafferty 
responded vehicle inventory was moved inside if a snowstorm was expected.  Vehicle inventory was then mov ed outside once 
snow clearing was completed.   
 
A. Burney mentioned that the Fire Chief inquired as to the fire protection plan and location of the proposed hydrant.       
 
The Hearing was opened to public comment. 
 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street -  He remarked on the pa rking warrant article that would be presented at May Town Meeting 
and inquired if that article would change any of the parking on the site of the Mazda dealership ( #747).  He did not wa nt the 
article to create problems for the dealerships.  A. Burney responded that if the article passed, once the bylaw was adopted it 
would be applicable to n ew developments.  The applicant’s hearing on April 14 th before the Zoning Board of Appeals was  a 
proposal to modify a pre-existing non-conforming use.  A. Burney anticipated the full site, to include the Mazda dealership, would 
be included in the use proposal before the Zoning Board of Appeals.      
 
M. Brenner made Motion  to continue t he Hearing to Ap ril 26, 6:35 p.m., T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - M. Brenner, 
aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0. 
 
Hearing recessed 7:50 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Site Plan Approval Application, to include Site Plan, dtd 02.10.2021 
  
 