===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
May 10, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from t he Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  A ll town facilities are  open to the public .  In 
accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public 
meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 
Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s  webpage allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long 
as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does 
not ensure public participation unless such participation is re quired by law.  This meeting will feature public comment.  For this 
meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  Town’s website.  The public may join 
using a smart phone, tablet or computer, go to zoom.us and ente r the meeting ID number or call 888-475-4499.  The meeting ID 
for this meeting is : 84894836008.  Please note that this meeting is  being recorded and that some attendees are participating by 
video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks ma y be able to see you and take care not to screen share your 
computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
Gregory Bittner, 32 Sandy Cove Road - He had some procedural questions regarding the 101 Pleasant Street Hearing and would 
like to be recognized at the appropriate time.   
Dave Maki, 384 Townsend Harbor Road - Inquired if there would be an opportunity during  agenda item VIII. B. Town Meeting - 
Follow-up for him to discuss the proposal he made at Town meeting concerning Article 28. 
 
APPOINTMENT:  84 Lakefront Avenue, Embers Pizzeria - Request for Waiver for Site Plan Approval - Property owner 
James Xarras noted he received a special permit for dimensional variation from the Zoning Board of Appeals to add a second 
floor to the restaurant.  He was attempting to increase the restaurant size to maintain social distancing and follow CDC 
guidelines due to COVID -19, yet still maintain economic stability.  He would remain within the same footprint.  The Board noted 
parking was a concern as the number of spaces directly in front of the restaurant was limited.  J. Xarras asserted o ff street 
parking would be available along Lakefront Avenue.  P. Bertram noted the proposed building addition would not increase the 
occupancy; it w ould just allow for additional distancing requirements.  M. Brenner inquired if there was a possibility the 
occupancy load could be increased at some point in the future, thereby creating a parking issue.  A. Burney noted that if the 
Board approved a waiver, it could also include Conditions.  J. Xarras responded he would agree to a deed restriction limiting  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 05.10.2021 
Page 2 
 
capacity to 98 persons.  T. Cole requested specificity as to what the applicant was request ing to waive as no parking was s hown 
on the submitted plan.  He also noted that, to be precise, the applicant d id not own any parking spaces ; all the parking space s 
along Lakefront Avenue were public property.  There were 40 parking spaces within walking distance of the restaurant.   
 
P. Bertram made a Motion to approve the requested waiver for site plan approval for 84 Lakefront Avenue, Embers 
Pizzeria, with the stipulation that a deed restriction be put in place limiting the number of seats to ninety-two (92), M. 
Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
101 Pleasant Street- see separate minutes 
North End Subaru, 757 Chase Road- see separate minutes 
711 Massachusetts Avenue- see separate minutes 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Brenner made Motion to approve minutes of 4/26/2021 and 4/26/2021, 101 Pleasant Street , P. 
Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; P. Bertram, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force-  no report 
Agricultural Commission-   no report 
TCP Building Design Committee-  no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
Economic Development Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  Offices would fully reopen on June 12 th.  Lunenburg was collecting edits to the conservation land mapping, which w ould 
be sent on to the MRPC GIS staff.    
MJTC-   no report 
 
Below Agenda items taken out of sequence. 
 
WORKSHOP:  Master Plan , RFP- A. Burney was informed by t he Assistant Town Manager , as the contract would be under 
$50,000, this would be an Invitation For Bid (IF B), requiring the Town to accept the lowest qualified bid.  The Board had the 
discretion to determine the qualifications  and also needed to determine what it expected the bidders/consultant to supply.  C. 
Public Services and Facilities  should include a listing of town documents for review by bidders /consultant.  P. Bertram 
questioned why, in IV. Deliverables, the town/Planning Board would be looking for a draft of initial findings.  She was looking for 
the completion of two Elements from this contract  and wanted to know what tangible items the town/Planning Board would have 
at the end of the process .  T. Cole inquired if the Open Space and Recreation Pla n could be used for the majority of the Open 
Space Element.  A. Burney noted it could possibly cover a portion of Cultural Resources also.  T. Cole opined that a good portion 
of the 2002 Master Plan goals would still be relevant today.  P. Bertram wanted i nclusion of how the consultant felt the Master 
Plan would be implemented.  A. Burney responded that normally Implementation would cover the entire Master Plan.  The Goals 
and Objectives, and Implementation Elements, usually happens after all the other Elem ents have been completed.  At this point, 
the Board was only looking at two Elements.  P. Bertram responded she anticipated defined objectives from Land Use and 
Facilities.   
 
Andrea Adams noted she had been involved in the writing of master plans in other  communities and opined that public 
hearings/open workshops would be beneficial for community input into the objectives.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
Review Letter Regarding Board Member - The Board viewed the draft letter, which would be sent to the subject Board 
member, by both regular and certified mail.   
Town Meeting, Follow -up- The parking bylaw passed, but the lot size correction for two -family dwellings did not pass.  David 
Maki, 384 Townsend Harbor Road, stressed at Town Meeting  there was a housing crisis a nd a hardship would be created by 
increasing the lot size for two-family dwellings.  D. Maki was present at the Board meeting and proposed a definition change  
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 05.10.2021 
Page 3 
 
whereby a two-family dwelling could be either up and down or side by  side.  Under the current bylaw, a two -family dwelling was 
required to share a common wall.  This would require side by side units with a larger footprint and create more impervious 
surface.  M. Allison was not against removing the side by side restriction .  D. Maki declared that it could be difficult for individuals 
to find a lot 1.5 times the size required in the zoning district i n which it was located.  P. Bertram opined that the lot size correction 
proposed at town meeting was too restrictive.  She went  on to state that the definition of two -family wouldn’t allow for accessory 
housing unless the property contained the appropriate lot area.  M. Allison disagreed, stating there was not an area requirement 
for an accessory dwelling.  A. Burney elaborated, s tating there was a definition for accessory dwelling – allowed by right , with 
restrictions, anywhere there was a primary dwelling.  D. Maki was requested to formalize his proposal for the Board.   
Library Detention Basin - No Operations and Maintenance (O&M ) Plan was available.  A. Burney spoke with the Conservation 
Administrator and was informed that the presence of cattails was not a concern.  They were an aggressive species, but not 
invasive.  He went on to note that in the Stormwater  Task Force annual bmp inspections, the town’s consultant reviewed the 
basin, stated it looked good and only needed minor maintenance.  A. Burney would also be consulting with the DPW Director.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
May 24-  
150 Holman Street, Public Hearing 
Discussion of Two-Family Dwellings with Mr. Maki 
Master Plan Workshop 
 
June 14- 757 Chase Road, North End Subaru, Public Hearing 
 
June 28- 
101 Pleasant Street, Public Hearing 
711 Massachusetts Avenue, Public Hearing 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0.  Meeting adjourned 10:12 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Embers Pizzeria, Request for Waiver 
Minutes 
  4/26/2021 
  4/26/2021, 101 Pleasant Street 
Master Plan, Draft RFP 
 
 