===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
February 8, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent: Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance fro m the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  A ll town facilities are  currently closed to the public 
except by appointment .  In accordance w ith the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you can find posted on 
the Town’s website COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage allows public bodies to 
meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along with the deliberations.  
Ensuring public access does not ensure public particip ation unless such participation is required by law.  This meeting will 
feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as posted on the  
Town’s website.  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer, go to zoom.us and enter the meeting ID number 
or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 89104446242.  Please note that this meeting is  being recorded and 
that some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingl y please be aware that other folks may be able to see you 
and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the recording.   
 
ANR PLAN:  50 & 52 Page Street - Applicant Jeffrey Stone was represented by Greg Roy , Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, Inc.  
The lots had been endorsed by the Board about  a year ago  and now Dillis & Roy had taken over the project  to complete the 
permitting process .  While seeking permitting from the Conservation Commission , an issue with the wetlands surfaced.  This  
issue created a change in the house location, and thereby, a change to the lot lines.  Also, the Board of Health requested grading 
easements for each lot in the event one of the septic systems was built prior to the other.  T. Cole made Motion to approve the 
ANR Plan for 50 and 52 Page Street, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, 
aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  01/25/21- T. Cole made Motion to approve the min utes of 1/25/2021, P. Bertram, Seconded, Roll 
Call Vote- T. Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0. 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 02.08.2021 
Page 2 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force- no report 
Agricultural Commission-  no report 
TCP Building Design Committee-  The architect presented a preliminary cost estimate of ~$21,000,000 to the Committee.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  The Town’s Tax Collector presented an overview of the tax title process.  The Committee 
continued to review municipal land.   
Capital Planning Committee-  The Committee went over the presentation the Town Manager gave to the Finance Committee.  
A discrepancy was noted, and corrected, in the prioritization.  The Committee continued discussing a policy change of increasing 
the minimum capital expenditure from $10,000 to $30,000.   
MRPC-  MRPC was assisting Lunenburg in closing out its current Green Communities Grant Award and the re-application for a 
new grant.   
MJTC-  no report 
 
P. Bertram suggested the Board schedule an Economic Development Committee meeting , but representation was still missing 
from the Open Space Committee, Agricultural Commission, and the Conservation Commission.  
 
WORKSHOP: 
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans- Board members needed to review 
Definitions for discussion at an upcoming Board meeting. 
Chapter 250, Zoning, Section 250 -6.1. Off Street Parking and Loading Areas - Board members viewed a draft parking use 
table.  A. Burney noted charitable institutions, outdoor entertainment, golf courses, and drive-in theaters were left blank as these 
categories could have different parking needs  depending on the type of operation; e.g., under charitable institutions, there would 
be different parking requi rements for a soup kitchen versus a financial aid office.  Parking requirements would also differ for a 
batting cage versus a go -cart track under outdoor entertainment.  The Board members discussed having the parking determined 
by the zoning official if it  was a by right use; otherwise, if a site plan approval was required, it could be determined by the 
Planning Board.  A . Burney would research and possibly discuss with Town counsel.  T. Cole stated that all of the uses noted 
above would be new in the Town  (other than golf course) , and therefore would require site plan approval.  Discussion to 
continue.   
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Greenleaf Botanicals Community Outreach Meeting -  A. Burney updated the Board, noting that it was a presentation on what 
the operation would look like .  The meeting was held remotely with low attendance by the public.  He and the Town Manager 
discussed requesting Greenleaf to consider giving a second outreach meeting in the hopes of higher community attendance.   
 
Conservation Commission  Use of GIS Hours -  The Commission requested the use of the 8 -10 hours of free GIS hours that 
were available to the Town from MRPC.  The Commission wanted to use th ose hours  to fini sh their trail mapping grant.  P. 
Bertram made Motion to allow the Conserva tion Commission use of the free GIS hours from MRPC, M. Bren ner 
Seconded for discussion .  M. Brenner  had the understanding that those hours could also be used for master planning.  A. 
Burney responded that when the Planning Board puts out its RFP, if a pri vate consultant is hired, th at consultant would not use 
MRPC’s mapping.  If the contract was awarde d to MRPC, those hours could be used to reduce the cost of the contract.  Just 
over $6,000 was spent on the population study and there was still ~$43,000 remaining for master planning .  Roll Call Vote - T. 
Cole, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0.    
 
Board Rules and Regulations for Site Plan Approval & Special Permits - Discussion of Plan Submission-  A hearing would 
be scheduled to amend the regulations regarding submittal of plans.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
February 22 
 
North End Subaru would probably come before the Board in March for building changes.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  T. Cole had left the meeting.  Adjourned 7:16 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: ANR Plan 50 & 52 Page Street Minutes:  01/25/2021 
   Parking Use Table 