===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
101 Pleasant Street 
May 10, 2021 
 
Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present; Paula Bertram, 
present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:57 p.m. 
 
The Hearing  continuation, via Zoom video conference, was to hear and review an application under Ch apter 325 Subdivision 
Regulations, Article III, Section 325 -3.4. Definitive Plan of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for a six-lot subdivision consisting 
of six duplex buildings at 101 Pleasant Street (Map 095, Parcel 0003), Lunenburg, MA.  Owner/applicant was MA Pleasant LLC, 
P O Box 903, Ashburnham, MA.     
 
The continuation this evening was specifically for review of the applicant’s requested waivers and a discussion of the parking 
setback. 
 
The applicant was represented by Paul Grasewicz, P.E., GRAZ Engineering, LLC, and David Plunkett, Esq. 
 
Three waivers were listed on the cover page of the site plan: 
325- 5.4. Sidewalk Requirement 
325- 4.2.B(5) Intersection Radius at Pleasant Street 
325- 4.2.E.(1) Dead End Street Maximum Length of 650’ 
 
At the initial hearing of April 26, the applicant was requested to formalize the requested waivers.   
 
Sidewalk Requirement- P. Grasewicz said the proposed road was a “minor” street, not requiring a sidewalk; therefore  he opined 
the waiver was not required.   
 
Intersection Radius- P. Grasewicz stated the applicant met the 30 foot radius requirement on the south side of the project, but 
the regulations required curb radius plus tangent on each end which placed the project within the driveway of an abutter.  The 
engineer would work to eliminate the need for that waiver by locating the road more northwest to gain the full curbing on the right 
hand side.      
 
Dead End Street- Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, have a maximum dead -end road length of 650 feet; the proposed  road 
had a length of 843 feet.  Due to wetlands the applicant would not reach useable dry land until 300 feet into the site.  Shortening  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 05.10.2021 
101 Pleasant Street 
Pg 2 
 
the road would result in the loss of lot(s).  It was noted that Butter fly Lane, a previously approved subdivision, had a road length 
of ~765 feet.   
 
M. Allison inquired if there was an advantage to Lunenburg to grant the waivers.  P. Grasewicz responded the availability of 
additional housing.  M. Allison opined there was no  public benefit and that the applicant(s) for Butterfly Lane provided access to 
conservation land.   
 
Attorney Plunkett emphasized the more housing available, the increase in housing affordability.  He went on to stress that the 
increase in the length of the road was not to increase the number of housing lots, but due to the layout of the land.   
 
T. Cole noted that under Chapter 250, Zoning Bylaw , 10% of the units would have to be affordable.  He opined that waivers 
should be reserved for pre -existing non-conforming applications.  He emphasized that the applicant was aware of the wetlands 
when he purchased the property and thus, the applicant should have proceeded accordingly.   
 
P. Bertram was concerned that the 200 additional feet of pavement would have a  significant stormwater impact.   
 
M. Brenner asked for confirmation for a waiver to be granted, in addition to a site/topographic condition, a public benefit had to 
result from the granting of a waiver.  A. Burney responded that the Board Rules and Regula tions for Site Plan Approval & Special 
Permits contained such, and would review the subdivision regulations for same.   
 
Andrea Adams, 118 Green Street, Woburn, MA - She spoke on behalf of her mother who resided at 39 Pleasant Street.  Noted 
she had worked a number of years in the planning field.  She viewed the subdivision regulations and noted guidance to the 
applicants specified it had to be in the public interest.  She went on to opine that the reason for the road length was to maximize 
the financial benefit to the applicant.   
 
Gregory Bittner, 32 Sandy Cove Road - Echoed A. Adams’ comment that the applicant wanted to maximize the financial benefit 
and that the project would not be in the interest of Lunenburg.   
 
Attorney Plunkett- Stressed that the proj ect was also undergoing a hearing with the Conservation Commission at which wetland 
issues would be addressed.  P. Bertram stated that the applicant would also have to be granted a stormwater management 
permit from the Planning Board.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to deny the requested waiver from the Code of the Town of Lunenburg, Section 325-4.2.E.(1), T. 
Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4 -0.   
 
T. Cole brought to the applicant’s atte ntion the DPW memorandum that was discussed at the April 26 th Hearing.  The applicant 
had previously informed the Board that the road would remain privately owned and went on this evening to stress that in 
redesign the retaining walls within the right of way would be removed.   
 
A. Adams- She inquired if the applicant should withdraw its application due to denial of the waiver, and concerns from both the 
DPW Director and Graves Engineering, Inc.  Attorney Plunkett responded that the applicant would request a hearing 
continuance.  P. Grasewicz requested a continuance to June 28 th.  A. Burney would send him the appropriate paperwork to sign 
and return.  Once filed with the Town Clerk, the time clock would freeze between filing and June 28th.   
 
G. Bittner- Requested he be supplied with any new data that came into the Planning Office regarding this project.   
 
T. Cole made Motion to continue the hearing to June 28, 2021, 6:35 p.m., M. Brenner seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. 
Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye; M. Allison.  Vote passed 4-0. 
 
Hearing recessed 7:43 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Letter, GRAZ Engineering, LLC, Waiver Requests, dated May 5, 2021 