===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
April 26, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  6:30 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Adam Burney, Land Use Director:  Tanner Cole, p resent; Paula Bertram, present; 
Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Matthew Allison, Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Virus), is 
currently following the guidance from the Lune nburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
and by appointment outside of those hours.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you 
can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information  Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage 
allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does not ensure pub lic participation unless such participation is required by law.  
This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted on the  Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 82819817484.  Please note that this meeting is  
being recorded and that some attendees are participating by video conference.   Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
ANR PLANS: 
111 Mulpus Road- The applicant was represented by Stan Dilli s, Dillis & Roy.  The property, consisting of ~18 acres, would be 
divided into three conforming lots and a parcel to the rear which would be conveyed to a conservation entity (possibly the town of 
Lunenburg).  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan  for 111 Mulpus Road, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call 
Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
360 Flat Hill Road - Both the applicant Ken Matson, Matson Homes II, Inc. and agent Alf Berry were present.  The Plan was 
initially presented at the April 12 th Board meeting leaving the Board with questions concerning wetlands and access to lots.  A. 
Berry responded that all lots had the required frontage and the applicant was working with the Conservation Commission 
regarding the w etland issues.  The Building Commissioner verbally conveyed to A. Burney that he was of the opinion the 
applicant complied under Section 250- 5.1. B.(3)  as the two lots to the east of the proposed Lot 7 were pre -existing, 
nonconforming.  T. Cole inquired a s to the changes that were made to a new plan received this date.  A. Berry noted the 
changes showed the trees along Flat Hill Road.  A. Burney brought to the applicant’s attention that both a stormwater  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes 04.26.2021 
Page 2 
 
management permit and a  scenic road permit would be required.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 360 
Flat Hill Road, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
APPOINTMENT:  37 Youngs Road, Tri Town Landing, Di Minimis Change - Bill Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering, Inc. 
represented the developer.  The developer w anted to relocate the fire lane seven to ten feet to the north ; further away from the 
existing playground.  The Fire Department was in favor of  the change.  The currently approved location, located too close to the 
playground, would require a retaining wall adjacent to the playground.  The developer also wanted to inform the Board that they 
would be constructing a ten (10) foot gazebo with a side walk extension.  M. Brenner made Motion to accept the di minimis 
change of the fire lane at Tri Town Landing, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. 
Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
North End Subaru, 757 C hase Road-  Continuance requested by applicant to  make changes to the plan based on comments 
received from Graves Engineering, Inc., the Conservation Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals Hearing.  P. Bertram 
made Motion to continue the Hearing to May  10th, 6:35 p.m., M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.   
 
P. Bertram made a comment  in regards to the previously approved ANR Plan for 360 Flat Hill Road; noting that in reviewing the 
ANR Handbook, a Planning Board could consider topographical issues, e.g. wetlands, in reviewing ANR Plans.  She went on to 
request that the Board hold a workshop devoted to ANR Plans.  T. Cole was in agreement with a workshop.  M. Brenner 
expressed that in an AN R workshop he previously attended, it was noted that needing wetland approval was not a sufficient 
reason to deny an ANR. 
 
101 Pleasant Street- see separate minutes 
 
BRIGHTFARMS:  Phase 1 Land Development Plan -  A review letter was received from Graves Eng ineering, Inc. noting 
concerns with the modified Phase I plan.  The Phase I plan proposed to raise the building’s finish floor elevation by seven f eet, 
reconfigure the drainage infrastructure and modify the site grading.   Buffering and elevation to the eas t of the project would be 
affected.  Due to the significant concerns, A. Burney recommended to the Board that the applicant submit for a modification to 
the site plan.  The Board was in agreement and A. Burney would notify the applicant.   
 
MINUTES APPROVA L:  M. Brenner made Motion to approve minutes of 4/12/2021 and 4/12/2021, Zoning Warrant 
Articles, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3 -0.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS: 
Storm Water Task Force-  no report 
Agricultural Commission-   no report 
TCP Building Design Committee-  no report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  no report 
Capital Planning Committee-  no report 
Economic Development Committee-  no report 
MRPC-  no report 
MJTC-  There were no items directly  related to Lunenburg.  It was noted that there would be a delay on the completion of the 
Fitchburg Leominster Rail Trail.  
 
WORKSHOP:   
Chapter 325, Subdivision Regulations, Procedure for Submission and Review of Plans -  A. Burney was looking for input 
from Board members on submission of subdivision definitive plans.   
Master Plan- A Scope of Services was received from MRPC, but Board members would also review an RFP.   
 
There was Board discussion on the presentation of the updated parking schedule at May 2021 Town Meeting.   
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes 04.26.2021 
Page 3 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE: 
May 1- 8:30 a.m. 
May 1- Town Meeting, 9:00 a.m.   
May 10- Hearing, 711 Massachusetts Avenue 
May 24 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERN:  P. Bertram asked if there was an update on maintenance of the detention basin between the 
Brooks House and the Library.  She also brought up lack of attendance by Board member Erik Torgersen and recommended a 
certified letter be sent to him inquiring if he intended to remain on the Board.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, M. Brenner Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, Seconded; M. 
Brenner, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Vote passed 3-0.  Meeting adjourned 8:28 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plans 
    360 Flat Hill Road 
    111 Mulpus Road 
Tri Town Landing, Request for Di Minimis Change 
Minutes 
  4/12/2021 
  4/12/2021, Zoning Warrant Articles 
 