===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
475 Leominster Shirley Road 
(previously 1263 Reservoir Road & 435 Leominster-Shirley Road) 
November 15, 2021 
 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  5:34 p.m. 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, Adam R. Burney 
Absent:  Matthew Brenner, Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing continuation was to hear and review applications for site plan approval and stormwater management permit under 
Ch. 250, Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg  for construction of a 372,000 square 
foot warehouse and distribution  building off Leominster -Shirley Road at 1263 Reservoir Road (Map 142, Parcel 0006) , owner 
Paul Keating (Heirs) c/o Mary Coburn, et. al., 998 Reservoir Road, Lunenburg, MA  01462 and 435 Leominster -Shirley Road  
(Map 143, Parcel 0007), Lunenburg, MA, owner J&A Realty Trust, Daniel L. McNiff Trustee, 280 Great Road, Shirley MA 01464.  
Applicant is JMC/TBG Lunenburg, LLC, 100 Grandview Road, Suite 203, Braintree, MA  02184.   
 
In attendance , either in -person or via Zoom, were project engineer  Bill Hannigan, Han nigan Engineering  and representatives 
from The Brennan Group, Inc., John M. Corcoran & Co., Greenman-Pedersen, Inc., and MDM Transportation Consultants, Inc. 
 
Heather Monticup, Greenman-Pedersen, Inc. (hereinafter GPI) brought the Board up to date, noting an October 18, 2021 review 
letter f rom MDM Transportation Consultants, Inc.  As a result of requested clarification or supplemental analysis from MDM, 
updates were provided by GPI.  Based on those updates, a supplemental review letter was provided by MDM.   
 
Mitigation commitments from GPI included: 
 Prior to occupancy, pavement markers at the intersection of Leominster Shirley Road and Fort Pond Road.   
 Bicycle lanes along the site frontage. 
 Easement to the Town along a portion of the site frontage. 
 Prior to occupancy, a n intersection design report and 10% design plan with survey for the intersection  of Leominster 
Shirley Road at Fort Pond Road. 
 Within three months of occupancy, a traffic monitoring study.   
 Tree cutting and brush clearing along the south si de of Leominster Shirley Road at Reservoir Road to improve sight 
lines. 
 Working with the DPW to clean up existing sign clutter and additional signage along Leominster Shirley Road . 
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 11.15.2021 
1263 Reservoir Road & 435 Leominster-Shirley Road 
Page 2 
 
 
 Left-turn lane for the eastern site driveway to improve traffic flow and mitigate vehicle queuing on Leominster Shirley 
Road. 
 
The Applicant also committed to a post -construction monitoring study to address potential unanticipated traffic impacts.  If the 
facility exceeded 140 peak hour trips (weekend AM or weekday PM) the Applicant could advance the 10% design to a final 
engineered plan that could provide the basis for mitigation by other future developments in the area, state funding request o r 
state grant program application.   
 
P. Bertram raised concerns that in the event the Town was unable to receive a grant, the cost of improvements would be 
Lunenburg’s responsibility.  GPI responded that the intersection needed improvements whether or not this project went in.  A 
final engineered plan would be their fair -share contribution.  A. Burney stated that the complete cost to renovate the intersection, 
from design to completion,  was beyond the commitment of a single development.  P. Bertram stressed that  if the facility 
exceeded 140 peak hour trips, it would be worsening the situation; she did not feel the Town should incur any financial burden.  
T. Cole asserted that the Applicant had done a good job mitigating the impacts of traffic associated with the project.  He went on 
to note current traffic increase due to the growth of industrial projects already located in that vicinity.  He did not feel it was this 
Applicant’s responsibility to mitigate, when a lot of the growth and safety concerns were already ongoing and not relative to this 
project.   
 
Dan Dumais, Senior Project Manager, MDM Transportation, stated that MDM did a sensitivity analysis to come up with a 
percentage increase of entering volume at the Leominster Shirley Road and Fort Pond Road inter section.  Normal warehouse 
use (e.g. dry goods warehouse)  equated to ~70 trips, a 5% increase to the intersection.  They also looked at a higher industrial 
use (e.g. warehouse that facilitated the movement of goods to a final destination) which equated to ~25% increase.  As the 
tenants were unknown, MDM came up with another threshold which would cause a significant change in the number of trips.  
Normal threshold would be ~10% increase in traffic, which for this project would be only 7 trips.  MDM doubled t he trips to 140 
which equated to 14 trips.   
 
Bill Hannigan, Project Engineer, Hannigan Engineering believed that a  lot of the traffic on the road came from Leominster, via 
Prospect Street (Leominster) to Route 2.  The traffic impact was being addressed wi thin the proposed mitigation.  If it went above 
140 peak hour trips, then some of the design features noted in the mitigation package would be implemented.   
 
P. Bertram opined there were too many unknowns as to tenants and cost of traffic improvements.  S he wanted the Decision to 
include a trigger that the cost be revisited if volume reached a 25% increase.   
 
T. Cole emphasized the beneficial tax revenue to the Town, which would help pay for the improvements.  He  reiterated the 
Applicant’s efforts to mitigate the impact of its project.   
 
P. Bertram explained she was in favor of the project, but not knowing the potential cost of traffic impacts, and if the facility 
exceeded the 140 trips, it would be financially devastating to the Town.  She did not belie ve the mitigation package went far 
enough.  She wanted to see an incremental fair share based on impact.   
 
A. Burney emphasized that the Board needed to put a finite timeline on the impacts being measured.  He proposed that a ny 
increase up to 446 site trips (as defined by GPI), would abide by current mitigation measures.  Anything over that number, within 
12 months of occupancy, would trigger additional mitigation.  GPI and MDM used the existing information to come up with the 
current numbers.  There would  not be a solid answer until vehicles were coming out of the site .  At this time, it would not be 
possible to determine the Applicant’s fair share.  A. Burney felt that the building would be at 100% occupancy within 12 months.  
The Applicant’s proportional share could be tied to the proportional increase in traffic.  It was determined that the initial timeline 
would be at 3 months, then at 100%.   
===PAGE 3===
Minutes, 11.15.2021 
1263 Reservoir Road & 435 Leominster-Shirley Road 
Page 3 
 
The last bullet point under Phase II would be edited to read, “The Applicant shall implement additional mitiga tion actions to offset 
identified project impact on a proportional impact basis as outlined in the 10% design submission.  The form of this contribution 
will be determined between the Planning Board and DPW Director and will be equivalent to the impact of traffic increase at the 
intersection of Leominster Shirley Road and Fort Pond Road.  Over baseline condition is outlined in GPI’s traffic volume and trip 
generation letter dated July 15, 2021.”   
 
Hours of construction would be 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. through 3 p.m. Saturday, No Sundays or 
holidays.   
 
Appendix B would become part of the Conditions in the Decision.   
 
P. Bertram made Motion to close the Hearing for 475 Leominster Shirley Road , M. Allison Secon ded, passed 
unanimously. all aye.    
 
Hearing closed 7:13 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Draft Decision 
 
 