===PAGE 1===
 
 
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgerse n, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
April 12, 2021 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Time:  7:03 PM 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Roll Call conducted by Ad am Burney, Land Use Director:  Matthew Allison, present; Tanner Cole, present ; 
Paula Bertram, present; Matthew Brenner, present. 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
A. Bu rney prefaced the meeting with the following reading .  In accordance with the requirements of the  Open Meeting Law, 
please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and will be broadcast over the LunenburgAccess channel.  The meeting of 
the Planning Board is being conduc ted remotely.  The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID -19 (Corona Vir us), is 
currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC 
regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the spread .  All town facilities are currently open 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
and by appointment outside of those hours.  In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provisions of  the 
Open Meeting Law, G.L.c.30A, Section 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely.  The Governor’ s Order, which you 
can find posted on the Town’s website  COVID-19 Information Center page, accessed through the Town Manager’s webpage 
allows public bodies to meet entirely remotely so long as reasonable public access is afforded so that the public can follow along 
with the deliberations.  Ensuring public access does not ensure public participation unless such participation is required by law.  
This meeting will feature public comment.  For this meeting the Planning Board is convening by video conferencing via Zoom as 
posted on t he Town’s website .  The public may join u sing a smart phone, tablet or computer , go to zoom.us and enter the 
meeting ID number  or call 888 -475-4499.  The meeting ID for this meeting is : 87060964250.  Please note that this meeting is  
being recorded and that  some attendees are participating by video conference.  Accordingly please be aware that other folks 
may be able to see you and take care not to screen share your computer.  Anything that you broadcast may be captured by the 
recording.   
 
The hearing was t o make alterations to Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA, Chapter 250, Zoning, Article IV Use Regulations, 
Section 250-4.1H(5), Two-Family Dwelling, and Article VI, General Provisions Affecting All Districts, Section 250 -6.1. Off Street 
Parking and Loading Areas.   
 
A. Burney went through a PowerPoint presentation noting that the two Board articles were to, 1) add to the Definition of Two -
Family Dwelling and, 2) update the minimum parking calculations to reflect current Use Definitions and parking needs.   
 
ARTICLE 28.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -4.1, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Permitted and prohibited uses,” Subsection H(5), as depicted 
below, with additions underlined and deletions stri cken-through, or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.12.2021 
Pg 2 
 
250-4.1H(5) Two-Family Dwelling: A residential structure designed to house a single -family unit 
from lowest level to roof, with a private outside entrance, but not necessarily occupying a private lot, 
and sharing a common wall with adjoining dwelling units. Two-family dwellings shall have 1.5 times the 
lot size required in the Zoning District in which they are located.  
 
The above language had previously been in the Protective Bylaw and was accidentally omitted from the definition in the 2018 
update that created the Use Table in Section 250-4.1.  This Bylaw would amend a clerical error.   
 
ARTICLE 29.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Section 250 -6.1, which is a 
Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled “Off -street parking and loading areas,” by deleting the 
entirety of the existing text and substituting the following therefor, or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) 
250-6.1: Off-street Parking and Loading Areas:  Parking shall be provided per the chart below unless 
otherwise provided for in the Code of Lunenburg.  When the computation of required par king spaces 
results in a fractional space, any fraction over one-half shall require one (1) space. 
The following comment had been provided by Town Counsel.  “The calculations mandated by the Table below are likely to result 
in fractional space requirements, so expressly addressing the (accepted but sometimes contested) practice of “rounding up” is 
strongly recommended.” 
 
Accessory Dwelling 1 Parking Space* 
Boarding House  1 space per sleeping accommodation plus 1 space 
per employee on the largest shift 
Single-Family Home; Two-Family Detached; 
Multi-Family Dwelling; Townhouse 
2 spaces per dwelling unit* 
Assisted Living 0.5 spaces per living unit plus 1 space per 
employee on the largest shift 
Charitable Institution; Government Building  Parking calculated per the most closely 
associated Use Category to the function of the 
space, as determined by the Building 
Commissioner 
Church; Educational Use 1 space per 5 seats in the largest assembly area 
Hospital 1 space per 2 beds plus 1 space per employee on 
the largest shift 
Public Utility; Outdoor Entertainment; Golf 
Course; Drive-in Theater 
As required by Site Plan Approval 
Water Supply 1 space 
Indoor Entertainment 6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of net floor area 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.12.2021 
Pg 3 
 
Restaurant; Private Club 1 space per 3 seats plus 1 space per employee on 
the largest shift 
Private Camp 1 space per 5 campers plus 1 space per overnight 
campsite plus 1 space per employee on the 
largest shift 
Child Care Facility 1 space per 5 children plus 1 space per employee 
on the largest shift 
Adult Use As required by the Special Permit Granting 
Authority 
Auction House 1 space per 2 seats plus 1 space per employee on 
the largest shift 
Bed & Breakfast  1 space per sleeping room plus 1 space per 
employee, that does not reside at the location, 
on the largest shift 
Hotel; Motel 1 space per sleeping room plus 1 space per 
employee on the largest shift. With a conference 
facility add 1 space per 200 square feet of 
conference space, with a restaurant space add 1 
space per 5 seats in the restaurant. 
Retail Establishment; Personal Improvement 
Service; Service Establishment; Repair Shop; 
Pawn Shop; Laundry Service; Liquor Store  
1 space per 250 square feet of net floor area 
Marijuana Retailer; Registered Marijuana 
Dispensary 
1 space per 200 square feet plus 1 space per 
employee on the largest shift 
Medical Clinic; Professional Office; Trade Shop  1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area 
Mixed Use; Office Park; Shopping Center; 
Industrial Parks 
Sum of the required parking for each use 
Restaurant Carry-Out 1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area plus 
1 space per 3 seats provided (indoor or outdoor) 
plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.12.2021 
Pg 4 
 
Auto Sales; Equipment Sales 1 space per 500 square feet of sales floor and/or 
office plus 1 space per repair bay or work area, 
plus 1 space for each employee on the largest 
shift, plus 1 space per vehicle, trailer and/or 
other piece of rolling stock for sale 
Auto Repair Facility; Boat Service Yard 2 spaces per repair bay or work area  
Car Wash 1 space per vacuum or other external consumer 
equipment plus 1 space per employee on the 
largest shift 
Construction Sales & Service 1 space per 250 sq. ft. of net floor area of sales 
floor, plus 1 space per 2,000 square feet of net 
floor area for the first 20,000 square feet of 
lumber or material storage plus 1 space for each 
additional 10,000 square feet of net floor area, 
plus 1 space per employee on the largest shift  
Contractor Yard 1 space per 300 square feet of net floor area of 
office plus 1 space per employee on the largest 
shift, plus 1 space per piece of equipment or 
rolling stock 
Equipment Repair 1 space per repair bay or work area 
Fuel Service Station  1 space per fuel dispenser 
Distribution; Manufacturing; Marijuana 
Cultivator; Marijuana Product Manufacturer 
1 space per 2,000 square feet of net floor area 
for the first 20,000 square feet plus 1 space for 
each additional 10,000 square feet of net floor 
area or 1 space per employee on the largest 
shift, whichever is greater. 
Research Establishment; Marijuana Testing 
Facility; Marijuana Researcher  
1 space per 500 square feet of net floor area 
Agriculture One space per 1,000 square feet of display area 
whether indoors or outdoors, plus 1 space per 
employee based on the largest work shift; 
however, there shall be a minimum of 5 spaces. 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
 
Minutes, Town Meeting Warrant Articles, 04.12.2021 
Pg 5 
 
Agricultural Sales & Service 1 space per 500 sq. ft. of sales floor/office plus 1 
space for each repair bay, plus 1 space for each 
employee on the largest shift plus 1 space per 
vehicle, trailer or other rolling stock for sale. 
Kennel; Veterinary Hospital  1 space per patient room plus 1 space per 3 
kennel berths, plus 1 space per employee on the 
largest shift 
Marijuana Transporter 1 space per employee on the largest shift plus 1 
space per vehicle used in the business operation 
* Parking calculations shall not include spaces within a garage.  
The current minimum parking standards didn’t reflect many of the uses outlined in the Use Table nor did the  minimum 
calculations reflect contemporary standards.  The PowerPoint presentation presented examples of parking calculations under the 
existing Bylaw and then calculations under the proposed Bylaw.   
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
 
David Passios, 56 Whiting Street -  He asked for a number comparison between the current and proposed bylaw for a 35,000 
square foot office building .  Under the current, thirty -five (35) are required; under the proposed, one hundred (100).  He had 
concerns with stormwater runoff with an increase in  impervious surface from additional parking spaces.  M. Allison responded  
that the surface was not required to be paved; only durable and dustless.   
 
Dave Rodgers, 82 Highland Street -  He inquired as to what Use the Town Hall, which has no designated parking, would fall 
under for parking requirements.  A. Burney responded it would be the closest associated Use to that municipal building.  D.  
Rodgers felt it was important to focus on specific situations, e.g., there was no parking for Town Hall, ensuring there was 
sufficient parking at TC Passios in the event it became the Town offices.  He also remarked that he would not want the parking 
requirements to change for Conrads.  A. Burney responded that the proposed Bylaw would not apply retroactively to existing 
businesses; it would apply to new businesses/construction.   
 
The parking requirement under Public Utility; Outdoor Entertainment; Golf C ourse; Drive -in Theater  was “As required by Site 
Plan Approval.”  T. Cole made reference to the following comment provided by Town Counsel.  “ Due to the nondiscretionary 
nature of site plan review and approval, note that it may be difficult to mandate a mi nimum parking requirement through that 
process.”  A. Burney responded that usually the developer would know the amount of parking it needed.   
P. Bertram made Motion to close the Public Hearing, T. Cole Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
T. Cole, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Vote passed 4-0. 
Hearing closed 7:55 p.m. 