===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
January 10, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Erik Torgersen, Adam Burney 
 
Paula Bertram participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the state of 
emergency.   
 
Absent:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Brenner 
 
ANR PLANS: 
 
44 Northfield Road -  The Plan was present ed by applicants John Harrison, Lunenburg, MA, and Tim Sullivan, Lyndeborough, 
NH.  A. Burney informed the applicants he had been contacted by the owner of the abutting property who informed him that the 
existing sewer tie in  for #44 was located where the applicant was proposing the driveway for the new lot.  That is something that 
would be taken up with the Sewer Commission, and was not relative to the Board’s endorsement of the ANR Plan.  P. Bertram 
made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 44 Northfield Road, E. Torgersen Seconded, passed unanimously. 
 
41 & 47 Reservoir Road -  The applicant was represented by Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, Inc.  The ANR Plan, which 
created Lots 9A and 10, was originally endorsed by the Board in January 2020.  The My lar was picked up by the applicant and 
then misplaced; therefore, the Plan did not get recorded at the Registry of Deeds.  The applicant was requesting the Board 
endorse the identical plan this evening for recording at the Registry of Deeds.  P. Bertram made Motion to re-sign the Plan for 
Reservoir Road, E. Torgersen Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
APPOINTMENTS: Lunenburg Central- Presentation by William Hannigan, Hannigan Engineering, Inc. 
 
Request for De Minimis Change - The applicant submitted a request for a De Minimis change to the Site Plan approved by the 
Board.  During the title review it was determined that a portion of the property to the rear of the site was formerly owned by the 
MBTA.  There was a clause in the railroad’s deed that prohibited any  structures from being built on the old parcel.  The retaining 
wall proposed by the applicant extended into that parcel  and the applicant was concerned it could be considered a structure .  In 
addition, no work or grading could be done within 30 feet of the MBTA line without obtaining a permit from the MBTA.  It was 
expected this would be a lengthy process.  The applicant was requesting an adjustment to the grading at the rear of the site to 
provide for the 30 foot buffer.  To that end, they would be adding a retaining wall along the rear access drive.  With the Board’s 
approval of the De Minimis change, the applicant  would be able to redo the grade, stay out of the 30 foot offset, and build a 
retaining wall.  The Board  requested a formal review from Graves E ngineering, Inc. prior to taking a vote to approve the De 
Minimis changes.  As the applicant had an upcoming property closing date of January 18th, it was requested if the Board would  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.10.2022 
Page 2 
 
approve the De Minimis changes subject to the approval of Graves Engineering, Inc.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the 
De Minimis change s contingent on a peer engineering review to ensure compliance with sound engineering practices, 
E. Torgersen Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
Tree Cutting- Follow-up- The Board viewed photographs showing that the tree cutting at the Reservoir Road intersection had 
been completed per the Board’s Decision.     
 
PUBLIC HEARING:   97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road & 440 Mulpus Road - See separate minutes. 
 
DECISION:  Review & Possible Vote to Approve -  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the Decision for 97 Cross Street, 
125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road and 440 Mulpus Road, E. Torgersen Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
PLAN ENDORSEMENT:  324 Flat Hill Road- Stormwater Management Plan endorsed. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    P. Bertram made Motion to approve minutes listed below, E. Torgersen Seconded, passed 
unanimously.   
12/13/2021 
12/13/2021, 324 Flat Hill Road 
12/13/97 97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road and 440 Mulpus Road 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
TCP Building Design Committee -  The Select Board renamed the  Committee and assigned a new Charge.  Moving forward, it 
would be known as the Lunenburg Municipal Design Committee.    
Agricultural Commission-  No report 
Storm Water Task Force-  No report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report 
Capital Planning Committee-  All requests were prioritized.  The Board’s Master Plan request was in the top ten.  
Economic Development Committee-  The Committee continued to work on a survey for the public.   
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  GIS Hours - The Planning Board  receives approximately 8 hours annually for free GIS services from 
MRPC.  The Conservation Commission requested use of those hour s to satisfy requirements u nder the Trail Grant they are 
using for trail mapping/marking.  E. Torgersen made Motion to approve the GIS hours for the Conservation Commission,  
P. Bertram Seconded.  Discussion: P. Bertram requested A. Burney check with the DP W Director to see if he would have the 
need of any GIS hours for identification of stormwater structures.  Passed unanimously.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:  Due to the rise of COVID -19 cases in Town, masks are once again required in any Town building to 
include attendance at public meetings.  This brought about a discussion  of Board meetings returning to being fully remote as 
some Board members noted they would not attend in -person meetings with a mask requirement.  Under Governor Baker’s 
signing of the “Act” in Ju ne 2021, one of the extensions of the executive order measures in response to the pandemic extended 
the suspension of the requirement that a public body meet in a public place.  This requirement has been suspended until April  1, 
2022.  A. Burney noted he may attend meetings in person for the benefit of any public that wishes to attend in person.   
 
January 24 
February 14- There may not be a quorum.   
February 28 
===PAGE 3===
 
Minutes 01.10.2022 
Page 3 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Pond View Commons, LLC-  No update 
Master Plan-  Update provided by P. Bertram via Capital Planning Committee report.   
§250-4.9 Water Supply Protection District- A. Burney expects to have a draft available for the next Board meeting.   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Discussion of Meeting Start Time - Board consensus was to go with a 6:00 p.m. start time  at least  
through the winter months.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, E. Torgersen Seconded, passed unanimously.  Adjourned 7:04 
p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 44 Northfield Road 
ANR Plan, 41 & 47 Reservoir Road 
Lunenburg Central, Request for De Minimis Change 
Lunenburg Central, Tree Cutting Photographs 
Decision, 97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road and 440 Mulpus Road 
Stormwater Management Plans, 324 Flat Hill Road 
Minutes, 12/13/2021 
Minutes, 12/13/2021, 324 Flat Hill Road 
Minutes, 97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road and 440 Mulpus Road 
 