===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
May 9, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Paula Bertram, Erik Torgersen   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  T. Cole expressed his appreciation for P. Bertram’s service to the Board and Town.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Allison made Motion to approve minutes listed below, M. Bre nner Seconded, Motion passed. 
4/25/22  
4/25/22, Warrant Articles 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  No report. 
Agricultural Commission-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   No report. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee -  The Committee met with the Lunenburg Business Association for discussion on working 
together for community events.   
MRPC-  No report. 
MJTC-   No report 
MJTC-   No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Town Meeting Follow-up-  The Article to amend the Water Supply Protection District bylaw did not pass.  The Article to amend 
the Non-medical marijuana establishments  passed.  The FY2023 Capital Plan passed, which included $110,000  for updating of 
the Master Plan.  A. Burney began crafting the RFP for the Master Plan; he hoped to have it ready for Board review by the end of 
June.   
Pond View Commons LLC, Howard Street -  A. Burney was reaching out to various town bodies regarding a meeting for 
discussion of the anticipated project.   
Zoning for MBTA Communities - A. Burney was seeking clarification from the Board that it did not intend to make an effort to 
comply.  Board members had differing opinions ; T. Cole felt it should be more of a community decision instead of a Planning 
Board decision due to possible financial implications to the Town, M. Allison indicated opposition to compliance, and M. Brenner 
felt working towards compliance was acceptable with the understanding that the Board could stop if it so desired.  A. Burney 
noted an upcoming planning assistance grant from the state up to $50,000 with a 25% match.  He had discussion with the Town 
Manager of filing for the grant and looking for money to hire a consultant to work through the initial stages.  He went on to stress  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 05.09.2022 
Page 2 
 
that if the Board was opposed to the MBTA Community requirement, there could be an issue with the creation of a bylaw as the 
bylaw would go through the Board.  
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
May 23- Three public hearings were scheduled: 
A stormwater permit for six lots at the intersection of Northfield Road and Holman Street. 
A site plan approval and stormwater permit for 260 Falulah Road.  This was for a warehouse with the majority of the project, 
along with the frontage, located in Fitchburg.   
A site plan approval and special permit for a retail cannabis operation located at 43 Summer Street; the site of the current 
Donnelly’s Tavern. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan 
Pond View Commons, LLC   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, M. Allison Seconded, Motion passed.  Meeting adjourned 6:22 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    4/25/22  
    4/25/22, Warrant Articles 
 