===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
March 14, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole (arrived 6:08 p.m.), Matthew Allison, Adam Burney 
Paula Bertram and Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the 
state of emergency.   
Absent:  Matthew Brenner 
 
ANR PLAN:  790 / 792 Massachusetts Avenue- The Plan was for the site of the former Stone  Farm Package Store and would divide the site 
into three lots.  P. Bertram made Motion to approve the ANR Plan, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. 
Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
APPOINTMENTS TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMM ITTEE:  Committee member Jaclynn  (aka JC)  Nicoll was moving out of 
Lunenburg which would prohibit her from continuing to serve as an at-large member.  She offered her resignation, but requested to continue as 
the Ex-Officio Business Member.  The Board was in receipt of a Talent Bank Form from Joeci Gilchrest to serve on the Committee as an at -
large member.  This would fill an additional open seat on the Committee, leaving only one vacan cy; that of a designee appointed by the Open 
Space Committee.  P. Bertram made Motion to accept the resignation of JC Nicoll from her position as at -large member, E. Torgersen 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  P. Bertram made Motion to 
appoint JC Nicoll to Ex -Officio Business Member, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  P. Bertram made Motion to appoint Joeci Gilchr est to at-large member, E. Torgersen Seconded, 
Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
225 & 259 Leominster Shirley Road- See separate minutes.  Hearing continued to March 28, 2022. 
 
780 Northfield Road-  See separate minutes.  Hearing continued to March 28, 2022. 
 
1255 Lancaster Avenue- See separate minutes.  Hearing closed.  M. Allison made Motion to approve the Scenic Road Hearing for 1255 
Lancaster Avenue, as presented, P. Bertram Sec onded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye; T. Cole, 
aye.  Passed unanimously.  A Decision would be prepared for review at the next Board meeting. 
 
Leominster Road, Unitil Reliability Project-  See separate minutes.  Hearing closed.  Unitil’s mitigation would be a one for one replacement, 
which would be included in the Decision.  P. Bertram requested a condition that trees that are taken down are removed from the site.  M. 
Allison Made Motion to approve the Scenic Road tree r emovals as detailed by Unitil’s Reliability Project and conditioned as P. 
Bertram requested, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen aye; M. Allison, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Passed 
unanimously.  A Decision would be prepared for Board review at the next Board meeting. 
 
NORTH END SUBARU, CHASE ROAD:  Final review was received from Graves Engineering, Inc.  Final Plan was endorsed by Board 
members.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 03.14.2022 
Page 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:    
1/24/22- P. Bertram made Motion to appr ove the minutes, M. Allison Seconded, Roll Call Vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. 
Allison, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  The Committee reorganized.  The Committee would be focusing on the use and 
disposition of Town Hall and Ritter Memorial Building.  Past members of the Building Committee would be invited to a meeting for discussion 
purposes.   
Agricultural Commission-  The Commission’s focus was on the upcoming seasonal Farmers’ Market.   
Storm Water Task Force-  No report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  The Committee reorganized.  It reviewed the tax lien sale list.  The Committee recommended to the Select 
Board removal of 56 Carr Avenue, 250 Hollis Road, 356 Hollis  Road and 101 Pleasant Street.  This would allow for a review of further options 
on these properties.  The Committee continued discussion of Stump Cove, Lake Shirley.  It anticipated seeking approval from t he Select Board 
for a title search.  The donation from BrightFarms would be used to cover the costs.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
Economic Development Committee-   Kevin Kuros, Regional Director, Massachusetts Office of Business Development was in attendance.  
There was discussion of possible ways he could assist economic development within the community.   
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
§250-4.15. Non-Medical Marijuana Bylaw- This revised bylaw addressed the issue of whether or not someone needed a provisional license to 
apply to the Board.  It would be submitted as an article for May 2022 annual town meeting. 
§250-4.9. Water Supply Protection District-  This revised bylaw modified the Water Supply Protection District, modified the district delineation 
portion of the bylaw, and modified the Zoning Map.  It would be submitted as an article for May 2022 annual town meeting.  
Warrant Articles for Annual Town Meeting -  See Director’s Items above.  The public hearing would be scheduled for the Board’s  April 11, 
2022 meeting.   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
March 28- Hearing continuations for 225 & 259 Leominster Shirley Road and 780 Northfield Road. 
April 11- Hearing for Board Warrant Articles. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Pond View Commons, LLC  No update. 
Master Plan  The Board was waiting for Town Meeting action for funding. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison inquired into modifying the Zoning Map to take ar eas on Chase Road that were zoned Residential and rezone 
them Commercial in an effort to use a potential sewer system expansion for commercial busine sses which are beneficial tax -wise versus 
residential uses.     
 
ADJOURNMENT:  8:41 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
ANR Plan, 790 / 792 Massachusetts Avenue 
North End Subaru- 
  Site Plan 
  GEI Review Letter 
Minutes, 1/24/22 
Talent Bank Form, Joeci Gilchrest 
 
 
 