===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
260 Falulah Road 
November 14, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:07 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Amanda Reid participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing continuation was to hear and review application s for site plan approval  and stormwater management permit under 
Chapter 250 Section 8.4. and Chapter 204 respectively of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg for construction of a 367,000 sq.ft. 
warehouse and distribution building  on Airport Road/Crawford in Fitchburg, MA, with a po rtion of the development extending into 
Lunenburg at 260 Falulah Road.  Owner - Fitchburg Redevelopment Authority, Fitchburg, MA.  Applicant -  Fitchburg Land 
Property Owner, LLC, Boston, MA. 
 
Christopher Anderson, Hannigan Engineering, represented the appli cant.  A. Burney noted to both the Board and the applicant 
that he received a Traffic Impact Analysis from the City of Leominster.  The Planning and Community Development Director from 
Leominster requested that the Board condition its decision based on Leo minster’s traffic study.  A. Burney stressed that the 
ingress / egress were located within Fitchburg, not Lunenburg.  Hayley Palazola, on behalf of the applicant, noted that the 
applicant, at the request of Leominster, had provided a full traffic analysis.   The applicant had no knowledge of this independent 
traffic study initiated by Leominster.  A. Burney cautioned the Board of its reach in this project.  He opined that the princ ipal 
concern for Lunenburg would be stormwater related.   
 
The Board was in re ceipt of a final review from Graves Engineering, Inc.  There were no outstanding issues.  A. Burney inquired 
of the applicant if Fitchburg had outlined its construction expectations.  Chris Anderson responded that Fitchburg was working on 
a draft decision.   He anticipated Fitchburg would follow SWPPP (Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan) guidelines.  A. Burney 
remarked that it seemed redundant to have two separate engineering firms conducting inspections.  He suggested to the Board 
that there be one engineer from one firm doing inspections.   
 
M. Brenner made Motion to close the hearing for 260 Falulah Road, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - A. Reid, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously. 
 
Hearing closed 6:23 p.m. 
 
Document used at hearing: 
Review Letter dtd 11.11.22, Graves Engineering, Inc. 