===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
November 14, 2022 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Amanda Reid participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation.  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
ANR PLAN:  Northfield Road, Lot A and Outlot B - The applicant, Ed McSweeney, represented himself.  A line adjustment was 
made between the already  existing Lot A and Outl ot B.  The change was made to accommodate the Board of Health setback 
requirements for septic systems.  M. Brenner made Motion to endorse the ANR Plan for Northfield Road, Lot A and Outlot 
B, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote- A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
APPOINTMENT:  Discussion with Chair, LMBDC/Chair, Select Board - Discussion was planned on, 1) town municipal 
buildings, and 2) town environmental support policy.  D ue to a personal conflict,  the chair of the LMBDC and Select Board was 
not available.  Topics would be moved to “Ongoing Items”. 
 
PUBLIC HEARING:  260 Falulah Road - See separate minutes.   In discussing Conditions, M. Brenner recommended that the 
Lunenburg construction hours reflect those of Fitchburg.  In response, A. Burney suggested that the usual hours be specified and 
if it presented an issue to the applicant, a De Minimis change could be filed.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the 
stormwater permit and site plan approval for 260 Falulah Road with Conditions as specified in the Decision, A. Reid, 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote- A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
DECISIONS: 
88 Massachusetts Avenue- Endorsed by Board 
260 Falulah Road- Endorsed by Board 
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  The applicant and Zoning Board of 
Appeals agreed on a traffic consultant.  Bids were being evaluated for the engineering review.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS:   
Master Plan RFP - The Bo ard was in receipt of the Request for Proposal, which would be posted by the Town.  A. Burney 
recommended the Board review for any changes to the Scope and  / or Selection Criteria.  In-depth discussion would take place 
at the next meeting on November 28th.   
Zoning Changes to Manage Growth - Board discussion ensued as to sewered/non -sewered areas within town; e.g. Chase 
Road and Howard Street.  It was noted that the applicant for Pond View Commons had stated at a Zoning Board of Appeals 
hearing that he would  provide / pay for connections to all residents along the line he was proposing to be  installed.  A. Burney 
stressed that those properties were not in the Sewer District and that neither were those properties part of the comprehensiv e 
permit.  The Board would be working with a consultant to update the Master Plan.  Some of the Elements within that Plan  
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 11.14.22 
Page 2 
 
discussed exploring areas for commercial expansion.  Working towards a Master Plan should be a public process with input from  
both Town officials and townspeople.  There should be discussion as to how zoning could impact, and protect, the town and 
benefit the town in conjunction with the installation of sewer. 
Section 250-6.4., Driveways & Entrances - There would be future discussion  on this subject in preparation for spring annual 
town meeting.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the minutes of 10/24/22, 10/24/22, Use Table Warrant Article; 
10/24/22, Citizen Petition Warrant Article; 10/24/22, 88 Massachusetts Ave nue; and 10/24/22, 260 Falulah Road;  A. Reid 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye; passed unanimously.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  No report.   
Agricultural Commission-  Meeting scheduled for November 17 th.  The Commission was looking for input on a possible change 
in time / day / location to increase the number of vendors.   
Capital Planning Committee-  The Committee was meeting on a regular basis.  It was ready to begin ranking requests.   
Economic Development Committee -  The Lunenburg Business Association talked to the Committee about the benefits of 
working together.   
Storm Water Task Force- No report.   
MRPC- The availability of training courses was reiterated.   
MJTC-  The Committee discussed available grants. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
November 15, STM, 7:00 p.m. 
November 28- Stormwater hearings for 680 Reservoir Road and 319 Highland Street. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Zoning for MBTA Communities  
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan    
Pond View Commons, LLC   
Special Town Meeting, November 15th  
Northfield Road, Parks Commission Property 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS: M. Allison inquired if Lufa Farms had recently been in contact with the Land Use Director ; no.  
M. Brenner asked about land clearing at the site of the proposed project.  A. Burney responded that a stormwater permit had 
been previously issued for the preceding applicant.  M. Allison noted the overflowing donation bins at Lunenburg Crossing. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote- M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; 
M. Allison, aye; passed unanimously.   
 
Meeting adjourned 7:18 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    10/24/22 
    10/24/22, Use Table Warrant Article 
    10/24/22, Citizen Petition Warrant Article 
    10/24/22, 88 Massachusetts Avenue 
    10/24/22, 260 Falulah Road 
ANR Plan, Northfield Road 
Decisions: 
    88 Massachusetts Avenue 
    260 Falulah Road 