===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Matthew Brenner,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Amanda Reid, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
May 23, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Matthew Brenner Adam Burney 
Adam Burney participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the state of 
emergency 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen  
 
BOARD REORGANIZATION/COMMITTEE REASSIGNMENTS: 
Chair-  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Tanner Cole, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Vice Chair-  T. Cole made Motion to nominate Matthew Allison, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Clerk-  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Matthew Brenner, T. Cole Se conded, Motion passed. 
 
MRPC-  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Amanda Reid, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
MJTC- M. Allison made Motion to nominate Amanda Reid, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Capital Planning Committee  (three year appointmen t – individual would fill year 3 of P. Bertram )-  M. Allison made 
Motion to nominate Matthew Brenner, A. Reid Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Tanner Cole, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion 
passed. 
 
Stormwater Task Force- M. Allison made Motion to nominate Amanda Reid, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
Municipal Building Design Committee- M. Brenner made motion to nominate Matthew Allison, A. Reid Seconded, Motion 
passed. 
 
Economic Development Committee -  M. Allison made Motion to nominate Matthew Brenner, A. Reid Seconded, Motion 
passed.   
 
T. Cole announced that the public hearing for 43 Summer Street, scheduled for this evening, was postponed to June 13 th at the 
request of the applicant. 
 
ANR PLAN:  1 Crocker Avenue-  Plan presented by Chris Anderson, Hannigan Engineering.  The property was located in both 
Leominster and Lunenburg and being split into two lots.  The front lot was compliant with zoning and the second backland lot met 
the criteria of zo ning for Lunenburg.  The Leominster Planning Board had already approved the Plan.  M. Allison made Motion 
to approve the ANR Plan, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 05.23.2022 
Page 2 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
Northfield Road & Holman Street-  See separate minutes. 
260 Falulah Road- See separate minutes. 
43 Summer Street - The applicant requested continuance to June 13, 2022.  M. Brenner made Motion to continue the 
hearing to June 13, 2022, 6:05 p.m., M. Allison Seconded, Motion passed.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  5/9/22-  M. Allison made Motion to approve, M. Brenner Seconded, Motion passed.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee -  The Committee met with the School Committee for discussion of current 
school activities that were held at TC Passios and what would happen if those activities had to be curtailed.   
Agricultural Commission-  No report 
Storm Water Task Force- No report 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   No report 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report 
Economic Development Committee- No report 
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-   No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Pond View Commons LLC, Howard Street-  A. Burney was working with Town Counsel on the preparation of a 40B workshop.  
Scenic Road Construction at 360 Flat Hill Road -  Susan Whalen, an abutter to the site, contacted A. Burney and informed him 
that the applicant started reconstructing the ends of the stone walls.  It was her opinion that the stone wall had not met the 
expectations of the Board’s Scenic Road Decision and that the wall was too constructed/planned as compared to the typical 
stone walls in Lunenburg.  She also voiced concern as to the driveway width.  A. Burney was to confirm that the width was 
appropriate.  M. Allison informed the Board that he was an abutter and it was also his opinion that the wall did not fit the 
character of a stone wall.  He went on to state that the opening was in excess of thirty (30) feet.  The Scenic Road Plan ind icated 
twenty-four (24).   
Susan Whalen, 377 Flat Hill Road - Agreed with M. Allison that the reconstruction did not reflect the existing style of the wall.  If 
there were extra stones left over, she inquired as to how they would be used.   
It was also noted that Unitil had a pole petition in front of the Select Board to locate a new pole in fr ont of Lot 2; that petition was 
withdrawn.  A. Burney expected the applicant would return to the Board to realign the lot lines to use the existing pole for 
electricity to Lots 2 and 3.   
S. Whalen inquired as to the drainage on Lot 4.  A. Burney  spoke to the builder; none of the Cultec Chambers had been 
installed.  She also noted that the applicant was violating the construction hours.  A. Burney would view the site and follow up on 
the abutter’s concerns. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
June 13- Hearings- 
 494 Electric Avenue 
June 27 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities 
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan 
Pond View Commons, LLC   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison - Opined that there was a lack of communication/information distribution between various 
boards/commissions.  He brought this forth as a result of the Planning Board not being made aware of the pole petition on a 
scenic road.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, M. Allison Seconded, Motion passed.  Adjourned 8:33 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 5/9/22 
ANR Plan: 1 Crocker Avenue  Scenic Road Plan, 360 Flat Hill Road 