===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
225 & 259 Leominster Shirley Road 
March 14, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:12 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Adam Burney 
Paula Bertram and Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted 
during the state of emergency.   
Absent:  Matthew Brenner 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review applications for a stormwater management permit and site plan approval under Chapter 204 
and Chapter 250, Section 8.4. of the Code of the Town of Lunenburg 225 & 259 Leominster Shirley Road.  (Map 146, Parcels 15 
and 14 respectively), owner/applicant PSG Realty 225-259 LLC, 133 Leominster Shirley Road, Lunenburg, MA.  
 
Representing the owner/applicant PSG Realty ( Steven Powell ) was Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering, Inc.   PSG Realty 
received a special permit for dimensional variation from the Zoning Board of Appeals as the building did not conform to setback 
requirements, due to the parcel’s unusual shape.  PSG Realty planned to construct a 12,300 sf 7 bay garage and reshape the 
parking areas to provide for better trucking service, maneuverability, and enhanced stormwater management and landscaping.  
A septic system was located on the property and the building was served by a public well.  There was no stormwater 
infrastructure and all runoff was flowing onto Leominster Shirley Road  to existing infrastructure in the vicinity of Route 70.  The 
site consisted of approximately 2.36 acres with almost 85% of the site impervious.  The existing garage will remain operational 
until the new building is buil t.  Parking spaces would be located on the right side of the property for employees and visitors.  The 
main body of the building would be the garage, with the office located on the left hand side.  PSG Realty would maintain the 
setbacks approved by the Zon ing Board of Appeals. There was approximately 84,000 sf of impervious area; this would be 
reduced by approximately 4,000 sf.  The existing septic system would stay in operation during construction, but the existing well 
would be decommissioned.  PSG Realty  would be proposing, to the Water District, an extension of the water main from Keating 
on Reservoir Road all the way to Route 70.  PSG Realty was aware that the building could not receive an occupancy permit unti l 
the water main was extended.   
 
The proposed site would be graded for a stormwater collection system.  Catch basins would be located next to the office and on 
the eastern portion of the site.  The infiltration basin was proposed to be located where the current septic system is locate d.  Due 
to th is, PSG Realty asked for the stormwater soil testing to take place during construction.  Catch basins are located along 
Leominster Shirley Road and there is a pipe network for stormwater infrastructure along Leominster Shirley Road.  Once the ne w 
DPW Director is on board, PSG Realty will work with that individual to locate that infrastructure for tie -in.  The septic system 
would be reconstructed.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 225 & 259 Leominster Shirley Road 
Pg 2, March 14, 2022 
 
Due to cancellation of the February 28 th Board meeting, PSG Realty had the opportunity to revise and resubmit plans based on 
review from Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI). Based on GEI review, remaining outstanding items were: 
 Non-compliance of the pavement setbacks; however, the proposed improvements  better organized the sit e, curb cuts, 
and improved landscaping along Leominster Shirley Road. 
 Soil testing had not been performed; however, B. Marchetti responded that was due to the current septic system being 
located under a paved area within the footpr int of the proposed infiltration system.  With Board approval, soil testing 
would be conducted once the replacement septic system was constructed.  
 
M. Allison had concerns with the recharge being proposed over the existing septic.  Given the footprint of the existing building 
and location of new building, little room was left for naturally existing soils.  B. Marchetti noted t he footprint of the septic system 
would be over -excavated and removed.  The soil was very sandy and depth to bedrock was not a conce rn; t here would be 
significant depth of natural soil.  In viewing Board of Health plans, the existing system was very shallow.  The existing system 
was located on the right side of the parcel; the proposed system would be located on the left side of the si te.   
 
P. Bertram inquired if soil testing had been done at the proposed location of the septic system.  It was done a while ago by PSG 
Realty and based on the soils excavated at adjacent properties, the sand was deep.  The system would be sized per vehicl e bay 
and office.  In reviewing department comments, per the Board of Health Agent, P. Bertram requested the Board’s Conditions 
specify dust mitigation.   
 
Per Stormwater Permit Standard Conditions, the stormwater infrastructure needed to be installed, and  functional, at the 
beginning of site work .  As PSG Realty would be placing the drainage system where the septic system was located, A. Burney 
made the Board aware that this would be an alteration to the Standard Conditions.   
 
Some Board members voiced co ncerns not knowing whether there would be a well or public water, the timeline on the Water 
District’s approval as to the extension of the line, soil testing not being performed in the location of the proposed septic system, 
and what would happen to the st ormwater during construction as the stormwater system would not go in until after construction.  
B. Marchetti responded that the building could be installed first as that would go where there is currently pavement.  He str essed 
that a SWPPP (Stormwater Pol lution Prevention Plan) would be submitted and sediment and stormwater would ha ve to be 
controlled during construction.  The application for extension of the water main was filed with the Water District in summer 2021 
and was currently under review.  B. Ma rchetti stressed that some of these issues were building permit issues and a building 
permit would not be issued until these items were finalized.  T. Cole suggested that the hearing be continued until PSG Realty 
had a decision from the Water District.  B.  Marchetti strongly felt that the Water District would agree to extension of the main.  A. 
Burney recommended the hearing be continued to allow time for resolution of some of the outstanding issues.   
 
M. Allison made Motion to continue the hearing to Marc h 28, 6:05 p.m., P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote- P. Bertram, 
aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Passed unanimously.  
 
Hearing recessed 7:02 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Applications for Site Plan Approval and Stormwater Permit dtd January 27, 2022 
Graves Engineering, Inc. Review Letter dtd March 4, 2022 