===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Vacancy 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
September 12, 2022 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation . 
 
APPOINTMENT:  Karen Chapman, MRPC - With the assistance of MRPC, Lunenburg had applied for a grant through the state 
for compliance with MBTA Communitie s zoning requirements.  After input from rural communities, DHCD (Department of 
Housing and Community Development) made some change s to the compliance guidelines and issued final guidance in August.  
The requirement for 750 units no longer applies.  The De finitions also changed with the addition of “adjacent small town”, which 
is the category for Lunenburg.  Only 5% of the community’s housing count would have to be multi -family units; this would be 240 
units.  Lunenburg would have to zone for 240 units at 15 units per acre.  Up to 10% of the units could be affordable housing.  
(That would be superseded by Lunenburg’s inclusionary housing of 15 %.)  K. Chapman believed that if a community had a 40R 
District, which Lunenburg does, th en it could have up to 20  %.  The Action Plan deadline is January 31, 2023 with the District 
Compliance deadline being December 31, 2025.  MRPC w ould be trained on the compliance model.  There is also a draft model 
bylaw on the MHP (MassHousing Partnership) website.  The requirement could also be met through an overlay district.   
 
A. Burney felt that Lunenburg’s challenge would be the infrastructure outside of a sewered area that goes along with this density.   
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
3 Lancaster Avenue-  See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the Site Plan Approval for 3 Lancaster 
Avenue, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote- E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye .   
 
235 Leominster Road- See separate minutes.  M. Brenner made the point that anytime the Board approved something along a 
scenic road, it made the road less scenic, e.g. taking down five trees , but replacing with only two.  A. Burney responded that 
instead of coming to the Board, D. Proctor could have simply walked away.  M. Brenner stressed that he did not have a problem 
with D. Proctor’s application , he was just using it as an example.  A. Burney explained that t he town did not have a scenic road 
bylaw, and therefore ha d no capability to enforce.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the s cenic road application for 235 
Leominster Road, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, 
aye.   
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  Board members had been 
provided with the application for review and comment.  A. Burney recommended Board members give particular attention to th e 
requested waivers in reference to the Aro Estates subdivision approvals.  Members will review the application for continued 
discussion at the next meeting.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSION:   
Section 250-6.4., Driveways & Entrances-  Discussion would continue at future Board meetings.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 9.12.2022 
Page 2 
 
Section 250-4.1, Use Table – Motels- An article would be placed on the warrant for fa ll special town meeting.  The article would 
change motels from being allowable by right in the Commercial District to requiring a special permit from the Z oning Board of 
Appeals.  M. Brenner made Motion to put forward a warrant article with the discussed c hange to the Use Table, A. Reid 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote- E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.   
 
Records Storage Memo f rom the Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee  (LMBDC)- The memorandum 
addressed future records’ st orage by digitization to minimize the cost of constructing space for long -term record storage.   A. 
Burney noted that record storage would still continue to grow  though as building records must be maintained as long as a 
building is standing.  Electronic re cords are not considered archivable by the state of Massachusetts.  The Planning Office, in 
addition to paper copies, requires  digital submissions of applications.  A. Burney noted there were at least 70 boxes of Planning 
Office documents in the attic  dating back to the 1950’s  which would require digitization.  He questioned who would  determine 
what gets digitized and who does it.  Most planning submissions are required in large -document format, i.e., 24” x 36”.  The office 
did not have the equipment to sca n that size; h ow would those documents be scanned?  A. Burney would submit comments to 
the LMBDC by the requested date.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Brenner made Motion to approve minutes of 8/22/22 and 8/22/22, 43 Summer Street, A. Reid 
Seconded, Roll Call Vote-  E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.   
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -  Title Search on -going for Stump Cove.  There is a citizen -at-large vacancy on the 
Committee.   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  See BOARD DISCUSSION above regarding records storage.   
Agricultural Commission-  Farmers’ Market continues for two more weeks.     
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- See APPOINTMENT above. 
MJTC-  No report. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
September 26- Public Hearings- 260 Falulah Road and 245 Holman Street 
October 10- No meeting.  Columbus Day & Indigenous Peoples’ Day 
October 24- Master Plan 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities- See APPOINTMENT above. 
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan- A. Burney was finishing up the RFP to go to the Assistant Town Manager.   
Pond View Commons, LLC-  The Zoning Board of Appeals hearing is scheduled for September 14th.   
Special Town Meeting, November 15th 
 
BOARD COMMENT/CONCERNS:  M. Brenner expressed interest in reviewing common driveways and scenic roads  with a view 
towards maintaining the rural town feel.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid S econded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.    Adjourned 7:53 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
DHCD Compliance Guidelines 
Records Storage Memo, LMBDC 
Minutes: 
    8/22/22 
    8/22/22, 43 Summer Street 
Comprehensive Permit Application, Howard Street 