===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Matthew Brenner,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Amanda Reid, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
June 13, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Tanner Cole, Erik Torgersen 
 
REQUEST FOR EXTENSION:  North End Subaru, Chase Road - The owner was represented by James Almonte, Land Design 
Collaborative.  A one-year extension was requested to the Site Plan Approva l that was filed with the Town Clerk on July 13, 
2021.  Construction had not begun due to escalating costs, shortage of skilled laborers and shortage of vehicle inventory.  M. 
Brenner made Motion to extend the expiration date of the Site Plan Approval to J uly 23, 2023, A. Reid Seconded, passed 
unanimously.   
 
REQUEST FOR DE MINIMIS CHANGE:  Lunenburg Central, Leominster -Shirley Road- The owner was represented by Chris 
Anderson, Hannigan Engineering.  Two de minimis changes were requested.  One to the underground storage system , which 
originally was an arch chamber system for stormwater detention, but due to materials delay a product modification was 
proposed.  A concrete galley system was proposed for a replacement.  The second  requested change was relative to the 
installation of a curtain drain.  During construction the site experienced significant groundwater influx from the abutting wash 
ponds on the Keating property.  During preliminary testing , groundwater was not encountered at levels the applicant was 
currently seeing.  Unbeknownst to the applicant there was a ditch that flowed through the property that was used as more of a  
relief drain.  As a result of leveling of the site,  the level of water in the pond started to rise.  This negatively impacted the 
groundwater in the area.  For long-term viability of the stormwater system, the applicant proposed to install a curtain drain that 
would run along the westerly property line to intercept any high groundwater that occurred.  The sub drain would be set 3 -4 feet 
lower than the underground storage system.  Any groundwater that was captured would be transmitted under the building to the 
opposite side of the site and follow the same general path as the original ditch.  Both requested changes were reviewed and 
approved by Jeffrey Walsh, Graves Engineering, Inc.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the requested De Minimis 
changes for Lunenburg Central, Leominster Shirley Road, A. Reid  Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
Below Agenda items taken out of order. 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
494 Electric Avenue, Il Forno-  See separate minutes. 
 
Northfield Road & Holman Street (aka 245 Holman Street) - At the applicant’s request, M. Brenner made Motion to continue 
the Northfield Road and Holman Street hearing to June 27, 6:05 p.m., A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 06.13.2022 
Page 2 
 
43 Summer Street, Uma Flowers- As there were only three Board members in attendance, Attorney Valerio Romano, on behalf 
of Uma Flowers, requested that the hearing for Uma Flowers not be opened  this evening, but be continued to June 27 th.  M. 
Brenner made Motion to continue the hearing to June 27 th, 6:05 p.m., A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  M. Brenner made Motion to approve all minutes listed below, A. Reid Seconded,  passed 
unanimously. 
5/23/22 
5/23/22, 245 Holman Street 
5/23/22, 260 Falulah Road 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  No report.  
Agricultural Commission-  No report. 
Capital Planning Committee-  No report. 
Economic Development Committee-  No report. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC-  No major information that would affect Lunenburg. 
MJTC-  No major information that would affect Lunenburg. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:   
Economic Develo pment Committee, Open Space Representative - A. Burney made Board members aware that the Open 
Space Committee was possibly in the process of recommending a representative to the Economic Development Committee. 
Pond View Commons LLC, Howard Street-  No report. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
June 27 
July 11- Hearing continuation for 260 Falulah Road 
July 25 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities- The town has applied for the zoning grant through MRPC.   
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan  
Pond View Commons, LLC 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison believed that Emerald Place at Lake W halom was under new ownership.  A remaining large 
vacant parcel was not purchased, and he had concerns that the remaining vacant parcel could possibly be subdivided.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  7:52 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes: 
    5/23/22 
    5/23/22, 245 Holman Street 
    5/23/22, 260 Falulah Road 
Request for Extension, North End Subaru 
Request for De Minimis Change, Lunenburg Central 
 