===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
September 26, 2022 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Amanda Reid and Erik Torgersen (departed 9:53 p.m.) participated remotely under the OML Simple Extension Legislation. 
 
ANR PLAN:  245 Holman Street, Lots 3 and 4 -  Plan presented by Ed McSweeney, Bray Ave 9, LLC.  Lots 3 and 4 were 
created by ANR Plan endorsed by the Board August 14, 2020 ; filed with the Registry, Book 531, Page 20.  In going before the 
Conservation Commission, it was determined that the driveway was located slightly within the 50 foot buffer zone.  Tonight’s 
ANR Plan adjusted the lot lines by approximately nine feet.   M. Brenner made Motion to approve the ANR Plan for 245 
Holman Street, Lots 3 and 4, E. Torgersen Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. 
Allison, aye.   
 
Below topics taken out of order 
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS: 
245 Holman Street -  See separate minutes.   The Modification to the Stormwater Permit would incorporate the Conditions from 
the Stormwater Permit dated July 25, 2022.  M. Brenner made Motion to approve the Stormwater Permit Modific ation, 
incorporating all Conditions from the Stormwater Permit, A. Reid, Seconded, Roll Call Vote - E. Torgersen, aye; A. Reid, 
aye; M. Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.   
 
260 Falulah Road- The applicant requested a continuance to October 26, 2022.   
 
COMPREHENSIVE PERMIT APPLICATION:  Pond View Commons, LLC, Howard Street -  The Board reviewed the 
comprehensive permit (40B) application paying particular attention to the requested  zoning waivers as they pertained to the 2019 
Board-approved Subdivision plans .  A. Burney would clarify with town counsel that the waivers were applicable to only the 
nineteen acres contained within the 40B application.  The 40B modification to the Subdivision would be the erasure of the 
individual lot lines , which would create two large parcels for the 40B and the modification of one road to eliminate a cul de sac 
and introduce a curve.  As allowed by the 40B application, the applicant modified the approved Subdivision plan, revising lot lines 
and layout of the subdivision ways.  The Board expressed concern with the proposed building height of 65 feet; due both to the 
maximum height zoning requirement of 38 feet and the anticipated lack of privacy to abutting private homes.  M. Brenner was 
concerned that the individuals residing in the 40B would drive on the road as if it were a high -speed road and not residential.  
This would also cause a decrease in the pedestrian traffic.  There were concerns with the narrowness of the road and the safety 
of children playing in the neighborhood.  Four hundred two (402) parking spaces were being allotted for the 200 apartments.  A. 
Reid felt that was underestimated.  Members recommended that the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA)  vote on all waiver requests 
individually.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes 9.26.22 
Page 2 
 
The applicant had requested a waiver of the following conditions of the Subdivision Decision : 
Conditions 2 and 3 to the extent they suggested a prohibition against the construction/occupancy of multi -family residential 
buildings.  Condition 4 covered the bond requir ement for the Subdivision road.  The subdivision roads  would service the three 
large buildings proposed in the 40B.  At some point in the future, the applicant could possibly want t o turn the roads over to the 
Town.  The land was currently under the covena nt of the Subdivision.  In order to obtain building permits and financing the lots 
would need to be released.  A. Burney was under the impression the applicant was asking to skip the placement of surety and 
get the lot releases for the lots covered under t he 40B.  Condition 5 required the applicant to obtain any permits, licenses, or 
approvals required by the Subdivision.  Condition 6 stated that the applicant would not get a building permit without approval by 
the Board of Health.  That would be superseded  by the introduction of a sewer system.  Condition 7 covered the requirement for 
Conservation Commission approval.  Condition 8 required the applicant to maintain the Subdivision roadways, utilities and 
stormwater management facilities, until the Town acce pted the roadways.  Condition 9 required the roadways to be accessible at 
all times via plowing, sanding and other repairs.  Condition 10 specified emergency vehicle accessibility for single -family 
dwellings.  There would be no single -family dwellings in t he 40B.  Condition 11 specified hours of construction.  Condition 12 
allowed for site inspection by Town officials to ensure compliance with the Conditions of the Board’s approval.  Condition 13  
called for a pre -construction conference with various Town of ficials.  Condition 14 required the applicant’s compliance with any 
Town permit, license, approval, etc., prior to construction  within the subdivisions.  A. Burney stressed to Board members that the 
building permit would not get issued without  the preceding compliance to Condition 14 .  It would be recommended to the ZBA 
that a condition specify the applicant’s compliance with any Town permit, license, approval, etc., prior to construction within the 
40B.  Condition 15 required adherence to all Town bylaws, rules, regulations applicable to subdivisions.  The importance of the 
above Conditions would be stressed to the ZBA.  It would be up to the ZBA as to how these necessities were incorporated into 
the 40B.  Condition 18 defined “applicant” and that the Decision would be binding and enforceable against same.  Condition 19 
specified that any violation of the Planning Board’s Decision would cause rescission, modification or amendment of the Board’s 
Subdivision approval.  Condition 20 referred to a Board of Healt h letter, which stated the developer would be required to have 
subsurface soil absorption systems and potable water.  Condition 24 required phasing of the subdivisions. Condition 25 was the 
conveyance of land to the Town for conservation purposes.  The con veyance would be required prior to the issuance of any 
building permits.  Condition 26 covered a land conveyance to the Town for access to the Town Forest.  Again, this had to take  
place prior to any building permits.  The land conveyances laid out in Conditions 25 and 26 would take place at the north end of 
the Subdivision.  The portion in #25 was approximately 40 acres and contained the headwaters of the Mulpus.  In #26 it was a 
small parcel leading from the approved right s-of-way to the Town Forest to th e north and west of the development.  This would 
allow the Town greater access to lands it currently owned.  A. Burney stressed that neither of the parcels were located withi n the 
40B site; therefore, he did not understand why the applicant requested a wai ver.  This would be stressed to the ZBA.  M. Brenner 
noted that the applicant had agreed to convey land to the Town prior to any construction.  The 40B should not change that 
conveyance.  Condition 28 covered the construction of age -restricted homes/lots within the subdivisions.  M. Allison recalled with 
the Subdivision’s approval the Board wanted to front-load construction of the age restricted homes in the event the applicant was 
unable to build out to maximum capacity.     
 
A. Burney would prepare a memo randum to the Z BA.  As the Board did not have a scheduled meeting prior to the ZBA’s 
continuation, two Board members would individually review the memorandum to ensure A. Burney had covered the Board’s 
salient points.  A. Burney would include stormwat er guidance in the memorandum.  M. Brenner made Motion for Land Use 
Director Adam Burney to write a memorandum to the ZBA containing all salient points the Board discussed and prior to 
sending to the ZBA, two Board members would review and approve, A. Reid Seco nded, Roll Call Vote-  A. Reid, aye; M. 
Brenner, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Board consensus was that A. Reid and M. Brenner would review the memorandum.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSION:   
Section 250-6.4., Driveways & Entrances-  Tabled 
 
Northfield Road, Parks Commission Pr operty- The Board was in receipt of correspondence from Ana Lockwood, Chair of the 
Lunenburg Park Commission.  For the benefit of the audience, the letter was read into record.  Lunenburg anticipate d a project 
for 361 Massachusetts Avenue , but to date there ha d not been a formal application .  361 Massachusetts Avenue abut ted a 
Lunenburg Park property at 961 Northfield Road.  The Park Commission would like the Planning Board to negotiate for an 
easement access from 361 Massachusetts Avenue to 961 Northfield Road for the benefit of town residents.  Not knowing how  
===PAGE 3===
Minutes 9.26.22 
Page 3 
 
Lufa Farms (the proposed project) w ould respond, A. Burney responded that it c ould depend on  various factors, e.g.,  layout of 
the project, location of the fields and buildin gs, etc.  As the proposed project was anticipated to be both an indoor and outdoor 
grow, with heavy machinery there would be a concern for pedestrian traffic via the easement.  A. Burney would put the proposal 
forth to a project representative.  An additio nal complication would be that Lufa Farms would be utilizing an access easement 
through the Hannaford and WalMart plaza on Massachusetts Avenue .  Future problems could be the maintenance and upkeep 
of the access easement.   
 
Brooks House, APDC Inquiry -  The Board was in receipt of correspondence from Cullen Dwyer, Chair of the Architectural 
Preservation District Commission (APDC).  Tony Sculimbrene, speaking on behalf of the APDC, noted that the APDC viewed the 
Brooks House on Massachusetts Avenue as a sign ificant contributor to the historic character of the Architectural Preservation 
District (APD).  The APDC was asking the Board for various options for utilizing the Brooks House.  The APDC’s letter propose d 
various options, e.g., turn back into a single fa mily house, relocate the building, utilize as a commercial building, etc.  T. 
Sculimbrene asked the Board if it had knowledge as to why the Brooks House was located apart from other residential propertie s 
in the vicinity.  A. Burney believed that the Brooks House was a farm at one time with the land that the school now sits on being 
farmland.  Before the Town ma de a decision to demolish the house, the AP DC wanted to make sure all possibilities were 
considered.  A. Burney would respond to the APDC’s letter p roviding the options from a zoning perspective.  Chair Cullen Dwyer 
arrived at the end of the discussion and reiterated what R. Sculimbrene had stated.   
 
DECISIONS: 
3 Lancaster Avenue, Review and Endorsement- Endorsed 
235 Leominster Road, Review and Endorsement- Endorsed 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: All minutes Tabled 
9/12/22-  
9/12/22, 3 Lancaster Avenue-  
9/12/22, 235 Leominster Road-  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:  All Committee Reports Tabled. 
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-     
Agricultural Commission-       
Capital Planning Committee-   
Economic Development Committee-   
Storm Water Task Force-  
MRPC-  
MJTC-   
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
October 10- No meeting.  Columbus Day/Indigenous Peoples’ Day 
October 24- Warrant Article Hearing 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities-  
Zoning, Infrastructure and Master Plan-    
Pond View Commons, LLC-  See above Comprehensive Permit Application.    
Special Town Meeting, November 15th- Zoning articles were submitted for the warrant. 
Records Storage – LMBDC 
 
ADJOURNMENT:  M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll Call Vote - A. Reid, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
A. Reid, aye.  Adjourned 10:23 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Park Commission Memo re Northfield Road Property 
APDC Memo re Brooks House      Comprehensive Permit Application, Howard Street 