===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk    960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen , Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                   Marjorie J. Boggio  
                   Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
319 Highland Street 
November 28, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:41 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing was to hear and review  an application for stormwater management permit under Chapter 204 of the Code of the 
Town of Lunenburg  for a single-family home at 319 Highland Street .  Applicants/owners Jami and Ashley Anderson , 135 Joslin 
Street, Leominster, MA.     
 
Brian Marchetti, McCarty Engineering,  represented the applicant.  The property consisted of ~16 acres of undeveloped land.  
The wetlands were located west of the proposed house, which was located towards the back of the property.  The drive would be 
~1/3 acre.  The drive was proposed to be paved at the entrance, but the majority of the drive would be compacted gravel.  A 
peastone diaphragm was located along the south side of the driveway.  The runoff would flow to a rain garden located near the 
driveway entrance.  The rain garden discharged south to an existing culvert.   
 
The Board was in receipt of a review letter from Jeffrey Wals h, P.E., Graves Engineering, Inc. (GEI).  The letter indicated no 
issues relative to stormwater permit compliance under Section 204.  The DPW Director noted two concerns in his review;  1) A 
sight line issue with the proposed driveway due to the curvature o n Highland Street.  A note was added to the Plan noting that 
vegetation within the right -of-way would be cleared and the embankment regraded to improve the line of sight , and, 2) the 
overflow from the rain garden was directed towards a pipe under the drive way for 311 Highland which appeared to be 
deteriorated.  A note was added to the Plan stating that the applicant would clean the existing drainage swale  and culvert to 
restore flow capacity.  No comment was added to the O&M Plan as the existing culvert was  not located on the subject property.   
 
As a result of the DPW Director’s review, Board members voiced concern with drainage.  M. Allison emphasized that the road 
drainage drained off of the road onto an adjacent property.  It was noted that f low path on 319 Highland was all to the south, 
impounded along the driveway at 311 Highland, and then flowed through the culvert to an adjoining property.  If the drainage 
pattern was being altered to flow in a completely different direction, that would be  an issue.  The intent of the stormwater bylaw 
was that there would be no negative drainage impact; t his permit did not alter the existing drainage pattern .  Some, but not all, of 
the flow north of the driveway would be caught by the peastone diaphragm on the south si de of the driveway and then flow 
towards the rain garden at the drive entrance.   
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 11.28.22 
319 Highland Street 
Page 2 
 
David Rodgers, 82 Highland Street -  Inquired if the pre-existing culvert issue should be fixed by Lunenburg.  He also asked what 
effect this would have on the neighbors and if the flow would cross Highland Street.  He opined that the stormwater/drainage 
issue in Lunenburg had gotten worse over the years.   
 
It was stressed that the applicant was within stormwater standards for sin gle-family construction.  If the flow was a town issue, it 
should not prohibit the applicant from construction on his private property.   
 
M. Brenner was concerned that approving this permit could create a potential future hardship for the owner at 311 Hig hland if the 
culvert continued to deteriorate.  The property owner of 319 Highland emphasized that the rain garden would consist of ~800 feet 
of plantings.   
 
A. Burney reiterated that the flow pattern was not being inextricably changed.  The applicant /owner, Jami Anderson, noted that 
he had spoken with the abutters and they were happy a single-family home was going in and not multiple houses.   
 
Scott Mayo, 329 Highland Street- Stated he had a sump pump in his basement which ran occasionally.  He was concerned that if 
the culvert didn’t drain properly, that would become of concern to him.  B. Marchetti stressed that 329 Highland was almost 20 
feet higher than where 319 Highland was discharging.   
 
M. Brenner made Motion to close the hearing for 319 Highland Street, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.   
 
Hearing closed 7:37 p.m. 
 
Documents used at hearing: 
Site Plan dtd 10.26.22, Revised to 11.23.22 
GEI Review letter dtd 11.28.22 
 