===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair     Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram,  Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, M ember   Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
 
 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
                  Marjorie J. Boggio  
                  Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
780 Northfield Road 
March 28, 2022 
 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:14 p.m. 
 
Present:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram (arrived 6:05 p.m.) , Matthew Brenner, Adam Burney 
Erik Torgersen participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 measures adopted during the stat e of 
emergency.   
 
The Hearing continuation was to hear and review a request under M.G.L. Ch. 40, Section 15C, Scenic Road Designations and 
under M.G.L. Ch. 87, Section 3, Cutting of Public Shade Trees to remove trees and a 50 foot section of stone wall fo r a new 
driveway at 780 Northfield Road (Map 038, Parcel 00 17), Lunenburg, MA .  Owner /applicants were James and Allison Lattanzi, 
331 Marshall Road, Fitchburg, MA  01420.    
 
J. Lattanzi requested T. Cole recuse himself from the hearing under M.G.L. 268A C onflict of Interest regarding a perceived 
financial interest.  T. Cole declined to recuse himself, stating he did not see a financial interest.  Board members conducte d a site 
walk on Monday March 21 st.  Subsequent to that site walk , J. Lattanzi submitted an updated plan showing where the proposed 
driveway would be located.   The proposal was the removal of 40 f eet of stone wall and three trees.  At the site walk T. Cole 
requested the applicant remove only 30 feet of stone wall.  The applicant opined that th e 40 feet would be safer to allow for the 
turning radius of farm equipment coming from a narrower roadway entering onto Northfield Road.  One of the proposed trees to 
be removed was within the 10 foot area T. Cole did not want disturbed.  The applicant opi ned the tree , if not removed,  would 
impede the entering of farm equipment even if the drive was reduced to 30 feet.  P. Bertram asked for clarification on the turning 
radius of the farm equipment as she also felt 30 feet would be sufficient.  The applicant  responded that a hay bailer and hay 
wagon was upwards of 80 feet in length.  Northfield Road was narrow so a wide entrance would be needed for swinging into the 
site.  T. Cole noted the land has been in agricultural production and already had an existing access.  The applicant noted with the 
change in ownership, the type of equipment has changed.  The applicant viewed this as a safety issue.  M. Brenner stated his 
home proximity to the site and questioned if he should recuse himself; A. Burney responded he  lived well outside the radius and 
it would not be necessary.   
 
Nancy Yasko, 146 West Townsend Road- She inquired as to the proposed use of the property.  She went on to note that in 2018 
earth removal took place on the site.  At that time there were issu es with pollution, air quality, and dust.  She had the 
understanding that more earth would now be removed from the site ; she did not want residents on Northfield Road to go through 
what she did in 2018.  T. Cole responded that this hearing was strictly for  a scenic road, but that he would steer N. Yasko in the 
right direction for her concerns.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes, 3/28/2022 
780 Northfield Road 
Page 2 
 
Tom Alonzo, 284 Lancaster Avenue  (also a Select Board member) - Due to safety concerns; he was in favor of permittin g the 
scenic road permit.   
 
The applicant, in response to N. Yasko , noted that he intended to continue with the farming use on the site.  There was no 
intention of earth removal.   
 
T. Cole reiterated his concern with the proposed drive width.  P. Bertram  inquired as to the amount of land disturbance that 
would be required to put in the road.  J. Lattanzi responded the roadway would be a maximum of 50 feet wide for approximately 
225 feet.  Although P. Bertram would prefer a width of 40 feet instead of 50, she would not withhold approval if J. Lattanzi felt he 
needed 50 feet from a farm perspective.  M. Brenner opined that every time something is approved on a scenic road, it becomes  
less of a scenic road , but not  having any farming knowledge, if J. Lattanzi  stated the equipment needed 50 feet, he was in 
agreement.   
 
M. Allison made Motion to close the hearing, P. Bertram Seconded, Roll Call Vote -  M. Brenner, aye; P. Bertram, aye; M. 
Allison, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; T. Cole, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
 
Hearing closed 7:00 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Scenic Road Application 
 