===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Tanner Cole, Chair    Tel: (978) 582 -4147, ext 5  
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair   Fax: (978) 582 -4353 
Paula Bertram, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Matthew Brenner, Member    Lunenburg, MA  01462  
Erik Torgers en, Member 
     Adam R. Burney  
     Land Use Director  
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio  
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
January 24, 2022 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place: Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA  
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Adam Burney 
Matthew Allison, Paula Bertram, and Erik Torgersen  participated remotely under the Act relative to extending certain COVID -19 
measures adopted during the state of emergency.   
 
Absent:  Tanner Cole, Matthew Brenner 
 
ANR PLAN:   64 Arbor Street - The property owner req uested a  continuance to the February 28 th Board meeting.  He was 
extending his statutory time limit of 21 days to address the issues presented by the Board of Health and its Agent.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL :  P. Bertram made Motion to  approve minutes listed below, E. Torgersen Seconded.  Roll call 
vote- P. Bertram, aye; E. Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
1/10/22 
1/10/22, 97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road & 440 Mulpus R oad 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee-  A meeting was scheduled for January 26th.   
Agricultural Commission-  No report 
Storm Water Task Force -  A meeting was held January 20 th.  The Task Force hoped to expand its members from three (3) to 
five (5).  The Task Force would be meeting more frequently; the third Thursday of each month.  Various discussions were held 
concerning updating of the website and the formation of a stormwater utility/enterprise fund.   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee-  The Committee was continuing to investigate, and attempting to locate , a title for a parcel (at 
Stump Cove) on Lake Shirley that had been given to the Town.  The Conservation Commission installed six informational kiosks.  
BrightFarms had gifted $10,000 to open space; the Committee would investigate how best to utilize those funds.   
Capital Planning Committee-  No meeting held. 
Economic Development Committee-  A meeting was scheduled for January 27th.   
MRPC-  No report 
MJTC-  No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS: 
§250-4.9. Water Supply Protection District -  While reviewing both the Town’s bylaw and DEP’s Wellhead Protection Review, it 
became apparent to A. Burney that the bylaw citation s being used by DEP did not coincide with the numbering and lettering of 
the town’s bylaw.  Once A. Burney makes the amendments , the District Superintendent of the Water District will be invited to 
attend a Board meeting for discussion purposes.   
===PAGE 2===
 
Minutes 01.24.2022 
Page 2 
 
Update- §250-4.15. Non-Medical Mariju ana Bylaw - At the Board’s December 13, 2021 meeting, an applicant met with the 
Board for discussion of filing a special permit application without having to obtain further licensing f rom the Cannabis Control 
Commission (CCC).  The applicant’s attorney was o f the opinion that a provisional license from the CCC, as required in the 
Zoning Bylaw, would not be required for submission of a special permit application.  A. Burney requested an opinion from Town 
Counsel.  Town Counsel’s interpreta tion was that the Board could require a provisional license.  In the meantime Town Counsel 
was working on language for that portion of the bylaw called into question by the applicant’s attorney.   
Warrant Open for Annual Town Meeting- Noted 
 
MEETING SCHEDU LE:  Until further notice , the Board w ould meet remotely, and not hybrid.  As a quorum would not be 
available on February 14th, the only February meeting would be the 28 th. 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Pond View Commons, LLC   
Master Plan   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  M. Allison felt a public market would be a benefit to the Town.  He believed that the Planning Board should 
present the MGL, allowing for a public market, for adoption at annual town meeting.  More discussion would take place at the 
Board’s February 28th meeting.   
 
ADJOURNMENT:  P. Bertram made Motion to adjourn, E. Torgersen Seconded.  Roll call vote - P. Bertram, aye; E. 
Torgersen, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  Adjourned 6:33 p.m. 
 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
Minutes, 1/10/22 
Minutes, 1/10/22, 97 Cross Street, 125 Cross Street, 430 Mulpus Road & 440 Mulpus Road 
 
 