===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Brenner, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Allison, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
 
 
     Land Use Director 
 
          Annie M. Aubrey 
          Administrative Assistant 
Minutes 
Public Hearing 
274 Prospect Street 
October 23, 2023 
 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time: 6:05 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
The Hearing was to hear Stormwater Permit Application for 274 Prospect Street. Owner and Applicant is A&M Construction at 122 
Bar Road Hubbardston, MA 01452. Anthony Cleaves presented application  from Haley Ward 510 Mechanic Street Leominster, 
MA 01453. The proposed application includes the construction of two -family homes on each of the three lots. Lots 1 & 2 would 
have driveways off Pond St, Lot 3 would have a driveway off Kimball St. Water,  and sewer connections for Lot 1 go into Prospect 
Street. Lots 2 & 3 will have water service into Kimball Street. Stormwater criteria is met with rain gardens, recharge volume  
requirements, Pea stone  diaphragm, and erosion control barriers. Sewer locations involve minimal disruption using adequate 
construction practices. M. Allison inquired about wetlands and area has b een delineated and deemed not to  contain wetlands. 
Request for Determination has been filed with Conservation Commission. Graves Engineering is conducting review and have not 
received review. A. Burney mentioned abutter has expressed concerns about construction.  
 
Public Comment: Courtney Martino from 627 Townsend Harbor Rd  
Ms. Martino expressed concerns about driveways on Pond St. growth makes it difficult to see driveways and wanted to make sure, 
especially with snow removal that the construction would not impede on safety of roadway. Ms. Martino added interest in the septic 
opening up to residents on Pond St.   
A. Burney responded to snow removal concern that volume of snow is less than a previously proposed construction. Other concerns 
are not able to be addressed under Stormwater Permit. M. Allison made note safety of placement of driveways are adequate.  
 
M. Allison made Motion for continuance for 23 rd of October, Seconded by A. Reid, all aye. 
 
Public Hearing Closed at 6:30 p.m. 
