===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair     Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk     960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member       Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Annie M. Aubrey 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
July 24, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Brenner, Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney, Timothy Willsmer 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
ANR PLAN – 828 Lancaster Avenue – Greg Roy from Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group Inc. represented applicant Stephen Violette. 
Proposing to divide Lot 1 with remaining land and intends to demolish existing farmhouse on corner of Goodrich St and Lancaster 
Avenue. Lot 1 and Remaining Land  are in Resid ent B with adequate area and frontage . Board of Health verified existing home 
passed Title V and has reserve area.  
M. Allison made a Motion to approve ANR Plan. Seconded by A. Reid, all aye.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING – 525 Chase Road  – (Continued) See Separate Minutes. M. Allison made motion to  approve Site Plan 
Approval with Standard and Special Conditions, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS:  
Master Plan Steering Committee Applications – Board received two applications.  
Gerald Reid presented a volunteer application and was present at Meeting via Zoom. Mr. Reid has several years of experien ce in 
engineering and is eager  to be part of the Committee. A. Reid made Motion to approve app lication for Gerald Reid as an 
appointed member of the Master Plan Steering Committee, M. Allison Seconded, all aye.  
 
Joeci Gilchrest submitted application for Master Plan Steering Committee. Joeci is a local business owner; member of the 
Lunenburg Business Association, the Town’s  Economic Devel opment Committ ee and has many relevant skills  to bring to the 
Committee. M. Allison made Motion to approve application for Joeci Gilchrest as an appointed member of the Master Plan 
Steering Committee, A. Reid Seconded, all aye.  
 
Select Board has requested  discussion on Select Board’s representation  for Master Plan Steering Committee or to accept the 
Select Board choosing a third citizen at-large member. A. Burney noted representation from the Select Board on the MPSC would 
be beneficial in decision-making and direction of the Committee.  M. Allison is open to appointing an additional citizen at -large. T. 
Willsmer noted importance of receiving direct input from the Select Board. M. Brenner emphasized it is imperative to have a liaison 
and facilitate communication to bring the Select Board’s interests to the forefront.  A. Burney will write letter of Board’s 
recommendation to Select Board.     
 
Master Plan Community Engagement Plan – OverUnder provided written engagement plan for discussion. Discussed w ebsite, 
citizen access and notification, timeline. Existing conditions report for September and first Steering Committee meeting as w ell as 
construction of town mode l. Received 17 surveys  from the public  and Consultants will visit various town events to  engage with 
citizens. M. Allison noted desire to have model on permanent display and maintained for the town. 
Solar Bylaw – Draft is pending. Distributed several examples of municipal solar bylaws for discussion purposes. Board will review. 
Section 250-6.4., Driveway & Entrances – Tabled for August 14 meeting 

===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 7.24.23 
Pg 2 
 
Aquifer Protection Bylaw – Sent to Building Commissioner, DEP, and Water District. DEP requested edit under Section 4: Any 
alteration to Zone 2 is required to be approved by DEP.  Discussed section 7.1(f) Prohibited Use  on storing hazardous materials 
and/or liquid petroleum relevant to  nonconforming preexisting requirements. M. Allison and T. Wil lsmer expressed interest in 
extending the protection of Zone 3, A. Reid agreed.  A. Burney will redistribute the map  of Aquifer Protection Zones  and existing 
bylaw for further discussion.   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   A. Reid made Motion to appro ve minutes listed below, T. Willsmer Seconded, Roll call Vote - T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
6/26/23 
Lot A Northfield Rd 
7/10/23 
525 Chase Road 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- Discussed decision on select board not exercising right of first refusal and discussed process. 
Chair suggested Open Space is available to have a joint meeting with the planning board for next ROFR.  
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee- No report. 
Agricultural Commission- No report.  
Capital Planning Committee- No report. 
Economic Development Committee – No report. 
Storm Water Task Force - No report. 
Montachusett Regional Planning Committee- No report. 
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee- Presentations from MassDOT on mixed transportation.  
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  A. Burney and M. Brenner will not attend August 14 meeting. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
August 14 
August 28 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Master Plan 
Aquifer Protection District 
Zoning for MBTA Communities  
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings 
Town Environmental Support Policy 
Pond View Commons, LLC 
 
BOARD COMMENTS – M. Allison noted services for a well-respected, long-time Lunenburg resident Stanley W. Barney were July 
24th 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   M. Allison made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll call Vote- T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  Adjourned 7:35 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
828 Lancaster Ave 
     Stormwater Management Plan 
     Complied ANR Application      
525 Chase Road 
     Drainage Report 
     Complied Site Plan Approval Application 
     Site Plan 
     Site Plan Review – Graves Engineering Inc. 
Master Plan Steering Committee Applications 
Community Engagement Plan 
Water Protection Bylaw Draft 