===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair    Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair     Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk     960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member       Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Annie M. Aubrey 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
July 10, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes 
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Brenner, Matthew Allison, Amanda Reid, Adam Burney, Timothy Willsmer 
Absent:  Erik Torgersen 
 
ANR PLAN – 1325 Massachusetts Avenue – No changes to previously endorsed Site Plan Approval. Permitted Contractor 
storage facility and two office uses . Intention of ANR Plan is for creating separate lot for one of the office uses . Both lots have 
adequate frontage, access and drainage easements. Historical Commission waived demolition delay for existing building intending 
to be demolished. M. Allison made a Motion to approve ANR Plan. Seconded by A. Reid, all aye.  
 
PUBLIC HEARING – 525 Chase Road  - See Separate Minutes. M. Allison made motion to approve modifications to Site 
Plan Approval and Stormwater Permit, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  
 
RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL - Parcel 4, Leominster Rd. – Continued  
Classified r ecreational land (M.G.L. 61B) intended to convert to Resi dential use. Discussed value to Town is minimal from 
perspective of Planning Department. Awaiting Open Space Committee’s recommendation though time for Decision has become 
limited. M. Allison made Motion to recommend not pursuing Right of First Refusal for Parcel 4 . Seconded by A. Reid, all 
aye. 
 
DECISIONS – Lot A 524 Northfield Road 
No discussion, decision approved and signed by Board. 
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS: 
Right of First Refusal: Discussed process driven by the state and local Towns/Cities capabilities to have control over the process 
in order to meet State requirements.  
Master Plan – Consultants are in process of finalizing Public Engageme nt Plan. Website to direct the public for information that 
will be accessible as well as plan to engage with the public in -person. Consultants will build a p hysical modal of the Town . M. 
Brenner will be involved in bi-weekly Master Plan meetings. Document for the Board will be at next meeting to look over Plan.  
Solar Bylaw- Discussed parking lot solar and is not something that is doable in Lunenburg right now. Inflation Reduction Act has 
funding for Green Technology per EDC Meeting and is something to start looking into to prepare for Fall Town Meeting. Possibility 
of making parking lot solar an accessory use within commercial and industrial zones. Suggested to be a Special Permit within 
those zones, which would allow businesses in those zones to build large scale solar.  
Section 250 -6.4., Driveway & Entrances - A. Burney sent draft to Board members , Fire Chief  and Building commissioner. 
Discussed drafts that were distributed. Discussed editing max grade  and max length  to be the same between residential and 
commercial driveways. Discussed common driveways with reduced frontage lots as well as turnouts on/adjacent to shared 
driveways.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 7.10.23 
Pg 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   M. Allison made Motion to appro ve minutes listed below, A. Reid  Seconded, Roll call Vote - T. 
Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.   
6/26/23 
Lot A Northfield Rd 
7/10/23 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee- No report. 
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee- No report. 
Agricultural Commission- Farmers market has increase in attendance as well as new vendors. 
Capital Planning Committee- No report. 
Economic Development Committee - Meeting June 29. New businesses including new insurance company on Lancaster Ave. 
Meet & Greet between town officials and current and potential business owners September 28 th at 5PM. 
Storm Water Task Force- No report. 
MRPC- No report. 
MJTC- Met No report. 
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEMS:  No report. 
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:   
July 24 
August 14 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Master Plan – No report. 
Aquifer Protection District – No report. 
 
BOARD COMMENTS- A. Reid mentioned potentially being absent for July 24 meeting. Concerned about construction vehicles 
coming off the highway heading toward Flat Hill Road, not stopping at stop signs, and obstructing public ways. M. Brenner will not 
attend August 14 meeting. 
 
ADJOURNMENT:   M. Allison made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, Roll call Vote- T. Willsmer, aye; M. Brenner, aye; 
A. Reid, aye; M. Allison, aye.  Passed unanimously.  Adjourned 8:05 p.m. 
 
Documents used at meeting: 
1325 Massachusetts Ave 
     Plan of Land 
     Topography Layout 
     ANR Application      
525 Chase Road 
     Drainage Report 
     Complied Site Plan Approval Application 
     Site Plan 
     SPA Checklist 
NOI to Convert to Residential Use – Parcel 4, Leominster Rd  
Lot A 524 Northfield Road Decision 
Common Driveway Bylaw Draft 1 & 2 
 
     
      
 