===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF L UNENBURG  
Office of the Planning Board  
 
 
Matthew Allison, Chair   Tel: (978) 582-4147, ext 5 
Matthew Brenner, Vice Chair  Fax: (978) 582-4353 
Amanda Reid, Clerk   960 Massachusetts Avenue 
Erik Torgersen, Member   Lunenburg, MA  01462 
Timothy Willsmer, Member 
     Adam R. Burney 
     Land Use Director 
 
     Marjorie J. Boggio 
     Administrative Assistant 
 
Minutes 
April 24, 2023 
Meeting Posted: Yes  
Place:  Town Hall, 17 Main Street, Lunenburg, MA   
Time:  6:00 p.m. 
 
Present:  Matthew Allison, Matthew Brenner, Amanda Reid, Timothy Willsmer, Adam Burney  
Absent:  Erik Torgersen  
 
PUBLIC HEARINGS:   39 Main Street -  See separate minutes.   
 
DECISION: Review & Endorsement - 759 & 763 Northfield Road - Decision endorsed by Board.   
 
BOARD DISCUSSIONS:  
Master Plan Committee – Composition - There was Board discussion regarding the number of voting members on the 
Committee.  The draft presented to the Board defined 15 voting members.  
• Two members of the Planning Board, appointed by the Planning Board  
• Two members of the Board of Selectmen, appointed by the Board of Selectmen 
• One member of the Conservation Commission, appointed by the Conservation Commission 
• One member of the Council on Aging, appointed by the Council on Aging 
• One member of the Parks and Recreation Commission, appointed by the Parks and Recreation 
Commission 
• One member of the Lunenburg School Committee, appointed by the Lunenburg School Committee  
• One member of the Lunenburg Housing Authority, appointed by the Lunenburg Housing Authority 
• One member of the Zoning Board of Appeals, appointed by the Zoning Board of Appeals 
• One member of the Finance Committee, appointed by the Finance Committee  
• Four members at large, appointed by the Planning Board 
If desired, the Committee could form s ub-committees, e.g. the C ouncil on Aging member and the Planning Board member with 
regard to the Housing Element.  That sub -committee would then come back and report to the full Committee.   The consultant 
would do a lot of work off -line and then come back and present it to the full Committee.  M. Brenner posed the idea of making 
some of the members voting members and some non -voting liaisons.  Board consensus was for membership to be defined as 
representation from a board/committee/commission and not a named individual.  With that option, if a representative was unable 
to make a meeting, another representative would be allowed to attend and vote.  M. Allison recommended the Charge be sent 
out to all boards/committees/commissions for input as to Committee composition.   
Solar Bylaw 
Section 2 50- 6.4., Driveways & Entrances  
===PAGE 2===
Minutes, 4.24 .23 
Pg 2 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL :  M. Brenner made Motion to approve all minute s listed below, A. Reid Seconded, passed 
unanimously.   
4/10/23 
4/10/23, Zoning Article  
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS:   
Open Space Ad Hoc Committee -   No report  
Lunenburg Municipal Building Design Committee -   No report  
Agricultural Commission -    No report  
Capital Planning Committee -  No report  
Economic Development Committee -  Meeting scheduled for April 27th.    
Storm Water Task Force -   Discussion of Task Force reorganization due to Chair stepping down.  MS4 (Municipal Separate 
Storm Sewer System) General Permit information distributed by the DPW Director.  Under an Asset Management Grant, the 
State was paying for mapping of the  town’s stormwater infrastructure.   
MRPC-   No report  
MJTC-  No report  
 
DIRECTOR’S ITEM S:   
Aquifer Protection District -   At the Board meeting of April 10 th, the Board discussed adoption of the 2011 DEP bylaw which 
allowed more flexibility than the current town’s bylaw.  In anticipation of an incoming Building Commissioner , A. Burney 
recommended the Board hold off on taking immediate action in order to get input from the new Building Commissioner.    
 
MEETING SCHEDULE:    
May 6, 9:00 a.m. - Town Meeting  
May 8 
May 20 – Town Election  
May 27 
 
ONGOING ITEMS:   
Zoning for MBTA Communities – Action Plan -  
Lunenburg Municipal Buildings  
Town Environmental Support Policy  
Pond View Commons, LLC    
 
ADJOURNMENT :   M. Brenner made Motion to adjourn, A. Reid Seconded, passed unanimously.  Adjourned 7:00 p.m.  
 
Documents used at meeting:  
Decision, 759 & 763 Northfield Road  
Minutes:  
    4/10/23 
    4/10/23, Zoning Article  
Master Plan Steering Committee Charge  
 
 