===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Office of the Planning Board
Matthew Brenner Chair
Timothy Willsmer Vice Chair
Amanda Reid Clerk
Matthew Allison Member
Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5
Fax: (978) 582-4353
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Jasmin Farinacci – Land Use Director
Jennifer Daigle– Admin Asst.
Planning Board MINUTES
2025-08-25
Meeting posted: Yes
Address: Town Hall –17 Main St. Lunenburg, MA 01462
Time: 6:00 PM
Present: T. Willsmer, A. Reid, M.   Brenner, A. Burney
Absent:  none
CALL     TO ORDER   
Chair M.Brenner called the meeting to order 
Public Comment-  none at this time 
CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT
Per  M. Brenner : Noted M. Allison’s departure from the Board and recognized his 11 years of dedication to 
the Town
Thursday Oct 2nd Town Government Meet and Greet By Economic Development Committee 
5:30pm-8:30pm at Smokestack Roasters, great way to meet government reps and make connections. 
Land use Director position will be posted shortly, focus on Planning and Economic Development position.
Training for OpenGov will be held by Building Inspector, Brian Gingras for members of the Board next 
meeting to allow full access to Planning office communications and info. 
MBTA Communities is upcoming, settled on paper compliance model. Consultants will be getting back to us 
in next couple of weeks. Goal to have public hearing on 9/22 meeting,  with info submitted by the end of 
the week.
LBA meetings asked if Board could help with understanding Stormwater Utility, group meets 8:30am 
weekdays. T. Willsmer will adjust to help with any info needed. 
New paint in Planning Office to update the Ritter Building. 
 J. Farinacci nothing to report
===PAGE 2===
2 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-25
DECISIONS-
None at this time to be noted
Approval Not Required (ANR ) Plans
830 Mass Ave ANR-25-10 
Ryan Proctor -Dillis and Roy presenting for future parcel swap. Intends to create a parcel 2 for a conveyance 
to future southerly property lot .  Remaining land (lot 1 A ) Current lot will still conform to the minimum 
requirements in the zoning district which is the residential A as well as the limited business zone 
district.  830 Mass Ave Does contain a single family home currently and will be filing for sewer connection 
permit on existing lot . Area of property outlined in blue currently is vacant. M. Brenner asks if application 
was submitted to the BOH.  Mr. Proctor confirms that he has done so.
A. Burney asks about width for remaining portion of property opening.  Mr. Proctor states he believes it 
may be 25ft.  A. Burney believes that anything under 50ft doesn’t count toward lot size does not want to 
violate current ANR statue.  M. Brenner asks about 21 day timeline.  A.Burney advises applicant can ask for 
extension of time by request, or Board can deny with clarifications.  Applicant decides to ask for extension 
to next meeting, 9/8, to give clarification on site dimensions.
PUBLIC HEARINGS
Motion:  A.Reid moved, to open the public hearings 499 Northfield Road 
Second: A.Reid
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -abstained, passed.
499 Northfield Road PBSA-25-6
Justin LeClair McCarty engineering representing Mr. & Mrs. Deschamps 499 Northfield Road , Pat Broady 
Shelter for Cats looking to expand to 1800 sq ft addition to the existing building. ZBA has granted special 
permit, and Con Comm has given order of conditions. Plan for septic needs to expand erosion control, BOH 
is amendable to expand as well. 
M. Brenner questioned area of lot line denoted on plans with future ANR.  Mr. LeClair clarifies that the 
Deschamps bought lot from previous lot 6, as to not abut development that occurred on nearby lots. Mr. 
Burney asks if 81x or conveyance will occur for the two lots. Mr. Burney suggests to have both done to have 
the most clear appearance of plots. 
Conditional operations plans and maintenance plan for storm water drip edge requested by the Board
Motion:  A. Burney moved, to close the public hearings 499 Northfield Road 
Second: T. Willsmer
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, hearing closed.
===PAGE 3===
3 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-25
Motion:  T. Willsmer moved to approve site plan with all standard conditions with additional 
condition of submission of conditional operations plan submission and maintenance plan for storm water 
drip edge submission for 499 Northfield Road 
Second: A. Reid
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, passed.
REORGANIZATION
Municipal Building Design Committee -Vacancy
M. Brenner put forth that he is interested in this spot due to amount of public speaking needed to present 
ideas to move projects forward. 
Motion: A. Burney moved to nominate  M. Brenner to the open position on the Municipal Building 
Design Committee. 
Second: A. Reid
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, passed.
Signature of paperwork- 430 Mulpus Road to clear up paperwork internally.  Details spoken about in 
regards to the need to move account from old passbook account to correct account standing per 
regulations as outlined by Treasurer. Chair explains the internal process for clarity to the Board.
Motion: A. Burney moved to have planning board close out the current account for 430 Mulpus Road 
Performance Guarantee then turn over the funds to the town treasurer to use as the assurity deposit to 
create a new performance guarantee account in the correct format. 
Second:  T. Willsmer
Vote:  A. Reid – Aye, T.Willsmer -Aye, A. Burney -Aye, passed. 
Master Plan Steering Committee
Per T. Willsmer are in refining process to prepare for Town Meeting, the document will be broken into 
sections and sections will be sent to the applicable boards for comment.  Time frame for delivery would be 
by the end of September.  A. Burney requests that the item be moved to first meeting in September to give 
the board adequate time to review. M. Brenner clarified that will discuss process to community. Moved to 
next meetings discussion agenda.
Open Space Committee
Per T.Willsmer – passed on property West Townsend Rd coming out of chapter due to documenting issues.  Not 
looking to pick up property. 
Municipal Bldg. Design Committee
Per T.Willsmer – 
Capital Planning Committee
Per M.Brenner just beginning to revive. Will be getting meetings going soon.
===PAGE 4===
4 of 4 - Planning Board Minutes, 2025-08-25
Economic Development Committee
Per M. Brenner met last week to assist to call meeting as Cathy Clark has stepped back. Jocei Gilchrest is the new chair 
and looking forward to more meetings and output. Would like to with new planner look at new charter for clarification.
Storm Water Task Force
Per Vice Chair T. Willsmer – not sure will have info for presentation at Town meeting.
Montachusett Regional Planning Commission
Per Clerk A. Reid – nothing to update. Mostly budgetary
Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee
Per Clerk A. Reid – unable to attend last meeting.  No notes to share
Decisions  -   none at this time
BOARD DISCUSSIONS
Community  Abutter Notices- none at this time to report
MINUTES APPROVAL
Meeting 7/14
Motion to approve A. Burney
Second: T. Willsmer seconded
 Vote: A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer – Aye, A. Burney -Aye 
Approved minutes
MEETING SCHEDULE
The upcoming meeting is 09-08-2025 at 6:00 P.M. 9-22-25, (10-27-25 May not need this meeting )
PUBLIC COMMENT
No one online or in the room at this time.
A. Burney noted about scams linking to recent public hearing notices via invoices. M. Brenner advised 
public to call office directly and do not use phone info listed on erroneous notices. 
BOARD COMMENT / CONCERNS
ADJOURNMENT
Motion:  M. Brenner to adjourn the meeting,  moved by T.Willsmer
Second: A. Reid seconded
Vote:            Voice vote, passed unanimously.
Meeting adjourned.
Minutes by Jennifer Daigle, Admin Asst.
DOCUMENTS REFERENCED