===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
Office of the Planning Board 
Matthew Brenner, Chair 
Timothy Willsmer, Vice Chair 
Amanda Reid, Clerk 
Adam Burney, Member 
Anthony Nicastro, Member 
 
 
 
             Tel: (978) 582-4146, opt. 5 
Fax: (978) 582-4353 
960 Massachusetts Ave 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Stephen Wallace – Director of 
Planning and Economic 
Development 
Leigh Bain – Administrative 
Assistant 
 
07/13/26 Minutes 
Roll Call: M. Brenner, T. Willsmer entered late at 6:15 pm,  A. Reid, A. Burney, A. 
Nicastro 
Absent:  None 
1. CALL TO ORDER 
• M. Brenner at 6:00 pm 
2. BOARD COMMENT 
• None 
3. CHAIR / DIRECTOR’S REPORT  
• S. Wallace stated that drafts of the By-Laws that the board will be working on 
(Inclusionary By-Law, Senior Housing By-Law, Minor Site Plan Approval and Cluster 
Zoning By-Law) have been distributed to the members.  The first working session to 
discuss the By-Laws has been schedule for Monday, July 20th at 5pm.  
• DE MINIMIS CHANGE 
942-944 Reservoir Road, Request to Modify a Special Permit (PMOD-26-5) 
Hearing is a de minimis change to a stormwater permit and site plan approval. 
S. Wallace stated that recently 3 single family homes were approved on Goodrich Street 
and one single family house lot on Reservoir Road. They would like to change the single 
family house on Reservoir Road to a duplex. 
B. Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) was present and stated that a developer has 
purchased the property.  Overall a second driveway was added for the second unit 
otherwise the project remains the same. A. Burney moved to approve a De Minimis 
Change.  A Reid Second. 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsmer, Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
A Burney moved to accept the DeMinimis Change  A. Reid Second 

===PAGE 2===
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye A. Reid Aye, T Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner Aye 
4. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
• 171 Arbor Street, Request for Modification to a Special Permit/Stormwater (1412) 
B. Marchetti (McCarty Engineering) stated the lot has been sold.  The changes to 
Special Permit/Stormwater reflect the actual development the purchaser is proposing.   
A. Burney moved to close the public hearing.  A. Reid Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
A Burney moved to approve record 1412 for 171 Arbor Street modification to Common 
Driveway and  Special Permit/Stormwater Plan.  A. Reid Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
A Burney moved to include hours of construction hours in the decision, 7-4 Friday, 8-1 
Saturday and no Sunday.  A. Reid Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
• 10 Parmenter Road Continued from 5/11/26; Stormwater Permits, (PBSW-16-12 & 
PBSW-26-13, and Special Permits (PBSP-26-3 & PBSP-26-4 
Ryan Proctor (Dill & Roy) stated that these lots are Lots 2 through 4 and 5 through 13 
Parmenter Road.  Graves Engineering provided their review. They have indicated that 
they are satisfied with the layout and stormwater design that were presented.  There 
were no condition related to or additional items.  A sequencing plan and draft HOA 
document were requested.  HOA document is in process or will be with a deed or 
common driveway agreement.  The Phasing Plan has been prepared and will be 
uploaded to the portal.  A limit of tree clearing is shown on all site plans for the entire 
lot.  The Board discussed the project’s phasing and land clearing with the Applicant’s 
engineer.  Applicant’s Engineer stated that not more than 6 dwelling would be in 
process at one time.  The owner would seek a Certificate of Occupancy or a Temporary 
CO for the first lot before moving on the 7th lot.  Gail and Bart Lawless of 21 Parmenter 
Road were present for the public hearing and have questions with regard to the Phasing 
of the project.  Ms. Lawless stated that there are existing houses and there is a steep 
incline.  Clearing trees and the existing houses being lower, creates concerns about 
rainwater and runoff.  Questioning in Phasing whether it would be all the lots on 
Parmenter at one time?  M. Brenner explained the process as he understand it.  Ms. 
Lawless also questioned the location of driveways directly across from the existing 
driveway.  R. Proctor stated that driveway locations are topography driven so that the 
proper slope can be obtained and that is why they are where they are.  Kim Duffy of 
1479 Mass Ave was present on zoon for the hearing.  Ms. Duffy stated that in looking at 
the map it appears that the proposed development really blocks off what looks like a 
major wild life corridor and asked if this was considered in this site plan.  If not, could it 
be? R. Proctor stated that no not specifically that he is aware of but the developer has 
tried be intentional with the limit of clearing to what is needed for the house, septic and 
driveway. Bart Lawless of 21 Parmenter Road expressed concerns about drainage and 
about the volume of trees being cut. Ali of Benjamin Builders was at the Public Hearing 
on Zoom and stated that they will not be clear cutting the lot.  They will only be cutting 
enough trees to site the house, septic system and a small yard.  They are planning to cut 
===PAGE 3===
all the trees that the will be cut for the entire development at the same time, but that is 
not to say they are clear cutting the lot. 
A Burney stated that he would like to consider a predetermined schedule by Graves as 
opposed to a reactionary schedule of inspections based on the size of the open area and 
the potential impacts of failed silt fence or otherwise.  S. Wallace stated that a fairly 
detailed sequence of construction would be prepared before the next meeting.  The 
board and the applicant discussed methods for securing the long-term maintenance of 
the drainage facilities for the shared driveways, whether that be through the traditional 
method of a homeowner associated or by some other means.  S. Wallace stated that what 
is required for the next meeting is a Phasing Schedule, an inspection schedule for 
Graves Engineering with a cost estimate and a time frame for when the project will 
begin. 
A Burney moved to continue to 7/27/26 at 6:00 pm.  A. Reid Seconded.  
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
• 10 Parmenter Road, Special Permit, (PBSP-26-5 & PSSP – 26-7, and Stormwater 
Permit (PBSP-26-16) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) stated that this is the last portion of this project, Lots 14 
through 24.  There have been property address given to these lots.  This is a very similar 
design practice as the previous hearing with a combination of common driveways and 
private lots.  Common Driveway on lots 14 and lot 15 and a common driveway serving 4 
lots, lots 20, 21, 23 and 24.  The rest will have private driveways.  The stormwater 
approach in nearly identical to the lots previously discussed.  Since there were 
discussions with the previous lots, comments from Graves Engineering were 
incorporated into these lots.  There were only 4 action items.  1) A discrepancy in the 
hydrological calculations which resulted in a roof infiltration trench on Lot 18 that was 
not shown on the site plan; 2)  Lot 18 – soil testing was performed.  There is a rain 
garden along the frontage and given the elevation of the wetland, Graves asked for 
deeper testing. 3) A question about the cross slope on the driveways, in certain portions 
there wasn’t a 2% cross slope getting water into the stone diaphragm that runs to the 
rain gardens and that will be adjusted; 4) A typographical error that will be corrected.  
In addition, all of the conversation from the hearing for the previous lots will be 
incorporated into these lots as well.  S. Wallace stated that the Fire Department wants a 
couple of turn-arounds.  A. Burney stated that he would like the full turning movement 
for each of the turnarounds not just the end turn around.  The Board and the applicant’s 
engineer discussed the project’s inspection schedule. A Burney moved to continue to 
7/27/26 at 6:00 pm.  A. Reid Seconded.  
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
• 860 New West Townsend Road, Continued from 3/16/26,  Site Plan Review, (PBSA-
26-1) Stormwater Permit (PBSP-26-1) Special Permit (pbsp-26-1) 
Ryan Proctor (Dillis & Roy) gave a brief update and stated that they were waiting for a 
review from Graves Engineering, which was received.  There were no follow up action 
items from that review.  There were two conditions and they are proposing to lower the 
grade on the frontage to provide access for the common driveway and better site 
distance.  Graves would like an additional analysis after the grade is removed.  R. 
Procter stated that he did meet with the fire dept to discuss the common driveway with 
===PAGE 4===
regard to firefighting.  The Board and the applicant’s engineer discussed the cistern, 
going over the details and the need to work with the Fire Department.  They are 
proposing a fire cistern at the turnaround, coordinated with the fire department by a fire 
protection engineer.  There were no additional concerns.  We were asked to create 
turnarounds at the longer of the 3 driveways.  On lots 1, 2 and 3 turnarounds were 
graded in and Lt Lekaditis stated that he was satisfied with the design. A draft HOA 
Agreement was upload to the portal which was also sent to town counsel for review last 
week.  Graves reviewed the turnarounds.  M. Brenner stated that he would like to hear 
Town Counsel’s review.  S. Wallace asked Graves for an opinion on the sub-base of the 
road which was shared.  S. Wallace will provide R. Proctor with that opinion.   
Burney moved to continue to 7/27/26 at 6:00 pm.  A. Reid Seconded.  
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A. Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
• 934 Mass Avenue Continued from 6/8/26 Stormwater Permit (PBSW-26-14) 
Tang Chen (TF Morant) stated that since being before the Board a month ago the plans 
have been revised to address minor comments from Graves Engineering and 
subsequently received a letter from Graves Engineering with no issues.  
A. Burney moved to close the public hearing.  A. Nicastro Seconded 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye,  T. Willsner – Aye, M. Brenner – 
Aye 
A Burney moved to approve PBSW-26-14 for 934 Mass Avenue for Stormwater Permit 
with construction hours of 7 am to 4 pm Monday through Friday and 8 am to 1 pm on 
Saturday.   A. Nicastro Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
5. DECISIONS and BUSINESS 
• Master Plan – Discuss/Approve 
M. Brenner stated that he sent out a final draft of the Master Plan and its several 
component with a chance to discuss possibly a vote.  A Burney stated that he has not had 
a chance to read it.  A. Burney stated that he would like a chance to review it.  M. 
Brenner stated that he would like the Master Plan to be finalized at the next meeting. 
Moved to July 27th meeting to allow all member to review 
6. BOARD DISCUSSIONS 
• A. Burney stated although there were no board discussions, he asked whether the 
Common Driveway Permit could be included with the other 4 Bylaws the board would 
be reviewing.  S. Wallace responded yes.  We are going to the November Town Meeting 
with a series of editorial corrections 
 
7. COMMITTEE REPORTS 
• Master Plan Steering Committee 
No Update 
• Open Space Committee 
Meeting Wed. July 15h 
• Municipal Bldg. Design Committee 
No Update 
• Capital Planning Committee 
No Update 
• Economic Development Committee 
===PAGE 5===
Meeting Tues. July 14th 
• Storm Water Task Force 
T. Willsmer stated that they are working on a date for the next meeting  
• Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
No Update 
• Montachusett Joint Transportation Committee 
No Update 
8. MINUTES APPROVAL 
• 6/8/26 & 6/22/26 
• A Burney moved Approve.  A. Reid  Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye 
9. MEETING SCHEDULE 
• 6:00 pm at town hall or stated otherwise 
7/27, 8/10, 8/24 & 9/14 
S. Wallace stated that there will be a work session on 7/20 to discuss the language of the 
bylaws. 
10. BOARD COMMENT 
• S. Wallace stated that the typing of the minutes is being transferred to another staff 
member.  S. Wallace would like the board to direct her to use the existing format for 
preparing meeting minutes. 
A Burney so moved.  A Reid Second 
Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A Reid – Aye, T. Willsner – Aye, M. 
Brenner – Aye Roll Call Vote:  A. Nicastro – Aye, A. Burney – Aye, A Reid – Aye, T. 
Willsner – Aye, M. Brenner – Aye 
A. Burney thanked Leigh Bain for getting Docusign up and running. 
11. ADJOURNMENT 
• A. Burney motion to adjourn, A. Nicastro Second 
 
 