===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  9 /9/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member : Arthur 
Katis , DPW Directo r-  Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager - Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- 
Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 7 :08  pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT /ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes of  8/26/25
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                             
Second: Arthur K.
To accept the minutes of 8/26/25 .                                       Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-
aye, and Brett-aye.
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
      i. ADUs  – Bill gave the Commissioners lists of ideas supplied by Dan Proctor and Andrew , 
which the C ommissioners reviewed.   He noted that they will need to write a new regulation 
concerning ADUs  and Andrew said it would be added in Appendix G of the regulations. S tate 
law  limits the size to  900 sq.ft. and Dan suggested a $500 fee to tie in , with a $330 fee for the 
extra  bedroom. Dan further suggested t he ADU unit sewer line must tie into the existing sewer 
line on the property , with no new connections on the street .  Connections would be into interior 
plumbing or from a detached unit via  a TY connection underground into the existing  line going 
out. Bill noted a clean out  would also be added  and t he work would be done by a licensed 
drainlayer . Bill would inspect the pipe and if it is bad, it would require replacement. He clarified 
the lateral  and pipe in the street is the town ’s responsibility  but the rest  of the line  is the 
homeowner ’s .  Scott  questioned what  the fee would be for  a  new construction with a propos ed 
ADU. Bill  suggested there would be the fee for the new home and the fee for the ADU. It would 
be up to the homeowner if they want a separate water meter  for the ADU , which will be noted in 
the regulation. The separate meter would  have the tenant ’s name on the bill , similar to how they 
bill for apartments. (Dan P. joined the meeting .) Next steps would be tying these ideas together  
and  discuss it at the next meeting , before sending it to Town Counsel  for review .  Dan  
questioned where the ADU fees would be allocat ed and  Andrew responded  probably to F low 
C apacity . Arthur asked if easements  would present a problem and  Bill noted the regulations 
s ta te  no easements but there are waivers  for emergenc ies.   T hey can plead their case but there 
are criteria and it is ultimately up to the Commission. Dan  added  the ADU would be tied to the 
existing house so it should not involve a n easement. The Commission discussed possible 
scenarios requiring a direct connection  for the ADU , such as the main home being on septic. It 
was suggested that the house along with the ADU would be connected to sewer and the usual  
connection fee charged. Bill  noted there is one being permitted  right  no w. The Commission 
agreed to fine tun ing the verbiage at the next meeting  or two before sending it to Town Counsel.
     ii. Manhole Repair IFB - Bill reported they are still waiting for the manhole cover fram ing  to 
come in.
    iii. 45 Riley Road Bill Credit - Andrew noted he received a call from the resident  that the water
department was  chang ing  her meter  and increased her usage but  later gave her a credit . He 
said her usual bill is around $174 but the last bill was $2 83.24. Andrew asked if the Commission 
would vote to c redit her next bill  for $83.24.
Motion: Dan  P.                                                                                                                                
Second: Arthur  K.
===PAGE 2===
To allow Andrew to credit the next bill for 45 Riley Road for $83.24 .
Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett-aye.
--- Future Agenda Items - ADUs, Minutes, Manhole Repair  IFB , Bil l noted 2 parties interested in 
Easements, and Change in Use /Flow  for a new gym  on Mass. Ave.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
September 30 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
October 14 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
October 28 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
November 11 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                               
Second:  Arthur K.
To adjourn  at 7 :50pm                                           Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, Dan-aye
and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk