===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  5/27/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice -Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member s : Joe 
Hurley  and Arthur Katis , DPW Directo r-  Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere,
Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 6 :0 7 pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the
meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT - Bill thanked Scott for running again  and Joe  for continuing as long as he 
is able . He also  gave a big welcome  to the  newest members -  Dan and A rthur , thanking them for
jumping on. H e appreciate s  having a full Commission and welcomed their new ideas.
CURRENT BUSINESS -
---Commission Re-Organization /Meeting of 5/22-  Brett also  welcomed Dan and Arthur and 
thanked Joe for staying on .  Bill advis ed they will need to vote for new officers now.
     Nominations:  Joe nominated Brett for Chair and Scott seconded.
                             Brett nominated Scott for Vice-Chair and Dan seconded.
                             Scott nominated Dan for Clerk and Brett seconded.
     Votes:   Chair – Joe-aye, Scott-aye, Dan-aye, and Art hur -aye.  Brett abstained .
                 Vice-Chair – Art hur -aye,  Joe-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.
                  Clerk- Scott-aye, Dan-aye, Joe-aye and Arthur-aye  (Brett did not vote)
    Brett thanked Andrew for putting the letter (re. new commissioners) together  a nd sending it 
out. 
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
i. D ana Street Repairs  - Bill noted that the  Dana pump house is our main pump station  
and almost all the waste in town goes through it.  The force mai n is  where the waste 
exits and the  pipes are pretty rotted .  They will be u s ing  Chad Empey (our  contractor) 
who is hiring Pride Environmental to do the work  for $123,600 .  S imilar work  done at 
Mass 1 co s t $88K plus about $10K for pump trucks. At Dana  Street , they  figured out a 
way to use  the  by-pass  and will not need pump trucks this time  but will have  to excavate 
to check those pipes. The w ork should be done in another month  and will take 5-7 days 
to complete . Bill stated that t he Commission had already added money to C apital to 
cover this repair. He no ted that  if the pressure line broke , it would be a costly emergency 
repair and create an environmental issue. Dan asked how much pipe was being replaced
and Bill replied a bout 40 feet. Joe asked if there  is any  other work that needs to be done 
while it is open and Bill replied no . T his station is about 20 years old and had a design 
li fe of 25 years. Art  asked if there is a warranty  on the work . Bill re ad the  work procedure 
from the quote  but did not notice a warranty statement. Scott  inquired about the 
contractor ex ercising the cut-offs and if they will be adding it to the future maintenance 
contract . Bill said that is duly noted. The Commission discussed the wording of the vote  
and making it dependent on a warranty.
              Motion:  Scott  D.                                                                                                            
Seco nd: Dan  P.
              To accept the quote  and move forward to schedule the work before it becomes an 
issue.
              Roll Call  Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye, Dan-aye, A rthur-aye and Brett-aye. 
              B rett asked B ill to give an update at the next meeting on the  warranty .
ii. Supplemental Billing Q4 FY25  – Andrew  reported  that the billing went  out . They got 
some questions but  have received checks and it  worked out  well . He  added  that the  
Munis system had originally calculated the rates from 2022 and the sewer rates were 
===PAGE 2===
wrong. They brought in the consultant to help  and  thought it was all straightened out , but 
a ny bill  over the minimum charge was  not correct. Suppl e mental  billing was then sent out
for the difference. Andrew stated that everything has been upd a ted and the y  will  make 
sure the next bill run will not have as many issues  as possible .  Bill reported the  town just
updated to the newest version of Munis  and Andrew now has a helper to assis t him.
iii. Manhole Repair IFB - Bill – Bill stated that the S ewer C ommission received $100K of 
ARPA funds to make sewer manhole  repairs . They are focusing on manholes  that are 
allowing clean water to enter the system  as I/I (Inflow/Infiltration). The work went out to 
bid and Insituform Technol ogies was the  lowest bidder.  Bill noted that they h ave  
ch anged project managers  and he does not have a start date yet but  will stay on them. 
Dan asked where the money is coming from and Bill replied $100K from ARPA funds 
(Federal money)  and $40K from the  budget.
iv. Quarterly demands  – Andrew said he will be working on the  demands in the next couple  
weeks .  He estimated 27-29% users  are delinquent . Bill confirmed that when it is 
delinquent for 1 year it is put on th eir taxes. 
v. Ass t. To Sewer Business M gr. - Andrew reported that Susan started today  and they are 
get ting her set  up  so s he can  shadow Andrew . B ill added there  is plenty to do and they 
came up  with a new project today.
--- Future Agenda Items-  Dana St. update, Manhole repairs  update , Select Board meeting 
w/Commission  minutes
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Joe said if they have someone new that is willing to come onboard, he 
will step down.  Dan asked if he can talk to Bill to get up to speed  on the Commission . Brett 
replied he can talk with Bill and Andrew.  Scott noted they just c an not  discuss as a group outside 
of the m eeting s . Bill suggested read ing all the minutes posted on  the  town website.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
 June 10, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
 June 24 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
 July 8 , 2025    @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  at DPW
 July 29 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                     
Second:  Dan P.
To adjourn  at  6:53pm                       Roll Call Vote: S cott-aye , A rthur-aye , D an-aye , and Brett -
aye  ( Joe had left)
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk