===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  5/13/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Vice-Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Clerk- Scott Dall , Member: Joe Hurley , DPW Directo r-  
Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manage r- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 7 :02  pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT - & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
---Commission Vacancies – Bill  reported they d o  not have any new members  but he gave the 
Commissioners copies of the letter sent out previously . The Commissioners  discussed edits  and
agreed to mail an updated version of the letter.  Andrew will make the edits and send the letters 
to sewer users. 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates
    i. Minutes of 4/29/25
         Motion: Joe H.                                                                                                                          
Second: Scott D.
         To accept the minutes of 4/29/25.                                     Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-
aye and Brett- aye.
   ii. Quarter 4 FY25 Billing - Andrew reported he was able to get t he billing  done but found an 
issue in Munis with the rate s.    Munis had reverted it back to the 2022 rates  for the bills over the 
minimum charge. He t hought he corrected the  issue  and the consultant agreed it looked ok. 
However, he  received a call from a c ustomer who  alerted him that he was charged $13 6 but it 
should have been $158.  Andrew said the Commitment number  will be a bit low er  and he will 
have to do  a supplemental Commitment  because he will need to send out another round of bills  
for the difference.  T he new bill will come on Uni-pay but there will be no interest  due to the 
inconvenience . Bill noted that  about  half of the bills  were incorrect  -about 500 . Of that 500, the 
difference on 475 was less than $100. He added that the sys tem used the correct rate for a year 
and now it grabbed  the wrong rate . If they don ’t send the corr ected bills , they would  lose 
$24,000 . Andrew stated the bills will reflect any payments paid already  and he extended the due
date. Bill reported  they are changing to the  cloud based  system in 2 weeks. The consultant 
helped so they did not have to do  manual adjustments on each bill . Joe asked if someone is on 
auto-pay  will it automatically make the supplemental payment  and they will check on that.
   iii . Assistant to the Business Manager Position-  Bill announced that Susan Sullivan will be 
starting on 5/27  as the new assistant. 
   iv . Manhole Repair IFB  – Bill contacted  Insitufo rm  for an update. They are changing project 
managers  but they will still be starting in June . Bill added that the flow meters will show an 
increase with all the rain. 
   v. Commitment Q4 FY25 - The C ommi ssioners reviewed, signed and voted on the 
Commitments. 
Motion: Joe H.                                                                                                                                    
Second: Scot t D.
T o accep t the Q4  FY25 C ommitment and S up p lemental  Commitment as written .
Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Brett- aye.
--- Future Agenda Items-  C omm ission v acancies, minutes, review end of year budget items  and 
any adjustments , new A ssistant  Manager , D ana S treet  work before 7/1.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Brett wished residents with children a happy Mother ’s Day.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
May 27 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
June  10 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  @ DPW
===PAGE 2===
June 24 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
July 8 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting  @ DPW
Motion:  S cott  D.                                                                                                                                
Second:  J oe  H.
To adjourn  at 7:31pm .                                                             Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye 
and Brett- aye. 
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley , Minutes Clerk