===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  7-8-25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Hybrid Meeting via Re mote Participation 
(Zoom)
Attendees:  Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Vice-Chair - Scott Dall , Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member - Arthur 
Katis , Sewer Business Manager - Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Brett  opened the meeting at 7:05 pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the
meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT  & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS –
---Minutes from June 24, 2025-
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                 
Sec ond: Dan P.
To ac cept the minutes of June 24, 2025.            Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-
aye and Brett-aye.
--- Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
     i. Dana Street Repairs - Andrew spoke with Chad (Empey) who said they we re setting up 
back-up pumps  last week and w ill be replacing the pipes this  week.  It will be day time work. Dan 
noted they had the generators all set up.
    ii. Manhole Repair IFB – Andrew reported that Insituform will be there on 7/15 to start work ing
on  the manholes  most in need . Scott  said Bill mentioned something about m oisture sensors to 
find the ones that need to be sealed up. Brett noted  that  it  is sometimes just visual and Scott 
added he can  hear everyone hitting the manhole in front of his house.
   iii. Quarterly  Demands-  Andrew  reported they were able to correct the fee charge  with the 
help of S upport and sent them out 6/26. He will have information about the current delinquency 
rate for the next meeting . He has been getting calls from customers that are having i ssues 
paying due to the economy. 
   iv. End of FY25 Adjustments –  Andrew not ed th ese were final readings and bill adjustments 
which the Commission will need to vote on.  Scott s ta te d  for the record that  these are the items 
that come in after the fiscal year closed.
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                         
Second: Dan P.
To accept  the $ 4,786.50  in adjustments to the Fiscal Year 2025 .
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye , Dan-aye, and Brett-aye.
Andrew will send it out digitally for all the Commissioners to sign.
    v. ADU ’s – Dan reported that he did some research and found that Leominster has not 
designated ADU units yet but will charge a fee  of $220  for add ing  a nother bedroom. Andrew 
stated that  Lunenburg charges $250 for extra bedrooms after 3. Dan suggested having Andrew 
put together an email on behalf of the Commission stating they would like to put a fee in place 
for an ADU  and ask what the procedure would be. The Commission discussed possible fee 
scenarios and Brett added he is leaning towards a flat rate. The new  construction fee is $3500. 
Dan noted the maximum size of an ADU is 9 00 sq ft. He also questioned i f there is an existing 
building  on sewer , are they going to run a line from the ADU to the  existing main.  Andrew noted 
there is  already a by-law in eff ect  and the ADU is not considered a separate building . Dan added
that the W ater D ep artment does not have anything in place yet for ADU s. They would consider it
a multi-family, which increases the minimum charge and w ould run off the same meter. Scott  
mentioned that in the future someone may want  to sell the ir  ADU and then they would need a 
===PAGE 2===
separate water/sewer  meter . Andrew  suggested discussing this with town counsel  and Scott 
suggested starting with a draft about how to chang e  the fee schedule . 
--- Future Agenda Items - ADU discussion, manhole  repairs , billing, mapping project  by  Wright 
Pierce , NP DES vs  the station service contract. The Commission discussed not trying to restrict 
but how much they can expand. It was noted that o riginally anything over a certain amount  of 
flow  on John Fitch would require replac ing  the pipes.  Brett stated the 40B project is now in the 
courts . It would be a r idiculous  amount of sewer added to the system  and require add ing  3 pump
stations , with other connections along the route.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – none
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
July 29 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting , Zoom Meeting
August 12 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
August 26 , 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
September 9 , 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                  
Second:  Dan P.
To adjourn  at 7: 58pm.                                          Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Arthur-aye , Scott-
aye, and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk