
Minutes of 4/15/25 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Vice-Chair- Brett Ramsden, Clerk- Scott Dall, Member: Joe Hurley, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere, 
Absent: Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett opened the meeting at 7:05 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT &amp; ANNOUNCEMENTS – none 

CURRENT BUSINESS - 
---Zoom/remote Open Meeting Law Legislature – Andrew reported that they have extended the hybrid meetings until June 30, 2027. They will continue to meet at the DPW for the 1st meeting and remotely for the 2nd meeting. 
---Commission Vacancies – Bill stated that no one has stepped forward but there was one guy who is considering it. He will be meeting with the Town Manager on 4/16 to discuss sending out another letter, possibly including other board openings. The Commission discussed how long Joe would be able to serve before he moves in July. 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates
 i. Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported that they held a pre-construction meeting with Insituform Technologies on 4/2                                 to discuss materials and scheduling.  He has not heard back yet on the schedule but they got the ball rolling. 
ii. Waiver of interest for 50 Massachusetts Ave. (formerly Re-Boot) – Bill noted the property was sold and they gave them the final read but it should have been dated out further.  Andrew said the amount owed was $5,626.43 and the check came in after the date on the final read.  There was more interest due and since it was more than $15, it cannot be waived without a vote by the Commission. Myleen (Treasurer) suggested putting the final reads out 30 days to give time for payments. 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                   Second: Joe H.
That the Commission waive all interest on the final invoice for the following account # 101215 6567 and accept final payment of $5,626.43.                                            Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.

iii. Indirect costs for DPW Director as acting Sewer Business Manager Q2 and Q3 FY25 – The Commissioners reviewed the spreadsheet for paying the DPW Director’s time while they were without a Business Manager. Bill noted that usually 15% of his time is paid from the Sewer Enterprise Fund. However, while he was Acting Business Manager, 50% or more of his time was spent on Sewer issues. Accounting calculated the amount to be $14,255.64.  Brett thanked Bill for carrying the torch as well as he did and added they appreciate the fine job Andrew has done taking over as Manager. Scott clarified to the audience that Bill covered Sewer for 4 months between the end of August when Paula left and when Andrew was hired. He added that the cost for this should be offset by salary not paid during that time period. Joe asked if there would be any impact to the budget and Bill replied they have money sitting in Capital Improvement Account that they could move if needed. He noted the Commission would need to vote to approve. 
Motion: Joe H.                                                                                                                               Second: Scott D. 
To reimburse the $14,255. 64 to the town for the DPW Director’s time as Acting Sewer Business Manager.
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye, and Brett-aye.

iv. Online UniPay partial payment option- Andrew talked to Myleen about partial payments.  If a customer makes a partial payment, it comes off the oldest bill. The Commission discussed this and agreed it will help to get past due amounts lowered. 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                               Second: Joe H.
To enable the partial payment option on our UniPay platform for the Sewer customers. 
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-aye, and Brett-aye.

 v. Assistant to the Business Manager Position- Bill reported they are in the process of hiring a new assistant and just waiting to confirm a start date. The candidate has worked for a town and she has used Munis before. 

Sewer Expansion- Joe asked if they have a mission statement on expanding sewer in town. Bill replied they have a Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan which he will email to Commissioners and Brett suggested reviewing it during a meeting. Bill added that the plan was to sewer in the center of town, with future expansion around the lakes. Brett stated that when sewer is extended the applicant (or builder) is required to install it down the street and do hook-ups for future residents to connect. Bill noted that any one asking to connect outside of the Sewer Service Area (SSA) would need approval by vote at the Town Meeting. He met with Town Counsel who stated it is in the regulations if a property is bisected, the piece outside of the SSA cannot connect without a vote at Town Meeting to expand the SSA. Andrew read aloud this section of the regulations. Brett asked Bill if they are still having problems with clogged pipes. Bill replied the mailings concerning items not to flush into the system have worked to prevent clogs. Leominster Road station was clogging every week but is now down to once every 2 months or so. The Commissioners agreed to keep reminding customers about items not to be flushed into the system via billing inserts, on the website and at Town Meetings.  

PUBLIC COMMENT – none

Future Agenda Items- Commission vacancies, Manhole Repairs and Assistant Manager.

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
April 29, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
May 13, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
May 27, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
June 10, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting

Motion: Joe H.                                                                                                                        Second: Scott D.
To adjourn at 7:41pm                                                        Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye and Brett-aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk




























