===PAGE 1===
M inutes of  4/29/25  Sewer Commission meeting – via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees:  Vice-Chair-  Brett Ramsden , Clerk- Scott Dall , Member: Joe Hurley , DPW Directo r-  
Bill Bernard , Sewer Business Manager: Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Brett  opened the meeting at 6 :0 3  pm.  and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began 
the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT  & ANNOUNCEMENTS  - none
CURRENT BUSINESS -
---CWMP  (Comprehensive Wastewater Management Plan )  discussion-  Bill emailed  the 
Commissioners the E xec utive  Summary and 1 st  chapter  of the CWMP but  could not send the 
whole  f ile because it was too large . He screen -shared a summary of the CWMP which was 
started around 2005  and last updated in 2016. That update looked at the future of the system up
to 203 6. The Town determined they needed a plan for 3 factors :
   ---1 .) the re are areas of the t own that are not well suited to conventional on-site disposal ( Title 
V )
   --- 2.) concerns about population growth
  ---  3.) the  limited  capacity for sending wastewater to nearby municipal facilities (Fitchburg and 
Leominster). 
Phase 1 determined there were 11 areas that need ed  study.  Phase  2  identified , described and 
evaluated several alternatives. Phase 3  included a detailed evaluation of wastewater collection , 
treatment and disposal alternatives listed in Phase 2.     Phase 4  updated the plan.  The Priority 
areas were:  Lower Mass Ave, Baker Station, Whalom , Mass A ve/Beal St., Highland St.,  Rolling 
Acres Rd.  and Pioneer Drive.
Bill  stated  most people that want to connect are in the S ewer Service A rea  and they have b een 
following the plan. The Plan also included water conservation, stormwater management, nutrient
management and developing a Septage Management Plan (SMP). The plan indicated the 
majority of sewer be sen t to Leominster , which has more capacity  and lower c ost than Fitchburg.
This included sending Lower Mass Ave and Mass Ave/Beal St to Leominster instead of 
Fitchburg.  The plan was evaluated  on Public Health, Water Supply Protection, Protection of 
Surface Waters, Preserving Community Character and Managed Growth.  Joe asked if the 11 
areas were not  suitable for septic s  due to proximity to lakes.   Bill replied th e 11 areas  studied  
had unsuitable  so ils, were  near lakes  or had  lots too small. J oe asked if a T itle 5 can not  go in , 
are  they required to find a way to bring sewer  there and Bill answered that it does not require 
them to do that.  The report shows the areas to look at first for expansion.
---Commission Vacancies  – Bill talked to the town manager about a town-wide letter going out 
but it didn ’t go too far.  He added that i f the  Commission want ed  to do their own letter , it would 
be okay. The Commission discussed possible ways to get the word out at Town Meeting, soccer
practices and putting a letter together. Bill was abl e to locate the previous  letter sent out and will 
email it to the Commissioners for edits  at the next meeting.
--- DPW Director /Sewer Business Manager  Updates –
I. Minut es from 3/25/2025 and 4/15/25-
       Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                       
Second: Joe H.
       To a ccept the minutes of 3/25/25 and 4/15/25.                Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Joe-
aye and Brett-aye.
II. Quarter 4 FY25 Billing  – And rew reported the bill run was d one and going out. He added it 
was a lot of work going over things, but it should be accurate. Brett thanked Andrew for all 
===PAGE 2===
his work and that they appreciated all he did to get it together. Bill noted that Munis threw 1 4  
curveballs at him and they brought in 2 consultants but  he was able to work through it all. 
Andrew stated it took a lot of checking  and rechecking. He is hoping when every thing go es 
into  the cloud , it won ’t be so “wonky ”. Scott  asked if they turn ed  on the partial payment 
process  and  Andrew replied he will talk to Myleen .
III. Manhole Repair IFB  – Bill contacted  Insituform and they plan on start ing  in June .
IV. iv.  Town Meeting Slideshow  – Bill screen-shared the presentation  for the articles at town 
meeting.  Articles 21, 23 & 24 will be part of the Consent Calendar and Article 22 (Budget) 
will be presented at Town Meeting. They will need to borrow from Retained Earnings but the 
good news is rates will not increase. He will remind people that clogs are a serious issue and
to not flush anything that does not belong there. Bill added that clogs have been down but he
will keep reminding people. Bill will do the presentation  which will include  a summary of the 
Re venues and estimated E xpenses . Scott noted there may be a question about whether the 
billing is working now  and the issue of the 26% delinqu ency rate . Andrew stated that  the 
demands were mailed  and now the quarterly billing is go ing  out.  Demands will go out again 
soon  and he will seek help if there are any issues. Scott said it will be a good opportunity to 
get the word  out that things are working  now .
V. Asst . To  Sewer Business Mgr. – Bill reported they  interviewed a woman named Susan  and 
she is going through the HR process. If everything goes as planned, her start date will be 
May 27 th .
Future Agenda Items-  Comm ission Vacancies, Updates from DPW/ Sewer Business Manager, 
Town Meeting Update , and potential new Assistant update.
P UBLIC  C OMMENT  – Bill urged all to attend the  Town Meeting – there will be  a lot of important 
things  discussed there and to make your voice heard by voting.
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES :
May 13 , 202 5  @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting , Hybrid  Meeting
May 27 , 202 5  @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom  Meeting
June 1 0 , 2025 @ 7 pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting
June 24 , 2025 @ 6 pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom  Meeting
Motion:  Joe H.                                                                                                                                 
Second:  Scott D.
To adjourn  at 6:47 pm                                                                Roll Call Vote: Joe-aye, Scott-aye
and Brett-aye.
Respect fully  submitted,
Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk