
Minutes of 9/30/2025 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference)
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley
Absent: DPW Director- Bill Bernard,
Brett opened the meeting at 6:04pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying the Pledge of Allegiance.
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none

CURRENT BUSINESS – 
---Minutes of 9/9/2025
   Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                             Second: Arthur K.
   To accept the minutes of 9/9/25.            Roll Call Vote: Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye.  Scott abstained.
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates–
    i. ADUs -  Brett reported that Andrew, Bill and Dan worked on a draft for the ADU regulation, which Andrew screen-shared. Brett noted that ADUs are additional living units which have been approved by the state for every town to allow an in-law unit separate from the house. They have been working on the process and fees for connecting an ADU to sewer. The Commission reviewed and discussed the proposed regulation. They agreed to discuss it again at the next meeting.  Next step would be to have Town Counsel review the draft for any edits and then the Commission will vote on it. It would then need to go to Town Meeting for approval. 
   ii. Q1 FY26 Demands – Andrew reported the demands went out and he processed some reversals for those who paid that same day. He added that they went out flawlessly. 
  iii. 308 Mass Ave Change of Use-  Shahid Qureshi (Empire Athletics) – introduced himself, noting he is one of the owners of Empire Athletics and stated they also have a fitness center in Leominster.  He added that he and co-owner Nick are Lunenburg residents. The fitness center will be open 24/7 to the general public who are over 18 years. They will have a smoothie bar and there is already a grease trap with a 3 bay sink. Andrew will send Shahid the compliance forms for submitting the required 1st Tuesday grease trap log reports. Shahid added there will be a shower in each locker room and the previous tenant was the Dollar Tree Store.  Andrew screen-shared the Flow increase form for the fitness center.  
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                             Second: Arthur K.
To accept the Change of Use for 308 Mass Ave.   
Roll Call Vote: , Arthur-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye,  and Brett-aye.
Brett welcomed Shahid and his business to Lunenburg and Shahid noted they plan to open as soon as possible.  Construction should take about 30 days and they have all the equipment.  
   iv. Manhole Repair IFB – not discussed.

---Future Agenda Items- Public Hearing on 10/14 for waiver easement at 830/832 Mass Ave. and Public Hearing on 11/18/25 for Leominster Road easement waiver.  Dan noted he will need to abstain from the discussion on 830/832 Mass Ave but will be attending the meeting. 

PUBLIC COMMENT – none

UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES:
October 14, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting @ DPW
October 28, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting
November 18, 2025 @ 7pm – Regular Meeting, Hybrid Meeting @ DPW
November 25, 2025 @ 6pm – Regular Meeting, Zoom Meeting

Motion:  Dan P.                                                                                                                                  Second: Scott D.
To adjourn at 6:28pm.                                            Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Dan-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye.

Respectfully submitted,

Jane L. Ranley
Minutes Clerk


























