===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 3/31/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:02 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT- Brett apologized for missing Chip’s first official meeting and the Commission is glad to have 
him onboard. They look forward to his future input on their decisions. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 03/10/26 
Motion:  Scott D.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dan P. 
To accept the minutes of the 3/10/26 meeting. 
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, Dan-aye and Chip-aye.  (Brett abstained.) 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
    --Manhole Repair IFB-  Bill reported that the contractor came in and inspected the remaining manholes to be 
done. They came up with a work list  and have asked if they can get going, but the nighttime temperatures are too 
cold.  With the weather changing this week, he will give them the go ahead to finish the contract.  Bill noted the 
contractor is Insituform Technologies and there are 10-15 manholes left to do. They will do special liners, fill active 
cracks, block bigger holes and go around pipes. The goal is to slow down the I/I (Inflow/Infiltration) problem.  Also 
there are about 15 manholes that will have frames and covers replaced. Dan noted that he was doing a job on Laurel 
Lane a couple of weeks ago and Bill asked him to help locate a certain pump line. At the end of Laurel Lane, there is 
a manhole with three 1.25” pump lines coming in. One line, which was discontinued years ago, was flowing about a 
half a pipeful of  water infiltration. He suggested that March is a good time to pop manholes to look for issues like 
this, especially in known wet areas. Dan said they were able to slow the flow but not completely seal it. Bill will have 
Insituform seal it also. He reported that Robert Lilly (CTE Contractor) noted after they did drainage work and paved 
Francis St. and Stevens St., the I/I issue at the Francis St. Station had slowed down. In addition, Robert stated he will 
be leaving CTE to concentrate on his own business. The new CTE contractor will be Al Packard, Jr. (Albe), who 
knows our system and has the same expertise as Robert.  Brett questioned how they could find problems in the 
manholes, such as Dan found on Laurel Lane. Bill replied that the Commission had studies done in the past and the 
Insituform contract is targeting the worst manholes with I/I issues.  They could go back to review other manholes in 
the studies but cannot do it this fiscal year.  
   --Q3 FY26 Demands – Andrew reported the demands were sent out 3/16 and people are starting to pay them. The 
delinquency rate is now around 18%.    
   --Fy27 Budget – Bill noted the Commission has already voted to approve the budget and the Town Manager had a 
couple questions about the rate increase, which the Commission also approved. The FY27 Budget will be presented 
at Town Meeting.  
   --Sewer/Stormwater- Bill reported they cannot easily combine the Stormwater and the Sewer Commission, without 
an act of the State Legislature. The Stormwater Task Force Committee voted to pull their article from the Town 
Meeting, which would have established the Stormwater Utility. It is a closed subject for now.  
---Future Agenda Items-  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Dan inquired about the proposed project on Pond St.  Andrew reported that he talked to Ian, 
who said it was a short timeframe to get plans put together and it is up to the owner on proceeding. Dan noted he  
talked to an engineer who said there are municipalities that require developers to find and fix water problems if they 
are looking to add properties to the sewer system. Based on the flow they want to add, they would have to find leaky 
pipes to repair at their own expense.  Chip agreed that developers are being forced to make improvements to sewer 
systems and drainage. They could use the studies to find issues for the developers to repair. Bill stated the special 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
liners run about $3K per manhole.  They also have a regulation that a development that is adding to the system 
would need to eliminate I/I or pay a fee to the I/I account. Brett asked about using precast for future manholes and 
Bill replied that everything is precast now.  
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
April 14, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
April 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
May 12, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
May 26, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
 
Motion:  Scott  D.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dan P. 
To adjourn at 6:30pm.                           Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 