===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 5/26/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees:, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip Wilson, DPW Director- Bill 
Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Absent: Chair- Brett Ramsden 
Dan opened the meeting at 6:10 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 5/12/26 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                              Second: Chip W.  
To accept the minutes of 5/12/26.                      Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, Scott-aye, and Dan-aye.  
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
   --Manhole Repair IFB- Andrew got an email from Zach who said they have one job to do and then they will focus 
on Lunenburg. He anticipates hearing back after 6/3.  Bill added that Tango who is the sub-contractor doing the 
manhole covers, had been pushed out a week, but will be coming in shortly. Everything should be wrapped up by 
June 30th, as they have only about a week of work to do. 
    --48 West Street Change of Use - (Dan will abstain from voting.) – Bill stated the applicant, Michael Branchflower, 
was online for the meeting. They are rehabbing a house and adding a bedroom. Bill read the Sewer Bylaw pertaining 
to Change of Use and noted the request meets all the criteria. He added that the Privilege Fees were paid many 
years ago and nothing will be done outside the house.   
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                  Second: Chip W. 
To accept the Change of Use at 48 West Street.            
 Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, and Scott-aye. (Dan abstained) 
   
--37 Wallis Park Account Final Read/Write off- Andrew reported he uses 2 systems for final read calculations, with 
Munis being used when the property is sold. The seller’s current balance is $ 393.19, but at closing, the attorney got 
the wrong spreadsheet showing the minimum charge of $133. Unfortunately, they cannot collect from the seller or the 
new owner, so Andrew asked the Commission to write off the difference. He apologized and said it was an honest 
mistake of sending the wrong spreadsheet.  Scott suggested noting on the letter to the closing attorney the dollar 
amount with the date of the final read and state “see attached”. If the numbers don’t agree, the attorney will call for 
clarification. The Commission discussed the request and Andrew noted that he did try to collect it but was not able to.  
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                              Second: Arthur K. 
To write off the balance of $393.19 on 37 Wallis Park.     
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, Chip-aye and Dan-aye. 
 
  --99 Leominster Road waiver request-  Andrew stated the owner uses a lot of irrigation during the year. He looked 
back at past bills for January to March and noted this bill was the highest ever. Her bill is usually around $500 -600 
but the current bill was $750 which she was upset about. The owner has not found a leak but will need to investigate 
further.  Andrew suggested she could ask the Commission for a one-time waiver of $173.20, which is based on the 
difference from her average usage.  Scott suggested waiting until the next quarter to see if the amount is still high. 
Commission  discussed whether to grant a waiver now or wait to see the usage for the current quarter. Andrew 
stated it would be noted on her account that she received the one-time waiver. 
Motion: Chip W.                                                                                                                                 Second: Scott D. 
To grant the one-time waiver of $173.20 for 99 Leominster Road.     
Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, and Dan-aye. 
Scott suggested keeping it on a future agenda to check future usage and see if issue was resolved. 
--100 Laurel Lane-  Bill reported that the drain layer came up with a plan to connect but it will cost $9,700.  He will 
need to insulate the pipe and continue the 6” pipe up to the garage. A manhole will be added next to the garage on 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
their property and the garage will tie into the manhole.  A pump will run from the house into the manhole. The line in 
the street will be owned by the town and the property owner will own the manhole. Bill noted that the town is paying 
for this because they can’t find the lateral that is supposed to be there. Dan pointed out that the price was $4,500 a 
couple weeks ago and Bill responded that the guy just gave a quick estimate but it was higher after he looked at the 
actual job.  The Commission discussed the price of the job and Scott asked about getting more bids. Bill agreed and 
will get 2 more quotes. Bill said he looked into renting a device that could trace the lateral with a wand but he wasn’t 
sure if it included all parts. Dan suggested adding it to the future agenda. 
  --990 Mass Ave Expansion of Use- Bill stated it was connected last fall and it looks like a rehab flip. The house 
had 4 bedrooms and now they are going to split the house by adding another bedroom for possibly an in-law setup. 
Scott noted the property is owned by his neighbor and he will abstain.  He stated the house last sold for $20K in the 
1970’s and is probably still in the family.  Since the house is in the Village Historic District, they are going before the 
ZBA next month for permission to make it a 2 family. Dan noted they are not only adding a bedroom but changing the 
use and asked Andrew about the fees. Andrew replied they are already connected and paid that fee.  Bill added there 
is also a fee for expansion.  Dan thought that the builder may condoize the building into 2 houses. Andrew replied if 
that happens, they will need 2 separate meters with 2 sewer bills. Chip asked if they will need 2 sewer connections. 
Bill replied that they may go with only 1 meter since the add-on will be small like an apartment. Dan asked if they 
have an additional fee for 2 families and Andrew replied it is based on number of bedrooms. Bill said he needs to 
scour the regs. Dan asked if the duplexes at the old funeral home were charged 2 betterments and added that they 
may be missing the opportunity to charge for the 2 families. Bill will get answers for the next meeting.    
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                               Second: Arthur K. 
To allow the Expansion of Use at 990 Mass Ave.                 
Discussion: Dan suggested letting Mr. Cole know that this is just for the increase in flow and there could be 
fees for the change in use down the road.  
Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, and Dan-aye. (Scott abstained.) 
   
  --Wright-Pierce private sewer ways – Andrew stated this relates to finding the private sewer plans for the DEP 
and he does not have an update right now. They will be locating the plans to comply by 8/31. 
---Future Agenda Items- Manhole Repairs, 100 Laurel Lane  
Scott asked if there have been any updates on the driving range property or the project at the old funeral home. 
Andrew said there was no update on the driving range. Bill added, in regard to the funeral home property, they have 
not seen the plans yet but knew they had applied and received permits from Mass DOT to work in the road.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – Dan congratulated all the board members who ran on the ballot and won new terms.   
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
June 9, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
June 30, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
July 14, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
July 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                 Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 7:00pm.                                          Roll Call Vote: Scott-aye, Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, and Dan-aye. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 