===PAGE 1===
 
 
Minutes of 6/30/26 Sewer Commission meeting– via Zoom (Video Conference) 
Attendees: Chair- Brett Ramsden, Vice-Chair- Scott Dall, Clerk- Dan Proctor, Member: Arthur Katis and Chip 
Wilson, DPW Director- Bill Bernard, Sewer Business Manager- Andrew Valliere, Minutes Clerk- Jane Ranley 
Brett opened the meeting at 6:00 pm. and did a roll call of attendees. The Commission began the meeting by saying 
the Pledge of Allegiance. 
PUBLIC COMMENT/ANNOUNCEMENTS - none 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS –  
---Minutes of 6/09/26 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                  Second: Chip W. 
To accept the minutes of 6/09/26.                         Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Chip-aye, Dan-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
---DPW Director/Sewer Business Manager Updates– 
    --Manhole Repair IFB- Bill reported the work was completed last week, except for one on Prospect Street, near 
Laurel Lane. Every time they went there they took gas readings which read unsafe for entering the manhole. Bill said 
he believes that is the one that Leominster Road pumps into. When the contractor looked at it they recommended 
replacing the manhole in kind. He estimated that manhole is about 15’ deep. Brett asked if it could have been a 
design flaw, but Bill said it was typical. All the flow and gases will eventually eat away at the concrete. Brett asked if 
they need to bring in an engineer. Bill replied no as it was already on the repair list and suggested putting out another 
Invitation to Bid to replace that one manhole. At the same time, they could line it with the epoxy so hopefully it would 
last longer. Bill added they have time to address it, but will have CTE look at it, to see how much time they have. He 
will have to put a contract together because it is a big one.   
   --CTE Pump Station repairs for FY27 & Sewer O&M IFB- Andrew reported in FY27 they need to do generator 
repairs at West St. and Leominster Rd. stations. They already have the estimates and both are in the budget for 
FY27. There are also repairs at Dana St. Bill noted the contract with CTE ends August 26 and they are at the end of 
the 3 year contract.  He has put a new contract together with the goal of putting it out to bid by July 8th, so they can 
have it place for 8/27.  The contract is essentially the same as before but he has cleaned it up a little so it is easier to 
follow. He also added the checklists from the Operations & Maintenance Manual.  Brett made note that since they 
sent letters out concerning what should not be put into toilets, there have not been replacing pumps. Andrew and Bill 
agreed there have been fewer calls about clogs. Bill will email the contract to the Commissioners. 
   --End of Year Adjustments- Andrew noted the negative number was high due to the lot with the large 6 week leak 
which negated the final readings in the past month for the 4th quarter. Scott added that was overstated revenue but 
the owner paid her actual bill. The Commissioners need to sign the EOY adjustments before 7/15.  
Motion: Scott  D.                                                                                                                              Second: Dan P. 
To accept the End of Year Adjustments for FY26.  
Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Arthur-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
   --100 Laurel Lane- Bill reported he is putting out contract language for replacing 3 pressure lines from the manhole 
to the property line. It is going through procurement at Town Hall and will also go out for bid by 7/8. 
   --Q4 FY26 Demands recap- Andrew reported 240 delinquent notices went out for about 25% delinquency rate for 
the quarter but was 11-12 % delinquency for the year.  Chip asked how long it takes for those bills to be paid and 
how they fix that. Andrew replied that if delinquencies are not paid in November, that amount will go on their tax bills 
as a tax lien. Eventually the money gets back in some way. 
   --990 Mass Ave Expansion of Use (Sewer Regs) –  Andrew and Bill met with Town Counsel, who said they 
cannot charge another connection fee. They could increase rates in general. Bill- added Counsel said there was 
nothing in their regs that said they could charge extra fees in those situations. The Commission could look at raising 
connection fees. Andrew noted 990 Mass Ave. was charged the $220 for the extra bedroom. and had already paid 
the betterment fee. Dan read from the by-law that a minimal residential connection fee of $3,900 is charged per 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
dwelling unit as defined by Lunenburg Protective By-Law.  He asked if a single family is changed into 2 units that 
could be sold, shouldn’t they pay another $3,900 for the additional unit. Andrew stated they paid the original 
betterment and the Connection Fee, but now they are changing the whole landscape. The Commission discussed 
and Bill said he could ask the Assessors how they will be looking at it. If they are going to look at it as a duplex, they 
could charge them the extra Connection Fee. The Commission agreed to look at a change to the by-laws and 
discussed what it would take to make a change. Bill and Andrew will write up the language and have Town Counsel 
look at it. The Commission can change a regulation, but a bylaw change has to go to Town Meeting. The 
Commission discussed some scenarios for extra connections and will discuss the language at the next meeting.  
   --Sewer Commission Reorg- Brett asked if they want to do any reorganization of the board. They discussed and 
everyone will stay in their roles. 
Motion: Scott D.                                                                                                                                 Second: Dan P. 
To keep the appointed roles the same.  
Roll Call Vote: Chip-aye, Arthur-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
---Future Agenda Items- Manhole replacement, Extra Fees for Duplexes  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT – none 
 
UPCOMING SCHEDULED SEWER COMMISSION ACTIVITIES: 
July 14, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
July 28, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
August 11, 2026 @ 6pm – Regular (Hybrid) Meeting 
August 25, 2026 @ 6pm – (Zoom) Meeting 
 
Motion: Dan P.                                                                                                                                 Second: Scott D. 
To adjourn at 6:41pm.                         Roll Call Vote: Arthur-aye, Dan-aye, Scott-aye, Chip-aye, and Brett-aye. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jane L. Ranley 
Minutes Clerk 
 